TOWN OF KILL DEVIL HILLS,
NORTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2023 S-19 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 19-23, passed 8-14-23
and State legislation current through 2023 A.L.S. #4
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TOWN OFFICIALS
MAYOR         John Windley
MAYOR PRO TEM Ivy Ray Ingram
COMMISSIONER  Terry L. Gray
COMMISSIONER  Bernard B. McAvoy, Jr.
COMMISSIONER  Vacant Seat
TOWN MANAGER  Debora Peele Diáz
TOWN ATTORNEY Casey C. Varnell
TOWN CLERK    James Michael O’Dell
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCES
Ordinance Number 05-08
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE TOWN OF KILL DEVIL HILLS, NORTH CAROLINA
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the third supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of Kill
Devil Hills, North Carolina, which supplement contains all ordinances of a
general and permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of
Ordinances of the Town of Kill Devil Hills, North Carolina; and
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the North Carolina Code; and
WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Legislative Authority to accept these updated
sections in accordance with the changes of the laws of North Carolina; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early day;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE TOWN OF
KILL DEVIL HILLS, NORTH CAROLINA:
Section 1.   That the third supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of
Kill Devil Hills, North Carolina as submitted by American Legal Publishing
Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is
hereby adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Board of Commissioners and the Town Clerk is
hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the copy of the
Code of Ordinances kept on file in the office of the Town Clerk.
   Adopted this 25th day of May 2005 by the Kill Devil Hills, North Carolina
Board of Commissioners.
   Sherlene G. Rollason /s/
   Sherelene G. Rollason, Mayor
SEAL
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/9d3451f5ef75ecb3c1c713f59602788c50a4c62f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5818.jpg]
 
ATTEST:
Harriet B. Banner /s/
Harriet B. Banner, Deputy Town Clerk
APPROVED AS TO FORM:
                                                
Robert L. Outten, Town Attorney
The undersigned hereby certifies that the foregoing official amendment,
designated AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF
ORDINANCES FOR THE TOWN OF KILL DEVIL HILLS, NORTH CAROLINA was placed in the
Kill Devil Hills Town Code Book on the 9th day of June, 2005 at 4:11 p.m.
   Harriet B. Banner /s/
   Harriet B. Banner, Deputy Town Clerk
Ordinance Number 15-13
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING SUPPLEMENT #14 TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE TOWN OF KILL DEVIL HILLS, NORTH CAROLINA
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the fourteenth supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of
Kill Devil Hills, North Carolina, which supplement contains all ordinances of a
general and permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of
Ordinances of the Town of Kill Devil Hills, North Carolina; and
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the North Carolina Code; and
WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Legislative Authority to accept these updated
sections in accordance with the changes of the laws of North Carolina; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early day;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE TOWN OF
KILL DEVIL HILLS, NORTH CAROLINA:
Section 1.   That the fourteenth supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
Town of Kill Devil Hills, North Carolina as submitted by American Legal
Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the
same is hereby adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Board of Commissioners and the Town Clerk is
hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the copy of the
Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Town Clerk.
               
   Adopted this 14th day of March, 2016 by the Kill Devil Hills, North Carolina
Board of Commissioners.
   Sheila F. Davies /s/
   Sheila F. Davies, Mayor
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/9d3451f5ef75ecb3c1c713f59602788c50a4c62f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5818.jpg]
 
ATTEST:
Mary E. Quidley /s/
Mary E. Quidley, Town Clerk
APPROVED AS TO FORM:
Steven D. Michael /s/
Steven D. Michael, Town Attorney
The undersigned hereby certifies that the foregoing official amendment,
designated AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF
ORDINANCES FOR THE TOWN OF KILL DEVIL HILLS, NORTH CAROLINA was placed in the
Kill Devil Hills Town Code Book on the 29th day of March, 2016 at 9:30 a.m.
   Mary E. Quidley /s/
   Mary E. Quidley, Town Clerk
Ordinance Number 19-3
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING SUPPLEMENT #17 TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE TOWN OF KILL DEVIL HILLS, NORTH CAROLINA
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the seventeenth supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of
Kill Devil Hills, North Carolina, which supplement contains all ordinances of a
general and permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of
Ordinances of the Town of Kill Devil Hills, North Carolina; and
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the North Carolina Code; and
WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Legislative Authority to accept these updated
sections in accordance with the changes of the laws of North Carolina; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early day;
ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE TOWN OF KILL DEVIL HILLS, NORTH
CAROLINA:
Section 1.   That the seventeenth supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
Town of Kill Devil Hills, North Carolina as submitted by American Legal
Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the
same is hereby adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Board of Commissioners and the Town Clerk is
hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the copy of the
Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Town Clerk.
Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety, and general
welfare of the people of this municipality and shall take effect at the
earliest date provided by law.
               
   Adopted and approved by the Board of Commissioners of the Town of Kill Devil
Hills at a regular meeting held on the 13th day of December, 2021, by a vote of
4 in favor and 0 opposed.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/9d3451f5ef75ecb3c1c713f59602788c50a4c62f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6031.gif]
 
   Ivy Ingram /s/
   Ivy Ingram, Mayor Pro Tem
 
ATTEST:
James Michael O’Dell /s/
James Michael O’Dell, Town Clerk
APPROVED AS TO FORM:
 
Casey C. Varnell /s/
Casey C. Varnell, Town Attorney
The undersigned hereby certifies that the foregoing official amendment,
designated AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF
ORDINANCES FOR THE TOWN OF KILL DEVIL HILLS, NORTH CAROLINA was placed in the
Kill Devil Hills Town Code Book on the 17th day of December, 2021 at 11:00 a.m.
   James Michael O’Dell /s/
   James Michael O’Dell, Town Clerk
Ordinance Number 19-14
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING SUPPLEMENT #18 TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE TOWN OF KILL DEVIL HILLS, NORTH CAROLINA
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the eighteenth supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of
Kill Devil Hills, North Carolina, which supplement contains all ordinances of a
general and permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of
Ordinances of the Town of Kill Devil Hills, North Carolina; and
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision or
addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the North Carolina Code; and
WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Legislative Authority to accept these updated
sections in accordance with the changes of the laws of North Carolina; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early day;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF THE TOWN OF
KILL DEVIL HILLS, NORTH CAROLINA:
Section 1.   That the eighteenth supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
Town of Kill Devil Hills, North Carolina as submitted by American Legal
Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the
same is hereby adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Board of Commissioners and the Town Clerk is
hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the copy of the
Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Town Clerk.
Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety, and general
welfare of the people of this municipality and shall take effect at the
earliest date provided by law.
Adopted this 14th day of November, 2022, by the Kill Devil Hills, North
Carolina Board of Commissioners.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/9d3451f5ef75ecb3c1c713f59602788c50a4c62f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-6029.gif]
 
   Ben A. Sproul /s/
   Ben A. Sproul, Mayor
 
ATTEST:
James Michael O’Dell /s/
James Michael O’Dell, Town Clerk
APPROVED AS TO FORM:
 
Casey C. Varnell /s/
Casey C. Varnell, Town Attorney
The undersigned hereby certifies that the foregoing official amendment,
designated AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF
ORDINANCES FOR THE TOWN OF KILL DEVIL HILLS, NORTH CAROLINA was placed in the
Kill Devil Hills Town Code Book on the 15th day of November, 2022 at 9:00 a.m.
   James Michael O’Dell /s/
   James Michael O’Dell, Town Clerk
CHARTER*
   
Art. I.   Incorporation and Corporate Powers, §§ 1-1-1-3
   
Art. II.   Governing Body, §§ 2-1-2-4
   
Art. III.   Elections, § 3-1
   
Art. IV   Town Manager, §§ 4-1, 4-2
   
Art. V.   Administrative Officers and Employees, §§ 5-1, 5-2
   
Art. VI.   Street Improvements Authorization, § 6-1
   
Art. VII.   Street/Sidewalk/Stormwater Management Improvements; Assessment of
Costs, § 7-1
ARTICLE I. INCORPORATION AND CORPORATE POWERS
Section 1-1. Incorporation.
   The Town of Kill Devil Hills, North Carolina in Dare County and the
inhabitants thereof shall continue to be a municipal body politic and corporate
under the name of the "Town of Kill Devil Hills." Hereafter at times referred
to as the "Town."
Section 1-2. Powers.
   The Town shall have and may exercise all of the powers, duties, rights,
privileges and immunities conferred upon the Town of Kill Devil Hills
specifically by this Charter or upon municipal corporations by general law. The
term "general law" is employed herein as defined in GS 160A-I.
Section 1-3. Corporate Limits.
   The corporate limits of the Town of Kill Devil Hills are as follows: All of
said area lying and being within the outer boundaries of Dare County, North
Carolina and now constituting the voting precinct known as Kill Devil Hills
election precinct, and bounded as follows: Bounded on the South by the Nags
Head - Atlantic Township boundary line.
___________
*Editor's note - Set out herein in the Revised Charter for the Town of Kill
Devil Hills, as adopted by Ord. No. 96-06, adopted and approved April 24, 1996,
for presentation to the General Assembly and as ratified by the General
Assembly as 1995 Session, Chapter 735, and effective June 2, 1996.
   Bounded on the West beginning at a concrete monument situated on the western
property line of the US Government property known as Wright Memorial, which
said beginning point is located a distance of 4,383.7 feet along an extension
of the North right of way line of Colington Road, also known as Ocean Bay
Boulevard, from the point of intersection of said North margin of Colington
Road with US Highway 158 Bypass, which said concrete monument at the point of
beginning is also a fence marker in the southwest corner of the US Government
property known as Wright Memorial, and running thence South 17 degrees 15
minutes East a distance of 875 feet to a concrete post in the center line of a
ditch; and running thence South 69 degrees 55 minutes West along the center of
a ditch a distance of 1,802 feet to a concrete marker; and running thence South
20 degrees 35 minutes West a distance of 750 feet along the center line of a
ditch to Colington Creek and Kitty Hawk Bay, which said corner is located South
70 degrees 38 minutes West a distance of 530 feet from a concrete monument
located in the northwest corner of the US Government property known as Wright
Memorial and along the US Government fence line South 10 degrees 4 minutes East
and crossing the Colington Road a distance of 2,318.4 feet to a concrete post;
and thence South 17 degrees 55 minutes East continuing along the West line of
the US Government property known as Wright Memorial and the fence on said line
a distance of 1,250.7 feet to a concrete monument in the southwest corner of
the US Government property known as Wright Memorial, the point or place of
beginning.
   Bounded on the North beginning at a point on the Atlantic Ocean, which said
point is the terminus of a line extended eastwardly at right angles to the
western margin of US Highway 158 Business, sometimes known as Virginia Dare
Trail, from a stake or other marker on the western margin of said highway at
the Northeast corner of Lot No. 1, Block 2, Orville Beach Subdivision, as shown
on a map or plat thereof recorded in Map Book 1, page 138A, Public Registry of
Dare County, North Carolina; and running thence from said point on the Atlantic
Ocean in a westerly direction and at right angles to US Highway 158 Business,
sometimes known as Virginia Dare Trail, and crossing said highway right of way
to the Northeast corner of Lot No. 1, Block 2, Orville Beach Subdivision,
herein referred to-; and running thence in a southwesterly direction and along
the North line of the said Orville Beach Subdivision, as shown on an amended
map or plat thereof recorded in Map Book 2, page 144, Public Registry of Dare
County, North Carolina, and crossing US Highway 158 Business to the Northwest
corner of Lot 2, Block 18, Orville Beach Subdivision, as shown on said plat of
the subdivision known as "Orville Beach West" recorded in Map Book 9, page 44,
Public Registry of Dare County, North Carolina.
   The foregoing North line of the Town of Kill Devil Hills is bounded on the
North by property now or formerly known as the "Tate Tract" and the subdivision
known as "Kitty Dunes II," as shown on a map or plat thereof recorded in Map
Book 4, Page 84, Public Registry of Dare County, North Carolina; and said line,
as the same extended westwardly from US Highway 158 Business to Kitty Hawk Bay,
following the North line of various sections of Orville Beach and Orville Beach
West subdivisions.
   Bounded on the east by the Atlantic Ocean.
   An official map of the Town, showing the current municipal boundaries, shall
be maintained permanently in the office of the Town Clerk and shall be
available for public inspection. Upon alteration of the corporate limits or
wards pursuant to law, the appropriate changes to the official map shall be
made and copies shall be filed in the office of the Secretary of State, the
Dare County Register of Deeds and the appropriate board of elections.
ARTICLE II. GOVERNING BODY
Section 2-1. Town Governing Body; Composition.
   The Mayor and Board of Commissioners shall be the governing body of the
Town.
Section 2-2. Board of Commissioners: Composition: Terms of Office.
   The Board of Commissioners shall be composed of four members. Two
commissioners shall be elected by the qualified voters of the entire town in
1997 and biennially thereafter for four-year terms and until their successors
are elected and qualified.
Section 2-3. Mayor; Term of Office; Voting.
   The Mayor shall be elected by the qualified voters of the entire town for a
term of four years or until a successor is elected and qualified. The Mayor
votes on the same basis as other council members, though in no event may the
Mayor break a tie on a motion in which he or she has already voted.
(Ordinance 19-9, passed 3-7-22)
Section 2.4. Compensation of the Mayor and Board of Commissioners.
   The mayor and board of commissioners of the Town of Kill Devil Hills shall
be justly compensated for their services at an amount determined by the board
of commissioners in accordance with GS 160A-64.
ARTICLE III. ELECTIONS
Section 3-1. Conduct of town elections.
   Elections shall be conducted on a nonpartisan basis and the results
determined by using the nonpartisan plurality method as provided in GS 163-292.
Elections in the town shall be conducted by the Dare County Board of Elections
in accordance with Subchapter IX of the General Statutes.
ARTICLE IV. TOWN MANAGER
Section 4-1. Form of Government.
   The Town of Kill Devil Hills shall operate under the council-manager form of
government in accordance with Part 2 of Article 7, Chapter 160A of the North
Carolina General Statutes, as provided in NCGS 160A-147.
Section 4-2. Office of the town manager created.
   a.   The board of commissioners shall appoint a town manager who shall serve
at the pleasure of the board. The manager shall be chosen on the basis of
executive and administrative qualifications, with special reference to actual
experience in or knowledge of accepted practices with respect to the duties of
a town manager. At the time of appointment, the manager need not be a resident
of the town or state, but during his/her tenure of office shall reside within
the town. The manager shall receive such compensation as the board of
commissioners may establish.
   b.   The town manager shall be administrative head of the town government,
and shall be responsible to the board of commissioners for the proper
administration of all affairs of the town. Except as otherwise provided by this
Act, the town manager shall have all powers and duties assigned or delegated to
a town manager by State law. The town manager shall appoint and may remove all
town employees, except the town attorney, and shall also perform such other
duties as prescribed by the board.
ARTICLE V. ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
Section 5-1. Town Attorney.
   There shall be a town attorney who shall serve as legal counsel to the board
of commissioners.
Section 5-2. Town Clerk.
   There shall be a town clerk who shall be hired and supervised by the town
manager. Except as otherwise provided by this Charter, the town clerk shall
perform all duties assigned or delegated to a town clerk under GS 160A-172 or
other State law, and shall also perform such other duties as may be prescribed.
ARTICLE VI. STREETS IMPROVEMENTS AUTHORIZATION
Section 6-1. Streets Improvements Authorization.
   The Town of Kill Devil Hills as authorized by NCGS 160A-296(a) (3) and NCGS
160A-301(a) is fully authorized to improve its street rights of way acquired by
purchase, or by dedication of said right of way.
ARTICLE VII. STREET/SIDEWALK/STORMWATER MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENTS; ASSESSMENT OF
COSTS
Section 7-1. Authority.
   a.   The Town of Kill Devil Hills is not subject to G.S. 160A-217(a) when
making special assessments for:
      1.   Construction of new streets.
      2.   Construction of new sidewalks.
      3.   Widening of streets or sidewalks.
      4.   Construction of new curbs.
      5.   Construction of new gutters.
   b.   If the Town of Kill Devil Hills elects to make assessments under the
authority of subsection a. of this section and a sidewalk is constructed on
only one side of the street, the cost thereof may be assessed against the
property abutting on both sides of the street, unless there already exists a
sidewalk on the other side of the street, the total cost of which was assessed
against the abutting property.
   c.   The Town of Kill Devil Hills may not assess without petition under
subsection a. of this section except upon a four-fifths majority vote of the
Board of Commissioners.
   d.   This act is supplemental to any other authority of the Town.
(Session Law 2005-142, passed 6-30-05)
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      Chapter
         
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.17   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.18   Authorization to issue civil citations
   
10.19   Appeal of civil citations
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the Town of Kill Devil Hills
shall be designated as the Code of Kill Devil Hills and may be so cited.
(Am. Ord. 18-5, passed 6-14-21)
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
(Am. Ord. 18-5, passed 6-14-21)
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
(Am. Ord. 18-5, passed 6-14-21)
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
(Am. Ord. 18-5, passed 6-14-21)
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS or BOARD. The legislative body of the town.
      CODE, THIS CODE, TOWN CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal
code as modified by amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters,
or sections.
      COUNTY. Dare County, North Carolina.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MAYOR. The Mayor of the Town of Kill Devil Hills, North Carolina.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUTES, GENERAL STATUTES, STATUTES. The general
statutes of the State of North Carolina.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this town unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      POLICE CHIEF. The Town of Kill Devil Hills Police Chief or designee.
      POLICE DEPARTMENT. The Town Police Department.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of North Carolina.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have subchapters.
      TOWN ATTORNEY. The Town Attorney of the Town of Kill Devil Hills, North
Carolina.
      TOWN CLERK. The Town Clerk of the Town of Kill Devil Hills, North
Carolina.
      TOWN MANAGER. The chief administrative officer of the Town of Kill Devil
Hills. Any reference to ADMINISTRATOR or TOWN ADMINISTRATOR shall be deemed to
refer to the TOWN MANAGER.
      TOWN, MUNICIPALITY, or MUNICIPAL CORPORATION. The Town of Kill Devil
Hills, North Carolina.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
(Am. Ord. 05-02, passed 2-16-05; Am. Ord. 18-5, passed 6-14-21)
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this town shall be by the following
rules, unless such construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the Board
of Commissioners or of the context of the same ordinance:
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
"and/or," if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, such
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of such act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
(Am. Ord. 18-5, passed 6-14-21)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
(Am. Ord. 18-5, passed 6-14-21)
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
(Am. Ord. 18-5, passed 6-14-21)
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this town exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
(Am. Ord. 18-5, passed 6-14-21)
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express such intent, such spelling shall be corrected and such word
or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
such error.
(Am. Ord. 18-5, passed 6-14-21)
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within this town for the transaction of all town business.
(Am. Ord. 18-5, passed 6-14-21)
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of such act or the giving of such notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
(Am. Ord. 18-5, passed 6-14-21)
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
(Am. Ord. 18-5, passed 6-14-21)
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the Board of Commissioners requiring publication
shall take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from
their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(Am. Ord. 18-5, passed 6-14-21)
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
(Am. Ord. 18-5, passed 6-14-21)
§ 10.17 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10,
passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-80; Am.
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-85)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (G.S. § 160A-69) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-80; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-
85).
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a "statutory reference"
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information.
Example:
   § 31.10 MAYOR.
      The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the Board of Commissioners.
   (Ord. 10, passed 1-1-80)
   Statutory reference:
      For the powers and duties of the Mayor, see G.S. § 160A-67
(Am. Ord. 18-5, passed 6-14-21)
§ 10.18 AUTHORIZATION TO ISSUE CIVIL CITATIONS.
   The following staff positions within the town are hereby authorized to issue
civil citations on behalf of the Board of Commissioners:
   (A)   Police Department - all sworn officers and animal control personnel;
   (B)   Planning and Inspections Department - Code Enforcement Officer;
Building Codes Inspector; Chief Building Inspector; Zoning Administrator;
Senior Planner; Assistant Planning Director; Planning Director;
   (C)   Fire Department - Fire Marshal;
   (D)   Public Services Department - Solid Waste Management Superintendent;
Sanitation Crew Leader; Street Maintenance Supervisor; Water Plant Supervisor;
Water Systems Supervisor; Assistant Public Services Director.
(Ord. 05-17, passed 9-12-05; Am. Ord. 17-7, passed 8-12-19; Am. Ord. 18-5,
passed 6-14-21)
§ 10.19 APPEAL OF CIVIL CITATIONS.
   Civil citation issued pursuant to §
10.99, except civil citation issued in violation of
Chapter 150 (Building Regulations),
Chapter 151 (Flood Damage Prevention),
Chapter 152 (Subdivision), and
Chapter 153 (Zoning), may be appealed first to the head of the issuing
department, or their designees, and, then, to the Town Manager, or their
designee, if the appealing party finds the department head’s decision
unacceptable in accordance with this section. Those issued under Title XV -
Land Usage section of the code shall follow procedures outlined in §
153.322. An appeal of a civil citation shall adhere to the following procedure:
   (A)   To be considered, an appeal of a civil citation shall be submitted in
writing to the Town Clerk within 14 days from the date the civil citation is
issued.
   (B)   Upon receipt, the Town Clerk shall forward the appeal to the
department head for review and action to either reverse or affirm the issuance
of the civil citation. In their consideration of the appeal request, the
department head shall include written and/or oral comment from the appealing
party and the staff member who issued the civil citation. The department head
shall review and act on the appeal as soon as possible or within 30 days of the
date of receipt to complete this process.
   (C)   In the event the appealing party is dissatisfied with the department
head’s action to either reverse or affirm the issuance of the civil citation, a
second appeal request may be submitted in writing to the Town Manager by the
appealing party not later than five days from the date the first appeal is
held, and this second appeal shall be held as soon as possible or within 30
days of the department head’s decision.
   (D)   After deliberation, the Town Manager may reverse or affirm the
decision of the department head on the issuance of the civil citation.
   (E)   In the event the appellant has exhausted all administrative remedies
with the town, then they may file a civil action in the Superior Court for Dare
County, North Carolina.
(Ord. 05-17, passed 9-12-05; Am. Ord. 18-5, passed 6-14-21)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   In accordance with G.S. § 160A-175, and unless this code of ordinances
provides otherwise, violation of any provision hereof shall be a Class 3
misdemeanor as provided in G.S. § 14-4, punishable upon conviction by a fine
not exceeding $50 or by imprisonment not exceeding 30 days. An ordinance may
provide by express statement that the maximum fine or term of imprisonment to
be imposed for its violation shall be some figure or number of days less than
the maximum penalties prescribed by G.S. § 14-4.
   (B)   Penalties.
      (1)   As authorized by G.S. § 160A-175, the violation of any of the
provisions of this code shall subject the person or entity violating such
provisions to a civil penalty of $50 per day for each of the first 15 days such
violation continues after notice of the violation from the town, $100 per day
for the sixteenth through the thirtieth day such violation continues after the
initial notice from the town, and $500 or the maximum amount authorized under
the provisions of the North Carolina General Statutes, whichever is greater,
for each day after 30 days that such violation continues after the initial
notice from the town.
      (2)   The imposition and collection of the foregoing civil penalties
shall be in addition to all other remedies available to the town at law or in
equity, authorized under the provisions of the North Carolina General Statutes,
including but not limited to the suspensions of licenses and permits and
actions to abate, enjoin or otherwise remedy violations of this code and all
such remedies shall be cumulative. The imposition of civil penalties or the use
of any other civil remedy available to the town shall be in addition to and not
exclusive of any criminal proceeding and/or penalties available and/or imposed
for the violation of this code.
   (C)   An ordinance may provide, when appropriate, that each day's continuing
violation shall be a separate and distinct offense.
   (D)   Notice of violation procedure.
      (1)   For any and all violations of this Code of Ordinances, the
authorized staff shall give written notice to the landowner of the subject
property and tenant, if applicable. The written notice shall be delivered by
personal delivery, electronic mail or by first-class mail. The notice shall be
to provide to the last address listed for the owner on the Dare County tax
records and/or to the physical property address. For the purposes of this
notice, delivery by first-class mail shall be deemed received on the third
business day following deposit of the notice in the mail with the United States
Postal Service and delivery by electronic mail shall be deemed received on the
date sent.
      (2)   Posted notice. Notice of violations may also be posted on the
property at the discretion of the authorized staff.
(Am. Ord. 05-02, passed 2-16-05; Am. Ord. 18-5, passed 6-14-21)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      Chapter
         
30.   BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS; TOWN OFFICERS
         
31.   BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
         
32.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
         
33.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 30: BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS; TOWN OFFICERS
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Definitions
   
30.02   Public bodies to hold open meetings
   
30.03   Rules of procedure generally
   
30.04   Elections
   
30.05   Board of Commissioners
   
30.06   Ordinances and resolutions
   
30.07   Filling of vacancies
Town Officers
   
30.20   Appointments
   
30.21   Town Manager; Town Attorney
   
30.22   Disposal of surplus personal property valued at less than $5,000
   
30.23   Purchase of apparatus, supplies, materials or equipment
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   G.S. The North Carolina General Statute(s).
   LOCAL NEWS MEDIA. Entities for the primary purpose of disseminating written
or broadcast news information, having offices in the county and engaging in
news dissemination at least twice weekly.
   PUBLIC BODY (-IES). Any elected or appointed authority, board, commission,
committee, council or other body of the town that is:
      (1)   Composed of two or more members; and
      (2)   Exercises or is authorized to exercise a legislative, policy-
making, quasi-judicial, administrative or advisory function. (Note: PUBLIC BODY
does not include a meeting solely among the professional staff of the town.)
(Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. 18-6, passed 6-14-21)
§ 30.02 PUBLIC BODIES TO HOLD OPEN MEETINGS.
   All public bodies as defined in §
30.01, and in G.S. § 143-318.10, shall forthwith and fully comply with the
requirements of G.S. Ch. 143, Art. 33C, the Open Meetings Law.
(Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. 18-6, passed 6-14-21)
§ 30.03 RULES OF PROCEDURE GENERALLY.
   Except where otherwise provided by law or ordinance, the rules of procedure
of the Board of Commissioners and all other public bodies of the town shall be
the Suggested Rules of Procedure for a City Council as published, and amended
from time to time, by the Institute of Government of the University of North
Carolina at Chapel Hill, and adopted and amended from time to time by the
Board. (Note: The Suggested Rules of Procedure for a City Council includes but
is not limited to procedures on conduct of meetings, meeting agendas,
procedural duties of the Mayor and Mayor pro tempore, motions by and actions of
the Board of Commissioners, introduction and adoption of ordinances and
contracts, minutes, appointments and conduct of public hearings.)
(Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. 18-6, passed 6-14-21)
§ 30.04 ELECTIONS.
   (A)   Conduct of elections. Municipal elections of the town shall be
conducted by the Dare County Board of Elections in accordance with the
provisions of G.S. Ch. 163.
   (B)   Selection of plurality method. Members of the Board of Commissioners
shall be elected on a non-partisan basis and the results determined by a
plurality of the votes cast as provided by G.S. § 163-292.
   (C)   Absentee ballots. Absentee ballots shall be allowed in the regular
town elections, including primaries, if applicable, and including run-off
elections, if applicable, in accordance with the provisions of G.S. § 163-302.
(Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. 18-6, passed 6-14-21)
§ 30.05 BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS.
   The Board of Commissioners shall hold such regular meetings as may be
determined from time to time by amendment and adoption of the Suggested Rules
of Procedure for a City Council. Unless otherwise scheduled, all meetings of
the Board will be held in the meeting room of the administration building at
102 Town Hall Drive, off Colington Road. All members shall abide by the
conflict of interest standards outlined in §
153.364.
(Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. 18-6, passed 6-14-21)
§ 30.06 ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS.
   (A)   Official copies. For each and every ordinance, contract or resolution
adopted by the Board of Commissioners in accordance with the provisions of the
Suggested Rules of Procedure for a City Council:
      (1)   There shall be a true copy of every ordinance, or any other
document which has the effect of ordinance, which has been duly enacted by the
Board and signed by the Mayor and the Town Clerk and which shall be known and
recognized as an official copy of such ordinance.
      (2)   There shall be a true copy of every resolution which has been duly
enacted by the Board and signed by the Mayor and the Town Clerk and which shall
be known and recognized as an official copy of such resolution.
   (B)   Effective date. All ordinances and resolutions passed by the Board of
Commissioners shall be in full force and effect from and after their
ratification, unless the Board establishes a different effective date at the
time of such ratification.
(Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. 18-6, passed 6-14-21)
§ 30.07 FILLING OF VACANCIES.
   In case of death, disability or resignation or if a vacancy is created by
any other means in the elected officials of the town, a successor shall be
selected by a majority vote of the Board.
(Am. Ord. 18-6, passed 6-14-21)
TOWN OFFICERS
§ 30.20 APPOINTMENTS.
   At the first meeting of the Board of Commissioners after their election and
qualification, or as soon thereafter as possible, they shall proceed to appoint
the Town Manager and Town Attorney.
(Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. 18-6, passed 6-14-21)
§ 30.21 TOWN MANAGER; TOWN ATTORNEY.
   (A)   Town Manager. In addition to those outlined in the town code, and any
such other duties and responsibilities that from time to time may be conferred
on the Town Manager by the Board, the duties and powers of the Town Manager are
found in the personnel policy of the town and in G.S. § 160A-148.
   (B)   Town Attorney. In addition to the duties and responsibilities outlined
in the town code, and any such other duties and responsibilities that from time
to time may be conferred on the Town Attorney by the Board, the Town Attorney
shall:
      (1)   Prosecute and defend suits against the town;
      (2)   Advise the Mayor, Board, Town Manager or any other officer of the
town in regard to matters connected with the town's business;
      (3)   Attend meetings of the Board of Commissioners;
      (4)   Draw such deeds, contracts, bonds, notes and other legal papers as
may be required for the proper conduct of the town's business;
      (5)   Draw such ordinances as may be directed by the Board or Town
Manager;
      (6)   Approve all ordinances as to form.
(Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. 18-6, passed 6-14-21)
§ 30.22 DISPOSAL OF SURPLUS PERSONAL PROPERTY VALUED AT LESS THAN $5,000.
   (A)   The Town Manager is authorized pursuant to G.S. § 160A-266(c) to
dispose of any surplus personal property owned by the town whenever it is
determined at the Town Manager's discretion that:
      (1)   The item or group of items has a fair market value of less than
$5,000;
      (2)   The property is no longer necessary for the conduct of public
business;
      (3)   Sound property management principles and financial considerations
indicate that the interests of the town would best be served by disposing of
the property.
   (B)   The Town Manager shall determine the fair market value of the personal
property for disposal and may dispose of any such personal property by any
means which is judged reasonably calculated to yield the fair market value or
the highest attainable prices in money or other consideration, including but
not limited to the methods of sale provided in G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 12. Such
sale may be public or private and with or without notice and minimum waiting
period.
   (C)   The surplus property shall be sold to the party who tenders the
highest offer, or exchanged for any property or services useful to the town if
greater value may be obtained in that manner and the Town Manager is authorized
to execute and deliver any applicable title documents. If no offers are
received within a reasonable time, the Town Manager may retain the property,
obtain any reasonable available salvage value or cause it to be disposed of as
waste material.
   (D)   The Town Manager shall keep a record of all property sold under this
section and that record shall generally describe the property sold or
exchanged, to whom it was sold or with whom exchanged and the amount of money
or other consideration received for each sale or exchange.
(Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. 18-6, passed 6-14-21)
§ 30.23 PURCHASE OF APPARATUS, SUPPLIES, MATERIALS OR EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Grant of authority. Subject to the restrictions and conditions
hereinafter provided, when purchasing apparatus, supplies, materials or
equipment for use by the town, in addition to such authority as may be provided
by law and/or otherwise delegated by the Board of Commissioners, the Town
Manager is authorized pursuant to G.S. § 143-129(a) to:
      (1)   Prepare, or cause to be prepared, plans and/or specifications
setting forth a complete description of the item(s) to be purchased and the
characteristics, features and/or requirements therefor;
      (2)   Include, where appropriate, in specifications for the item(s) to be
purchased an opportunity for bidders to purchase as trade-in specified personal
property owned by the town;
      (3)   Advertise, or otherwise secure bids, for such item(s), if required
under applicable law;
      (4)   Award contracts for the purchase of the item(s) and, where
applicable, award contracts for the purchase of the item(s) and the sale of
trade-in property;
      (5)   Reject bids;
      (6)   Readvertise to receive bids;
      (7)   Waive bid bond or deposit requirements;
      (8)   Waive performance and payment bond requirements; and
      (9)   Execute and deliver the purchase contract(s).
   (B)   Report. At the first meeting of the Board of Commissioners following
the award of any contract(s) pursuant to this section, the Town Manager shall
submit a report to the Board of Commissioners summarizing the bids received and
the contract(s) awarded. Such report shall be included in the minutes of the
meeting at which it is received.
   (C)   Extent of authority. Except in cases of sole source purchases pursuant
to G.S. § 143-129(f) and cases of purchases from established contracts pursuant
to G.S. § 143-129(g), unless otherwise provided by law, the provisions of this
section shall apply to the purchase of apparatus, supplies, materials or
equipment required for use by the town.
   (D)   No limitation of other authority. The provisions of this section are
not intended to limit, restrict or revoke in any manner authority otherwise
granted and/or delegated to the Town Manager by statute, law or action of the
Board of Commissioners.
   (E)   Appropriation required. No purchase shall be made by the Town Manager
under authority of this section unless an appropriation for such purpose has
been authorized in the annual budget, or by supplemental appropriation or
budget appropriation amendment duly adopted by the Board of Commissioners.
   (F)   Application of general statutes. In acting pursuant to the authority
delegated by this section, the Town Manager shall comply with the requirements
of G.S. Ch. 143, Art. 8, as from time to time amended, modified, supplemented,
revised or superseded, to the same extent as would have otherwise applied to
the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. 18-6, passed 6-14-21)
CHAPTER 31: BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
Planning Board
   
31.01   Established; jurisdiction
   
31.02   Membership; terms, vacancy, attendance
   
31.03   Official record; meetings; quorum; voting
   
31.04   Powers and duties; comprehensive plan
   
31.05   Oath of office
   
31.06   Conflict of interest
Community Appearance Commission
   
31.20   Appearance Commission established
   
31.21   Duties of the Appearance Commission
   
31.22   Meetings of the Community Appearance Commission
   
31.23   Staff services; advisory council
   
31.24   Receipt and expenditure of funds
   
31.25   Oath of office
   
31.26   Conflict of interest
Historic Landmarks Commission
   
31.40   Established; membership; terms
   
31.41   Powers and duties
   
31.42   Historic landmark designation procedure
   
31.43   Certificate of appropriateness
     
31.44   Administrative approval of minor works
   
31.45   Review criteria
   
31.46   Certain changes not prohibited
   
31.47   Enforcement and remedies
   
31.48   Delay in demolition of landmarks
   
31.49   Oath of office
   
31.50   Conflict of interest
Board of Adjustment
   
31.60   Board of Adjustment established
   
31.61   Composition; attendance; meetings
   
31.62   Term
   
31.63   Compensation
   
31.64   Vacancies
   
31.65   Removal
   
31.66   Offices
   
31.67   Oath of office
   
31.68   Conflict of interest
PLANNING BOARD
§ 31.01 ESTABLISHED; JURISDICTION.
   There is established a Board to be known as the Town Planning Board, whose
jurisdiction shall include the area within the corporate limits of the town.
(`88 Code, § 15-26) (Am. Ord. 18-7, passed 6-14-21)
§ 31.02 MEMBERSHIP; TERMS, VACANCY, ATTENDANCE.
   (A)   The Planning Board shall be composed of seven members, appointed by
the Board of Commissioners, who shall be residents of the town. The members of
the Planning Board shall be appointed for terms of one, two and three years,
and their terms of office shall be designated at the time of their appointment.
The successor members of the Planning Board, after those first serving under
this section, shall be appointed for a term of three years. A member may be
reappointed upon the expiration of his term. Vacancies occurring in the regular
Board membership shall be filled by appointment by the Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   The Planning Board shall designate its Chairperson and Vice-
Chairperson from its membership. The Deputy Town Clerk or designee shall
provide secretarial duties for the Planning Board.
    (C)   The person acting as planning official for the town or Town Planner,
by whatever name he may be designated, shall be an ex officio member of the
Board in an advisory capacity and shall not be a voting member of the Board.
   (D)   Faithful attendance at the meetings of the Board is considered a
prerequisite for the continuation of membership on the Board. The Board of
Commissioners may take action to remove any Planning Board member who misses
more than one-third of the meetings during any 12-month period.
(`88 Code, § 15-27) (Ord. passed 12-9-75; Am. Ord. passed 1-8-80; Am. Ord.
passed 2-23-82; Am. Ord. passed 12-14-82; Am. Ord. passed 8-31-84; Am. Ord. 90-
02, passed 3-12-90; Am. Ord. 93-10, passed 9-13-93; Am. Ord. 07-05, passed 4-9-
07; Am. Ord. 10-19, passed 10-11-10; Am. Ord. 15-20, passed 7-11-16; Am. Ord.
18-7, passed 6-14-21)
§ 31.03 OFFICIAL RECORD; MEETINGS; QUORUM; VOTING.
   (A)   By virtue of the duties assigned to the Planning Board and which may
be hereafter assigned to the Planning Board, there shall be an official record
kept by the Secretary of the Planning Board as a permanent record for the use
and benefit of the public and the applicants appearing before the Board with
respect to projects within the town requiring Planning Board approval. Such
record shall be a public record and shall be maintained at the Town Clerk's
Office.
   (B)   The Planning Board shall meet at a specific time each month in order
that its recommendations may be recorded and forwarded to the next regular
meeting of the Board of Commissioners, which presently is set as the second
Monday of each month. If the Board of Commissioners changes its meeting
schedule, the Planning Board shall adjust its schedule so that its
recommendations may be available to the Board of Commissioners at its regular
meeting.
   (C)   There shall be a quorum of at least four members of the Board, and in
the event only four are present, it shall take a unanimous vote of the four for
official action.
   (D)   The Chairperson of the Board shall vote only in the event of a tie
vote on a specific issue or question.
(`88 Code, § 15-28) (Ord. passed 12-9-75; Am. Ord. passed 1-8-80; Am. Ord.
passed 2-23-82; Am. Ord. passed 12-14-82; Am. Ord. passed 8-31-84; Am. Ord. 93-
10, passed 9-13-93; Am. Ord. 18-7, passed 6-14-21)
§ 31.04 POWERS AND DUTIES; COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
   (A)   The Planning Board shall prepare plans and coordinate the plans of the
municipality and those of others so as to bring about a coordinated and
harmonious development of the area. The Planning Board is designated as the
planning agency for the revision of the zoning code of the town under the
authority of G.S. § 160A-387. In addition, the Planning Board is directed and
authorized:
      (1)   To prepare and from time to time amend and revise a comprehensive
and coordinated plan for the physical development of the area. The
comprehensive plan shall be the Planning Board’s recommendations to the Board
of Commissioners for the development of the town, including, among other
things, the general location, character and extent of streets, bridges,
parkways, playgrounds, parks and other public ways, grounds and open spaces;
the general location and extent of public utilities and terminals, whether
publicly or privately owned or operated, for water, light, sanitation,
transportation, communication, power and other purposes; the removal,
relocation, widening, narrowing, vacating, abandonment, change of use or
extension of any of the foregoing ways, buildings, grounds, open spaces,
property, utilities or terminals; and the most desirable pattern of land use
within the area;
      (2)   To establish principles and policies and recommend their adoption
to the Board of Commissioners for guiding the action of development in the
area. The Planning Board may prepare a capital improvements program and report
its recommendations to the Board of Commissioners upon the extent, location and
design of all public structures and facilities, on the acquisition and disposal
of public properties and on the establishment of building lines, mapped street
lines and proposals to change existing street lines in order to insure that the
goals of the comprehensive plan are furthered by a coordinated and efficient
expenditure of public funds;
      (3)   To prepare and recommend amendments to existing ordinances
promoting orderly development of the area along the lines indicated in the
comprehensive plan, including a zoning ordinance and subdivision regulations.
The Planning Board may initiate, from time to time, proposals for the amendment
of the zoning code and the subdivision regulations based upon its studies and
comprehensive plan. In addition, it shall review and make recommendations to
the Board of Commissioners concerning all proposed amendments to the zoning
code and subdivision regulations;
      (4)   To determine whether specific proposed developments referred to it
by governmental or private agencies in the area conform to the principles and
requirements of the comprehensive plan for the area and to make recommendations
concerning them;
      (5)   To keep the Board of Commissioners and the general public informed
and advised as to these matters and to make any other recommendations which it
sees fit for improving the development of the area. In the development of these
suggestions, the Planning Board shall acquire and maintain data and materials
to show correlation of past, present and future needs and conditions;
      (6)   To perform any other duties which may be lawfully assigned to it.
   (B)   The Planning Board is authorized to appoint such committees and
employees and to authorize such expenditures as it may see fit, subject to
limitation of funds provided for the Planning Board by the Board of
Commissioners in the town’s annual budget.
   (C)   The Planning Board may set up special committees to assist it in the
study of specific problems.
   (D)   The Planning Board may provide a preliminary forum for review of
quasi-judicial special use permit decisions, provided that no part of the forum
or recommendation may be used as a basis for the deciding Board.
   (E)   The Planning Board may perform any of the actions authorized for
municipal planning boards by G.S. § 160D-301, as amended.
(`88 Code, § 15-29) (Ord. passed 12-9-75; Am. Ord. 18-7, passed 6-14-21)
§ 31.05 OATH OF OFFICE.
   All members appointed to boards under this section shall, before entering
their duties, qualify by taking an oath of office.
(Ord. 18-7, passed 6-14-21)
§ 31.06 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   All members shall abide by the conflict of interest standards outlined in §
153.364.
(Ord. 18-7, passed 6-14-21)
COMMUNITY APPEARANCE COMMISSION
§ 31.20 APPEARANCE COMMISSION ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   There is hereby established a commission to be known as the Kill Devil
Hills Community Appearance Commission in accordance with G.S. § 160D-304.
   (B)   The Community Appearance Commission shall consist of eight members,
including the chairperson, all of whom shall be residents, property owners, or
business owners of the town.
   (C)   The members of the Community Appearance Commission shall be appointed
by the Board of Commissioners to serve terms of three years each; provided,
however, that the initial members shall serve staggered terms. If a vacancy
occurs in the membership of the Commission, the Board of Commissioners shall
appoint a successor to fill the unexpired term. All members of the Commission
shall serve at the pleasure of the Board of Commissioners and may be removed by
the Board with or without cause.
      (1)   A member of the Board of Commissioners.
      (2)   The Town Manager shall assign such staff members to provide support
to the Community Appearance Commission as deemed necessary and appropriate.
   (D)   At its organizational meeting, the Community Appearance Commission
shall select a Chairman and Vice-Chairman. Thereafter, at its first meeting
during a new calendar year the Community Appearance Commission shall select a
Chairman and Vice-Chairman. The officers shall be eligible to succeed
themselves.
   (E)   Faithful attendance at the meetings of the Commission is considered a
prerequisite for the continuation of membership on the Commission. A majority
of the Commission members may recommend to the Board of Commissioners, for
action, the removal of any member who misses more than one-third of the
meetings during any 12-month period.
(Ord. 12-19, passed 9-10-12; Am. Ord. 13-7, passed 5-13-13; Am. Ord. 16-12,
passed 4-9-18; Am. Ord. 18-2, passed 4-12-21; Am. Ord. 18-7, passed 6-14-21;
Am. Res. passed 2-13-23)
§ 31.21 DUTIES OF THE APPEARANCE COMMISSION.
   The Community Appearance Commission shall serve the Board of Commissioners
in an advisory capacity. The Commission's responsibilities may include, but are
not necessarily limited to:
   (A)   Studying the visual needs of the town and recommending plans to carry
out programs that will, in accordance with the powers herein granted, enhance
and improve the visual quality and aesthetic characteristics of the town;
   (B)   Initiating, promoting and assisting in the implementation of programs
of general community beautification in the town;
   (C)   Coordinating the activities of individuals, agencies and
organizations, public and private, whose plans, activities and programs bear
upon the appearance of the town;
   (D)   Preparing both general and specific plans for the improved appearance
of the town. These plans may include the entire town or any part thereof, and
may include private and public property. The plans shall set forth desirable
standards and goals for the aesthetic enhancement of the town or any part
thereof within its area of planning and zoning jurisdiction, including public
ways and areas, open spaces and public and private buildings and projects;
   (E)   Participating in the implementation of the plans it develops;
   (F)   Formulating and recommending to the Planning Board and Board of
Commissioners the adoption or amendment of ordinances, including the zoning
code, subdivision regulations and other local ordinances proposing to regulate
the use of property to enhance the appearance of the town;
   (G)   Directing the attention of town officials to necessary enforcement of
any ordinance that may improve the appearance of the town;
   (H)   Seeking voluntary adherence to the standards and policies of the plans
developed by the Community Appearance Commission;
   (I)   Promoting public interest in and an understanding of its
recommendations, studies and plans.
(Ord. 12-19, passed 9-10-12; Am. Ord. 18-7, passed 6-14-21)
§ 31.22 MEETINGS OF THE COMMUNITY APPEARANCE COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Community Appearance Commission is a public body and as such shall
use Suggested Rules of Procedure for Small Local Government Boards as its
official procedural guide. It shall keep an accurate record of the business
transacted before it, which records shall be open to the public. A record of
the attendance of its members shall be kept.
   (B)   The Community Appearance Commission may meet monthly, but shall meet
at least once quarterly; all meetings shall be open to the public in accordance
with the North Carolina Open Meetings Law, G.S. 143-318. Special meetings, at
the call of the chairman, shall be held as necessary. A quorum shall consist of
four members of the Community Appearance Commission.
(Ord. 12-19, passed 9-10-12; Am. Ord. 18-7, passed 6-14-21)
§ 31.23 STAFF SERVICES; ADVISORY COUNCIL.
   The Community Appearance Commission may recommend to the Board of
Commissioners suitable arrangements for the procurement or provision of staff
or technical services for the Commission and the Board may appropriate such
amount as it deems necessary to carry out the purposes for which the Commission
was created. The Commission may establish an advisory council or other
committees.
(`88 Code, § 15-49) (Am. Ord. 18-7, passed 6-14-21)
§ 31.24 RECEIPT AND EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS.
   The Board of Commissioners may receive contributions from private agencies,
foundations, organizations, individuals, the state or federal government or any
other source for the purposes of this section. The Community Appearance
Commission may disburse these funds for any purpose within the scope of its
authority as specified in this subchapter in the Community Appearance
Commission’s annual budget as approved by the Board of Commissioners. However,
all expenditures by the Community Appearance Commission shall be recorded in
the monthly minutes of the regular Board meetings for the expenditures of the
previous month. All sums appropriated by the town to further the work and
purposes of the Commission are deemed to be for a public purpose and a
necessary expense.
(`88 Code, § 15-51) (Am. Ord. 14-30, passed 5-13-15; Am. Ord. 18-7, passed 6-
14-21)
§ 31.25 OATH OF OFFICE.
   All members appointed to boards under this section shall, before entering
their duties, qualify by taking an oath of office.
(Ord. 18-7, passed 6-14-21)
§ 31.26 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   All members shall abide by the conflict of interest standards outlined in §
153.364.
(Ord. 18-7, passed 6-14-21)
HISTORIC LANDMARKS COMMISSION
§ 31.40 ESTABLISHED; MEMBERSHIP; TERMS.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Kill Devil Hills Historic Landmarks
Commission ("Commission") under the authority of Chapter 160D-303 of the North
Carolina General Statutes.
   (B)   The Commission shall consist of five members appointed by the Board of
Commissioners. All members shall reside within the planning and zoning
jurisdiction of Kill Devil Hills. A majority of the members of the Commission
shall have demonstrated special interest, experience or education in history,
architecture, archaeology or related fields. The Commission may appoint
advisory bodies and committees as appropriate.
   (C)   Members of the Commission shall serve terms of three years. Terms
shall be staggered.
(Ord. 04-05, passed 4-12-04; Am. Ord. 14-23, passed 1-12-15; Am. Ord. 18-7,
passed 6-14-21)
§ 31.41 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The powers of the Historic Landmarks Commission are as follows:
      (1)    Undertake an inventory of properties of historical, prehistoric,
architectural and/or cultural significance.
      (2)    Recommend to the Board of Commissioners individual structures,
buildings, sites, areas or objects to be designated by ordinance as
"Landmarks".
      (3)    Recommend to the Board of Commissioners that designation of any
building, structure, site, area or object as a landmark, be revoked or removed
for cause.
      (4)   Review and act upon proposals for the alteration or demolition of
designated landmarks.
      (5)   Conduct an educational program with respect to historic landmarks
within its jurisdiction.
      (6)   Cooperate with the state, federal and local government in pursuance
of the purpose of this subchapter; to offer or request assistance, aid,
guidance or advice concerning matters under its purview or mutual interest. The
Board of Commissioners, or the Commission when authorized by the Board of
Commissioners, may contract with the State or the United States, or any agency
of either, or with any other organization provided the terms are not
inconsistent with state or federal law.
      (7)   Enter, solely in performance of its official duties and only at
reasonable times, upon private lands for examination or survey thereof.
However, no member, employee or agent of the Commission may enter any private
building or structure without express consent of the owner or occupant thereof.
      (8)   Prepare and recommend the official adoption of a preservation
element as part of the Town of Kill Devil Hills comprehensive plan.
      (9)   Acquire by any lawful means the fee or any lesser included
interest, including options to purchase, to any such properties designated as
landmarks; to hold, manage, preserve, restore and improve the same; and to
exchange or dispose of the property by public or private sale, lease or
otherwise, subject to covenants or other legally binding restrictions which
will secure appropriate rights of public access and promote the preservation of
the property.
      (10)   Restore, preserve and operate historic properties.
      (11)   Negotiate at any time with the owner of a building, structure,
site, area or object for its acquisition or its preservation, when such action
is reasonably necessary or appropriate.
   (B)   Prior to any official action the Commission shall adopt rules of
procedure governing its meetings and the conduct of official business and
bylaws governing the appointment of members, terms of office, the election of
officers and related matters. A public record shall be kept of the Commission's
resolutions, proceedings and actions. The Commission shall also prepare and
adopt principles and guidelines for altering, restoring, moving, or demolishing
properties designated as landmarks.
(Ord. 04-05, passed 4-12-04; Am. Ord. 18-7, passed 6-14-21)
§ 31.42 HISTORIC LANDMARK DESIGNATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Upon complying with the required landmark designation procedures set
forth herein, the Board of Commissioners may adopt and from time to time amend
or repeal an ordinance designating one or more historic landmarks. No property
shall be recommended for designation as a landmark unless it is deemed and
found by the Commission to be of special significance in terms of its
historical, prehistoric, design, setting, workmanship, materials, feeling and/
or association.
   (B)   The ordinance shall describe each property designated in the
ordinance, the name or names of the owner or owners of the property, those
elements of the property that are integral to its historical, architectural or
prehistoric value, including the land area of the property so designated, and
any other information the governing board deems necessary. For each building,
structure, site, area or object so designated as a landmark, the ordinance
shall require that the waiting period set forth in this subchapter be observed
prior to its demolition. A suitable sign for each property designated as a
landmark may be placed on the property at the owner's consent; otherwise the
sign may be placed on a nearby public right-of-way.
   (C)   No property shall be designated as a landmark until the following
steps have been taken:
      (1)   As a guide for the identification and evaluation of landmarks, the
Commission shall, at the earliest possible time and consistent with the
resources available to it, undertake an inventory of properties of historical,
architectural, prehistoric and cultural significance with Kill Devil Hills.
      (2)   The Commission shall make or cause to be made an investigation and
report on the historic, architectural, prehistoric, educational or cultural
significance of each building, structure, site, area or object proposed for
designation or acquisition. Such report shall be forwarded to the Division of
Archives and History, North Carolina Department of Cultural Resources.
      (3)   The Department of Cultural Resources, acting through the State
Historic Preservation Officer, or his or her designee, shall either upon
request of the Department or at the initiative of the Commission be given an
opportunity to review and comment upon the substance and effect of the
designation of any landmark. All comments will be provided in writing. If the
Department does not submit its comments to the Commission within 30 days
following receipt by the Department of the report, the Commission and the Board
of Commissioners shall be relieved of any responsibility to consider such
comments.
      (4)   The Commission and the Board of Commissioners shall hold a joint
legislative public hearing (or separate legislative public hearings) on the
proposed ordinance. Reasonable notice of the time and place thereof shall be
given.
      (5)   Following the public hearing(s) the Board of Commissioners may
adopt the ordinance as proposed, adopt the ordinance with any amendments it
deems necessary, or reject the proposed ordinance. Notice of hearing shall be
as provided in §
153.363.
      (6)   Upon adoption of the ordinance the owners and occupants of each
landmark shall be given written notification of such designation insofar as
reasonable diligence permits. One copy of the ordinance and all amendments
thereto shall be filed by the Commission in the office of the Register of Deeds
of Dare County. Each landmark shall be indexed according to the name of the
owner of the property in the grantor and grantee indexes in the Register of
Deeds office and the Commission shall pay a reasonable fee for filing and
indexing. A second copy of the ordinance and all amendments thereto shall be
kept on file in the office of the Kill Devil Hills Town Clerk and be made
available for public inspection at any reasonable time. A third copy of the
ordinance and all amendments thereto shall be given to the building inspector.
The fact that a building, structure, site, area or object has been designated a
building, structure, site, area or object has been designated a landmark shall
be clearly indicated on all tax maps maintained by Dare County for such period
as the designation remains in effect.
      (7)   Upon the adoption of the landmark ordinance or any amendments
thereto, it is the duty of the Commission to give notice thereof to the tax
supervisor of Dare County. The tax supervisor in appraising it for tax purposes
shall consider the designation and any recorded restrictions upon the property
limiting its use for preservation purposes.
(Ord. 04-05, passed 4-12-04; Am. Ord. 18-7, passed 6-14-21)
§ 31.43 CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      EXTERIOR FEATURES.  Includes the architectural style, general design, and
general arrangement of the exterior of a building or other structure, including
the kind and texture of the building material, the size and scale of the
building, and the type and style of all windows, doors, light fixtures, signs
and other appurtenant features. EXTERIOR FEATURES may also include historic
signs, color and significant landscape, archaeological and natural features of
the area. In the case of outdoor advertising signs, EXTERIOR FEATURES shall be
construed to mean the style, material, size and location of all such signs.
   (B)   Certificate of Appropriateness required.
      (1)   From and after the designation of a landmark, no exterior portion
of any building or other structure (including masonry walls, fences, light
fixtures, steps and pavement, or other appurtenant features), nor any above-
ground utility structure nor any type of outdoor advertising sign shall be
erected, altered, restored, moved or demolished on such landmark until after an
application for a Certificate of Appropriateness as to exterior features has
been submitted to and approved by the Commission. Such a certificate is
required to be issued by the Commission prior to the issuance of a building
permit or other permit granted for the purposed of construction, altering,
moving, or demolishing structures, which certificate may be issued subject to
reasonable conditions necessary to carry out the purposes of this subchapter. A
Certificate of Appropriateness shall be required whether or not a building or
other permit is required.
      (2)   The State of North Carolina (including its agencies, political
subdivisions and instrumentalities), the Town of Kill Devil Hills, and all
public utilities shall be required to obtain a Certificate of Appropriateness
for construction, alteration, moving or demolition of designated landmarks.
   (C)   Application for Certificate of Appropriateness.
      (1)   Applications for a Certificate of Appropriateness shall be obtained
from the Planning and Inspection Department and when completed, filed with the
Zoning Administrator. The application shall be filed two weeks prior to the
next regularly scheduled meeting of the Commission. Each application shall be
accompanied by sketches, drawings, photographs, specifications, descriptions
and other information of sufficient detail to clearly show the proposed
exterior alterations, additions, changes or new construction. The names and
mailing addresses of property owners filing and/or subject to the application
and the addresses of the property within 100 feet on all sides of the property
that is the subject of the application must also be filed. No application that
does not include the aforementioned information will be accepted.
      (2)   It shall be the policy of the Commission, in regard to applications
involving new construction or extensive alterations and/or additions to
existing structures, that a subcommittee of the Commission shall be available
to meet with persons involved in planned or pending applications in order to
advise them informally at an early stage in the development process concerning
the Commission's guideline, the nature of the area where the proposed project
will take place, and other relevant factors. The members of the subcommittee,
collectively and individually, shall refrain from any indication of approval or
disapproval. Advice or opinions given by a member of the subcommittee at such
informal meeting shall not be considered official or binding upon the
Commission.
   (D)   Action on application. The Zoning Administrator shall notify, by
certified mail, not less than one week prior to the meeting at which the matter
is to be heard, the owners of the property within 100 feet on all sides of the
subject property. Application for a Certificate of Appropriateness shall be
acted upon within 90 days after filing, otherwise the application shall be
deemed approved and a certificate shall be issued. An extension of time may be
granted by mutual consent of the Commission and the applicant. As part of the
review procedures the Commission may view the premises and seek advice, as it
may deem necessary under the circumstances. The Commission may hold a public
hearing on any application when deemed necessary. The action on an application
shall be approval, approval with conditions or denial and the decision of the
Commission must be supported by specific findings of fact indicating the extent
to which the application is or is not congruous with each special character of
the landmark.
   (E)   Hearing on application; jurisdiction; appeal.   
      (1)   Prior to the issuance or denial of a Certificate of Appropriateness
the applicant or other property owner(s) likely to be materially affected by
the application shall be given an opportunity to be heard. All meetings of the
Commission shall be open to the public in accordance with the North Carolina
Open Meetings Laws, G.S. Ch. 143, Art. 33C. Decision on Certificate of
Appropriateness of G.S. Chapter 160D are quasi-judicial and shall follow
procedures of G.S. § 160D-406.
      (2)   (a)   The Commission shall have no jurisdiction over interior
arrangement, except as provided below, and shall take no action under this
chapter except to prevent the construction, reconstruction, alteration,
restoration, moving or demolition of buildings, structures, appurtenant
features, outdoor advertising signs or other significant features which would
be incongruous with the special character of the landmark.
         (b)   The jurisdiction of the Commission over interior spaces shall be
limited to specific interior features of architectural, artistic or historical
significance in publicly owned landmarks; and of privately owned landmarks for
which consent for interior review has been given by the owners. Such consent of
an owner for interior review shall bind future owners and/or successors in
title; provided such consent has been filed in the Register of Deeds office and
indexed according to the name of the owner of the property in the grantor and
grantee indexes. The landmark designation shall specify the interior features
to be reviewed and the specific nature of the Commission's jurisdiction over
the interior.
      (3)   (a)   In any action granting or denying a Certificate of
Appropriateness, an appeal by an aggrieved party may be taken to the Board of
Adjustment.
         (b)   Written notice of the intent to appeal must be sent to the
Commission, post marked within 30 days following the decision. Appeals shall be
in the nature of certioraris. Appeals of decisions of the Board of Adjustment
shall be heard by the Superior Court of Dare County.
         (c)   The State of North Carolina shall have a right of appeal to the
North Carolina Historical Commission, which shall render its decision with 30
days from the date that the notice of appeal by the state is received by the
Historical Commission. The decision of the Historical Commission shall be final
and binding upon both the state and the Commission.
(Ord. 04-05, passed 4-12-04; Am. Ord. 18-7, passed 6-14-21)
§ 31.44 ADMINISTRATIVE APPROVAL OF MINOR WORKS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MINOR WORKS.  Those exterior changes that do not involve substantial
alterations, additions or removals that could impair the integrity of the
property. MINOR WORKS  shall be limited to those listed in the Commission's
"Design Guidelines".
   (B)   Notwithstanding §
31.43(D), (Action on Certificates of Appropriateness), upon receipt of a
completed application the Zoning Administrator may issue a Certificate of
Appropriateness for a minor works.
   (C)   No application may be denied without formal action of the Commission.
All minor works applications approved by the Zoning Administrator shall be
forwarded to the Commission in time for the next scheduled meeting.
(Ord. 04-05, passed 4-12-04; Am. Ord. 18-7, passed 6-14-21)
§ 31.45 REVIEW CRITERIA.
   (A)   No Certificate of Appropriateness shall be granted unless the
Commission finds that the application complies with the principles and
guidelines adopted by the Commission for review changes. It is the intent of
these regulations to insure insofar as possible that construction,
reconstruction, alteration, restoration, moving or demolition of buildings,
structures, appurtenant fixtures, outdoor advertising signs, or other
significant features of landmarks shall be congruous with the special character
of the landmark.
   (B)   In addition to the principles and guidelines, the following features
or elements of design shall be considered in reviewing applications for
Certificates of Appropriateness:
      (1)   Lot coverage, defined as the percentage of the lot area covered by
primary structures;
      (2)   Setbacks, defined as the distances from the lot lines to the
building;
      (3)   Building height;
      (4)   Spacing of buildings, defined as the distances between adjacent
buildings;
      (5)   Proportion, shape, positioning, location, pattern, sizes and style
of all elements of fenestration and entry doors;
      (6)   Surface materials and textures;
      (7)   Roof shapes, forms and materials;
      (8)   Use of regional or local architectural traditions;
      (9)   General form and proportion of buildings and structures, and the
relationship of additions to the main structure;
      (10)   Expression of architectural detailing;
      (11)   Orientation of the building to the street;
      (12)   Scale, determined by the size of the units of construction and
architectural details in relation to the human scale and also by the
relationship of the building, as to adjoining open space and nearby buildings
and structures; maintenance of pedestrian scale;
      (13)   Proportion of width to height of the total building facade;
      (14)   Archaeological sites and resources associated with standing
structures;
      (15)   Effect of trees and other landscape elements;
      (16)   Major landscaping which would impact archaeological sites;
      (17)   Style, material, size and location of all outdoor advertising
signs;
      (18)   Appurtenant features and fixtures, such as lighting;
      (19)   Structural condition and soundness;
      (20)   Walls - Physical ingredients, such as brick, stone or wood walls,
wrought iron fences, evergreen landscape masses or combination of these;
      (21)   Color;
      (22)   Ground cover or paving;
      (23)   Significant landscaping, archaeological and natural features.
   (C)   The Secretary of the Interior's "Standards for Rehabilitation and
Guidelines for Rehabilitating Historic Buildings" shall be the sole principles
and guidelines used in reviewing applications of the State of North Carolina
for Certificates of Appropriateness.
(Ord. 04-05, passed 4-12-04; Am. Ord. 18-7, passed 6-14-21)
§ 31.46 CERTAIN CHANGES NOT PROHIBITED.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to prevent the ordinary
maintenance or repair of any exterior architectural feature of a landmark which
does not involve a change in design, material, or outer appearance thereof; the
ordinary maintenance or repair of streets, sidewalks, pavement markings, street
signs or traffic signs; the construction, reconstruction, alteration,
restoration or demolition of any such features which the building inspector
shall certify is required by the public safety because of an unsafe or
dangerous condition. Nothing herein shall be construed to prevent either
maintenance, or in the event of an emergency, the immediate restoration of any
existing above ground utility structure without approval by the Commission.
(Ord. 04-05, passed 4-12-04; Am. Ord. 18-7, passed 6-14-21)
§ 31.47 ENFORCEMENT AND REMEDIES.
   (A)   Compliance with the terms of the Certificate of Appropriateness shall
be enforced by the Zoning Administrator. Failure to comply with the certificate
issued shall be a violation of the Zoning Code and subject to established
procedures and penalties for such violations.
   (B)   In case a building, structure, site, area or object designated as a
landmark is about to be demolished, whether a result of deliberate neglect or
otherwise, materially altered, remodeled, removed or destroyed except in
compliance with this subchapter, the Board of Commissioners, the Commission or
other party aggrieved by such action may institute any appropriate action or
proceeding to prevent such unlawful demolition, destruction, material
alteration, remodeling or removal, to restrain, correct or abate such
violations, or to prevent any illegal act or conduct with respect to such a
building or structure.
(Ord. 04-05, passed 4-12-04; Am. Ord. 18-7, passed 6-14-21)
§ 31.48 DELAY IN DEMOLITION OF LANDMARKS.
   (A)   (1)   An application for a Certificate of Appropriateness authorizing
the demolition, removal, or destruction of a designated landmark may not be
denied except as provided in division (C) below. However, the effective date of
such a certificate may be delayed for up to 365 days from the date of approval.
The period of delay shall be reduced by the Commission if it finds that the
owner would suffer extreme hardship or be permanently deprived of all
beneficial use or return from such property by virtue of the delay. During the
delay period the Commission shall negotiate with the owner in an effort to find
a means of preserving the building, structure or site.
      (2)   If the Commission has voted to recommend the designation of a
landmark, and the final designation has not been made by the Board of
Commissioners, the demolition or destruction of any building, structure or site
on the property of the designated landmark may be delayed by the Commission for
up to 180 days or until the Board of Commissioners takes final action on the
designation, whichever occurs first.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners may enact an ordinance to prevent the
demolition by neglect of any designated landmark. Such ordinance shall provide
appropriate safeguards to protect property owners from undue hardship.
   (C)   An application for a Certificate of Appropriateness authorizing the
demolition of a building, structure or site determined by the State Historic
Preservation Officer as having statewide significance as defined in the
criteria of the National Register of Historic Places may be denied except where
the Commission finds that the owner would suffer extreme hardship or be
permanently deprived of all beneficial use or return by virtue of the denial.
(Ord. 04-05, passed 4-12-04; Am. Ord. 18-7, passed 6-14-21)
§ 31.49 OATH OF OFFICE.
   All members appointed to boards under this section shall, before entering
their duties, qualify by taking an oath of office.
(Ord. 18-7, passed 6-14-21)
§ 31.50 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   All members shall abide by the conflict of interest standards outlined in §
153.364.
(Ord. 18-7, passed 6-14-21)
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
§ 31.60 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   Pursuant to G.S.§ 160D-302, the Board of Commissioners establishes a Board
of Adjustment for the purpose of hearing matters as provided for in the
enabling act of the General Assembly.
(Ord. 13-21, passed 11-13-13; Am. Ord. 18-7, passed 6-14-21)
§ 31.61 COMPOSITION; ATTENDANCE; MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustment shall consist of five members who shall be
residents of the town and shall be appointed by the Board of Commissioners. In
addition, three alternate members shall be appointed by the Board of
Commissioners. Alternate members shall serve on the board in the absence or
temporary disqualification of any regular member or fill a vacancy pending
appointment of a member. Each alternate serving on behalf of any regular member
has all the powers and duties of a regular member.
   (B)   Each regular member of the Board of Adjustment shall notify the
secretary at least five days in advance of every regular meeting in the event
he cannot attend such meeting. The Secretary shall then immediately notify an
alternate member to attend this meeting.
   (C)   All meetings of the Board shall be held at a regular place and shall
be open to the public. A quorum of four members shall be present at the
designated meeting place before a vote is taken or final disposal of any appeal
is made upon which the board is required to pass.
   (D)   The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings showing the vote of
each member upon each question, or if absent or failing to vote, an indication
of such fact; and the final disposition of appeals and variances shall be
recorded resolution indicating the reasons of the Board therefor all of which
shall be a public record.
(Ord. 13-21, passed 11-13-13; Am. Ord. 18-7, passed 6-14-21)
§ 31.62 TERM.
   The term of office of the members of the Board of Adjustment shall be three
years and appointment shall be made for terms of one year, two years and three
years initially to the end that the Board of Adjustment shall have continuity,
and upon the expiration of the initial one- and two-year terms each person
thereafter appointed shall serve for three years. This shall be effective upon
the expiration of any existing term of office.
(Ord. 13-21, passed 11-13-13; Am. Ord. 18-7, passed 6-14-21)
§ 31.63 COMPENSATION.
   The Board of Commissioners shall provide, from time to time, compensation to
the members of the Board of Adjustment based on attendance at meetings.
Alternate members serving at regular or special meetings shall be compensated
in the same manner as if they were regular members.
(Ord. 13-21, passed 11-13-13; Am. Ord. 18-7, passed 6-14-21)
§ 31.64 VACANCIES.
   Vacancies on the Board of Adjustment, from time to time, shall be filled for
the unexpired term of the member being replaced to the end that there shall be
continuity upon the Board.
(Ord. 13-21, passed 11-13-13; Am. Ord. 18-7, passed 6-14-21)
§ 31.65 REMOVAL.
   Any member or alternate may be removed in accordance with the personnel
policy of the town.
(Ord. 31-21, passed 11-13-13; Am. Ord. 18-7, passed 6-14-21)
§ 31.66 OFFICES.
   The Board of Adjustment shall make the appointment for the Chairperson and
the Vice-Chairperson from within its own membership annually.
(Ord. 31-21, passed 11-13-13; Am. Ord. 18-7, passed 6-14-21)
§ 31.67 OATH OF OFFICE.
   All members appointed to boards under this section shall, before entering
their duties, qualify by taking an oath of office.
(Ord. 18-7, passed 6-14-21)
§ 31.68 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   All members shall abide by the conflict of interest standards outlined in §
153.364.
(Ord. 18-7, passed 6-14-21)
CHAPTER 32: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
Cooperative Law Enforcement Policy
   
32.01   Established
   
32.02   Duration of agreement
   
32.03   Powers, rights and privileges
   
32.04   Administrative control
   
32.05   Authority
McGruff House Program
   
32.20   General
   
32.21   Definitions
   
32.22   Program development
   
32.23   Program participation regulations
   
32.24   Membership in program
   
32.25   Acceptance or denial of membership applications
   
32.26   Resignation and revocation
   
32.27   Confidentiality
Auxiliary Police Division
   
32.40   Established
COOPERATIVE LAW ENFORCEMENT POLICY
§ 32.01 ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   In accordance with these rules, policies and guidelines, the Chief of
Police is authorized to enter into mutual assistance arrangements with
municipal, county, state and federal law enforcement agencies, provided that
such request and authorizations shall comply with G.S. §§ 153A-212, 160A-288,
160A-288.2 and 90-95.2, as applicable.
   (B)   The Chief of Police is authorized to permit officers of the Police
Department to work temporarily with officers of a requesting agency, including
in an undercover capacity, and the Chief of Police may lend such equipment and
supplies to requesting agencies as he deems advisable.
(`88 Code, § 16-1) (Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 32.02 DURATION OF AGREEMENT.
   The agreement entered into by and between the town and the other law
enforcement agencies as provided for herein shall continue in full force and
effect for a period of one year, to be renewed in writing annually with an
effective date of January 1. A copy of each agreement shall be kept on file in
the office of the Chief of Police and on file with the Town Clerk.
(`88 Code, § 16-2) (Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 32.03 POWERS, RIGHTS AND PRIVILEGES.
   While working with a requesting agency, an officer shall have the same
jurisdiction, powers, rights, privileges and immunities (including those
relating to the defense of civil actions and payment of judgments) as the
officer of the requesting agency in addition to those he normally possesses.
(`88 Code, § 16-3) (Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 32.04 ADMINISTRATIVE CONTROL.
   While on duty with the requesting agency, the police officer shall be
subject to the lawful orders and operational commands of superior officers in
the requesting agency; however, for personnel and administrative purposes, he
shall remain under the control of the town, and the payment of compensation or
salary is the town's responsibility. Also, such officers shall be entitled to
workers' compensation and the same benefits when acting pursuant to request for
assistance under G.S. § 160A-288 as though he were functioning within the
normal scope of his duties with the town.
(`88 Code, § 16-4) (Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 32.05 AUTHORITY.
   Each mutual assistance agreement shall be reviewed and approved by the Town
Attorney and shall be effective upon its execution by the Town Police Chief and
the appropriate department head of the other law enforcement agency that is a
party to the agreement.
(`88 Code, § 16-5) (Am. Ord. passed - -)
MCGRUFF HOUSE PROGRAM
§ 32.20 GENERAL.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish a McGruff House Program for
the town. The Program will permit the designation of safe houses in Kill Devil
Hills where children who are lost, have run away from home, are abused,
neglected, threatened or in any other type of distress can feel safe,
comfortable and secure in going to and having caring adults and the proper
governmental authorities provide the necessary intervention.
(`88 Code, § 16-20) (Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 32.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT LOG. A disposition log listing the name and address of the
applicant and names of the other persons in the household who are 16 years of
age or older.
   MCGRUFF. The nationally recognized crime prevention symbol and the McGruff
dog costume.
   MCGRUFF HOUSE. A house in the town designated as a house where a child who
is lost, has run away from home, is abused, neglected or otherwise emotionally
or physically in danger may seek refuge and assistance.
   PROGRAM. The McGruff House Program in Kill Devil Hills.
   PROGRAM COORDINATOR. A sworn officer of the Police Department designated by
the Police Chief and assigned the duties of organizing, monitoring and
coordinating the Program.
(`88 Code, § 16-21) (Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 32.22 PROGRAM DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   The Police Department shall adopt a standard symbol to be used
throughout the town by all Program participants which is substantially similar
to the nationally recognized McGruff House symbol.
   (B)   The Police Chief, with approval by the Town Manager, shall establish
appropriate regulations and procedures governing:
      (1)   Qualifications and criteria for designation as a McGruff House;
      (2)   Participants' duties and responsibilities (such responsibilities
shall include but not be limited to duties regarding reporting of incidents to
law enforcement personnel and the Dare County Department of Social Services'
Child Protective Services Unit);
      (3)   Programs for publicizing the McGruff House Program;
      (4)   Dissemination of the McGruff House symbol to day care centers,
schools and law enforcement agencies;
      (5)   Designation and registration of McGruff Houses with, and monitoring
and periodic review of such houses by, the Police Department; and
      (6)   Coordination of the Program with the Dare County Department of
Social Services Child Protective Services Unit.
(`88 Code, § 16-22) (Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 32.23 PROGRAM PARTICIPATION REGULATIONS.
   (A)   All persons interested in becoming a Program participant shall first
apply for designation as a McGruff House with the Police Department. Upon
receipt of an application for designation as a McGruff House, the Police Chief
or Program Coordinator shall conduct a background check investigation of the
applicant in accordance with G.S. Ch. 115C, Art. 21A and the regulations
promulgated by the North Carolina State Bureau of Investigation, Division of
Criminal Information (NCSBI/DCI).
   (B)   To be accepted into the Program, applicants and their households must
meet the following minimum criteria.
      (1)   General requirements.
         (a)   At least one member of the household shall be 21 years of age.
         (b)   The applicant shall have and maintain homeowners' liability
insurance or, if renting, renters' liability insurance.
         (c)   The applicant shall have an operable telephone at all times
during participation in the Program.
         (d)   The applicant shall agree to abide by the regulations of the
Program as may be established by the Police Department and attend such
educational sessions as may be conducted by the Police Department relative to
Program participation.
         (e)   The application must be cleared through a law enforcement
background investigation as described in division (A) of this section.
      (2)   Application. All applicants shall complete, date and sign an
application form, including an agreement to a law enforcement criminal history
background investigation and the submission of fingerprints taken by the Police
Department.
      (3)   Background check; fingerprinting required. Every individual 16
years of age or older who lives in the applicant's household shall provide
information as determined necessary by the Police Department, sign the
application agreeing to a law enforcement criminal history background
investigation and submit to fingerprinting by the Police Department.
         (a)   This information shall include full name, date of birth, social
security number, driver's license number, race, sex and fingerprints taken by
the Police Department.
         (b)   Certification of homeowners' or renters' liability insurance
information shall be provided as set forth in the list of standard
requirements.
         (c)   The initial background investigation shall include a local,
state and national wanted files record check.
         (d)   A check of the applicant's state of residence for the past five
years will be conducted for all residents who have lived in the state for one
year or less.
         (e)   The criminal history background investigation shall include but
is not limited to:
            1.   A check on the State Criminal History Repository;
            2.   A State Division of Motor Vehicles driver's history check; and
            3.   An in-house operations report for frequent calls to the
applicant's address.
      (4)   All applications are to be recorded in an Applicant Log for
tracking purposes.
(`88 Code, § 16-23) (Am. Ord. passed - -)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 32.24 MEMBERSHIP IN PROGRAM.
   Upon a finding that the applicant meets the criteria established by the
Police Department for becoming and maintaining a McGruff House and the receipt
of a signed statement from the applicant whereby the applicant agrees to abide
by the rules and regulations established by the Police Department for the
Program and any other criteria the Police Department may deem necessary, the
Chief of Police may designate the applicant as a McGruff House and issue the
applicant the McGruff House symbol. The McGruff House symbol shall be placed on
the outside of the house and displayed so that it is easily visible from the
street.
(`88 Code, § 16-24) (Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 32.25 ACCEPTANCE OR DENIAL OF MEMBERSHIP APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   The Police Chief and the Program Coordinator shall review the
application and background investigation results and determine approval or
denial of an application based on the disposition, severity, nature and
timeliness of any of the following established reasons for denial of membership
into the Program. Conviction of any felony or any of the following offenses or
violation of any of the following conditions will disqualify, and declare
ineligible, an applicant from participation in the Program:
      (1)   Narcotic drug law offense;
      (2)   Two or more alcohol-related convictions;
      (3)   Violation of domestic abuse or child abuse laws;
      (4)   Conviction on any charge involving an offense committed against a
juvenile;
      (5)   Any conviction involving moral turpitude;
      (6)   Any law enforcement responses to problems at the home which would
not be conducive to the well-being of the child;
      (7)   Two or more violations of the town code;
      (8)   Any falsification of any part of the application or application
process;
      (9)   Any other condition or situation which is not in the best interest
of the child as determined by the Police Department;
      (10)   Failure to submit to fingerprinting required for participation in
the Program.
   (B)   The Program Coordinator shall verify all application information and
note any conditions that may affect the safety of the children who would use
the residence as a McGruff House. This shall be done through any of the
following procedures, including but not limited to:
      (1)   An unannounced home visit to the applicant;
      (2)   A personal phone call to the applicant;
      (3)   A neighborhood check interviewing area households in the immediate
vicinity;
      (4)   A check with school personnel for any identifiable problems;
      (5)   Personal reference checks; and/or
      (6)   Other inquiries which may be deemed necessary.
   (C)   Upon completion of the background investigation and administrative
requirements, all applicants shall receive written notification of approval or
denial from the Police Chief.
(`88 Code, § 16-25) (Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 32.26 RESIGNATION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   Upon a determination by the Police Department that a house no longer
meets the established criteria for a McGruff House, written notification of the
Program participant's revocation shall be hand-delivered to the participant and
the McGruff House symbol shall be immediately returned to the Police
Department.
   (B)   In the event a participant voluntarily resigns from the Program, the
McGruff House symbol shall be returned to the Police Department with the
participant's written resignation.
(`88 Code, § 16-26) (Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 32.27 CONFIDENTIALITY.
   The Police Department shall maintain the confidentiality of all applicant
information which would require its agents to invoke statutory enforcement
obligations as set forth in G.S. § 15A-401. Any information found in the
background investigation which is not designated as public record shall not be
released. Any criminal histories obtained from the NCSBI/DCI shall also be kept
in a confidential manner in accordance with NCSBI/DCI Administrative Code.
(`88 Code, § 16-27) (Am. Ord. passed - -)
AUXILIARY POLICE DIVISION
§ 32.40 ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established within the Police Department, as a division
thereof, an Auxiliary Police Division. The Auxiliary Police Division shall be a
volunteer organization, whose members shall serve without compensation,
composed of as many members as may from time to time be determined by the Chief
of Police and approved by the Town Manager. While undergoing official training
and while perform duties on behalf of the city pursuant to orders or
instructions of the Chief of Police, auxiliary law-enforcement personnel shall
be entitled to benefits under the North Carolina Workers Compensation Act and
to any fringe benefits for which such volunteer personnel qualify.
(Ord. 04-04, passed 3-24-04)
 CHAPTER 33: CIVIL EMERGENCIES
Section
   
33.01   State of emergency; restrictions authorized
   
33.02   Organization
   
33.03   Duties and responsibilities
   
33.04   Proclamation imposing prohibitions and restrictions
   
33.05   Curfew
   
33.06   Restrictions on possession, consumption or transfer of alcoholic
beverages
   
33.07   Restrictions on possession, transportation and transfer of dangerous
weapons and substances
   
33.08   Restriction on access to areas
   
33.09   Evacuation of areas
   
33.10   Prohibitions and restrictions generally
   
33.11   Amendments of the proclamation
   
33.12   Removal of prohibitions and restrictions
   
33.13   Separate and superseding proclamations
   
33.14   Absence or disability of Mayor
§ 33.01 STATE OF EMERGENCY; RESTRICTIONS AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EMERGENCY. An occurrence or imminent threat of widespread or severe damage,
injury, or loss of life or property resulting from any natural or human-made
accidental, military, paramilitary, weather-related, or riot-related cause, or
technological failure or accidents, including, but not limited to, a cyber-
incident, an explosion, a transportation accident, a radiological accident, or
a chemical or other hazard material incident.
   STATE OF EMERGENCY. The finding and declaration by the Mayor that an
emergency exists.
   (B)   If an emergency exists, the Mayor is hereby authorized and empowered
under G.S. § 166A-19.22 to issue a public proclamation declaring to all persons
the existence of a state of emergency, and, in order to more effectively
protect the lives and property of people within the town, to place in effect
any or all of the restrictions hereinafter authorized.
   (C)   The Mayor is hereby authorized and empowered to limit by the
proclamation the application of all or any part of the restrictions authorized
by this chapter to any area specifically designated or described within the
town and to specify hours of the day or night, and to exempt from all or any
part of such restrictions, while acting in the line of and within the scope of
their respective duties, law enforcement officers, firefighters, and other
public employees; rescue squad members, doctors, nurses, employees of
hospitals, and other medical facilities; on-duty military personnel whether
state or federal, on-duty employees of public utilities, public transportation
companies; newspaper, magazine, radio broadcasting, and television broadcasting
corporations operated for profit; and such other classes of persons as may be
deemed essential to the preservation of public order and immediately necessary
to serve the safety, health, and welfare needs of the people within the town.
(`88 Code, § 5-1) (Ord. 94-04, passed 3-14-94; Am. Ord. 17-10, passed 9-11-19)
§ 33.02 ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   It is the intent and purpose of this chapter to establish emergency
management to ensure complete and efficient utilization of all resources of the
town in the event of an emergency or disaster.
   (B)   The Fire Department shall be the coordinating entity for all activity
in connection with emergency management within the town; it will be the agency
through which the Board of Commissioners will exercise the authority and
discharge the responsibilities vested in them during states of disaster or
local emergency. The Fire Chief shall act as the Emergency Management Director
for the town.
   (C)   This chapter does not relieve any department or agency of the
responsibilities or authority given to it by state law or by local chapter, nor
will it adversely affect the work of any volunteer agency organized for relief
in disaster situations.
(Ord. 17-10, passed 9-11-19)
§ 33.03 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The Fire Department shall be the central coordinating agency for
activities and programs relating to emergency and disaster mitigation,
preparedness, response and recovery among agencies and officials of the town,
the state, and federal agencies; and with other private and quasi-official
organizations. The Fire Department shall be responsible and have the duties of
the following except where specifically assigned to another.
      (1)   Through public informational programs, educating the populace as to
actions necessary and required for the protection of their persons and property
in case of disaster or terrorism, either impending or present;
      (2)   Manage exercises to insure efficient operation of the emergency
management forces and to familiarize residents and partner agencies with
emergency management regulations, procedures and operations;
      (3)   Monitor and advise the Town Manager of any and all threats,
emergencies or disasters that pose a risk to the lives and safety of the
residents and visitors of the town, proposing solutions for their decision on
how to best protect people and property from imminent danger, or from further
damage;
      (4)   Procure supplies and equipment, institute training programs, public
preparedness information and education programs, manage and coordinate disaster
drills and exercises in accordance with emergency plans;
      (5)   Manage the Town Emergency Operations Center as the central
coordinating entity for the town during major emergencies or disasters.
   (B)   A town-wide, all hazards emergency operations plan shall be
implemented and maintained. In the preparation of this plan, the services,
equipment, facilities and personnel of all existing departments shall be
utilized to the fullest extent. When the plan is approved by the Town Manager,
each department shall perform those functions assigned to it by the plan and
shall maintain a current state of readiness at all times.
   (C)   When a skill required for a disaster relief function is not available
within local government, assistance shall be sought beyond the local government
resources.
   (D)   The town shall operate all disaster and emergency response by
complying with the National Incident Management System and using the Incident
Command System.
(Ord. 17-10, passed 9-11-19)
§ 33.04 PROCLAMATION IMPOSING PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The Mayor by proclamation may impose the prohibitions and restrictions
specified in §
33.05 through §
33.08 in the manner described in this chapter. The Mayor may impose as many of
those specified prohibitions and restrictions as the Mayor finds necessary,
because of an emergency, to maintain an acceptable level of public order and
services, and to protect lives, safety, and property. The Mayor shall recite
findings in the proclamation.
   (B)   The proclamation shall be in writing. The Mayor shall take reasonable
steps to give notice of the terms of the proclamation to those affected by it
and shall post a copy of it in the Town Hall. The Mayor shall retain a text of
the proclamation and furnish upon request certified copies of it for use as
evidence.
(`88 Code, § 5-2) (Ord. 94-04, passed 3-14-94; Am. Ord. 17-10, passed 9-11-19)
§ 33.05 CURFEW.
   (A)   The proclamation may impose a curfew prohibiting in certain areas and
during certain periods the appearance in public of anyone who is not a member
of an exempted class. The proclamation shall specify the geographical area or
areas and the period during each 24 hours to which the curfew applies. The
Mayor may exempt from some or all of the curfew restrictions classes of people
whose exemption the Mayor finds necessary for the preservation of the public
health, safety, and welfare. The proclamation shall state the exempt classes
and the restrictions from which each is exempted.
   (B)   Unless otherwise specified in the proclamation, the curfew shall apply
during the specified period each day until the Mayor by proclamation removes
the curfew.
(`88 Code, § 5-3) (Ord. 94-04, passed 3-14-94; Am. Ord. 17-10, passed 9-11-19)
§ 33.06 RESTRICTIONS ON POSSESSION, CONSUMPTION OR TRANSFER OF ALCOHOLIC
BEVERAGES.
   The proclamation pursuant to this chapter may prohibit the possession and/or
consumption of alcoholic beverages, other than on one's own premises, and may
prohibit the transportation, sale, and/or purchase of alcoholic beverages
within the area of the town described in the proclamation.
(`88 Code, § 5-4) (Ord. 94-04, passed 3-14-94; Am. Ord. 17-10, passed 9-11-19)
§ 33.07 RESTRICTIONS ON POSSESSION, TRANSPORTATION AND TRANSFER OF DANGEROUS
WEAPONS AND SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   The proclamation pursuant to this chapter may prohibit the possession,
transportation, sale, purchase, storage, and use of gasoline and dangerous
weapons and/or substances, except lawfully possessed firearms or ammunition.
The Mayor may exempt from some or all of the restrictions classes of people
whose possession, transfer, or transportation of certain dangerous weapons or
substances is necessary in the preservation of the public health, safety, or
welfare. The proclamation shall state the exempted classes and the restrictions
from which each is exempted.
   (B)   (1)   For the purposes of this section, the term DANGEROUS WEAPONS AND
SUBSTANCES shall have the same meaning as it does under G.S. § 14-288.1(2),
which, as of the adoption of this section, is as follows:
         “Any deadly weapon, ammunition, explosive, incendiary device,
radioactive material or device, as defined in G.S. § 14-288.8(c)(5), or any
instrument or substance designed for a use that carries a threat of serious
bodily injury or destruction of property; or any instrument or substance that
is capable of being used to inflict serious bodily injury, when the
circumstances indicate a probability that such instrument or substance will be
so used; or any part or ingredient in any instrument or substance included
above, when the circumstances indicate a probability that such part or
ingredient will be so used.”
      (2)   Notwithstanding the provisions of this section to the contrary, for
purposes of this section, the term DANGEROUS WEAPONS AND SUBSTANCES does not
include a firearm, as that term is defined in this section.
   (C)   For the purposes of this section, the term FIREARM shall have the same
meaning as it does under G.S. § 14-409.39(2), which, as of the adoption of this
section, is as follows:
      “A handgun, shotgun, or rifle which expels a projectile by action of an
explosion.”
   (D)   If imposed, the restrictions of this section shall apply throughout
the jurisdiction of the town or such part thereof designated in the
proclamation.
(`88 Code, § 5-5) (Ord. 94-04, passed 3-14-94; Am. Ord. 17-10, passed 9-11-19)
§ 33.08 RESTRICTION ON ACCESS TO AREAS.
   (A)   The proclamation pursuant to this chapter may prohibit obtaining
access or attempting to obtain access to any area, designated in the manner
described in this section, in violation of any order, clearly posted notice, or
barricade indicating that access is denied or restricted.
   (B)   Areas to which access is denied or restricted shall be designated by
the Chief of Police and his or her subordinates when directed in the
proclamation to do so by the Mayor. When acting under this authority, the Chief
of Police and his or her subordinates may restrict or deny access to any area,
street, highway, or location within the town if that restriction or denial of
access or use is reasonably necessary to promote efforts being made to overcome
the emergency or to prevent further aggravation of the emergency.
(`88 Code, § 5-6) (Ord. 94-04, passed 3-14-94; Am. Ord. 17-10, passed 9-11-19)
§ 33.09 EVACUATION OF AREAS.
   The proclamation pursuant to this chapter or any amendment thereto may
require the emergency evacuation of any area. The proclamation shall state the
geographic boundaries of the area to be evacuated and, upon issuance of the
proclamation, the Chief of Police and his or her subordinates shall take all
necessary action to remove all persons from the area and to deny access to the
area as set out in §
33.08.
(`88 Code, § 5-7) (Ord. 94-04, passed 3-14-94; Am. Ord. 17-10, passed 9-11-19)
§ 33.10 PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS GENERALLY.
   The proclamation pursuant to this chapter may prohibit or restrict:
   (A)   Movements of people in public places, ingress and egress of an
emergency area, and the movement of persons within the area;
   (B)   The operation of offices, business establishments, and other places to
or from which people may travel or at which they may congregate;
   (C)   Other activities or conditions the control of which may be reasonably
necessary to maintain order and protect lives or property during the state of
emergency, within the area designated in the proclamation.
(`88 Code, § 5-8) (Ord. 94-04, passed 3-14-94; Am. Ord. 17-10, passed 9-11-19)
§ 33.11 AMENDMENTS OF THE PROCLAMATION.
   (A)   The Mayor may amend or extend the proclamation under this chapter from
time to time, making such modifications as he or she would have been authorized
to include in the original proclamation.
   (B)   Any proclamation issued pursuant to this chapter shall expire five
days after its last imposition unless sooner terminated.
(`88 Code, § 5-9) (Ord. 94-04, passed 3-14-94; Am. Ord. 17-10, passed 9-11-19)
§ 33.12 REMOVAL OF PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   The Mayor shall by proclamation remove the prohibitions and restrictions
under this chapter as the emergency no longer requires them, or when directed
to do so by the Board of Commissioners.
(`88 Code, § 5-10) (Ord. 94-04, passed 3-14-94; Am. Ord. 17-10, passed 9-11-19)
§ 33.13 SEPARATE AND SUPERSEDING PROCLAMATIONS.
   The Mayor in his or her discretion may invoke the restrictions authorized by
this chapter in separate proclamations and may amend any proclamation by means
of a superseding proclamation.
(`88 Code, § 5-11) (Ord. 94-04, passed 3-14-94; Am. Ord. 17-10, passed 9-11-19)
§ 33.14 ABSENCE OR DISABILITY OF MAYOR.
   In case of the absence or disability of the Mayor, the Mayor pro tempore or
the Board of Commissioners itself shall have and exercise all of the powers
given the Mayor in this chapter.
(`88 Code, § 5-12) (Ord. 94-04, passed 3-14-94; Am. Ord. 17-10, passed 9-11-19)
TITLE V: PUBLIC SERVICES
      Chapter
         
50.   GARBAGE SERVICE
         
51.   WATER SERVICE
         
52.   SEWER SERVICE
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE SERVICE
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Service provided
   
50.03   Litter
   
50.04   Licensing of solid waste collectors
Waste Containers
   
50.15   Waste collections and containers
   
50.16   Purchase and delivery of waste containers; dumpster pad required
   
50.17   Maintenance of waste containers and waste container sites
   
50.18   Use of waste containers
   
50.19   Placement and pick up schedules
Special Services
   
50.30   Recycling drop-off center
   
50.31   Bulk trash drop-off area
   
50.32   Bulk trash collections
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS. Those materials approved for disposal.
   BAGGED YARD WASTE. Grass clippings, leaves, twigs, small branches, bush
trimmings, pampas grass, pine straw and other similar material capable of being
bagged.
   BULK TRASH. Appliances, furniture, bikes and other non-prohibited
collections which are not suitable, because of their size or character, to be
disposed of in a roll-out container or dumpster. BULK TRASH shall include tree
limbs and branches and bagged yard waste.
   CONTRACTED SERVICES. Any for profit enterprise that provides any improved or
unimproved property or business with construction, maintenance, landscaping,
repairs or replacement services.
   LITTER. Any rubbish, paper, trash, garbage, loose debris or any waste
container overflow that appears randomly upon a property or within the town
right-of-way; or any other matter defined as litter by the North Carolina
General Statutes.
   PROHIBITED MATERIALS. Any waste or substance deemed or defined as a
hazardous substance by any federal, state or local statute, rule, regulation or
ordinance or such other materials that may be identified in this chapter as
PROHIBITED MATERIALS.
   PUBLIC SERVICES DEPARTMENT. The Town of Kill Devil Hills Public Services
Department.
   RECYCLABLES. Any designated acceptable materials or items which may be
reused to maintain an aesthetically pleasing environment through the reduction
of solid waste.
   RUBBISH. Any waste generated by the preparation of food, either in home or
business, such as paper, food and/or putrescible waste, glass, cans, plastic or
natural items and other such materials which are considered to no longer be of
any value to the owner and any other waste generated on-site in either a home
or a business and is to be disposed of in a roll-out container or dumpster.
RUBBISH shall not include any prohibited collections or special item materials
or bulk trash items.
   SOLID WASTE. Rubbish, bulk trash or any other materials for which the town
provides collection and/or disposal services.
   TREE LIMBS AND BRANCHES. The limbs, branches and trunks of trees or shrubs
generated from the normal maintenance of the property of a residential or
commercial establishment located within the town and is not in excess of the
following dimensions: logs no larger than 14 inches in length nor 12 inches in
diameter and branches no longer than 6 feet in length. TREE LIMBS AND BRANCHES
shall not include stumps from any site, nor trunks, limbs or branches generated
from lot clearing activities upon unimproved properties.
   WASTE CONTAINER. Roll-out containers or dumpsters which have been approved
by the town for use upon properties within the town for the collection of
rubbish.
(Ord. 00-08, passed 5-24-00)
§ 50.02 SERVICE PROVIDED.
   The town shall provide solid waste service to the owner or owners of
improved residential or commercial properties in accordance with the procedures
and restrictions outlined in this chapter.
(Ord. 00-08, passed 5-24-00)
§ 50.03 LITTER.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to litter in the town. If the town determines
that there is litter upon a property or within the street right-of-way adjacent
to an improved or unimproved property, the property owner shall be notified by
return-receipt mailed or hand-delivered written notification and given seven
days to remove the litter from the property or right-of-way. In the event the
litter is not removed and abated within the allotted seven-day period, the
litter shall become a nuisance and the town shall proceed to abate the nuisance
in accordance with the provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Upon a property owner's failure to abate the nuisance within the time
set forth above, the owner of the improved or unimproved property shall be in
violation of the town code and subject to the civil and criminal penalties set
forth in the town code. Each 24-hour period that the nuisance remains unabated
after notice to the property owner shall constitute a separate violation.
(Ord. 00-08, passed 5-24-00; Am. Ord. 01-06, passed 6-27-01)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.04 LICENSING OF SOLID WASTE COLLECTORS.
   (A)   Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this division (A), in the interpretation and
enforcement of this section.
      (1)   BOARD. The Kill Devil Hills Board of Commissioners.
      (2)   COLLECTION. The act of removing solid waste to the transfer
stations or the facility.
      (3)   FACILITY. The East Carolina Environmental Landfill in Bertie
County, North Carolina.
      (4)   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, company, association,
partnership, unit of local government, state agency, federal agency or other
legal entity.
      (5)   SOLID WASTE. Any solid wastes that may be disposed of in sanitary
landfills, including, without limitation, garbage, refuse, trash and other
discarded material, whether from residential, commercial, industrial or
institutional sources, which wastes are typically found in household,
commercial or municipal refuse.
      (6)   SOLID WASTE COLLECTOR. Any person who collects, transports or
disposes of solid wastes for compensation, other than one who removes solid
waste from his own premises.
      (7)   SOLID WASTE LICENSE or LICENSE. A license for the collection,
transportation and disposal of solid waste pursuant to division (B) of this
section.
      (8)   TRANSFER STATIONS. The following three transfer stations: Chowan/
Gates/Perquimans Counties Transfer Station, Currituck County Transfer Station
and Dare County Transfer Station.
   (B)   Solid waste license required. It shall be unlawful for any person to
engage in business as a solid waste collector within any area of the town,
without first having procured a solid waste license from the Board or its
authorized representative. All solid waste collectors within the town shall
dispose of all solid waste generated within any area of the town at the
facility or the transfer stations.
   (C)   Application, issuance, revocation of license.
      (1)   Application. All applicants for solid waste licenses shall file a
written application with the Board's authorized representative and shall
furnish the following information:
         (a)   The name and address of the applicant, and whether the applicant
is a sole proprietorship, corporation, partnership or other entity;
         (b)   A list of the collection vehicles the applicant plans to use in
the town; and
         (c)   Any other information the Board's authorized representative may
reasonably request.
      (2)   Five-year license. Solid waste licenses shall be issued for five-
year periods. Licenses may be renewed with the information designated in
division (C)(1) of this section being presented to the Board's authorized
representative at least 30 days prior to the expiration of the existing and
valid license.
      (3)   Selection of applicants; granting of licenses. The Board's
authorized representative shall review applications for solid waste licenses
and license renewals, and shall issue licenses and renewals to applicants
meeting the requirements of this section.
      (4)   Investigation of solid waste collectors prior to license issuance.
Before issuing a license pursuant to this section, the Board's authorized
representative may inspect the facilities, equipment and solid waste collection
vehicles the applicant plans to use in the solid waste collection business.
         (a)   The Board's authorized representative shall issue the applicant
a license when the Board's authorized representative determines that the
application is complete and the applicant is in compliance with this section.
         (b)   When a license is issued to a solid waste collector, the solid
waste collector shall affix a sticker indicating that the solid waste collector
has a valid license to all of its solid waste collection vehicles that are to
be operated in the town. The Board's authorized representative shall issue
stickers to the solid waste collector at the time the license is issued.
Licensees may obtain additional stickers from the Board's authorized
representative.
         (c)   If the Board's authorized representative denies an applicant a
license, the applicant may request a hearing before the Board by giving written
notice of appeal to the Town Manager within five working days of receipt of the
Board's authorized representative's decision denying the license. After a
hearing on the appeal, the Board shall either affirm the denial or direct the
Board's authorized representative to issue the license.
      (5)   Revocation. When the Board's authorized representative finds that a
licensee has violated this section or the conditions of the license, the
licensee shall receive written notice of the violation and be informed that if
another violation occurs within 30-working days, or in the case of continuing
violation if it is not corrected within ten-working days, the license will be
revoked. If another violation occurs within the 30-working day period, or if
the continuing violation is not corrected within ten-working days, the Board's
authorized representative shall give the licensee written notice that the
license is revoked. Upon receipt of the revocation, the licensee shall cease
collecting, transporting or disposing of solid wastes in any area of the town
immediately. The Board's authorized representative may reinstate a revoked
license after the revocation has been in effect for 30-working days if the
Board's authorized representative finds that the conditions causing the
violation have been corrected. A licensee whose license has been revoked may
appeal the revocation to the Board by giving written notice of the appeal to
the Board's authorized representative within five working days of receiving
notice of revocation from the Board's authorized representative. After a
hearing on the appeal, the Board shall either affirm the revocation or direct
the Board's authorized representative to reinstate the license.
   (D)   License fee. The licensee shall pay to the town or its authorized
representative, the sum set by the designated representative, not to exceed
$50, for the issuance of the license, and the sum of $1 for each sticker to be
affixed to each solid waste collection vehicle.
   (E)   Non-transferability of licenses. Solid waste licenses are non-
transferable and non-assignable.
   (F)   Responsibilities of licensee.
      (1)   The licensee shall serve every person who contracts with it for
solid waste collection in such a manner that the licensee does not cause the
person to be in violation of this section.
      (2)   The licensee shall dispose of all solid waste generated within any
area of the town at the facility or the transfer stations.
      (3)   A licensee shall submit an annual report to the Board's authorized
representative containing the following information:
         (a)   A list of the collection vehicles the licensee used in the town
during the reporting year;
         (b)   The total amount of solid waste collected in the town and the
locations where the solid waste was disposed of during the reporting year;
         (c)   A certification that all solid waste the licensee collected in
the town was disposed of at the facility or the transfer stations; and
         (d)   Any other information the Board's authorized representative may
reasonably request.
   (G)   Enforcement.
      (1)   Penalty. Any person who is found in violation of this section shall
be subject to a civil penalty of not to exceed $500 as provided in G.S. § 153-
123. Each day's violation shall be treated as a separate offense.
      (2)   Remedies. This section may be enforced by equitable remedies, and
any unlawful condition existing or in violation of this section may be enforced
by injunction and order of abatement in accordance with G.S. § 153A-123.
(Ord. 09-12, passed 7-13-09)
WASTE CONTAINERS
§ 50.15 WASTE COLLECTIONS AND CONTAINERS.
   (A)   Waste collections. All improved properties in the town shall have a
town-approved waste container, roll-out container or dumpster, on site which
shall be utilized for the collection of rubbish. All rubbish placed in
containers shall be securely wrapped or bagged. No loose material such as
sawdust, ashes or packing materials shall be placed in any waste container.
   (B)   Waste container required. Any private home, rental cottage or general
business, such as a gift shop, real estate office, bank, home occupation or
other sales or service business, shall have a town-approved refuse waste
container, roll-out container or dumpster, based on the volume of waste
generated or anticipated to be generated.
      (1)   Roll-out containers. Each improved residential property in the town
shall have at least one roll-out container in which to keep and maintain the
rubbish to be disposed of. For any location determined by the Public Services
Department to need more than one roll-out container, the owner shall provide up
to three roll-out containers. In the event that the Public Services Department
determines that three roll-out containers are not sufficient to contain the
rubbish generated on-site, the town shall require the owner to purchase a
dumpster or dumpsters of a sufficient capacity to contain the rubbish generated
on-site by the residence. The town will not pick up rubbish, whether bagged or
unbagged, that is not within the container, and the placement of such material
outside the container is strictly prohibited.
      (2)   Dumpsters. Each improved commercial or residential property for
which a dumpster is required in the town shall have a dumpster or dumpsters of
sufficient capacity necessary to contain the rubbish generated on-site by the
commercial use as determined pursuant to the town- approved site plan and/or
solid waste capacity survey. The town will not pick up rubbish, whether bagged
or unbagged, that is not within the dumpster and the placement of such material
outside the container is strictly prohibited.
      (3)   The following table shall be used to determine the minimum number
and type of waste containers required for single-family residential purposes:
 
Number of Bedrooms     Minimum Number and Type of Container Required
One to four            One roll-out container required
Four if east of US 158 Two roll-out containers required
Five to six            Three roll-out containers required
Seven to 18            One dumpster required
Over 18                Two dumpsters required
 
   (C)   Site reevaluation. If the volume of solid waste to be collected at a
particular site exceeds the capacity of the container on more than two
occasions in a 12-month period, the property owner shall be required to
purchase an additional container of a size determined to be adequate by the
Public Services Department. If a site is determined to be noncompliant with the
provisions of this section, prior to exercising the remedies outlined in §
10.99, the town shall give return-receipt mailed or hand-delivered notification
of the violation to the property owner at the address shown on the ad valorem
tax records. The owner shall have 14 days from the mailing date or hand-
delivery date to comply with the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   Noncompliance; procedures. If any waste container site or container
does not meet the town’s specifications or should a site or container which
complied with the specifications on the effective date of the ordinance from
which this chapter was derived subsequently become noncomplying for any reason,
prior to exercising the penalties outlined in §
10.99, the town shall give the property owner notification of the location and
manner in which a site or container does not comply with this chapter. A copy
of the applicable standards shall be attached to the notice or otherwise appear
on the face of the notice. This notification of the violation shall be return-
receipt mailed or hand-delivered to the property owner at the address shown on
the ad valorem tax records. The owner shall have 14 days from the mailing date
or hand-delivery date to comply with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 00-08, passed 5-24-00; Am. Ord. 16-7, passed 11-15-17)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.16 PURCHASE AND DELIVERY OF WASTE CONTAINERS; DUMPSTER PAD REQUIRED.
   (A)   Requirement. Each property owner, prior to issuance of an occupancy
permit by the Planning and Inspections Department, or upon purchase of property
where no container for waste collection has been issued, shall purchase from
the town a suitable waste container or containers which shall, upon purchase,
belong to and become the responsibility of the property owner.
   (B)   Price. The price for the initial, additional or replacement container
or containers shall be pursuant to the adopted fee schedule for the town.
   (C)   Delivery. The town will deliver the required waste container or
containers prior to issuance of an occupancy permit or at the time the property
is purchased and an application is made for a waste container. No occupancy
permit shall be issued and no container shall be delivered until the price of
such container or containers is paid to the town.
   (D)   Dumpster pads. Those properties requiring dumpsters shall construct a
dumpster pad in accordance with the specification provided by the Public
Services Department. Such pads shall be completed before the delivery of a
dumpster or dumpsters and before the issuance of an occupancy permit.
(Ord. 00-08, passed 5-24-00)
§ 50.17 MAINTENANCE OF WASTE CONTAINERS AND WASTE CONTAINER SITES.
   (A)   Maintenance of container. The property owner shall be responsible for
the maintenance and repair of all waste containers and for the replacement of
such container or containers if damaged, lost, stolen or destroyed. Maintenance
of such containers shall include but is not limited to keeping the container
rust free, painted, clean and water tight. Lids for roll-out containers and
dumpsters shall be required and must be closed at all times. If a container has
been determined to be noncompliant, or upon violation of this section, prior to
exercising the remedies outlined in §
10.99, the town shall give return-receipt mailed or hand-delivered written
notification of the violation to the property owner at the address shown on the
ad valorem tax records. The owner shall have 14 days from the mailing date or
hand-delivery date to comply with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Maintenance of container site. For the purposes of this chapter,
container site shall include the pad, enclosure and access or the right-of-way
area on which the roll-out container is placed. The property owner shall keep
the container site clean, free of overflow materials from the waste container,
litter and/or debris. Property owners shall maintain accessibility to the
container, pad and enclosure and keep the container, pad and enclosure in good
repair. If a container site has been determined to be noncompliant, or upon
violation of this chapter prior to exercising the remedies outlined in §
10.99, the town shall give return-receipt mailed or hand-delivered written
notification of the violation to the property owner at the address shown on the
ad valorem tax records. The owner shall have 14 days from the mailing date or
hand-delivery date to comply with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 00-08, passed 5-24-00)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.18 USE OF WASTE CONTAINERS.
   Waste containers as required by the town are intended for use by the
property owner and any other person or persons in lawful possession of the
premises where the container is located and the rubbish generated and none
other. Any unauthorized use of any waste container in the town shall constitute
a violation of the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 00-08, passed 5-24-00)
§ 50.19 PLACEMENT AND PICK UP SCHEDULES.
   (A)   Placement. The placement of roll-out containers and dumpsters shall be
determined by the Public Services Department and this chapter.
      (1)   For collection, roll-out containers shall be placed within two feet
of the town's street rights- of-way on a schedule determined by the Town
Manager as recommended by the Public Services Department. The property owner or
resident shall remove the roll-out container or containers from within the
street right-of-way following each collection.
      (2)   Each dumpster shall be located as designated on an approved site
plan. When the need for a dumpster occurs after site plan approval, or due to
the generation of waste beyond that which can be adequately contained in three
roll-out containers, the location of the dumpster pad and dumpster shall be
determined by the Public Services Department. No dumpster pad or dumpster shall
be located within the public rights-of-way of the town, nor shall be serviced
or collected from public rights-of-way.
   (B)   Schedule. Collection scheduled for residential and commercial sites
shall be as follows:
      (1)   The Board of Commissioners shall establish, and may amend from time
to time, a schedule for regular collection of refuse at all residential and
commercial sites.
      (2)   Holiday collection schedules shall be established by the Town
Manager upon recommendation by the Public Services Department.
(Ord. 00-08, passed 5-24-00; Am. Ord. 08-26, passed 9-8-08; Am. Ord. 16-7,
passed 11-15-17)
SPECIAL SERVICES
§ 50.30 RECYCLING DROP-OFF CENTER.
   (A)   Purpose. The Kill Devil Hills recycling drop-off center was
established to maintain an aesthetically pleasing environment through the
reduction of solid waste.
   (B)   Recycling materials/items. Residents, businesses and visitors of the
town and such others that may be permitted to use this facility by separate
action of the Board of Commissioners. A copy of the procedures and policies for
use of the recycling center may be obtained from the Public Services Department
and the Administration Department.
(Ord. 00-08, passed 5-24-00)
§ 50.31 BULK TRASH DROP-OFF AREA.
   (A)   Purpose. The bulk trash drop-off area is operated to provide a place
for only owners of improved properties in Kill Devil Hills to bring bulk trash,
tree limbs or branches for disposal, subject to the procedures and restrictions
outlined in this section.
   (B)   Procedure for using bulk trash drop-off area. The following procedures
shall be required for disposal of all bulk trash at the drop-off area:
      (1)   Permit required. A permit for utilizing the drop-off area must be
obtained from the Public Services Department. Permits are issued free of charge
to owners and/or residents of improved properties in the town upon verification
of two forms of identification (such as a driver's license, a water bill, a
voter registration card, property tax bill or some other form of identification
establishing and verifying that the improved property for which the permit is
requested is located within the town). In order to utilize the drop-off center,
one of two types of permits must be obtained:
         (a)   A permit to utilize the drop-off center as a property owner.
Completion of an application form containing the following minimum information
is required: name, address, permit number and the model and license number of
the vehicle which will be used to haul the bulk trash for drop-off. Upon
receipt, the permit must be affixed to the inside of the windshield on the
driver's side of the vehicle. The permit shall be placed in the lower corner
maintaining a minimum of one inch clearance from any other decal such as the
North Carolina Inspection Sticker. The permit shall be positioned with
lettering and numbers upright, clearly visible to the town attendant and so as
not to impede visibility with regards to safe operation of the vehicle. Permits
already issued for use of the dry trash yard at the time of adoption of this
section may continue to be used provided they are in good condition and clearly
visible. Only one permit will be issued for each improved property;
         (b)   A special use permit will be issued only to disabled or infirm
residents or owners of improved residential properties that may otherwise be
able to show just cause that would prevent them from bringing bulk trash to the
bulk trash drop-off center. Each request for such a permit will be reviewed on
a case by case basis by the Public Services Department. The special use permit
would be valid for a 30-day period, issuable upon request, for disposal of bulk
trash debris generated on-site at the improved residential property.
Presentation of this permit will allow the use of the bulk trash drop-off
center by someone other than the resident or property owner.
      (2)   Bulk trash/acceptable materials. Trash must be separated as
follows:
         (a)   White goods and metals; bicycles must have tires removed;
         (b)   Non-recyclable glass;
         (c)   Furniture such as beds, sofas, mattresses, chairs and the like;
construction and demolition materials such as flooring, cabinets, paneling,
carpeting, insulation, lumber and other wood products and bundled shingles;
         (d)   Not more than one wheelbarrow load of brick, concrete or asphalt
materials;
         (e)   Tree limbs and branches and yard waste;
         (f)   Lawnmowers, weedeaters, blowers or similar gas-powered
equipment, with gas tanks removed;
         (g)   Bulk trash generated on-site at the property.
      (3)   Prohibited items. The following are examples of bulk trash
prohibited from drop-off at the town bulk trash drop-off area:
         (a)   Hazardous materials of any type waste, including empty fuel
tanks, propane tanks or any pressurized containers;
         (b)   Any bulk trash from residential or commercial properties
produced as a result of a contracted service, except as otherwise provided in
subsection (B)(1)(b) of this section.
(Ord. 00-08, passed 5-24-00; Am. Ord. 07-11, passed 6-27-07)
§ 50.32 BULK TRASH COLLECTIONS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of bulk trash collections is to provide a service
to the town's improved property owners in assisting with the disposal of large
bulky household items.
   (B)   Eligibility and availability. Bulk trash collection is provided town-
wide to improved property owners, twice annually, once in the fall, not sooner
than October 15 nor later than November 15, and once in the spring, not sooner
than April 15 nor later than May 15, at specific times designated by the Public
Services Department.
   (C)   Procedure for bulk trash collections. The following procedures shall
be required for collection of all bulk trash. Bulk trash must be separated,
sorted and bundled as follows:
      (1)   Tree limbs and branches;
      (2)   Bagged yard waste;
      (3)   White goods and metal items (such as refrigerators, stoves, washing
machines and dryers, hot water heaters, bicycles - with tires removed, metal
lawn furniture, grills and the like); cables, pipe, and the like, less than
twelve feet in length;
      (4)   Large furniture items (such as sofas, beds, mattresses).
   (D)   Prohibited bulk trash collection items. The following items are
examples of prohibited bulk trash collection items:
      (1)   Hazardous materials of any kind, such as antifreeze, containers of
oil, paint or other petroleum-based products, batteries;
      (2)   Recyclable materials, including cardboard or paper of any kind and
electronic items;
      (3)   Construction and demolition materials of any kind, such as
carpeting, flooring, cabinets, toilets, tubs, sinks, paneling, insulation,
drywall, lumber or loose wood of any kind, pallets, shingles, windows, bricks,
concrete or asphalt or glass;
      (4)   Glass, televisions, mirrors, fluorescent light tubes;
      (5)   Cars, boats, trailers, motorcycles or any other vehicles,
lawnmowers, weedeaters and propane heaters or any parts thereof;
      (6)   Tires;
      (7)   Tree stumps;
      (8)   Vegetation or debris as a result of clearing unimproved properties;
      (9)   Any item that is too large to be safely handled by town personnel;
and
      (10)   Any bulk trash produced as a result of a contracted service.
(Ord. 00-08, passed 5-24-00; Am. Ord. 15-26, passed 12-12-16)
CHAPTER 51: WATER SERVICE
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Each structure to have separate connection; exceptions
   
51.02   Operating procedures generally
   
51.03   Fees
   
51.04   Failure to repair leaks
   
51.05   Lines to become property of town
   
51.06   Water main extensions
   
51.07   Deep wells
   
51.08   Fire hydrants
   
51.09   No dead-end water lines
   
51.10   Irrigation meters
Data to be Submitted by Developer
   
51.20   Standards for construction
   
51.21   Drawings and specifications
   
51.22   Right-of-way agreements or easements
   
51.23   Performance bond
   
51.24   Permits, licenses and taxes
   
51.25   Developer’s responsibility for work
Rates and Charges
   
51.35   Application for service
   
51.36   Utilities rates and connection fees
   
51.37   Meters
   
51.38   Billing date; past due date; penalty for late payment; penalty for
returned check; disconnection of service for nonpayment
   
51.39   Reconnection of water services
   
51.40   Redevelopment disconnection fee
   
51.41   Billing adjustments
   
51.42   System development fee
Water Conservation
   
51.50   Declaration
   
51.51   When declared
   
51.52   Notice to general public of water shortage
   
51.53   Compliance required in the event of a water shortage
   
51.54   Restrictions applicable to various well static levels
   
51.55   Compliance
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 EACH STRUCTURE TO HAVE SEPARATE CONNECTION; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Each individual business or new residential building or structure
shall have a separate connection to the town water supply system. This
requirement shall not apply to cottage courts or similar businesses under one
ownership and operated as one business, where such business has several
structures situated upon the business plot or tract of land all under one
ownership.
   (B)   Application for utilities service shall be submitted in the name of
the owner or, if more than one structure is located on the lot or parcel of
land, then in the name of each owner of a structure or condominium unit to be
served.
   (C)   Replacement structures, and upgrades of existing structures in excess
of 50% of the ad valorem tax value of the structure, not currently on the water
supply system shall be required to connect to the system if service is
available.
   (D)   The town's responsibility for maintenance ends at the connection to
the customer's service line.
   (E)   All meters, associated valves and valve boxes are property of the
town. Only town employees are authorized to service, repair or operate these
fixtures.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 51.02 OPERATING PROCEDURES GENERALLY.
   (A)   No water shall be used for tapping, washing or jetting pilings. No
water shall be drawn from town owned fire hydrants by anyone other than
authorized town employees or others authorized by the Utilities Division. Water
may be used for washing electric lines.
   (B)   Any individual service outside the corporate limits shall be made only
upon approval of the Board of Commissioners unless delegated to the Town
Manager.
   (C)   Connection to the water system is conditioned upon availability of
adequate lines and pressure serving any property.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 51.03 FEES.
   Utilities rate schedules shall be on file in the office of the Town Clerk.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 51.04 FAILURE TO REPAIR LEAKS.
   When leaks are discovered to exist in plumbing of premises connected to the
town water supply system, the water to such premises shall be cut off and the
owner of such property shall be required to repair such leak with approved
material before the water service is restored.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 51.05 LINES TO BECOME PROPERTY OF TOWN.
   After completion, inspection and approval, water lines shall become the
property of the town, and the town shall provide water service for customers
and shall thereafter maintain such water lines, valves and other such
appurtenances and shall execute such documents as may be necessary to evidence
that such lines shall become the property of the town. Upon completion, the
owner shall grant unto the town an easement, 15 feet in width for the
construction, operation, repair and maintenance of the water line or any
appurtenances thereto and shall execute such documents as may be necessary to
convey such easement.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 51.06 WATER MAIN EXTENSIONS.
   Any person desiring to have a water line constructed shall:
   (A)   Comply with the provisions of this chapter;
   (B)   Submit, for approval by the town, plans and specifications by an
engineer licensed in the state, together with evidence of financial ability to
complete the project and a two-year warranty prior to any connection to town
service;
   (C)   Guarantee to save harmless the town from all loss, damage or liability
by reason of any injury to person or property occasioned by such water line
construction by his contractor;
   (D)   No water service shall be provided by the town until the owner has
complied with all applicable provisions of Chs.
51 and
52.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 51.07 DEEP WELLS.
   Any well in excess of 100 feet shall not be constructed unless authorized
and approved by the Dare County Health Department and the Town Board of
Commissioners.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 51.08 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   Fire hydrants shall be installed in accordance with the provisions of the
North Carolina Fire Code, and in no case shall be installed more than 500 feet
apart.
(Ord. 02-15, passed 7-24-02; Am. Ord. 03-12, passed 7-14-03)
§ 51.09 NO DEAD-END WATER LINES.
   No dead-end water lines will be permitted unless otherwise approved by the
Board of Commissioners.
§ 51.10 IRRIGATION METERS.
   All new in-ground irrigation systems which are served by the town water
system on lots platted and recorded in the office of the Dare County Register
of Deeds after July 1, 2009 shall be independently connected to the water
system through a separate irrigation meter.
   (A)   Methods of connection. All new irrigation system service connections
will be installed by a direct tap into the water main. This connection shall be
performed by the Public Services Department.
   (B)   Technical and other requirements.
      (1)   All irrigation service connections, the irrigation meter and all
related appurtenances shall be installed in accordance with the same
regulations, policies and procedures that apply to all service connections.
      (2)   Irrigation meters shall not be used for any other domestic purpose.
   (C)   Fees and charges.
      (1)   Shall be established by the Board of Commissioners.
      (2)   System development fees shall be waived for new irrigation system
connections, only.
(Ord. 09-17, passed 10-12-09; Am. Ord. 13-2, passed 2-11-13; Am. Ord. 16-16,
passed 6-11-18)
DATA TO BE SUBMITTED BY DEVELOPER
§ 51.20 STANDARDS FOR CONSTRUCTION.
   All design and construction associated with the water system shall be in
conformance with Title 15 A, Subchapter 18C of the North Carolina
Administrative Code, “Rules Governing Public Water Systems” and the latest
version of the town's standard specifications and details for water
construction.
(Ord. 12-14, passed 5-23-12)
§ 51.21 DRAWINGS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The developer shall provide the Building Official of the town with
three sets of drawings and specifications for approval. He shall provide the
Public Services Director with two copies.
   (B)   Every effort shall be made by the Utilities Division to approve
drawings and specifications within 30 days.
   (C)   The plans shall include, as a minimum:
      (1)   A diagram of the project drawn to a scale of at least one inch
equals 50 feet and submitted on 22-inch by 36-inch paper;
      (2)   A topographical survey of the right-of-way required by the
Utilities Division;
      (3)   All proposed work, including affected streets and underground
utilities;
      (4)   The location of water lines, valves, hydrants and miscellaneous
fittings with regard to existing topography of the centerline of the right-of-
way;
      (5)   The location of all points at which water lines cross culverts or
sewers with an indication of the size and invert of existing pipe line and
ground elevations;
      (6)   Location of all proposed water services;
      (7)   Location and method of connection to existing water system; and
      (8)   Engineer’s seal.
   (D)   The specifications shall include as a minimum:
      (1)   A list of materials and construction methods to be used;
      (2)   A procedure for testing and chlorination of the line; and
      (3)   A letter of approval from the North Carolina Department of
Environment, Health and Natural Resources.
(Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. 12-14, passed 5-23-12)
§ 51.22 RIGHT-OF-WAY AGREEMENTS OR EASEMENTS.
   Prior to construction of any utilities lines within town street boundaries
or across or upon any private property, all necessary right-of-way agreements
or easements, which easements shall include easements to the town for the
purposes set forth in § 51.05, and any permits required by any federal, state
or local government agency shall be obtained and copies furnished to the
Utilities Division.
(Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. 12-14, passed 5-23-12)
§ 51.23 PERFORMANCE BOND.
   A performance bond approved by the town or a certified check shall be posted
with the town for 100% of the work.
(Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. 12-14, passed 5-23-12)
§ 51.24 PERMITS, LICENSES AND TAXES.
   The developer shall procure all permits and licenses, pay all charges, fees
and taxes and give notices necessary for the proper and lawful prosecution of
the work.
(Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. 12-14, passed 5-23-12)
§ 51.25 DEVELOPER’S RESPONSIBILITY FOR WORK.
   (A)   Until final written acceptance of a project by the town, the developer
shall have the charge and care thereof and shall take every precaution against
injury or damage to any part thereof due to the action of the elements or from
any other cause, whether arising from the execution or from the nonexecution of
the work. The developer shall rebuild, repair, restore and make good all
injuries or damages to any portion of the work occasioned by any of the above
causes before final acceptance and shall bear the expense thereof.
   (B)   In case of suspension of work from any cause whatever, the developer
shall be responsible for the project and shall take such precautions as may be
necessary to prevent damage to the project, provide for drainage and shall
erect any necessary temporary structures, signs or other facilities at the
developer’s expense.
   (C)   No lines shall be covered without authorization by the Utilities
Division, nor shall new lines be turned on without final approval by the town.
(Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. 12-14, passed 5-23-12)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 51.35 APPLICATION FOR SERVICE.
   (A)   Application for service shall be accepted on proof of ownership for
each unit and the payment of current system development fees which permanently
apply to the specific location and are not transferable to other property. The
meter shall be installed upon the payment of the applicable system development
fees, tap fees, unless previously paid by the developer of the subdivision, and
surety deposit accompanied by currently required septic permits, current survey
and other applicable building permits. System development fees (SDF) are not
accepted unless accompanied by a building permit.
   (B)   A surety deposit of an amount adopted and amended, from time to time,
by the Board of Commissioners and kept on file in the Town Clerk’s office shall
be required of each owner before utilities service is extended to the property
of any person.
   (C)   When property being served by the town’s utilities system is sold, the
surety deposit, less any outstanding bill, shall be returned to the seller. The
new owner shall pay the deposit required by the utilities rates fee schedule.
Notification of transfer of ownership is required in writing and charges begin
with the closing date of the sale, if closing date has passed then date of
notification.
   (D)   Any SDF ( previously IHF) on file after September 14, 2009 is eligible
for a refund of any credit balance of the SDF that was not used due to an
approved revision to the site plan within 18 months of the issuance of the
building permit or no later than occupancy if occupancy occurs before the
expiration of the 18 months immediately following issuance of the building
permit.
(Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. 09-14, passed 9-14-09; Am. Ord. 12-14, passed 5-23-
12; Am. Ord. 16-16, passed 6-11-18)
§ 51.36 UTILITIES RATES AND CONNECTION FEES.
   Except as may be otherwise provided by this chapter, all persons using
utilities furnished by the town’s utilities systems shall pay tap fees, system
development fees and surety deposits in accordance with the utilities rates fee
schedule as adopted by the Board of Commissioners and as amended from time to
time. A copy of the utilities rates fee schedule shall be kept on file with the
Town Clerk.
(Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. 12-14, passed 5-23-12; Am. Ord. 16-16, passed 6-11-
18)
§ 51.37 METERS.
   (A)   Utility meters shall be read every three months or as otherwise
directed by the Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   An individual meter shall be required for each premise and for each
separate service connection to a premise as outlined in §
51.01(A). The meter will be furnished and connected by the town as part of the
service connection. The town reserves the right in all cases to stipulate the
size, type, and make of the meter to be used on any connection.
   (C)   All meters and meter connections shall at all times remain the sole
property of the town and shall not be interfered with in any respect. All
meters will be maintained by, and at the expense of the town so far as ordinary
wear and tear are concerned, but the customer will be held responsible for
damages due to other causes. In case of damage other than normal wear and tear,
the town will repair or replace the meter and the costs shall be paid by the
customer.
   (D)   The town reserves the right to remove and test any meter at any time
and to substitute another meter in its place.
(Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. 12-14, passed 5-23-12)
§ 51.38 BILLING DATE; PAST DUE DATE; PENALTY FOR LATE PAYMENT; PENALTY FOR
RETURNED CHECK; DISCONNECTION OF SERVICE FOR NONPAYMENT.
   (A)   In the event that utilities service is disconnected because of the
failure of the owner to comply with any of the provisions of this section, the
fee for reconnection of utilities service shall be that as adopted and amended
from time to time by the Board of Commissioners and on file with the Town
Clerk.
   (B)   Unpaid utilities bills become delinquent 30 days from the date mailed
and are subject to a late charge penalty of 10%.
   (C)   There shall be a penalty, as determined from time to time by the Board
of Commissioners, for any check used to pay a utilities bill or statement which
is not accepted for any reason by the bank upon which it is drawn.
   (D)   If a utilities bill or statement is not paid on or before the first
day of the seventh week following the original mailing date of the unpaid
statement or bill, the utilities service shall be cut off and terminated.
   (E)   An administrative service penalty, as determined from time to time by
the Board of Commissioners, shall be charged for any service that is not paid
on or before the first day of the seventh week following the original date of
the unpaid statement or bill as set forth on the utilities bill or statement.
   (F)   When a water service is terminated for nonpayment as described in this
section for a period of two quarters, no further bills shall be sent. When a
meter has been removed and/or disconnected and remains inactive for an
additional period of 18 months or six quarters, the service shall be removed
and the account deemed “VOID.” All fees shall be taken off the books and the
accounting stopped. The account shall cease to exist. In order for service to
be reactivated, all fees, tap fees, system development fees and surety deposit
will be required. Credit will be given for payment of previous system
development fees, up to but not exceeding the amount of the current system
development fee.
(Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. 12-14, passed 5-23-12; Am. Ord. 16-16, passed 6-11-
18)
§ 51.39 RECONNECTION OF WATER SERVICES.
   (A)   The fee to turn utilities service on after it has been disconnected
for nonpayment of application fees/lack of owner's signature shall be
determined from time to time by the Board of Commissioners and kept on file in
the Town Clerk's office.
   (B)   After cut-off, a meter may be removed at the discretion of the
Utilities Division to prevent damage or improper use.
   (C)   (1)   Any owner who wishes to reinstate his water service after it has
been terminated or the meter removed, provided that this service has been cut
off or the meter removed for a period of less than two years, will be required
to pay all back bills plus a penalty, as determined from time to time by the
Board of Commissioners, to bring the account up to date.
      (2)   Any new applicant for utilities service at the site of a terminated
or removed meter for less than two years will be required to pay the surety
deposit before service will be reinstated.
   (D)   If a utilities meter is re-read/calibrated at the request of any
utilities user, and it is found to be accurate, then the utilities user shall
pay the re-read/calibration fee as established from time to time by the Board
of Commissioners and kept on file in the Town Clerk's office.
   (E)   Repairs to a water meter, lock, or box shall be made by the Utilities
Division. As determined appropriate, the actual cost, including parts and
labor, for the repair or replacement shall be paid for by the property owner or
the individual or company causing the need for the repair or replacement.
   (F)   Any utilities user requesting that utilities service be temporarily
interrupted without the removal of the water meter shall continue to pay the
minimum utilities user charge fee as established from time to time by the Board
of Commissioners and kept on file in the Town Clerk's office.
   (G)   Any utilities user requesting termination of the utilities service and
the removal of the utilities meter shall, before the meter has been removed,
pay the redevelopment disconnection fee.
(Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. 12-14, passed 5-23-12)
§ 51.40 REDEVELOPMENT DISCONNECTION FEE.
   (A)   A redevelopment disconnection fee for water service is established
that shall be applicable only to bona fide redevelopment, construction or
reconstruction applicants based on structural improvements which include
demolition, significant reconstruction or preconstruction periods requiring
suspension of occupancy and water use to existing accounts.
      (1)   Current water service accounts are authorized, upon notification
and approval of the Utilities Division, to temporarily discontinue water use
and minimum payments for a period not to exceed eight quarters, nonrenewable,
upon payment of a nonrefundable redevelopment disconnection fee in an amount
equal to the current annual minimum for that service (as on file in the office
of the Town Clerk) and upon payment of current billing.
      (2)   Service may be restored upon notification to the Utilities Division
and payment of the then current tap on fees and surety deposit (as on file in
the office of the Town Clerk) if not previously paid.
   (B)   A natural disaster and multihazard disconnection fee for water service
is established that shall be applicable only to applicants based on structural
damage caused or created by natural disaster or other multihazard requiring
improvements which include demolition, significant reconstruction or
preconstruction periods requiring suspension of occupancy and water use to
existing accounts.
      (1)   Current water service accounts damaged by natural disaster or other
multihazard, upon notification and approval of the Utilities Division, are
authorized to temporarily discontinue water use and quarterly minimum payments
for two quarters, upon payment of current billing. Minimum quarterly payments
may be discontinued upon payment of a nonrenewable, nonrefundable hazard
disconnection fee in an amount equal to the current annual minimum for that
service (as on file in the office of the Town Clerk) for a period not to exceed
eight quarters, upon notification and approval of the Utilities Division.
       (2)   Service may be restored upon notification to the Utilities
Division and payment of the then current tapping fees and surety deposit (as on
file in the office of the Town Clerk) if not previously paid.
(Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. 12-14, passed 5-23-12)
§ 51.41 BILLING ADJUSTMENTS.
   (A)   The purpose of this policy is to establish a process whereby a
customer can make application for a credit adjustment to their water account
when a situation has been experienced involving the loss of metered water as a
result of conditions beyond normal and reasonable control of the customer or
the customer's agent. Such a situation may include broken or frozen pipes,
water line leak, pipe or fitting leak, vandalism, tampering, or other
circumstances when an accidental water release cannot be reasonably prevented.
   (B)   It is the customer's responsibility to promptly discover and stop the
loss of water. In addition, the customer is responsible for making arrangements
to repair or have repaired the equipment or plumbing causing the water loss.
   (C)   The town is under no obligation to provide a billing adjustment, and
adjustments will only be granted for a maximum period as outlined in the table
below. No adjustment shall be made for water lost after it passes through the
meter, except as authorized by the Town Manager, provided that:
      (1)   The customer shall provide information, in writing describing the
emergency situation or circumstances that resulted in the loss of water,
including the cause of the water loss, when the problem was discovered, what
action was taken to stop the loss of water, and the arrangements made for
repairs, if necessary. If the loss was due to faulty or broken equipment or
plumbing, the customer must provide proper documentation that all repairs for
leaks have been completed. If the loss of water was due to vandalism or
tampering to plumbing, it must be documented with a police report;
      (2)   The customer shall pay the full minimum applicable and that minimum
shall be subtracted from the total water billing;
      (3)   The customer's bill will then be averaged for four quarters using
the same billing period for the immediate preceding four years or a portion
thereof if service has been in place for less than a four-year period, and the
customer will pay the then existing commodity rate for that average usage and
that amount will also be subtracted from the total billing;
      (4)   The remaining quantity will then be payable by the customer at 75%
of the commodity rate for the average gallonage for the quarter as determined
in division (C)(3) above;
      (5)   The customer may schedule payments to cover the lost water costs
(adjusted bill amount) as prescribed by the Utilities Division in the table
below without penalty. All subsequent bills shall be due and payable upon
receipt.
 
Billing Adjustments
Adjusted bill amount Payment period
< $500            6 months
$500-$1,000          12 months
> $1,000             24 months
 
   (D)   Payment plans shall be subject to the following:
      (1)   The customer shall execute a written agreement setting out the
terms of repayment and providing that upon any default in payment or sale of
the property the entire balance shall be due and payable.
      (2)   The customer/owner selling property shall notify the closing
attorney/agent of any outstanding balance at the time of closing. Any
outstanding balance shall be paid to the town by the closing attorney or agent
in full at the time of closing.
   (E)   Water service customers that are also serviced by the town's
wastewater treatment facility will be subject to divisions (C)(1) through (4)
above and:
      (1)   If a water loss is identified as above and the above procedures are
followed, and the water loss is determined not to have entered the wastewater
system, the wastewater bill is averaged as above and the overage not calculated
for billing purposes.
      (2)   If the water loss is determined to have entered the wastewater
system through the customer's connection, no adjustment will be applied to the
wastewater billing.
(Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. 05-11, passed 7-11-05; Am. Ord. 08-34, passed 11-19-
08; Am. Ord. 10-24, passed 11-10-10; Am. Ord. 12-14, passed 5-23-12; Am. Ord.
14-01, passed 1-13-14; Am. Ord. 14-13, passed 6-25-14)
§ 51.42 SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT FEE.
   The Town of Kill Devil Hills has complied with and is complying with the
following requirements set forth by the Public Water and Sewer System
Development Fee Act, being Session Law 2017-138, also known as House Bill 436
(HB 436), in order for a local government to adopt a system development fee:
   (A)   The fee should be calculated in a written analysis (“SDF Analysis”)
prepared by a financial professional or licensed professional engineer
(qualified by experience and training or education) who employs generally
accepted accounting, engineering, and planning methodologies to calculate
system development fees for water and sewer systems:
      (1)   Provides analysis regarding the selection of the appropriate method
of analysis;
      (2)   Documents and demonstrates reliable application of the methodology
to the facts and data, including all reasoning, analysis, and interim
calculations underlying each identifiable component of the system development
fee;
      (3)   Identifies all assumptions and limiting conditions affecting the
analysis and demonstrates that they do not materially undermine the reliability
of the conclusions reached;
      (4)   Calculates a system development fee per service unit of new
development and includes an equivalency or conversion table to use in
determining the fees applicable for various categories of demand; and
      (5)   Covers a planning horizon of between ten and 20 years.
   (B)   The SDF Analysis must be posted on the town’s website, and the town
must solicit comments and provide a means by which people can submit their
comments, for a period of at least 45 days.
   (C)   Comments received from the public must be considered by the preparer
of the SDF Analysis.
   (D)   There must be a public hearing held prior to considering adoption of
the SDF Analysis.
   (E)   The town must publish the system development fee in its annual budget
ordinance.
   (F)   The town cannot adopt a fee that is higher than the fee calculated by
the SDF Analysis.
   (G)   The town must update the SDF Analysis at least every five years.
(Ord. 16-15, passed 6-11-18)
WATER CONSERVATION
§ 51.50 DECLARATION.
   In the event of an imminent or declared state of emergency endangering the
safety, health or welfare of the people of the town, or threatened danger or
destruction of property arising from the shortage or imminent shortage of
water, the Mayor is hereby authorized and empowered to issue a public
proclamation declaring the existence of a state of emergency and to define and
impose appropriate prohibitions and restrictions resulting from the water
shortage applicable to all persons within the jurisdiction of the town in order
to meet the exigencies of the imminent or declared state of emergency.
(Ord. 02-12, passed 7-8-02; Am. Ord. 08-23, passed 8-11-08)
§ 51.51 WHEN DECLARED.
   A state of emergency shall be deemed to exist whenever, in the opinion of
the Mayor, the availability and supply of water is critical such that a
mechanical malfunction or breakdown of the town's pumps, a rapid drawdown of
the water supply (aquifer may occur), or salt water intrusion would so deplete
the water supply and availability of water as to threaten the availability of
water for human consumption, firefighting purposes and other protection of
lives and property, and the conservation of water is necessary in order to
provide safety and protect lives, safety and property within the town. A state
of emergency shall also be decreed to exist at any time the County of Dare
declares a water shortage.
(Ord. 02-12, passed 7-8-02; Am. Ord. 08-23, passed 8-11-08)
§ 51.52 NOTICE TO GENERAL PUBLIC OF WATER SHORTAGE.
   In the event Dare County declares a water shortage of any of the four
degrees of severity hereinafter set forth, the Mayor is authorized and
empowered to give notice to the general public of the existence of such state
and the severity thereof. In order to protect the health and safety of the
citizens of the town supplied water by the Dare County regional public water
system, the Mayor may place in effect restrictive provisions hereinafter
authorized. Notice shall be given by public press announcements and by signing
an executive order. The order shall become effective 24 hours following the
issuance of the order and delivery of a copy to the local newspaper and radio
stations.
(Ord. 02-12, passed 7-8-02; Am. Ord. 08-23, passed 8-11-08)
§ 51.53 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED IN THE EVENT OF A WATER SHORTAGE.
   (A)   In the event the Mayor issues the notice described in §
51.52, then and in that event it shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or
corporation to use or permit the use of water from the water system of the town
for any purposes hereinafter set forth until such time as this subchapter be
amended or repealed, or until the Mayor has declared such provisions no longer
in effect.
   (B)   In exercising this authority, considerations shall be given as to the
following criteria:
      (1)   Water levels in the wells, capabilities of the water production and
distribution systems, drawdown rates, outlook for precipitation, daily water
use patterns, seasonal and long term weather patterns, and the availability of
water from other sources.
      (2)   Hospitals, nursing homes, and healthcare facilities shall comply
with all restrictions imposed on residential and non-residential water
customers as may be applicable to each individual institution to the extent
compliance will not endanger the health of the patients or residents of the
institution.
      (3)   Each hospital, nursing home, or healthcare facility shall survey
its water usage patterns and requirements and implement such additional
conservation measures as may be possible, without endangering the health of its
patients or residents, to achieve a further reduction in the institution's
water usage.
(Ord. 02-12, passed 7-8-02; Am. Ord. 08-23, passed 8-11-08)
§ 51.54 RESTRICTIONS APPLICABLE TO VARIOUS WELL STATIC LEVELS.
   The severity of the water shortage shall be determined primarily by the well
static levels in light of levels expected at given times of the year and
expected demands and potential rainfall. The restrictive measures in effect at
each stage are as follows:
   (A)   Stage I Water Conservation Alert.
      (1)   In the event the well water static levels do not conform to
seasonal expectations as determined by the Dare County Water Director and
advised to the Town Public Services Director, or daily water demand is
approaching 95% of system capacity as determined by the Dare County Water
Director and advised to the Town Public Services Director, a Stage I Water
Conservation Alert may be declared in effect.
      (2)   Voluntary commercial, manufacturing, institutional and residential
conservation measures will be strongly encouraged and recommended including the
following:
         (a)   Inspect and repair all faulty and defective parts of faucets and
toilet;
         (b)   Use shower for bathing rather than bathtub and limit shower to
no more than five minutes;
         (c)   Do not leave faucets running while shaving, rinsing dishes, or
brushing teeth;
         (d)   Limit use of clothes washers and dishwashers and when used,
operate fully loaded;
         (e)   Limit lawn watering to that necessary for plant survival;
         (f)   Water shrubbery the minimum required;
         (g)   Limit vehicle washing;
         (h)   Do not wash down outside areas such as sidewalks, patios,
driveways, and the like;
         (i)   Install water flow restrictions in showerheads and other water
saving devices;
         (j)   Use disposable and biodegradable dishes where possible;
         (k)   Install water saving devices in toilets, such as early closing
flapper valves;
         (l)   Limit hours of water-cooled air conditioners;
         (m)   Do not fill swimming or wading pools;
         (n)   Do not serve drinking water in restaurants, cafeterias, or other
food establishments, except as requested.
      (3)   An extensive publicity campaign will be initiated using public
media and specialized methods to inform the public of an impending water
shortage. As a wholesale customer of the Dare County regional public water
system, the town hereby states its intention and willingness to cooperate.
      (4)   Water supply line pressure should be reduced where feasible to
reduce water consumption if it will not affect operations of fixtures,
equipment, or public safety devices.
      (5)   Conservation in public buildings, institutions, dormitories, and
similar facilities is encouraged by restricting pressure at plumbing fixtures,
and by installation of restricting devices.
      (6)   All residences, businesses, and institutions are requested to delay
new landscape work until the water shortage has ended.
      (7)   Water conservation should be followed during all phases of
construction related activities. Where appropriate, water should be obtained
from supplemental sources and construction related activities that require
water should be delayed until such time as the water emergency has ended.
      (8)   New service connections to the system may be halted as per
discretion of the Mayor.
   (B)   Stage II Water Shortage Warning.
      (1)   In the event well water static levels continue to drop below
seasonal expected levels as determined by the Dare County Water Director and
advised to the Town Public Services Director or daily water production
approaches 100% of daily capacity of the water production and distribution
systems, a Stage II Water Shortage Warning may be declared in effect and the
following mandatory water restrictions shall be imposed. It shall be unlawful
to use water from the Dare County regional public water system for the
following purposes:
         (a)   To water lawns, grass, shrubbery, trees, flower and vegetable
gardens, except by hand- held hose, container, or drip irrigation system.
Provided, however, that a person regularly engaged in the sale of plants shall
be permitted to use water for irrigation of their commercial stock in trade;
         (b)   To fill newly constructed swimming pools and/or wading pools or
refill or top off, swimming and/or wading pools;
         (c)   To operate water-cooled air conditioners or other equipment that
does not recycle cooling water, except when health and safety are adversely
affected;
         (d)   To wash automobiles, trucks, trailers, boats, airplanes, or any
other type of mobile equipment. Provided, however, that any person regularly
engaged in the business of washing motor vehicles and commercial car wash
facilities shall be permitted to use water for such purposes;
         (e)   To wash down outside areas such as streets, driveways, parking
lots, office buildings, exteriors of existing or newly constructed homes or
apartments, sidewalks, or patios, or to use water for similar purposes.
Provided, however, that hand washing of exterior surfaces of a building for the
purpose of preparing them for painting shall be permitted;
         (f)   To operate or introduce water into any ornamental fountain,
pool, or pond or other structure making similar use of water;
         (g)   To use water for dust control or compaction;
         (h)   To use water for any unnecessary purpose or to intentionally
waste water.
      (2)   The owner or occupant of any land or building that receives water
from the town and also uses water from a private well shall post a sign giving
notice of the use of the private well or other source of supply.
      (3)   All industrial, manufacturing, and commercial enterprises shall
reduce consumption to any degree feasible with a goal of a reduction of at
least 25%.
   (C)   Stage III Water Shortage Danger.
      (1)   In the event well water static levels continue to decrease in spite
of restrictions as imposed above, a Stage III Water Shortage Danger may be
declared to exist as determined by the Dare County Water Director and advised
to the Town Public Services Director, and in addition to the restrictions
heretofore imposed under Stage II, the following mandatory water restrictions
shall be imposed. It shall be unlawful to:
         (a)   Water or sprinkle any lawn, grass, shrubbery, trees, or flowers
except from a watering can or other container not exceeding three gallons in
capacity. Provided, however, that a person regularly engaged in the sale of
plants shall be permitted to use water for irrigation of their commercial stock
in trade. State, county, and town licensed landscape contractors may continue
to water plantings, which are under written warranty, by hand held hose,
container or drip irrigation;
         (b)   Water any vegetable garden except by hand held hose, container,
or drip irrigation system;
         (c)   Make any nonessential use of water for commercial or public use.
      (2)   All industrial, manufacturing, and commercial enterprises shall
reduce consumption to any degree feasible with a goal of a reduction of at
least 50%, and customers regularly engaged in the business of washing motor
vehicles and commercial car washes shall reduce consumption to any degree
feasible with a goal of at least 30%, as compared with their usage during the
corresponding billing period for the most recent 12-month period in which no
stage of this subchapter was in effect. Provided, however, this goal shall not
apply to those customers who wash parts of vehicles where federal, state, or
local laws require such washing.
   (D)   Stage IV Water Shortage Emergency.
      (1)   In the event previous restrictions are not sufficient to eliminate
reductions in water supply reserves and the Town Manager is advised that water
reserves and production capabilities are critically low, he shall notify the
Mayor in writing. Upon such notification, the Board of Commissioners shall
declare a Stage IV Water Shortage Emergency to exist. Upon such declaration,
the town shall be deemed in a state of emergency with respect to its water
supply and residential customers shall reduce their consumption to any degree
possible with a goal of a reduction of at least 25% of their average usage. In
addition to the restrictions heretofore imposed in Stages II and III, the
following mandatory water restrictions shall be imposed. It shall be unlawful
to:
         (a)   Use water outside a structure for any other than emergency use
involving fire or as needed by the town Public Services Department to maintain
the system, except that flowers, plants, and shrubs may be watered from a
watering can or other container not exceeding three gallons in capacity.
         (b)   Wash any vehicle for any purpose.
         (c)   Exceed the following water usage mandate: All customers shall
reduce their water usage by 25% as compared with their usage during the
corresponding billing period for the most recent 12-month period in which no
stage of this subchapter was in effect.
      (2)   It is the primary responsibility of each non-residential customer
to meet its mandated water use reduction in whatever manner possible, including
limitation of operating hours, or days, if necessary.
      (3)   If the mandated reduction in water usage cannot be obtained without
threatening health or safety, or if there has been a significant change in the
customer's circumstances, the customer may apply to the Town Manager, or
designee, for a variance to the mandate.
      (4)   Any customer who exceeds the allotments established to this mandate
shall be subject to termination of their water service.
(Ord. 02-12, passed 7-8-02; Am. Ord. 08-23, passed 8-11-08)
§ 51.55 COMPLIANCE.
   Any person who violates the provisions of this subchapter, who fails to
carry out the duties and responsibilities imposed by this subchapter, or who
impedes or interferes with any action undertaken or ordered pursuant to this
subchapter shall be subject to the following penalties:
   (A)   Upon discovery of a violation of any water use restriction imposed
pursuant to this subchapter, a written notice of the violation shall be affixed
to the property where the violation occurred and mailed to the customer at the
address listed by the customer for billing and to any other person known to the
Town's Public Services Department who is responsible for the violation or its
correction. Said notice shall describe the violation and order that it be
corrected, cured, or abated immediately or within such specified time as the
town determines is reasonable under the circumstances. If the order is not
complied with, the town may terminate water service to the customer subject to
the following procedures:
      (1)   The town shall give the customer notice by first class mail that,
due to the violation, water services will be discontinued within a specified
time not less than five days from the date mailed and that the customer will
have the opportunity to appeal the termination by requesting within five days
of the date mailed a hearing scheduled before the Town Manager or such person
as he or she may designate;
      (2)   If such a hearing is requested by the customer charged with the
violation, the hearing shall be scheduled and heard within five days of the
request and customer shall be given an opportunity to be heard before
termination is ordered; and
      (3)   The Town Manager or designee shall make findings of fact and order
whether service should continue or be terminated.
   (B)   A fee of $50 shall be paid for the reconnection of any water service
terminated pursuant to division (A) of this section. In the event of subsequent
violations during the same state of emergency, the reconnection fee shall be
$200 for the second violation and $300 for each additional violation.
   (C)   Any person may also be charged with a violation of this subchapter and
prosecuted in District Court. Any person so charged and found guilty of
violating the provisions of this subchapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
Each day's violation shall constitute a separate offense. The penalty for
violation shall be a maximum fine of $500 or imprisonment for not more than 30
days.
   (D)   Civil penalties. In addition to or in lieu of criminal prosecution,
violation of this subchapter may subject the offender to civil penalties in the
amount of $100 per day, for each day's violation collectable in a civil action
in the nature of debt.
   (E)   The town shall have all other remedies available to it by law,
including injunctive relief, to enforce this subchapter.
(Ord. 02-12, passed 7-8-02; Am. Ord. 08-23, passed 8-11-08)
CHAPTER 52: SEWER SERVICE
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   County certificate prerequisite to electrical service
   
52.02   Regulation of facilities with subsurface or ground absorption methods
of discharge
   
52.03   Rate and charges
Wastewater Treatment System
   
52.15   Wastewater systems line maintenance and responsibility
   
52.16   Grease trap regulations
   
52.17   Application of regulations
   
52.18   Prohibited substances
   
52.19   Right of entry of inspectors
   
52.20   Compliance determination
   
52.21   Analysis of commercial wastewaters
   
52.22   Sampling frequency
   
52.23   Revocation of permission to discharge
   
52.24   Notification of violation; satisfactory correction
   
52.25   The Southern Sanitary District
 
   
52.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 COUNTY CERTIFICATE PREREQUISITE TO ELECTRICAL SERVICE.
   Before any electrical power company supplying electricity to any area within
the town may connect its power lines to the wiring of any dwelling or proposed
dwelling within the town, it shall first determine that there is in operation
on such property a sewage disposal system which complies with the minimum
health requirements of the Dare County Health Department. This obligation on
the part of the electrical company shall be deemed fulfilled when the owner of
such property shall have presented to the company a certificate from the Dare
County Sanitarian that a sewage disposal system meeting county requirements is
in operation.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 52.02 REGULATION OF FACILITIES WITH SUBSURFACE OR GROUND ABSORPTION METHODS
OF DISCHARGE.
   To adequately protect the town water reservoir it is necessary that
construction of septic tanks and other sources of pollution within the limits
of the zone of depression be regulated as follows:
   (A)   No construction of septic tanks or nitrification fields or other
possible sources of pollution shall be permitted within 500 feet horizontal
distance of the edge of the town water reservoir;
   (B)   Between the distance of 500 feet and 1,200 feet from the edge of the
town water reservoir, the number of septic tanks or nitrification fields shall
be limited to no more than one field per 40,000 square feet.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 52.03 RATE AND CHARGES.
   Rates and charges for sewer services shall be as set forth in §§
51.35 et seq.
WASTEWATER TREATMENT SYSTEM
§ 52.15 WASTEWATER SYSTEMS LINE MAINTENANCE AND RESPONSIBILITY.
   The town's responsibility for maintenance of all town owned wastewater
system lines shall begin and end at the street right-of-way, property line and/
or town installed cleanout.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 52.16 GREASE TRAP REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      COMMERCIAL USERS. Any user other than single-family user and two-family
residential users of the Ocean Acres Sewer System located in the Southern
Sanitary District.
      GREASE TRAPS. Devices used to remove excessive amounts of grease that may
interfere with wastewater treatment, restrict flows in collection mains or clog
inlet or outlet structures.
      RESIDENTIAL USERS. Single-family and two-family users of the Ocean Acres
Sewer System located in the Southern Sanitary District.
   (B)   Design.
      (1)   Commercial users that discharge large volumes of kitchen wastewater
shall have installed on their premises a grease trap facility or device based
upon the following use requirements.
 
1 to 60 seats    = minimum of a 1,000 gallon grease trap
61 to 120 seats  = minimum of a 1,500 gallon grease trap
121 to 180 seats = minimum of a 2,000 gallon grease trap
181 to 240 seats = minimum of a 2,500 gallon grease trap
 
      (2)   Grease trap tank size shall increase 500 gallons for every 60 seats
added to the above formula.
   (C)   Construction features.
      (1)   Grease traps are generally made of precast concrete and are
purchased completely assembled. However, very large units may be field-
constructed. Grease traps come in single- and double-compartment versions.
      (2)   Grease traps are usually buried so as to intercept the building
sewer. They must be level, located where they are easily accessible for
cleaning and close to the wastewater source. Where efficient removal of grease
is very important, an improved two-chamber trap has been used which has a
primary (or grease-separating) chamber and a secondary (or grease-storage)
chamber. By placing the trap as close as possible to the source of wastewaters,
where the wastewaters are still hot, the separating grease at the surface of
the first chamber can be removed by means of an adjustable weir and conveyed to
the separate secondary chamber, where it accumulates, cools and solidifies.
This decreases the requirement for cleaning and allows better grease separation
in the first chamber.
      (3)   The inlet, outlet and baffle fittings are typically of "T" design
with a vertical extension 12 inches (30 cm) from the tank floor and reaching
well above the water line. To allow for proper maintenance, manholes to
finished grade should be provided. The manhole covers should be of gas-tight
construction and should be designed to withstand expected loads.
   (D)   Operation and maintenance. Each commercial user shall submit to the
town a schedule of the proposed frequency of having the grease trap pumped out.
This schedule shall be reviewed by the Wastewater Operator of the Public
Services Department for acceptability, approval of which will be authorized or
denied. Once an acceptable level of frequency is approved, Public Services
Department contracted services staff shall inspect commercial users at least
bimonthly while in operation, and more frequently if necessary, to determine
compliance with this subchapter. A report shall be filed in the Public Services
Department on their findings.
(Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. 16-17, passed 6-11-18)
§ 52.17 APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   These regulations apply to treating kitchen wastewaters from commercial
users as defined in §
52.16.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 52.18 PROHIBITED SUBSTANCES.
   The following substances are prohibited: solid or viscous substances which
may cause obstruction to the flow in a sewer or other interference with the
operation of the wastewater treatment facilities, such as but not limited to:
toxic, industrial or hazardous wastes, grease, garbage with particles greater
than ½-inch in dimension, animal guts or tissues, paunch manure, bones, hair,
hides or fleshing, entrails, whole blood, feathers, ashes, cinders, sand, spent
lime, stone or marble dust, metal, glass, straw, shavings, grass clippings,
rags, spent grains, spent hops, waste paper, wood, plastics, gas, tar, asphalt
residues, paint, residues from refining or processing of fuel or lubricating
oil, mud or glass grinding or polishing waste.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 52.19 RIGHT OF ENTRY OF INSPECTORS.
   Inspectors or authorized employees of the town whose duty it may be to enter
upon private premises to examine meters, pipes, grease traps or other fixtures
used in the town's water and/or wastewater service or for the purpose of
inspection, observation, measurement, sampling or testing of the water and/or
wastewater characteristics shall have free access at all reasonable hours to
all parts of such premises for the purpose of inspection, meter reading,
sampling, testing, monitoring, examination of fixtures and observation of the
manner in which water is used and/or discharged. In case any authorized town
representative is refused admittance to any premises for any such purpose or is
hindered or prevented from making such examination or monitoring, the water
shall be turned off and shall not be turned on again until free access is
given. Any person completing and filing an application to discharge wastewater
shall thereby grant the town permission to enter his premises for such
purposes. Where a user has security measures in force which would require
proper identification and clearance before entry into their premises, the user
shall make necessary arrangements with their security guards so that upon
presentation of identification, personnel from the town shall be permitted to
enter, without delay, for the purposes of performing their specific
responsibilities.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 52.20 COMPLIANCE DETERMINATION.
   Compliance determinations and limitations may be made on the basis of either
instantaneous grab samples or composite samples of wastewater. Composite
samples may be taken over a 24-hour period, or over a longer or shorter time
span as determined necessary by the town to meet the needs of specific
circumstances.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 52.21 ANALYSIS OF COMMERCIAL WASTEWATERS.
   (A)   All measurements, tests and analysis of the characteristics or
properties of waters and wastes to which reference is made in this subchapter
shall be made in accordance with standard methods, herein defined, and shall be
performed by a qualified laboratory.
   (B)   The town and all users of the wastewater system shall employ one or
more of the following standard methods for the analysis of effluent:
      (1)   Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater,
current edition available from the American Public Health Association;
      (2)   American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) Annual Book of
Standards; or
      (3)   Environmental Protection Agency Methods for Chemical Analysis of
Water and Wastes.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 52.22 SAMPLING FREQUENCY.
   Sampling of wastewater for the purpose of compliance determination and
limitations shall be done at such intervals as the town may designate.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 52.23 REVOCATION OF PERMISSION TO DISCHARGE.
   (A)   Generally. The town may order a permission to discharge revoked upon
finding that the discharger has violated a provision of this subchapter. A
discharger whose permission to discharge has been revoked shall immediately
stop all discharges of any liquid carried wastes. The town may disconnect or
permanently block from the wastewater system the commercial sewer connection of
any discharger whose permission to discharge has been revoked if such action is
necessary to ensure compliance with the order of revocation. A discharger whose
permission to discharge has been revoked shall apply for new permission to
discharge and pay all delinquent fees, charges, penalties and such other sums
as may be due to the town. Costs incurred to revoke the prior permission to
discharge and disconnect the commercial sewer connection shall be paid for by
the discharger before new permission shall be granted.
   (B)   Reasons. Any user who violates the following conditions of this
subchapter, or applicable state and federal regulations, is subject to have his
permission to discharge revoked:
      (1)   Failure of a user to factually report the wastewater constituents
and characteristics of his discharge;
      (2)   Failure of a user to report significant changes in operations or
wastewater constituents or characteristics;
      (3)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user's premises for the purpose
of inspection or monitoring.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 52.24 NOTIFICATION OF VIOLATION; SATISFACTORY CORRECTION.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this subchapter
shall be served by the town with written notice from the Public Services
Director, which shall be either delivered in person or by certified mail,
stating the nature of the violation and ordering such person in his individual
or corporate capacity to appear before the Town Manager, who is designated
"hearing officer" for purposes of this subchapter, at a time and place certain
to show cause, if any, they have why the enforcement provision of this
subchapter, including but not limited to the assessment of civil penalties by
such hearing officer and the termination of such sewer service by disconnection
from the system, should not be ordered by the hearing officer.
   (B)   The hearing conducted under the provisions of this subchapter shall be
with sworn testimony from the Public Services Department for the town and such
evidence as the offender may offer in person or through counsel.
   (C)   The hearing officer shall render a decision within ten days from the
hearing date and shall cause the decision to be personally served upon the
offender or delivered by certified mail/return receipt requested. The hearing
officer shall further send a copy of such decision resulting in a "disconnect
order" to the Dare County Health Department for further enforcement of the
applicable health regulations as they may apply to such offending party.
   (D)   Any appeal from the hearing shall be in the nature of certiorari to
the Superior Court of Dare County and shall be accompanied by a bond of
sufficient amount with surety to compensate the town for damages to the sewer
system resulting from such violation, based on the evidence adduced at the
hearing, and no stay of enforcement shall be permitted without such bond, to be
approved by the hearing officer and the Clerk of Superior Court of Dare County.
   (E)   A ten-day period for the satisfactory correction of the violation is
provided. Any offender shall, within the ten-day period, permanently cease all
violations.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 52.25 THE SOUTHERN SANITARY DISTRICT.
   (A)   The town is operating the wastewater treatment facility within the
Southern Sanitary District as a public enterprise under the provisions of G.S.
§ 160A-311 and within a district established under provisions of G.S. § 153A-
301 and as authorized by the General Assembly of North Carolina which made such
service districts permissible for municipalities.
      (1)   There shall be no new construction, repair, modification or
addition to any structure within the Southern Sanitary District boundaries
without first obtaining a valid permit for such building from the Planning and
Inspections Department.
      (2)   (a)   An applicant for such permit shall first apply to the
Planning Department, presenting a sketch plan in detail or a plat prepared by a
registered surveyor which fully illustrates the proposed improvement, repair or
modification, including distance from the Fresh Pond.
         (b)   Residential users located outside of the 1,200 foot area of
environmental concern (AEC) shall be served by on-site septic systems as
approved by the Dare County Health Department and shall not be connected to the
wastewater treatment facility. New commercial users located within the Southern
Sanitary District either inside or outside of the AEC will be allowed to
connect to the wastewater treatment facility with available capacity.
      (3)   Disconnection.
         (a)   Existing users of the wastewater treatment facility within the
Southern Sanitary District and outside of the Fresh Pond AEC will be allowed to
disconnect from the wastewater treatment facility provided an improvement
permit can be obtained from the Dare County Health Department and all other
requirements of the town code are met.
         (b)   Existing users located within the Fresh Pond AEC shall not be
allowed to disconnect from the wastewater treatment facility.
      (4)   The applicant shall then file a regular building permit application
with the town under the rules and regulations then in effect. The Planning and
Inspections Department shall then conduct the usual procedures for issuance of
permits and issue a permit upon compliance with the rules and regulations of
the town then in effect upon payment of any required fees to the town.
   (B)   Construction of any permitted use in the Southern Sanitary District
utilizing wastewater treatment facility service from other than the town.
      (1)   An applicant for a building permit within the Southern Sanitary
District which will not require service from the town shall follow the usual
procedures for application of a permit.
      (2)   In addition, the applicant shall provide a copy of the usual tri-
party agreement then in use by the town relating to the wastewater treatment
facility provider and copies of the necessary permits, easements and plats.
   (C)   If any building or structure is erected, constructed, reconstructed,
altered, repaired, converted or maintained or any building, structure or land
is used in violation of this subchapter, the Town Building Inspector, the Dare
County Sanitarian or any appropriate authority may institute, in addition to
any other remedies, any appropriate action or proceeding to prevent such
unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair,
conversion, maintenance or use; to restrain, correct or abate such violation to
prevent the occupancy of such building, structure or land; or prevent any
illegal act, conduct business or use in or about such premises.
   (D)   Violation of the provisions of these regulations shall be a
misdemeanor under §
10.99. Each day in which any such violation shall continue shall be deemed a
separate offense. Notwithstanding the criminal penalties, the Town Building
Inspector or the Dare County Sanitarian may institute a civil action against
the offender, seeking enforcement by appropriate equitable remedy authorized by
G.S. §§ 160A-175, as amended.
(Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. 16-17, passed 6-11-18)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in the aforementioned notice of violation shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. Each day in which any such violation continues shall be deemed a
separate offense and shall be turned over to the District Attorney for
prosecution.
   (B)   In addition to the above, any user that continues the violation of
this chapter after the ten-day period following notification shall be assessed
a penalty of $100 per day, in addition to any repair costs, as a civil penalty
for each day such violation continues beyond the ten-day period, by the
Utilities Director or designee and collected as a civil penalty by an action in
the General Court of Justice, District Court Division.
   (C)   Persons who violate this chapter or otherwise damage the town, its
water supply, sewer systems, property or otherwise cause damage shall be liable
for such damages as may be imposed by a court of law or equity or an
administrative tribunal, and the town reserves all rights and privileges to
seek damages and other remedies that may be available.
   (D)   If a public sewer becomes obstructed or damaged because of any
substances improperly discharged into it, the person(s) responsible for such
discharge shall be billed and shall pay for the expenses incurred by the town
in cleaning out, repairing or rebuilding the sewer as well as damages incurred
by the town arising from claims of private property owners which are caused by
such obstruction or damage.
(Ord. passed - -)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      Chapter
         
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
         
72.   STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
         
73.   MOTORCYCLES AND BICYCLES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Official traffic map
   
70.03   Obedience to police
   
70.04   Authority of police under emergency conditions
   
70.05   Compliance of public employees with chapter
   
70.06   Pushcarts and animals
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.20   Obedience
   
70.21   Turn signs, official traffic-control devices, and lane markers
   
70.22   No parking and safety zones
   
70.23   When erection of signs required
   
70.24   Red signal with green arrow
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES. Vehicles of the Fire Department, police
vehicles and ambulances designated or authorized by the Chief of Police.
   BLOCK. A portion of any street located between two intersections adjacent to
each other.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to a road or street when 75% or
more of frontage thereon for a distance of 300 feet or more is occupied by
buildings in use for business.
   CROSSWALK. That portion of a roadway ordinarily included within the
prolongation or connection of the lateral lines of sidewalks at intersections
or any portion of a roadway distinctly indicated for pedestrian crossing by
lines or other markings on the surface.
   DRIVER. Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle which is in motion or has the engine running.
   INTERSECTION. The area embraced within the prolongation of the lateral
curblines or, if none, the lateral boundary lines of two or more highways which
join one another at an angle whether or not one such highway crosses the other.
Where a highway includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then every
crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by an intersecting highway
shall be regarded as a separate intersection. If such intersecting highway also
includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then every crossing of two
roadways of such highways shall be regarded as a separate intersection.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled, except a moped, and
every vehicle designed to run upon the highways which is pulled by a self-
propelled vehicle.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, markings, medians,
curbs, central dividing sections or other separations or dividing lines on
roadways, and other devices not inconsistent with this chapter placed or
erected by authority of the Board of Commissioners or official having
jurisdiction for the purpose of regulating, warning or guiding traffic.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC SIGNAL. Any device, whether manually, electrically or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and to
proceed.
   PARK. The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, otherwise than
temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or
unloading.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer of the Police Department or any officer
authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to make arrests for violations of
traffic regulations.
   PRIVATE ROAD or DRIVEWAY. A road or driveway not open to the use of the
public for purposes of vehicular travel as a matter of right.
   PUBLIC CONVEYANCE. Any vehicle, other than a taxicab or railroad train,
which transports for fare.
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to a street not comprising a
business district when the frontage on such street for a distance of 300 feet
or more is mainly occupied by dwellings and buildings in use for residences.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway.
   ROADWAY. That portion of a street improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of the shoulder. In the event a highway includes
two or more separate roadways, ROADWAY shall refer to any such roadway
separately but not to all such roadways collectively.
   SAFETY ZONE. The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians and which is protected or is so marked or
indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set
apart as a safety zone.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of a street between the curblines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines intended for the use of
pedestrians.
   STANDING. Any stopping of a vehicle, whether occupied or not.
   STOP. When required, complete cessation of movement.
   STOP or STOPPING. When prohibited, shall mean any cessation of movement
except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance
with the direction of a police officer or traffic-control sign or signal.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between property or right-of-way lines
of every way or place of whatever nature when any part thereof is open to the
use of the public, as a matter of right, for purpose of vehicular traffic.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars and
other conveyances either singly or together while using any street for purposes
of travel.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices moved by human power or
used exclusively upon fixed rails or tracks, provided that for the purpose of
this chapter, a bicycle or a ridden animal shall be deemed a vehicle except
those which by their nature can have no application. The terms shall not
include a device which is designed for and intended to be used as a means or
transportation for a person with a mobility impairment, is suitable for use
both inside and outside a building, and whose maximum speed does not exceed 12
miles per hour when the device is being operated by a person with a mobility
impairment.
(`88 Code, § 11-1) (Ord. 92-13, passed 8-26-92; Am. Ord. 06-25, passed 11-15-
06)
Statutory reference:
   Similar and additional provisions, see G.S. § 20-4.01
§ 70.02 OFFICIAL TRAFFIC MAP.
   (A)   An official traffic map shall be kept on file in the office of the
Town Clerk showing any of the following, applicable within the town:
      (1)   Location of traffic-control devices;
      (2)   Areas where specific restrictions are applicable to parking,
loading and standing;
      (3)   Speed limits;
      (4)   Location of through streets;
      (5)   Location of stop intersections;
      (6)   Location of yield-right-of-way intersections;
      (7)   Location of one-way streets;
      (8)   Location of truck traffic routes;
      (9)   Locations where specific regulations are applicable to vehicle
turns; and
      (10)   Location of school zones, quiet zones and play streets.
   (B)   The map shall constitute the official codification of town ordinances
regarding those areas of traffic regulation enumerated by this section.
   (C)   The official traffic map of the town shall be amended, from time to
time, only by action of the Board of Commissioners duly taken and recorded in
open meeting, upon recommendation by the Town Manager.
   (D)   Additionally, an evaluation of the areas of traffic regulation
enumerated in this section, as they appear on the traffic map, shall be
completed annually and recommendations made, as determined necessary by the
Town Manager, to the Board of Commissioners for amendments to the official
traffic map; approval by the Board of Commissioners of these amendments shall
be duly adopted and recorded in open meeting. Certified copies of all
amendments to the official traffic map shall be filed with all agencies or
departments holding a copy of the map.
(`88 Code, § 11-2) (Ord. 92-13, passed 8-26-92)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town to codify traffic regulations by use of official traffic
maps, see G.S. § 160A-77
§ 70.03 OBEDIENCE TO POLICE.
   No person shall wilfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction by a police officer.
(`88 Code, § 11-3)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.04 AUTHORITY OF POLICE UNDER EMERGENCY CONDITIONS.
   If a fire or other emergency occurs or when necessary to expedite traffic or
safeguard pedestrians, police officers may direct traffic as conditions may
require, notwithstanding the provisions of this chapter.
(`88 Code, § 11-4)
§ 70.05 COMPLIANCE OF PUBLIC EMPLOYEES WITH CHAPTER.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the driver of any vehicle
owned by, or used in the service of, the United States government, the state,
county or town, and no such driver shall violate any of the provisions of this
chapter, except as otherwise permitted in this chapter or by state law.
(`88 Code, § 11-5)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state law for employees of state and subdivisions thereof, see G.S.§
20-168
§ 70.06 PUSHCARTS AND ANIMALS.
   Every person propelling any pushcart or riding an animal upon a roadway and
every person driving any animal-drawn vehicle shall be subject to the
provisions of this chapter applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except
those provisions of this chapter which, by their very nature, can have no
application.
(`88 Code, § 11-6)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. § 20-171
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.20 OBEDIENCE.
   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the directions of any official traffic-
control device applicable thereto and placed in accordance with the traffic
regulations of the town, unless otherwise directed by a police officer, subject
to the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle.
(`88 Code, § 11-31)
§ 70.21 TURN SIGNS, OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES, AND LANE MARKERS.
   Whenever authorized signs or official traffic-control devices are placed,
erected or installed indicating roadway lane separation, or no right, left or
"U" turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of
any such sign or device; and when authorized markers, buttons, official
traffic- control devices, or other indications are placed within an
intersection indicating the course to be traveled by vehicles traversing or
turning thereat, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of such
indications.
(`88 Code, § 11-32) (Am. Ord. 06-25, passed 11-15-06)
§ 70.22 NO PARKING AND SAFETY ZONES.
   Wherever authorized signs or markings indicate no-parking zones or safety
zones, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the regulations in connection
therewith.
(`88 Code, § 11-33)
§ 70.23 WHEN ERECTION OF SIGNS REQUIRED.
   No provision of this chapter or other ordinances of the town for which signs
are required shall be enforced against an alleged violator if, at the time and
place of the alleged violation, an official sign is not in proper position and
sufficiently legible to an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular
section does not state that signs are required, such section shall be effective
without signs being placed to give notice thereof.
(`88 Code, § 11-34)
§ 70.24 RED SIGNAL WITH GREEN ARROW.
   (A)   Vehicular traffic facing a red traffic signal with a green arrow may
cautiously enter the intersection only to continue the movement in the
direction indicated by such arrow but shall not interfere with other traffic.
   (B)   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway, unless he
can do so safely and without interfering with any vehicular traffic.
(`88 Code, § 11-35)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   The owner or operator of any such vehicle who has been notified of
such violation in the manner provided in this chapter may, within the time
specified in the notice, present himself by mail or in person with the notice
or ticket at the Bureau and answer the violations noted on such notice or
ticket by voluntarily paying the $25 civil penalty.
      (2)   Any vehicle owner/operator receiving a ticket under the provisions
of §§
72.40 et seq. shall be allowed to pay the penalty amount, without contesting
the violation, by appearing in person at the Kill Devil Hills Tax and Finance
Department, 102 Town Hall Drive, between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m.,
Monday through Friday, and paying the amount so marked on the ticket. Civil
penalty payments may also be mailed to the Tax and Finance Department, P.O.
Drawer 1719, Kill Devil Hills, North Carolina 27948 within 15 days of issuance
of the notice or ticket.
   (B)   Construction. The penalty provided in this section to be paid to and
received by the Traffic Violations Bureau shall in no event be construed to be
enforced imposition of fines or forfeitures, but such amounts shall be
construed to be civil penalties which offenders may voluntarily pay for those
minor traffic law violations which are expressly made to fall within the
application of this chapter to the extent therein provided. Such penalty shall
be paid within 15 days of the issuance of the notice or ticket or such sum
shall be recovered by the town in a civil action in the nature of debt.
   (C)   Disposition of proceeds. All penalties paid to the town for traffic
violations as set forth in §§
72.40 et seq. shall be paid into the General Fund of the town.
(`88 Code, § 11-135) (Ord. 93-09, passed 7-12-93)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Boarding or leaving vehicle in motion
   
71.02   Riding on portion of vehicle not intended for passengers
   
71.03   Using vehicle without consent
   
71.04   Hanging out of vehicles
   
71.05   Attaching toy vehicles to moving vehicle
   
71.06   Recreational activities and play vehicles on town streets
   
71.07   Moving vehicle of another into unlawful position
   
71.08   Off-road vehicles
   
71.09   Stopping to avoid obstructing traffic
   
71.10   Driving through funeral procession
   
71.11   Left turns at certain intersections
   
71.12   Turning around
   
71.13   Backing
   
71.14   Emerging from alley, driveway or building
   
71.15   Driving on sidewalks, walkways, and multi-purpose recreational trails
   
71.16   Moving from parked position
   
71.17   Emergency vehicles
   
71.18   School zones
   
71.19   Play streets
   
71.20   Quiet zones
   
71.21   Hauling debris and refuse in uncovered vehicles
   
71.22   [Reserved]
   
71.23   [Reserved]
   
71.24   No through truck traffic permitted on certain town-maintained streets
   
71.25   No through traffic permitted on certain streets or intersections within
the town
§ 71.01 BOARDING OR LEAVING VEHICLE IN MOTION.
   No person shall board or alight from any vehicle while such vehicle is in
motion.
(`88 Code, § 11-7)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.02 RIDING ON PORTION OF VEHICLE NOT INTENDED FOR PASSENGERS.
   No person shall ride on any public conveyance or vehicle or any portion
thereof not designed or intended for the use of passengers. This section shall
not apply to any employee engaged in the necessary discharge of a duty or to
persons riding within truck bodies in spaces intended for merchandise.
(`88 Code, § 11-8)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.03 USING VEHICLE WITHOUT CONSENT.
   No person shall enter, jump on or ride any automobile or other vehicle
without the consent of the owner or driver.
(`88 Code, § 11-9)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.04 HANGING OUT OF VEHICLE.
   No person when riding shall allow any part of his body to protrude beyond
the limits of the vehicle in which he is riding, except to give such signals as
are by law required.
(`88 Code, § 11-10)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.05 ATTACHING TOY VEHICLES TO MOVING VEHICLE.
   No person riding upon any coaster, sled, roller skates or any toy vehicle
shall attach such vehicle or himself to any public conveyance or moving vehicle
upon any roadway.
(`88 Code, § 11-11)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.06 RECREATIONAL ACTIVITIES AND PLAY VEHICLES ON TOWN STREETS.
   (A)   Areas where prohibited. It shall be unlawful to use any of the
following streets in Kill Devil Hills: NC 12, US 158, Eighth Street (the north
side), Ocean Acres Drive, Martin Street, Ocean Bay Boulevard, Prospect Avenue,
First Street, Third Street and Fifth Street for any type of activity, exclusive
of walking and bicycling, by nonmotorized vehicles or play vehicles as a means
of transportation or recreation, as defined below. Any type of activity,
exclusive of walking and bicycling, by nonmotorized vehicles or play vehicles
on public streets in Kill Devil Hills shall be permitted only within the hours
of sunrise and sunset.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle
designed to run upon the highways and streets which is pulled by a self-
propelled vehicle.
      PLAY VEHICLES. Including but not limited to coasters, skateboards, roller
skates, in-line skates, unicycles, sleds or other nonmotorized vehicles upon
which a person may ride, except bicycles.
      RIDE. Either wholly or partially sitting, standing or lying upon a play
vehicle by a person whether such play vehicle is in motion or stationary.
      VEHICLE, NONMOTORIZED. Every device in, upon or by which any person or
property is or may be transported or drawn upon a highway, excepting devices
moved by human power or used exclusively upon fixed rails or tracks. This term
shall not include bicycles or any device which is designed for and intended to
be used as a means of transportation for a person with a mobility impairment,
is suitable for use both inside and outside a building and whose maximum speed
does not exceed 12 miles per hour when the device is being operated by a person
with a mobility impairment.
(`88 Code, § 11-12) (Ord. 95-01, passed 2-13-95)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.07 MOVING VEHICLE OF ANOTHER INTO UNLAWFUL POSITION.
   No person shall move a vehicle not owned by such person into any prohibited
area or sufficiently away from curb to make such distance unlawful.
(`88 Code, § 11-13)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.08 OFF-ROAD VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall operate an off-road vehicle of any type, such as a
beach buggy, a jeep, a motorcycle, a scooter bike or a 2-3-4 wheel buggy,
powered by any type of motor, on private property within the town without the
written permission of the property owner over and upon the property upon which
the vehicle is being operated. The written permission must be in the possession
of the operator at the time of inquiry by any law enforcement officer.
   (B)   No person shall operate an off-road vehicle of any type, such as a
beach buggy, a jeep, a motorcycle or a 2-3-4 wheel buggy, powered by any type
of motor, upon any public property of the town, meaning platted streets, public
areas or access areas to the ocean or sound which are not improved with clay or
paved streets for vehicular traffic. Use shall not be prohibited upon public
property which is improved and paved for vehicular traffic.
   (C)   The prohibitions in this section shall not apply to any property owner
or citizen using a conventional four-wheel-drive vehicle, such as a jeep, over
and across a platted street for ingress or egress to and from paved streets or
highways within the town.
   (D)   Police and duly authorized emergency or rescue vehicles shall be
exempt from the prohibitions contained in this section.
   (E)   Violation of this section shall be punishable as a misdemeanor by fine
or imprisonment in the discretion of the court.
(`88 Code, § 11-14) (Ord. passed 7-12-77)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.09 STOPPING TO AVOID OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate the vehicle he is operating without obstructing the passage of
other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic-control signal
indication to proceed.
(`88 Code, § 11-51)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.10 DRIVING THROUGH FUNERAL PROCESSION.
   No vehicle shall be driven through a funeral procession, except Fire
Department vehicles, police patrols and ambulances when such vehicles are
responding to calls.
(`88 Code, § 11-52)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.11 LEFT TURNS AT CERTAIN INTERSECTIONS.
   In making left turns at certain street intersections as described on the
official traffic maps of the town, all traffic shall travel to the left of the
center of such intersections as may be indicated by buttons, markers or other
directing signs.
(`88 Code, § 11-53)
§ 71.12 TURNING AROUND.
   No driver shall turn any vehicle so as to proceed in the opposite direction
in the business district, except at street intersections; and no vehicle shall
make such a turn, even at street intersections, on those streets or portions of
streets described on the official traffic maps of the town.
(`88 Code, § 11-54)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.13 BACKING.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not back such vehicle into any intersection or
over a crosswalk. Such driver shall not, in any event or at any place, back a
vehicle unless such movement can be made in safety and he shall have given
ample warning to those who may be behind by hand and horn or other signal.
(`88 Code, § 11-55)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.14 EMERGING FROM ALLEY, DRIVEWAY OR BUILDING.
   The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, driveway or building shall
stop such vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or into the
sidewalk areas extending across any alleyway and upon entering the roadway
shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on such roadway.
(`88 Code, § 11-56)
Penalty, see § 70.99
Statutory reference:
   Right-of-way generally, see G.S. §§ 20-155 through 20-158
   Emerging from private drive or road, see G.S. § 20-156
§ 71.15 DRIVING ON SIDEWALKS, WALKWAYS, AND MULTI-PURPOSE RECREATIONAL TRAILS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle or moped on any sidewalk,
walkway, or multi-purpose recreational trail within the town.
   (B)   Law enforcement agencies, fire departments and/or other emergency
services, or personnel of the Town of Kill Devil Hills, engaged in their
official duties are exempt from the provisions of this section.
(`88 Code, § 11-57) (Am. Ord. 14-02, passed 2-19-14) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.16 MOVING FROM PARKED POSITION.
   Parked vehicles shall move out of their parking positions in the direction
headed; or if they are parked at an angle with the curb, they shall back out on
that angle until they have cleared the other cars and shall then proceed in the
direction they are most nearly headed in.
(`88 Code, § 11-58)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.17 EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter regulating the operation, parking and
standing of vehicles shall apply to authorized emergency vehicles, except as
follows. A driver when operating such vehicle in any emergency, except when
otherwise directed by a police officer, may:
      (1)   Park or stand, notwithstanding the provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
      (3)   Exceed the speed limits so long as he does not endanger life or
property; and
      (4)   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning in
specified directions so long as he does not endanger life or property.
   (B)   The exemptions in this section shall not protect the driver of any
such vehicle from the consequences of his reckless disregard of the safety of
others.
(`88 Code, § 11-59)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. §§ 20-145 et seq.
§ 71.18 SCHOOL ZONES.
   Whenever authorized signs are placed, erected or installed indicating any
street or portion of a street as a school zone, all drivers of motor vehicles
using such street shall exercise the greatest care in driving upon such street
for the protection of children.
(`88 Code, § 11-60)
Statutory reference:
   Speed zones near schools, see G.S. § 20-141.1
§ 71.19 PLAY STREETS.
   Wherever authorized signs indicate any street or portion of a street as a
play street, no person shall drive a vehicle upon any such street, except
drivers of vehicles having business or whose residences are within such closed
area; and then any such driver shall exercise the greatest care in driving upon
any such street.
(`88 Code, § 11-61)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.20 QUIET ZONES.
   Wherever authorized signs indicate a zone of quiet, no person operating a
motor vehicle within any such zone shall sound the horn or other warning device
of such vehicle, except in an emergency.
(`88 Code, § 11-62)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.21 HAULING DEBRIS AND REFUSE IN UNCOVERED VEHICLES.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any street or highway within
the town unless such vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any of
its load from dropping, sifting, leaking or otherwise escaping therefrom,
except that sand may be dropped for the purpose of securing traction or water
or other substances may be sprinkled on a roadway in cleaning or maintaining
such roadway.
   (B)   Trucks, trailers or other vehicles, when loaded with trash, garbage,
rubble or other similar substances which could blow, leak, sift or drop, shall
not be driven or moved on any street or highway within the town unless the load
is securely covered by a tarpaulin or some other suitable covering or unless
they are constructed so as to prevent any of their loads from dropping,
sifting, leaking, blowing or otherwise escaping therefrom.
(`88 Code, § 11-64) (Ord. passed 8-11-87)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 71.22 [RESERVED].
§ 71.23 [RESERVED].
§ 71.24 NO THROUGH TRUCK TRAFFIC PERMITTED ON CERTAIN TOWN-MAINTAINED STREETS.
   (A)   No through truck shall mean: no vehicle with two or more axles and
exceeding 10,000 pounds in gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR) shall be
permitted to travel on designated town-maintained streets except for the
purpose of discharging and/or collecting passengers or loading and/or unloading
materials to property abutting said street, said vehicle having used the
shortest route across town-maintained streets to reach the point of discharge
and/or collection or the point of loading and/or unloading. The following
vehicles shall be excluded from the foregoing meaning: vehicle-drawn trailers,
when the vehicle drawing the trailer is not designated primarily for drawing a
trailer; vehicles used pursuant to municipal, county, state or federal
government operations or franchises.
   (B)   Through trucks are not permitted on the following streets within the
Town of Kill Devil Hills and shall be designated with appropriate signage as a
"No Thru Trucks" area.
      (1)   Wrightsville Avenue.
      (2)   Memorial Boulevard.
(Ord. 08-18, passed 7-14-08)
§ 71.25 NO THROUGH TRAFFIC PERMITTED ON CERTAIN STREETS OR INTERSECTIONS WITHIN
THE TOWN.
   Pursuant to the traffic control provisions of G.S. § 160A-300, no through
traffic shall be permitted to travel on the following streets or intersections
thereof:
   (A)   Intersection of Landing Drive and Porthole Court. Traffic may enter
Landing Drive from Porthole Court but shall not flow in the opposite direction
from Landing Drive onto Porthole Court. The Police Department of the town,
pursuant to the provisions of G.S. § 20-158 and under the supervision of the
Town Manager, shall cause to be erected a “Stop” sign at said intersection
instructing drivers of vehicles traveling north on Porthole Court to come to a
full stop before entering or crossing Landing Drive. Likewise a “Do Not Enter”
and “No Thru Traffic” sign shall be placed at the intersection of Landing Drive
and Porthole Court facing traffic flow on Landing Drive. Curbing shall also be
constructed to create a barricade over the western corner of the intersection
of Porthole Court and Landing Drive as to further prohibit the flow of traffic
from Landing Drive onto Porthole Court.
   (B)   Intersection of Sixth Avenue and W. Baum Street. At the intersection
of Sixth Avenue and W. Baum, southbound traffic may not enter Sixth Avenue.
Sixth Avenue shall be an exit only at this intersection. The Police Department
of the town, pursuant to the provisions of G.S. § 20-158 and under the
supervision of the Town Manager, shall cause to be erected a “Do Not Enter”
sign at the intersection of Sixth Avenue and W. Baum Street prohibiting
southbound traffic from entering Sixth Avenue. Curbing shall also be
constructed to create a barricade over the southwestern corner of the
intersection as to further prohibit the southbound flow of traffic on Sixth
Avenue. A “Stop” sign, “Left Turn Only” and “No Thru Traffic” sign shall also
be erected at the intersection of Sixth Avenue and W. Baum Street directing
southbound traffic on Sixth Avenue to come to a complete stop at the
intersection and turn left onto W. Baum Street. Likewise, a “Stop” sign and
“Right Turn Only” sign shall be erected at the northeastern corner of the
intersection directing traffic flowing west on W. Baum towards the intersection
to come to a complete stop and turn right onto Sixth Avenue. A “Stop” sign
shall cause to be erected on the southeastern corner of Sixth Avenue and W.
Baum Street instructing northbound traffic on Sixth Avenue to come to a
complete stop before either turning right onto W. Baum or crossing the
intersection to continue north on Sixth Avenue.
(Ord. 11-19, passed 9-12-11)
CHAPTER 72: STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
Section
General Provisions
   
72.01   Prohibited in specified places
   
72.02   For certain purposes
   
72.03   Stopping in street generally
   
72.04   Standing as to obstruct passage of other vehicles
   
72.05   Parking in certain places
   
72.06   Parking in stands reserved for specific purposes
   
72.07   Fire lanes
Manner of Parking
   
72.20   Parallel
   
72.21   Backing up to curb
   
72.22   Side of vehicle to curb
   
72.23   Streets with marked spaces
   
72.24   Angle parking on certain streets
   
72.25   Double parking prohibited
Enforcement
   
72.40   Traffic Violations Bureau
   
72.41   Ticketing of vehicles
   
72.42   Towing
 
   
72.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.01 PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES.
   (A)   No person shall park or leave standing any vehicle, whether attended
or unattended upon the paved or main traveled portion of any highway or street
within the corporate limits of the town where such parked vehicle creates or
constitutes a traffic hazard or obstructs or may obstruct the movement of any
emergency vehicle or obstructs or may obstruct the flow of traffic on any
portion of the roadway unless such vehicle is disabled to such an extent that
it is impossible to avoid stopping and temporarily leaving the vehicle upon the
paved or main traveled portion of the highway, bridge or street.
   (B)   Additionally, no person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, attended
or unattended, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in
compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic-control device in
any of the following places:
      (1)   On any sidewalk or multi-purpose recreational trail within the
town;
      (2)   Within an intersection;
      (3)   In front of a private driveway;
      (4)   On a crosswalk;
      (5)   Within 30 feet of any flashing beacon, stop sign or traffic-control
signal located at the side of a street or roadway;
      (6)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
such stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (7)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure;
      (8)   Within 15 feet in either direction of the entrance to a hotel,
theater, public building or fire station or other public building;
      (9)   Within 25 feet from the intersection or curbline, or, if none, then
within 15 feet of the intersection of property lines at an intersection of
highways or streets;
      (10)   Within 20 feet of either side of a fire hydrant.
(`88 Code, § 11-101) (Ord. passed 6-26-79; Am. Ord. 92-13, passed 8-26-92; Am.
Ord. 93-09, passed 7-12-93; Am. Ord. 05-16, passed 9-12-05)
Penalty, see § 72.99
Statutory reference:
   Parking near fire hydrants, fire stations and private driveways, see G.S. §
20-162
§ 72.02 FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES.
   (A)   No person shall stand or park a vehicle upon any street for the
principal purpose of:
      (1)   Displaying it for sale;
      (2)   Washing, greasing or repairing such vehicle, except repairs
necessitated by an emergency;
      (3)   Storage thereof by garages, dealers or other persons when such
storage is not incident to the bona fide use and operation of such automobile
or other vehicles; or
      (4)   Storage of any detached trailer or van when the towing unit has
been disconnected or for the purpose of transferring merchandise or freight
from one vehicle to another.
   (B)   No person shall stand or park on any street any vehicle for the
primary purpose of advertising such vehicle.
(`88 Code, § 11-102)
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.03 STOPPING IN STREET GENERALLY.
   No vehicle shall stop in any street, except for the purpose of parking as
prescribed in this chapter, unless such stop is made necessary by the approach
of an emergency vehicle, by the approach of a funeral or other procession which
is given the right-of-way, by the stopping of a public conveyance, by the
lowering of railway gates, by the giving of traffic signals, by the passing of
some other vehicle or a pedestrian or by some emergency, and in any case
covered by these exceptions such vehicle shall stop so as not to obstruct any
footway, pedestrian aisle, safety zone, crossing or street intersection if such
can be avoided.
(`88 Code, § 11-103)
Penalty, see § 72.99
Statutory reference:
   Stopping on highway, see G.S. § 20-161
§ 72.04 STANDING AS TO OBSTRUCT PASSAGE OF OTHER VEHICLES.
   No vehicle shall so stand on any street as to interrupt or interfere with
the passage of other vehicles.
(`88 Code, § 11-104)
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.05 PARKING IN CERTAIN PLACES.
   When signs have been erected indicating that parking is restricted or
permitted on certain streets or portions of street, as described on the
official traffic-control maps of the town, no person shall park a vehicle on
such street or portion of street except in compliance with the directions and/
or restrictions contained on such signs.
(`88 Code, § 11-105) (Ord. 92-13, passed 8-26-92)
§ 72.06 PARKING IN STANDS RESERVED FOR SPECIFIC PURPOSES.
   Those streets or portions of streets described on the official traffic-
control maps of the town as being reserved for specific purposes shall be
reserved as parking stands for the specific purpose and at the exact location
named therein. No vehicle shall park in such places except those for which the
stand has been designated.
(`88 Code, § 11-106) (Ord. 92-13, passed 8-26-92)
Penalty, see § 72.99
§ 72.07 FIRE LANES.
   (A)   Parking or obstruction prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person
to park and leave unattended a motor vehicle or to put or place any other
object, structure or obstruction in a fire lane which has been properly
established and marked.
   (B)   Establishment, marking.
      (1)   The Fire Chief is authorized to establish and designate the fire
lanes on privately owned PUBLIC VEHICULAR AREAS, as that term is defined in
G.S. § 20-4.01(32), for the protection and safety of lives and property.
      (2)   Fire lanes may be designated on any public vehicular area when the
Fire Chief determines that parking or placing of vehicles or other obstructions
in that area would interfere with proper ingress or egress of fire and other
emergency vehicles, equipment or personnel.
      (3)   Fire lanes shall be clearly marked, in yellow or another suitable
color of paint, with the words "NO PARKING, FIRE LANE," and the boundaries,
borders or curbs shall be clearly visible and definable.
      (4)   Where the Fire Chief establishes and designates fire lanes, the
Fire Chief shall notify the owner of the property by certified mail, return
receipt requested, and the owner shall, within 30 days of notification, mark
the fire lanes as directed by the Fire Chief.
(`88 Code, § 11-107) (Ord. 93-09, passed 7-12-93)
Penalty, see § 72.99
MANNER OF PARKING
§ 72.20 PARALLEL.
   Where not otherwise indicated by this subchapter and where the street is not
marked to show how vehicles shall park, all vehicles shall park parallel to the
curb and not more than 12 inches therefrom.
(`88 Code, § 11-121)
§ 72.21 BACKING UP TO CURB.
   In no case shall a vehicle remain backed up to curb, except when actually
loading or unloading.
(`88 Code, § 11-122)
§ 72.22 SIDE OF VEHICLE TO CURB.
   No vehicle shall stop with its left side to the curb in the business
district, except that on one-way streets vehicles shall stop headed in the
direction of traffic.
(`88 Code, § 11-123)
§ 72.23 STREETS WITH MARKED SPACES.
   On any street which is marked off with lines indicating the parking spaces
for cars, vehicles shall park between such lines.
(`88 Code, § 11-124)
§ 72.24 ANGLE PARKING ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   Vehicles shall be parked at an angle of approximately 45 degrees with the
curb on those streets or portions of streets described on the official traffic
maps of the town as being for angle parking only.
(`88 Code, § 11-125)
§ 72.25 DOUBLE PARKING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall double park or stop a vehicle next to and along side any
vehicle parked at the curb.
(`88 Code, § 11-126) (Ord. 93-09, passed 7-12-93)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 72.40 TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS BUREAU.
   (A)   Created. As an alternative system of administration of parking
violations, there is established, under the supervision and control of the
Police Chief, a Traffic Violations Bureau (hereinafter referred to as
"Bureau.")
   (B)   Location; supervision; hours of operation. The Bureau shall be
conveniently located within the town's municipal buildings at 102 Town Hall
Drive and the Police Chief or designee shall be in charge of the Bureau. The
Bureau shall operate Monday through Friday, 8:00 a.m. until 5:00 p.m.
(`88 Code, § 11-134) (Ord. 93-09, passed 7-12-93)
§ 72.41 TICKETING OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   Required. Whenever a member of the Police Department charged by this
code or other ordinance within the enforcement provisions of this code, or
other ordinances of the town regulating the parking of vehicles, shall find
that any of such provisions are being or have been violated by the owner or
operator of any vehicle, such person shall notify such owner or operator of
such violation by conspicuously attaching to such vehicle a notice or ticket in
such form as the Police Chief may determine.
   (B)   Contents. Such notice or ticket shall require the owner or operator to
appear before the Police Chief or designee within 15 days after such notice is
given and answer to same or to return such ticket or notice by mail with civil
penalty as set out in §
70.99.
   (C)   Personal appearance. Personal appearance will not be necessary if such
penalty is received by the town within 15 days of issuance of such notice or
ticket.
(`88 Code, § 11-136) (Ord. 93-09, passed 7-12-93)
§ 72.42 TOWING.
   (A)   Generally. In addition to the civil penalty provision described in §
70.99, any vehicle unlawfully parked in accordance with the provisions of §
72.01 may be removed or towed at the vehicle owner's expense.
   (B)   Towing authority and procedures. The town shall, for the purposes of
this section, adopt the provisions of G.S. §§ 20-219.09 through 20-219.14 and
as follows:
      (1)   Towing away illegally parked vehicles. The Police Department is
authorized to remove and tow away or have removed and towed away by commercial
towing service any car or other vehicle parked in any manner described in §
72.01.
      (2)   Records. When a motor vehicle is towed pursuant to the provisions
of this code and the North Carolina General Statutes (G.S. §§ 20-219.09 through
20-219.14), the Police Department shall keep and maintain a record of the
vehicle towed, listing the color, year of manufacture, manufacturer's trade
name, manufacturer's series name, body style, vehicle identification number and
license plate year and number displayed on the vehicle. The record shall
include the date and hour of tow, location towed from, location towed to,
reason for towing and the name of the officer authorizing the tow.
      (3)   Forms. The following forms shall be completed by the officer
authorizing the towing of any vehicle, in addition to completion of his regular
operations report.
         (a)   Towing waiver of notification.
   Form 92               
   Towing
   WAIVER OF NOTIFICATION
   I have been notified that my vehicle has been towed and stored at
                                                                                                                                                      
I hereby waive any further notification.
      Owner/Authorized Agent (print)
                                                                                 
      Owner/Authorized Agent (signature)
                                                                            
      Date of
Waiver                                                                                                          
         (b)   Towing of vehicle.
   Form 92              
   Towing
      Name:
                                                                                                                
      Address:
                                                                                                                                                                              
      Reference: Towing of Vehicle
      Dear Mr./Mrs./Ms.
                                                                                                  
         Your vehicle,
                                                                                                     
                  description of vehicle
      has been towed and stored at
                                                                                       
                  place of storage
      You are charged with the following:
                                                                                                                           
         violation                   statute/ordinance number
      You may have your vehicle returned by going to                       and
paying towing fees.
   If you wish to request a Probable Cause Hearing on the towing, you may do so
in the following manner:
         1)   Request, in writing, a hearing to determine if probable cause
existed for the towing;
         2)   The request must be filed with a magistrate in Dare County,
located at the Dare County Detention Center located in Manteo, North Carolina;
         3)   The magistrate will set a hearing within 72 hours of the request
and advise you of any other information you might require pursuant to G.S. §§
20-219.09 through 20-219.14.
                                               
      Officer
      Kill Devil Hills Police Department
      Kill Devil Hills, North Carolina
(`88 Code, § 11-137) (Ord. 93-09, passed 7-12-93)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   For any violation of this chapter, the penalty set forth in §
70.99 shall apply unless another penalty is specifically provided.
CHAPTER 73: MOTORCYCLES AND BICYCLES
Section
   
73.01   Application
   
73.02   Attaching to moving vehicle
   
73.03   Carrying passengers on handlebars, frame, tank
   
73.04   Riding without hands on handlebars
   
73.05   Riding bicycle on any sidewalk, multi-purpose recreational trail, or
walkway
§ 73.01 APPLICATION.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be subject to the
provisions of this chapter applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except
those provisions which, by their very nature, can have no application.
(`88 Code, § 11-81)
§ 73.02 ATTACHING TO MOVING VEHICLE.
   No person riding upon any bicycle, moped or motorcycle shall attach such
cycle or himself/herself to any public conveyance or moving vehicle upon any
roadway or on any sidewalk or multi-purpose recreational trail within the town.
(`88 Code, § 11-82) (Am. Ord. 14-02, passed 2-19-14)
§ 73.03 CARRYING PASSENGERS ON HANDLEBARS, FRAME, TANK.
   The operator of a motorcycle, moped or bicycle, when upon a street, shall
not carry any person upon the handlebars, frame or tank of any such vehicle,
nor shall any person so ride upon any such vehicle.
(`88 Code, § 11-83) (Am. Ord. 14-02, passed 2-19-14)
Statutory reference:
   Operation of motorcycles, see G.S. §§ 20-140.4 and 20-146.1
§ 73.04 RIDING WITHOUT HANDS ON HANDLEBARS.
   No person shall ride a bicycle, moped or motorcycle on any street without
having his hands upon the handlebars.
(`88 Code, § 11-84) (Am. Ord. 14-02, passed 2-19-14)
§ 73.05 RIDING BICYCLE ON ANY SIDEWALK, MULTI-PURPOSE RECREATIONAL TRIAL, OR
WALKWAY.
   No person shall ride a bicycle upon any sidewalk, multi-purpose recreational
trail, or walkway within the town without due caution and circumspection or in
a manner likely to endanger others. All bicyclists shall yield the right-of-way
to all pedestrians using said sidewalks, multi-purpose recreational trails, or
walkways. Each person riding/operating a bicycle on a sidewalk, multi-purpose
recreational trail or walkway shall obey all state statutes that apply to
bicycles on public sidewalks, multi-purpose recreational trails or walkways.
(`88 Code, § 11-85) (Am. Ord. 14-02, passed 2-19-14)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
90.   ABANDONED AND JUNKED VEHICLES
         
91.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
         
92.   PARADES, PICKETS AND GROUP DEMONSTRATIONS
         
93.   NUISANCES
         
94.   ANIMALS
         
95.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
         
96.   SEASIDE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 90: ABANDONED AND JUNKED VEHICLES
Section
   
90.01   Administration and enforcement
   
90.02   Definitions
   
90.03   Junked motor vehicle
   
90.04   Abandoned motor vehicle
   
90.05   Hazardous motor vehicle
   
90.06   Duty of owner
   
90.07   Declaration of public nuisance; exceptions
   
90.08   Notice to owner
   
90.09   Removal of vehicle
   
90.10   Exceptions
§ 90.01 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   The Planning Department shall be responsible for the administration and
enforcement of this chapter. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to
limit the legal authority of the powers of officers of the town's Police and
Planning Departments in enforcing any other laws or in any other way in
carrying out their duties.
(Ord. 02-07, passed 5-22-02; Am. Ord. 05-18, passed 9-12-05)
§ 90.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates
or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. Is one that is:
      (1)   Is left on any public street or highway for longer than seven days;
or
      (2)   Is left on property owned or operated by the town for longer than
24 hours; or
      (3)   Is left on private property without the consent of the owner,
occupant, or lessee thereof.
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE. A motor vehicle that:
      (1)   Is partially dismantled or wrecked; or
      (2)   Cannot be self-propelled or moved in the manner which it originally
was intended to move; or
      (3)   Does not display a current and valid license plate.
   HAZARDOUS MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle on private or public property
that is declared to be a health or safety hazard by the Town Manager or
designee for such purposes, when the vehicle is found to be:
      (1)   A breeding ground or harbor for mosquitoes or other insects,
snakes, rats, or other pests; or
      (2)   A point of weed growth and/or other vegetation over 12 inches in
height; or
      (3)   A point of collection for pools or ponds of water; or
      (4)   A point of concentration of gasoline, oil or other flammable or
explosive materials; or
      (5)   So located that there is a danger of the vehicle falling or turning
over; or
      (6)   A place in which debris, bottles or other solid waste is discarded
and is present within the vehicle; or
      (7)   A source of danger for children through entrapment in areas of
confinement that cannot be opened from the inside or from exposed surfaces of
metal, glass or other rigid materials; or
      (8)   The creation of another similar condition or circumstance which
exposes the general public to safety or health hazards.
   HIGHWAY. Is defined, pursuant to G.S. § 20-4.01(13), as the entire width
between property or right-of-way lines of every way or place of whatever
nature, when any part thereof is open to the use of the public as a matter of
right for the purposes of vehicular traffic. The terms HIGHWAY and STREET and
their cognates are synonymous.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. All machines designed or intended to travel over land or
water by self- propulsion or while attached to any self-propelled vehicle.
   OWNER. An individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
governmental agency or any combination thereof, holding and presenting the
legal certificate of title to the particular vehicle.
(Ord. 02-07, passed 5-22-02; Am. Ord. 05-18, passed 9-12-05; Am. Ord. 16-8,
passed 11-15-17)
§ 90.03 JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no junked motor vehicle shall
be located by its owner on public grounds or private property within the town.
No real property owner within the town shall permit or allow junked motor
vehicles to be on the owner's real property. The owner of such junked motor
vehicles or the real property owner upon which the vehicle is located shall
cause the removal thereof. No owner of a junked motor vehicle or owner of
property on which a junked motor vehicle is located shall allow the junked
motor vehicle to remain on the public grounds or private property except as
provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 02-07, passed 5-22-02)
§ 90.04 ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave a motor vehicle:
   (A)   On any public street or highway longer than seven days; or
   (B)   On property owned or operated by the town for longer than 24 hours; or
   (C)   On private property without the consent of the owner, occupant or
lessee thereof.
(Ord. 02-07, passed 5-22-02; Am. Ord. 05-18, passed 9-12-05)
§ 90.05 HAZARDOUS MOTOR VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of a motor vehicle or for the owner,
lessee or occupant of the real property upon which the motor vehicle is located
to leave or allow to remain on the property any motor vehicle which is a
hazardous motor vehicle.
(Ord. 02-07, passed 5-22-02)
§ 90.06 DUTY OF OWNER.
   The owner(s) of any abandoned, hazardous, or junked motor vehicle or
property owner(s) on which the abandoned, hazardous, or junked motor vehicle is
located shall cause the removal thereof immediately and shall pay all costs
incident to such removal. No person shall allow such motor vehicle owned by him
to remain after notice has been given to such person to have the vehicle
removed.
(Ord. 02-07, passed 5-22-02; Am. Ord. 05-18, passed 9-12-05)
§ 90.07 DECLARATION OF PUBLIC NUISANCE; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The location or presence of any junked vehicle on any lot, tract, or
parcel of land, occupied or unoccupied, improved or unimproved, within the town
shall be deemed a public nuisance, and no person shall cause or maintain such
public nuisance by wrecking, dismantling, rendering inoperable, abandoning or
discarding any vehicle on the property of another or allow the same to be
placed or to exist upon his own real property.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to:
      (1)   A motor vehicle or part thereof which is completely enclosed within
a building in a lawful manner where it is not visible from the street or other
public or private property.
      (2)   A motor vehicle or part thereof which is stored or parked in a
lawful manner on private property in connection with the business of a licensed
vehicle dealer or a junkyard; or
      (3)   Unlicensed, inoperable motor vehicles stored on private property;
provided that the motor vehicles and outdoor storage areas are maintained in
such a manner that they do not constitute a health hazard and are screened from
ordinary public view by means of a fence, trees, shrubbery or other appropriate
means.
(Ord. 02-07, passed 5-22-02)
§ 90.08 NOTICE TO OWNER.
   Any junked or abandoned motor vehicle or hazardous motor vehicle found to be
in violation of this chapter may be removed to a storage area. When an
abandoned or junked motor vehicle or hazardous motor vehicle is removed, the
town shall give notice to the owner as required by G.S. §§ 20-219.10 and 20-
219.11.
(Ord. 02-07, passed 5-22-02)
§ 90.09 REMOVAL OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   Authority to remove. The town shall have the authority to remove or
enter into a contract to have removed abandoned, junked and hazardous motor
vehicles and motor vehicles declared to be a health or safety hazard, after
notice, to a storage garage or area.
   (B)   Indemnity. A person requesting the town to remove a junked or
abandoned motor vehicle or hazardous motor vehicle from private property shall
indemnify the town against any loss, expense or liability incurred because of
the removal, storage or sale thereof.
(Ord. 02-07, passed 5-22-02; Am. Ord. 05-18, passed 9-12-05)
§ 90.10 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   This chapter shall not apply to motor vehicles including junked motor
vehicles kept or stored at automobile graveyards or junkyards as defined in
G.S. § 136-143 provided the same are otherwise allowed by this code and in
complete compliance herewith.
   (B)   This chapter shall not apply to any motor vehicle that is used on a
regular basis for business or personal use as a motor vehicle.
   (C)   This chapter shall not apply to any motor vehicle body shop, repair
shop, or garage which is duly licensed to conduct business within the corporate
limits of the town;
   (D)   This chapter shall not apply to junked motor vehicles stored by the
town on property owned by the town.
(Ord. 02-07, passed 5-22-02)
CHAPTER 91: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Street abandonment records
Construction of Driveways and Parking Spaces
   
91.15   Definitions
   
91.16   Improvement within the public rights-of-way
   
91.17   Driveways restricted from streets east of Virginia Dare Trail
   
91.18   Materials
Acceptance and Improvement of Public Streets
   
91.30   Application
   
91.31   Compliance
   
91.32   Acceptance of dedication by prior method confirmed; maintenance
responsibility generally; abandonment
   
91.33   Preliminary plans
   
91.34   Minimum standards
   
91.35   Required improvements
Improvements
   
91.45   Street improvement defined
   
91.46   Petitions required
   
91.47   Opening and improving street without petition
   
91.48   Larger streets and drains; intersections
   
91.49   Sidewalk improvements
   
91.50   Procedures
   
91.51   Installation of water and sewer facilities
   
91.52   Disposition of displaced material
   
91.53   Standards of construction; supervision of work
   
91.54   Resurfacing
   
91.55   Priority consideration; share of costs
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 STREET ABANDONMENT RECORDS.
   All street abandonment proceedings instituted before the Board of
Commissioners are filed with the land and deed records of the town and to
become effective must be filed in the office of the Register of Deeds of the
county.
(`88 Code, § 18-3)
CONSTRUCTION OF DRIVEWAYS AND PARKING SPACES
§ 91.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL DRIVEWAY. A driveway providing vehicular ingress and egress to
and from property used for purposes other than residential.
   RESIDENTIAL DRIVEWAY. A driveway providing vehicular ingress and egress to
and from property used for residential purposes.
   WIDTH. The width of a driveway where it crosses the property line.
(`88 Code, § 18-26)
§ 91.16 IMPROVEMENTS WITHIN THE PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Driveways, walkway, and drainage improvements for single-family and
two-family dwelling property access. Property owners proposing to install
driveways, walkways, culvert pipes, ditches or swales, or similar access
improvements within town-owned rights-of-way, shall be responsible for
construction and maintenance of such improvements within the right-of-way.
Construction plans shall be submitted showing width, length, elevations and
type of materials to be used for such access improvements. Upon approval by the
Public Services Department, the property owner or contractor shall schedule an
on-site, pre-construction meeting with a representative of the Public Services
Department. Prior to the issuance of an occupancy permit for all new
construction, the property owner or contractor shall secure final approval of
the access improvements from the Public Services Department.
      (1)   No material other than concrete or asphalt will be approved for any
driveway or walkway construction within town-owned rights-of-way, unless
otherwise approved by the Public Services Department based on existing site
conditions. The following construction standards shall apply: All single- and
two-family dwelling driveways shall have a minimum of one paved sections of at
least 10 feet in width and a maximum 15-foot radius. The driveways shall have a
minimum length of 10 feet measured from the existing edge of pavement. This
section must be constructed of a minimum of 4-inch thick 3,000 psi concrete or
a 4-inch base of ABC stone topped by 1½ inches of asphalt; provided, however,
that the portion of said driveways within 3 feet of the existing edge of
pavement shall be 6-inch thick concrete or 2 inches of asphalt over a 6-inch
base of ABC stone. The paved area within the right-of-way shall be for access
purposes only and shall not be designed or used to support parking or any other
use.
      (2)   Access onto a property across existing drainage ditches or swales
is prohibited unless prior approval is given by the Public Services Department.
This shall include lot clearing activities prior to associated development of
the property.
      (3)   Culverts, grades and installation.
         (a)   Driveway culverts. A culvert shall be installed in any existing
town ditch or swale prior to constructing a driveway over such ditch or swale.
All culverts installed in the right-of-way of any town street must be
constructed of aluminum or double-walled high-density polyethylene (HDPE) and
must be installed in accordance with the State Department of Transportation's
Standard Specifications, Section 300-6(A & B), Laying Pipe, and 300-7,
Backfilling.
         (b)   Culvert grades. For culverts being installed in accordance with
an approved site plan, grades shall be as approved on the site plan. In the
case of culverts beneath driveways not being installed in accordance with an
approved site plan, the culvert will be installed by a private contractor at a
grade set by the Public Services Department.
         (c)   Culvert size. All culverts installed in the ditch on the east
side of Memorial Boulevard shall be as outlined in the following table:
 
Eastside Memorial Boulevard Culvert Sizing
Location                                Size
Woodmere Avenue south to Goddard Avenue 48 inches in diameter
Goddard Avenue south to Holly Street    42 inches in diameter
Holly Street south to Carolyn Drive     36 inches in diameter
 
and, all other single-family and duplex driveway culverts shall be as specified
by the Public Services Department. In the case of driveways installed in
accordance with an approved site plan, the culvert size shall be as approved on
the site plan.
         (d)   Inspection. All culverts must be inspected by the Public
Services Department prior to backfilling. It shall be the responsibility of the
contractor to call the department for an inspection.
      (4)   Endwalls. Endwalls required on each end of all culverts installed
in the ditch on the east side of Memorial Avenue and at the ends of other
culverts as determined by the Public Services Department. Endwalls shall be
constructed in accordance with the State Department of Transportation's Roadway
Standard Drawings, No. 838.01, Standard Concrete Endwall for Single and Double
Pipe Culverts 15” through 48” Pipe 90 Degrees Skew. All culverts not required
to have endwalls must have flared end sections installed in accordance with
such Roadway Standard Drawings, No. 310.01, Standard Reinforced Concrete Flared
End Section, or No. 320.01, Standard Corrugated Metal Flared End Section.
   (B)   Landscaping or making other improvements within public right-of-way.
Adjacent property owners may seed, landscape or otherwise improve that area
between the paved portion of the street and their property line (known as the
public right-of-way) as outlined:
      (1)   All materials placed within the right-of-way shall not obstruct the
street, drainage or other function of the right-of-way; and
      (2)   Hard or permanent structures are prohibited within the right-of-
way.
   (C)   Seeding and stabilization; bond requirements. Private developers who
apply to construct a new street within a town right-of-way shall post a bond
(or cash equivalent) with the Public Services Department for seeding and
stabilization of town rights-of-way prior to authorization to construct a new
street. The amount of the bond (or cash equivalent) shall be based on a
certified seeding and stabilization cost provided by developer and verified by
Public Services Department, based on industry standards, plus 15%
contingencies. Bonds (or cash equivalent) for seeding and stabilization shall
be held for maximum 120 days after the date of Board of Commissioners
acceptance of work within a right-of-way.
(`88 Code, § 18-27) (Ord. passed 12-14-82; Am. Ord. 04-07, passed 4-28-04; Am.
Ord. 04-24, passed 12-13-04; Am. Ord. 13-17, passed 10-14-13)
§ 91.17 DRIVEWAYS RESTRICTED FROM STREETS EAST OF VIRGINIA DARE TRAIL.
   (A)   Those dedicated streets extending from Virginia Dare Trail east to the
public trust zone of the Atlantic Ocean shall be for the use of the public as
beach access corridors and public parking. No private driveways shall be
permitted to ingress from such streets unless the following conditions apply:
the street is unimproved and the party seeking to locate a driveway agrees to
improve the street to a length two times the length of the improvement
necessary to facilitate the proposed driveway and such improvements do not
require the destruction of an existing primary dune; no driveway shall be
permitted more than 100 feet east of Virginia Dare Trail or less than 50 feet
east of Virginia Dare Trail and no driveway shall exceed 12 feet in width.
   (B)   Improvements to dedicated streets east of Virginia Dare Trail to
facilitate the location of a fire lane on the east side of an oceanfront
structure shall be excepted from the prohibition of driveways east of Virginia
Dare Trail and one driveway not more than 12 feet in width nor more than 100
feet east of Virginia Dare Trail shall also be allowed in conjunction with the
installation of an oceanfront fire lane.
   (C)   For streets east of Virginia Dare Trail that have been improved to the
town's specifications prior to December 9, 1985, at 12:00 noon, one driveway
may be located on the north and south sides of such a street, provided the
driveway is positioned not more than 100 feet east of Virginia Dare Trail and
is not more than 12 feet in width.
   (D)   All lots platted prior to December 9, 1985, at 12:00 noon, and which
do not front on Virginia Dare Trail shall be exempted from the driveway
prohibitions of this section and shall be allowed one driveway as may be
necessary for access to such lots.
   (E)   All improvements installed in conjunction with this section must
comply with the town's plans and specifications for road construction.
(`88 Code, § 18-28) (Ord. passed 8-11-82; Am. Ord. passed 12-9-85)
§ 91.18 MATERIALS.
   No residential, commercial or business driveway shall be made of materials
other than asphalt or concrete.
(`88 Code, § 18-29) (Ord. passed 12-14-82)
ACCEPTANCE AND IMPROVEMENT OF PUBLIC STREETS
§ 91.30 APPLICATION.
   Acceptance of streets dedicated for public use and improvement of all
streets shall be as prescribed in this subchapter. Exception: nothing contained
in this chapter shall limit the discretion of the Board of Commissioners to
engage in the street improvement projects, including, without limitation, the
construction or reconstruction within public street rights-of-way of pavement,
curbs and gutters, landscaping, utilities, sidewalks, parking spaces or other
facilities according to the standards and dimensions as the Board deems
appropriate under the circumstances.
(`88 Code, § 18-46) (Ord. 96-08, passed 5-13-96; Am. Ord. 96-09, passed 6-10-
96)
§ 91.31 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   No street, alley or other public way dedicated for public use within
the town shall be accepted by the town as a public street and no maintenance or
improvement will be authorized thereon unless the requirements set out in this
subchapter have been complied with.
   (B)   When the requirements of this subchapter have been met to the
satisfaction of the Board of Commissioners and the Town Engineer, the Board of
Commissioners may, by resolution, accept such street or alley for public use.
(`88 Code, § 18-61)
§ 91.32 ACCEPTANCE OF DEDICATION BY PRIOR METHOD CONFIRMED; MAINTENANCE
RESPONSIBILITY GENERALLY; ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   The dedication by an owner-developer by the recordation of a plat in
the office of the Register of Deeds of the county of property within the
territorial limits of the town, indicating on such plat a street, way or access
area, whether or not the same has been physically improved by the owner-
developer, by the town or by any other person, has heretofore been generally
accepted by the town, in 1955, and shown on its Zoning Map adopted May 22,
1979, as amended, and the acceptance of such dedication is in all respects
specifically confirmed. The acceptance of dedication of a street, way or access
area for public use is without regard to the improved condition of such platted
area shown on the map or plat of property within the territorial limits of the
town.
   (B)   Assumption of the maintenance responsibility for such street, way or
access area shall be governed by the provisions of the ordinances of the town
relating to subdivisions and to street and water lines.
   (C)   No street, way or access area shall be abandoned by any owner or
developer, except in accordance with the provisions of G.S. § 160A-299 relating
to abandonment proceedings.
(`88 Code, § 18-62) (Ord. passed 5-13-85)
§ 91.33 PRELIMINARY PLANS.
   (A)   Prior to opening any street, alley or other public way, the property
owner or developer shall submit a preliminary plan to the Board of
Commissioners for approval.
   (B)   Such preliminary plan shall show the location of the proposed street,
alley or other public way, the right-of-way width, all adjacent property
owners, watercourses and such other information as the Board of Commissioners
may require.
   (C)   (1)   All preliminary plans will be reviewed under the provisions
outlined in §
153.357, Site Plan Review Process For Commercial, Multi-Family And Conditional
Use Application, including review by the Street Improvement/Special Project
Subcommittee. These plans shall comply with adopted plan for paving unimproved
streets. At such time as the Board of Commissioners approves the preliminary
plan, the Town Engineer and the Public Services Department shall review final
construction plans for compliance with adopted standards.
      (2)   Adjacent property owners shall be notified in accordance with
established town administrative procedures, which shall include at minimum by
first class mail, at least 30 days prior to commencement of construction.
(`88 Code, § 18-63; Am. Ord. 03-08, passed 6-25-03; Am. Ord. 03-15, passed 10-
15-03)
§ 91.34 MINIMUM STANDARDS.
   (A)   The minimum standards for new streets extensions of existing streets
or alleys for which approval is required shall be as provided in this section.
   (B)   A right-of-way width of 50 feet shall be dedicated for street
purposes. In addition, the Board of Commissioners may require a right-of-way
width of 80 feet if such street is to be used as a minor thoroughfare or where
greater widths are required by a major street plan.
   (C)   A minimum right-of-way of 20 feet shall be required for all service
alleys with a paved width of 16 feet or as required by the Public Services
Department.
   (D)   Streets shall conform to the general street plan or major thoroughfare
plan of the town as to location.
   (E)   Streets shall intersect at right angles and the street alignment shall
not change more abruptly than a vertical curve of 1,000 feet in radius, except
where existing conditions justify a modification of this requirement by the
Board of Commissioners.
(`88 Code, § 18-64) (Ord. passed 1-12-87)
§ 91.35 REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   If the street is indicated on the annually certified Powell Bill Map
of the town as unimproved, the owner or developer shall be required to make the
following improvements as provided in this section at no cost to the town prior
to acceptance of such street or alley as a public street.
   (B)   The right-of-way shall be cleared and graded to its final grade for
the full width of the right-of- way providing that destruction of existing
vegetation and trees be kept to a minimum, clearing only what is necessary to
allow for adequate vision for safe circulation. Grades shall not as far as
practical exceed 5%.
   (C)   Streets shall be crowned and adequate street drainage ditches provided
in accordance with the street improvement construction specifications of the
town. The Road Standard Drawings and Standard Specifications for Roads and
Structures, produced by the Department of Transportation, are adopted by
reference so far as they pertain to crowning and drainage.
   (D)   Paving shall not result in dead-end conditions except for streets
platted as dead-end streets prior to June 25, 2003. Commercial development
required to pave streets for access from NC 12 (Virginia Dare Trail) or US 158
(Croatan Highway) may dead end street improvements at their property line
provided circulation is adequate to meet minimum needs of town service
vehicles. When streets are platted as dead-end streets prior to June 25, 2003,
a turn-around area within the right-of-way shall be provided.
   (E)   Paving shall be as follows:
      (1)   All streets and roads shall be paved with bituminous concrete;
      (2)   All paving shall include:
         (a)   Eight inches of ABC (Aggregate Base Course) #17;
         (b)   Two inches of HB (Base Course); and
         (c)   Two inches of I-2 (Bituminous Concrete Surface Course);
      (3)   As directed by the Public Services Department, geotextile fabric
may be required for water damage control.
   (F)   Widths of new streets shall be as follows:
      (1)   Paving 50-foot rights-of-way. Newly constructed local access
streets shall have a minimum width of 20 feet of bituminous paving surface with
a base of ABC 8 inches thick, 24 feet in width;
      (2)   Paving 60-foot rights-of-way. Newly constructed collector streets
shall have a minimum width of 24 feet of bituminous concrete paving surface
with a 28 foot base of ABC 8 inches thick;
      (3)   Paving 50- and 60-foot rights-of-way. Streets classified by the
Public Safety Director as collector streets or streets allowing on-street
parking shall be a minimum of 36 feet in width with a 40- foot base of ABC 8
inches thick.
   (G)   Seeding and stabilization requirements. A private developer shall
install seeding and stabilization at least three weeks prior to requesting
final inspection of the project. The Public Services Department will inspect
the site for compliance with approved plans and determine if permanent ground
cover and stabilization has been established or if additional effort is needed.
      (1)   Approximately 60 days after acceptance by the Board of
Commissioners, the Public Services Department will re-inspect the site and
determine if permanent ground cover has been achieved. If permanent ground
cover has not been accomplished, the developer will be notified of all areas
requiring additional work by certified letter.
      (2)   If within 14 days after receipt of the certified letter the
developer does not provide the additional seeding and stabilization required
stabilization to accomplish permanent ground cover, the town shall have the
right to use funds from the bond (or cash equivalent) to accomplish permanent
ground cover.
(`88 Code, § 18-65) (Ord. passed 1-12-87; Am. Ord. 03-08, passed 6-25-03; Am.
Ord. 04-07, passed 4-28-04)
IMPROVEMENTS
§ 91.45 STREET IMPROVEMENT DEFINED.
   Street improvements for all streets which shall be included in the property
owners' petition, the total cost of which shall be assessed against the
abutting property owners, shall include the following:
   (A)   Storm sewer drainage facilities, including drainage pipe 30 inches or
less in diameter, inlets and other necessary incidentals as may be required by
town specifications;
   (B)   Curb and gutter as required by town specifications;
   (C)   Grading for a width of 30 feet on those streets which were opened
prior to February 9, 1965 and which need to be graded prior to resurfacing;
   (D)   Base course material for a width of 18 feet if existing base course is
not adequate in accordance with town specifications;
   (E)   Street surfacing according to town specifications for a width of 16
feet.
(`88 Code, § 18-81)
§ 91.46 PETITIONS REQUIRED.
   The town shall not consider paving or otherwise improving any street or
alley unless a petition is presented to the Board of Commissioners, on forms
provided by the town, signed by a majority of the property owners who represent
a majority of the lineal footage on the street proposed to be improved,
requesting that the total cost of such improvement be assessed against the
abutting property owners.
(`88 Code, § 18-82)
Statutory reference:
   Petitions for street improvements, see G.S. § 160A-217
§ 91.47 OPENING AND IMPROVING STREET WITHOUT PETITION.
   When, in the opinion of the Board of Commissioners, a new street should be
opened and improved and no petition is filed asking for the assessment of the
cost thereof and when the Board of Commissioners is of the opinion that the
public benefit will be greater than the benefit to abutting property owners,
the Board of Commissioners may direct that such improvement be made and the
entire cost thereof be paid by the town.
(`88 Code, § 18-83)
§ 91.48 LARGER STREETS AND DRAINS; INTERSECTIONS.
   The improvement costs for street widths in excess of 16 feet, the cost of
required drainage facilities which are larger in size than required in this
subchapter and the total cost of all improvements at street intersections shall
not be assessed against abutting property owners and shall be paid for by the
town.
(`88 Code, § 18-84)
§ 91.49 SIDEWALK IMPROVEMENTS.
   Petitions for street improvements as set out by §
91.46 may include requests for sidewalk improvements in accordance with town
specifications. Such sidewalk improvements may be constructed as part of the
street improvement project and in the same manner, except that 100% of the
total cost of sidewalk improvements, exclusive of the cost at intersections,
shall be assessed against the property owner.
(`88 Code, § 18-85)
Statutory reference:
   Petitions for sidewalk improvements, see G.S. § 160A-217
§ 91.50 PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Petitions generally. Upon receipt of a petition for street
improvements, the Town Clerk shall examine the petition and certify as to its
sufficiency to the Board of Commissioners. No petition shall be considered for
street improvements where streets have been opened after February 9, 1965. In
addition, no petition shall be considered for a street less than one normal
block in length.
   (B)   Determination of costs. If the petition from the property owners is
found to be sufficient, the Board of Commissioners shall direct the Town
Engineer to estimate the total cost of the street project in accordance with
street specifications to determine the total cost per foot of property frontage
and the total cost to the town for intersections and other improvements the
cost of which is to be borne by the town.
   (C)   Consideration by Board. When cost estimates are received, the Board of
Commissioners shall consider the availability of funds for street improvements,
the degree of development along the street proposed to be improved and may
approve such street improvement project as it deems best.
   (D)   Notices to abutting owners after approval. When a street improvement
project is approved, the property owners abutting such improvement shall be
notified of the total estimated cost per foot of frontage and further notified
that each owner has the opportunity to pay his proportionate share in cash in
advance. In addition, the property owners shall be further notified that the
project will not be scheduled or construction work started until 80% of the
total estimated cost of the entire project is deposited with the town.
   (E)   Assessments. When the required amount has been deposited with the
town, the street improvement assessment procedure as authorized by state law
shall be followed, and assessments shall be made against the properties
abutting upon such improvement according to an equal rate per front foot.
Property owners who have made a cash deposit in advance shall be credited for
such payments on the assessment rolls. In accordance with the requirements of
state law, property owners not paying assessments in cash in advance shall pay
their assessments in five equal annual installments which shall bear interest
at the rate of 6% per annum.
   (F)   Adjustments based on actual cost. If the actual cost of improvements
is less than the estimated cost, the excess shall be refunded to the property
owners. If the actual cost exceeds the estimated cost, the property owners
shall be assessed for this amount or may pay such amount in cash in the manner
provided by law.
(`88 Code, § 18-86)
§ 91.51 INSTALLATION OF WATER AND SEWER FACILITIES.
   The Board of Commissioners, prior to approving any project or authorizing
any street improvement, shall determine if water and sanitary sewer facilities
have been installed within that portion of the street located between curbs. If
such facilities have not been installed or if facilities are inadequate and
will have to be replaced, the Board of Commissioners shall postpone the street
improvement project pending the installation of such facilities.
(`88 Code, § 18-87)
§ 91.52 DISPOSITION OF DISPLACED MATERIAL.
   Drainage pipes and other material on the right-of-way at the time of street
construction which were purchased by the property owner will be removed and
placed on the lot of the owner for his disposition. The town will haul away
such items if requested by the owner and with the owner's permission.
(`88 Code, § 18-88)
§ 91.53 STANDARDS OF CONSTRUCTION; SUPERVISION OF WORK.
   (A)   All street grading, base course preparation, storm drainage,
surfacing, curb and gutters and other improvements shall be constructed in
accordance with the written specifications of the town which have been approved
by the Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   All work shall be done under the supervision of the Public Safety
Director or designee.
(`88 Code, § 18-89)
§ 91.54 RESURFACING.
   Whenever it is necessary to resurface any street which has been surfaced
under the provisions of this subchapter, the town shall undertake such
resurfacing when funds are appropriated and the town shall bear the entire cost
of such work.
(`88 Code, § 18-90)
§ 91.55 PRIORITY CONSIDERATION; SHARE OF COSTS.
   Improvements will be considered on a priority need basis, with the cost
shared 50% by the property owners and 50% by the town. All petitions shall
include the street, length of paving required and agreement to pay 50% of such
property owners' share of the cost in advance.
(`88 Code, § 18-91)
CHAPTER 92: PARADES, PICKETS AND GROUP DEMONSTRATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Interference with activity conducted under authority of permit
   
92.03   Exemptions
Permits
   
92.15   Required
   
92.16   Powers and duties of Chief of Police
   
92.17   Person in charge of activity
   
92.18   Contents
   
92.19   Considerations requisite to issuance generally
   
92.20   Prohibited acts
   
92.21   Revocation
Picketing
   
92.35   Additional regulations
   
92.36   Location
   
92.37   Number allowed
   
92.38   Size and content of signs
   
92.39   Marching
   
92.40   Allocation of number among separate groups
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BLOCK. That portion of any street lying between its intersection with other
streets.
   GROUP DEMONSTRATION. Any assembly or concert of action between or among any
two or more persons for the purpose of protesting or demonstrating for or
against any matter, of making known any position or promotion of such persons
or matter or of or on behalf of any organization, group, corporation or class
of persons or for the purpose of attracting attention to such assembly.
   PARADE. Any parade, march, ceremony, show, exhibition or procession of any
kind in or upon the public streets, sidewalks, alleys, parks or other public
grounds or places in the town.
   PICKET LINE. One or more persons formed together for the purpose of making
known any position or promotion of such persons or of or on behalf of any
organization, group, corporation or class of persons.
(`88 Code, § 14-1)
§ 92.02 INTERFERENCE WITH ACTIVITY CONDUCTED UNDER AUTHORITY OF PERMIT.
   No person shall hamper, obstruct, impede or interfere with any parade,
picket line or group demonstration being conducted under the authority of a
permit duly issued by the Chief of Police.
(`88 Code, § 14-2)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 92.03 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to:
   (A)   Funeral processions;
   (B)   Students going to or from school classes or participating in
educational or recreational activity where such activity is under the
supervision and direction of proper school authorities; or
   (C)   Any governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
(`88 Code, § 14-3)
PERMITS
§ 92.15 REQUIRED.
   No person shall organize, conduct or participate in any parade, picket line
or group demonstration in or upon any street, sidewalk, alley or other public
place within the town unless a permit therefor has been issued by the town in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(`88 Code, § 14-26)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 92.16 POWERS AND DUTIES OF CHIEF OF POLICE.
   The Chief of Police or designee is authorized to issue permits as required
in §
92.15, and in the issuance thereof he shall:
   (A)   Require a written application for such permit to be filed not less
than 72 hours in advance of such parade, picket line or group demonstration.
The application shall be on a form prescribed by the Chief, shall be signed by
the applicant and shall show the proposed time, place, purpose and size of such
parade, picket line or group demonstration and whether or not any minor below
the age of 18 years shall participate;
   (B)   Refuse to issue such permit when the activity or purpose stated in the
application would violate any law or ordinance of the town or state law, or
when the activity or purpose would constitute a clear and present danger to the
public health or safety or would unreasonably hinder or prevent the orderly
movement of pedestrian or vehicular traffic on the streets, alleys or
sidewalks;
   (C)   Specify in the permit whether or not minors below the age of 18 years
will be permitted to participate. The Chief shall pass upon whether or not such
minors may participate and shall base his determination upon whether or not the
purpose or time or place of the particular activity will be detrimental to or
endanger the health, safety or welfare of such minors or will interfere with
their education.
(`88 Code, § 14-27)
§ 92.17 PERSON IN CHARGE OF ACTIVITY.
   The application for a permit shall specify and the permit shall designate
the person in charge of the activity. Such person shall be required to
accompany the parade, picket line or other group demonstration and shall carry
such permit with him at all times. The permit shall not be valid in the
possession of any other person.
(`88 Code, § 14-28)
§ 92.18 CONTENTS.
   The permit shall set the starting time, duration, speed of travel and space
between persons or vehicles in the parade, picket line or group demonstration,
shall prescribe the portions or areas of streets, alleys, sidewalks or other
public places to be used and shall impose such other reasonable requirements as
the Chief may prescribe for the control and free movement of pedestrian and
vehicular traffic or for the health, safety and property rights of the
participants and the general public.
(`88 Code, § 14-29)
§ 92.19 CONSIDERATIONS REQUISITE TO ISSUANCE GENERALLY.
   Among other considerations, the Chief of Police shall consider and find as a
requisite to issuance of the permit the following:
   (A)   The activity will not require excessive diversion of police from other
necessary duties;
   (B)   The activity will not interfere with the right of property owners in
the area to enjoy peaceful and lawful occupancy and use of their property; and
   (C)   The activity can be conducted without unreasonable interference with
normal pedestrian or vehicular traffic in the area, will not prevent normal
police and fire protection to the public and will not be likely to cause injury
to persons or property or to provoke disorderly conduct or to create a public
disturbance and nuisance.
(`88 Code, § 14-30)
§ 92.20 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   The following acts or activities, when performed or undertaken in
conjunction with or as a part of any parade, picket line or group
demonstration, are prohibited and declared unlawful:
   (A)   The carrying on or about the person of any firearm or any weapon or
article, including but not limited to blackjacks, nightsticks or flashlights,
which by their use might constitute a deadly weapon; and
   (B)   The taking along of any dog or vicious animal, whether leashed or
unleashed. This prohibition shall not apply to an animal trained for and
engaged in aiding the handicapped.
(`88 Code, § 14-31)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 92.21 REVOCATION.
   The Chief of Police shall revoke any permit granted for a parade, picket
line or group demonstration for any of the following causes:
   (A)   The violation by any participant of §
92.20; or
   (B)   The failure to comply with the terms and conditions of the permit.
(`88 Code, § 14-32)
PICKETING
§ 92.35 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS.
   Picket lines and picketing shall be subject to the regulations in this
subchapter in addition to those listed elsewhere in this chapter.
(`88 Code, § 14-51)
§ 92.36 LOCATION.
   Picketing may be conducted only on the areas, shoulders or sidewalks
reserved for pedestrian movement and may not be conducted on the portion of a
street used primarily for vehicular traffic.
(`88 Code, § 14-52)
§ 92.37 NUMBER ALLOWED.
   Not more than ten pickets promoting the same objective shall be permitted to
use either of the two sidewalks or shoulders within a single block at any one
time.
(`88 Code, § 14-53)
§ 92.38 SIZE AND CONTENT OF SIGNS.
   Pickets may carry written or printed placards or signs, not exceeding two
feet in width and two feet in length, promoting the objective for which the
picketing is done, provided, the words used are not obscene as defined by the
state statute.
(`88 Code, § 14-54)
§ 92.39 MARCHING.
   Pickets shall march in single file and not abreast and not closer together
than 15 feet, except in passing one another. Where sidewalks or curblines are
provided, pickets shall not walk more than 4 feet from the curbline and shall
be in continuous motion.
(`88 Code, § 14-55)
§ 92.40 ALLOCATION OF NUMBER AMONG SEPARATE GROUPS.
   If pickets promoting different objectives desire to use the same sidewalk or
shoulder for picketing and such use would result in the presence of more than
ten pickets thereon, the Chief of Police shall allot time to each group of
pickets for the use of such sidewalk on an equitable basis.
(`88 Code, § 14-56)
CHAPTER 93: NUISANCES
Section
   
93.01   Certain conditions declared nuisances
   
93.02   Investigation of complaints
   
93.03   Notice and order to abate on finding of existence
   
93.04   Abatement by town
   
93.05   Costs of abatement
   
93.06   Lien
   
93.07   Annual notice to chronic violators
   
93.08   Cumulative remedies
§ 93.01 CERTAIN CONDITIONS DECLARED NUISANCES.
   The existence of any of the following conditions on any parcel of land
within the corporate limits of the town is declared to be dangerous and
prejudicial to the public health or safety and to constitute a public nuisance.
   (A)   Growth of weeds and grass. The uncontrolled growth of noxious weeds or
grass on an improved site to a height in excess of 24 inches causing or
threatening to cause a hazard detrimental to the public health or safety.
   (B)   Accumulations of animal or vegetable matter. Any accumulation of
animal or vegetable matter that is offensive by virtue of odors or vapors or by
the inhabitation therein of rats, mice, snakes or vermin of any kind which is
or may be dangerous or prejudicial to the public health.
   (C)   Accumulations. Any accumulation of rubbish, trash or junk causing or
threatening to cause a fire hazard, causing or threatening to cause the
accumulation of stagnant water or causing or threatening to cause the
inhabitation therein of rats, mice, snakes or vermin of any kind which is or
may be dangerous or prejudicial to the public health.
   (D)   Conditions violating Health Department rules. Any condition
detrimental to the public health which violates the rules and regulations of
the County Health Department.
   (E)   Open storage of certain items. The open storage of any, all or any
combination of the following items, including but not limited to: icebox,
refrigerator, stove, glass, building materials, building rubbish or parts
thereof, chemical containers, household fixtures or furniture.
   (F)   Condemned structures. Any structure that has been condemned by the
Building Inspector as unfit for human occupation in accordance with the State
Building Code and as otherwise by law provided.
   (G)   Items remaining after fire, flood and the like. Household contents or
portions of a building or structure remaining in an open area upon a lot or
parcel of land after damage by fire, wind, water, erosion or any combination
thereof.
   (H)   Openings. Window openings that are not glazed or shuttered as required
by the North Carolina Building Code and present a risk to public health or
safety.
   (I)   Security. Structures that are not adequately secured so as to prevent
occupancy by vagrants.
   (J)   Building Code compliance. Exterior stairs, landings, guards,
handrails, and decks that are not compliant with the North Carolina Building
Code effective on the date of their construction and present a risk to public
health or safety.
   (K)   Exterior components. All exterior wall surfaces, trim, shutters,
roofing, and exterior appurtenances and features that are not securely affixed
to the structure and present a risk to public health or safety.
   (L)   Residential lighting. Any fixture erected, either indoors or outdoors,
which because of the design of the light source, orientation or intensity
causes glare onto adjacent property or streets. GLARE is defined as: light for
a particular use or area that is reflected or directed off of an object or site
onto adjacent streets or property. The effect produced by brightness sufficient
to cause annoyance, discomfort or loss in visual performance and visibility.
(`88 Code, § 12-1) (Ord. passed 11-9-83; Am. Ord. 93-13, passed 12-13-93; Am.
Ord. 94-12, passed 9-12-94; Am. Ord. 14-03, passed 2-19-14; Am. Ord. 15-28,
passed 2-13-17)
§ 93.02 INVESTIGATION OF COMPLAINTS.
   The Town Manager, upon notice from any person of the possible existence of
any of the conditions described in §
93.01, shall cause to be made, by the appropriate County Health Department
official or town official, such investigations as may be necessary to determine
whether conditions exist which may constitute a public nuisance as declared in
§
93.01.
(`88 Code, § 12-2) (Ord. passed 11-9-83; Am. Ord. 93-13, passed 12-13-93)
§ 93.03 NOTICE AND ORDER TO ABATE ON FINDING OF EXISTENCE.
   Whenever it appears that any of the conditions described in §
93.01 exist, the Town Manager shall cause to be delivered, personally or
consistent with G.S. § 160A-200.1 a notice and order to abate the violation to
the owner of the property upon which the conditions exist. The notice and order
shall be sent by registered or certified mail return receipt requested. The
notice shall state that a determination has been made that such conditions
constituting a public nuisance exist on the property and shall order the prompt
abatement thereof within a reasonable time, not to exceed 15 days from the
receipt of such written notice to avoid further action on behalf of the town.
When service is attempted by registered or certified mail, a copy of the notice
may also be sent by regular mail. Service shall be deemed sufficient if the
registered or certified mail is unclaimed or refused, but the regular mail is
not returned by the post office within 10 days after the mailing. If service by
regular mail is used, a copy of the notice shall also be posted in a
conspicuous place on the premises affected.
(`88 Code, § 12-3) (Ord. passed 11-9-83; Am. Ord. 93-13, passed 12-13-93; Am.
Ord. 08-28, passed 9-24-08; Am. Ord. 14-18, passed 10-13-14)
§ 93.04 ABATEMENT BY TOWN.
   If the owner of any premises on which a public nuisance is determined to
exist, having been directed by the town to abate such nuisance, fails, neglects
or refuses to abate or remove the condition constituting the nuisance within 15
days from receipt of such notice a court order shall be secured which causes
the condition to be removed or otherwise remedied or otherwise abated by the
town, excluding chronic violators, §
93.07.
(`88 Code, § 12-41) (Ord. passed 11-9-83; Am. Ord. 93-13, passed 12-13-93; Am.
Ord. 16-1, passed 6-12-17)
§ 93.05 COSTS OF ABATEMENT.
   The actual cost incurred by the town in removing or otherwise remedying a
public nuisance shall be charged to the owner of the premises on which the
nuisance existed, and the Town Finance Officer shall mail a statement of such
charges to the owner or other person in possession of such premises, with
instructions that such charges are due and payable within 30 days from the
receipt thereof.
(`88 Code, § 14-42) (Ord. passed 11-9-83; Am. Ord. 93-13, passed 12-13-93; Am.
Ord. 14-18, passed 10-13-14)
§ 93.06 LIEN.
   If charges for the removal or abatement of public nuisances are not paid
within 30 days after the receipt of a statement of the charges, as provided for
in §
93.05, the charges shall become a lien upon the land or premises where the
public nuisance existed and shall be collected as unpaid taxes as provided in
G.S. § 160A-193.
(`88 Code, § 12-43) (Ord. passed 11-9-83; Am. Ord. 93-13, passed 12-13-93)
§ 93.07 ANNUAL NOTICE TO CHRONIC VIOLATORS.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, a CHRONIC VIOLATOR is any person who
owns property whereupon, in the previous calendar year, the town gave notice of
violation at least three times under any provision of the public nuisance
ordinance.
   (B)   If the property of a person, determined to be a chronic violator, is
found to be non-compliant with the regulations of the nuisance ordinance, the
town may take immediate action to remedy a violation. The expense to remedy the
nuisance shall become a lien upon the property and shall be collected as unpaid
taxes.
   (C)   The notice shall be sent in a manner consistent with §
93.03 and G.S. § 160A-200.1.
(Ord. 14-18, passed 10-13-14)
§ 93.08 CUMULATIVE REMEDIES.
   The procedures in this chapter shall be in addition to any other remedies
that may now or hereafter exist under law for the abatement of public
nuisances, and this chapter shall not prevent the town from proceeding in a
criminal action against any person violating the provisions of this chapter as
provided in G.S. § 14-4 and as authorized by G.S. § 160A-193.
(`88 Code, § 12-44) (Ord. passed 11-9-83; Am. Ord. 93-13, passed 12-13-93; Am.
Ord. 14-18, passed 10-13-14)
CHAPTER 94: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Definitions
   
94.02   Cruelty to animals
   
94.03   Bird sanctuary
   
94.04   Livestock prohibited
   
94.05   Animal enclosures
   
94.06   [Reserved]
   
94.07   Exotic or wild animals
   
94.08   Defecating on private or public property
   
94.09   Dog license tax
   
94.10   Restraint
   
94.11   Rabies inoculation
   
94.12   Alternate procedure for abatement of nuisance created by dogs
   
94.13   Impoundment
   
94.14   Redemption procedures
   
94.15   Adoption, payment of fees, penalties
   
94.16   Responsibilities and duties of custodian of animals
   
94.17   Animals to be seized humanely
   
94.18   Muzzling of dogs and cats
   
94.19   Animals biting persons or showing symptoms of rabies
   
94.20   Dangerous and potentially dangerous animals
Chicken Hens
   
94.25   Keeping hens
   
94.26   Chicken hen registration
   
94.27   Complaints
Dog Park
   
94.40   Dog park
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Animal shall mean any and all types of animals, both domesticated
and wild, male and female.
   ANIMAL AT LARGE or RUN AT LARGE. Any animal off the premises of its owner
and not under restraint as defined in §
94.10.
   ANIMAL CONTROL SHELTER. Any holding or other facility designated by the
Board of Commissioners for the detention of animals.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. A person designated as such to perform duties
described by this chapter.
   ANIMAL UNDER RESTRAINT. Any animal confined within a vehicle, or secured by
leash or lead, cage, bridle or similar physical restraint to allow the animal
to be controlled.
   CHICKEN HENS. A domesticated female chicken.
   DANGEROUS ANIMAL. An animal that:
      (1)   Has killed or inflicted severe injury on a person; or
      (2)   Is determined by the Chief of Police or the Dangerous Animal Appeal
Board to be potentially dangerous as defined herein.
      (3)   Any animal owned or harbored primarily or in part for the purpose
of animal fighting, or any animal trained for animal fighting.
   DANGEROUS ANIMAL APPEAL BOARD. The Board appointed as needed by the Town of
Kill Devil Hills Board of Commissioners to hear appeals from the determination
by the Chief of Police that an animal is a dangerous animal or a potentially
dangerous animal and comprised of at least three members.
   INOCULATION or INOCULATION AGAINST RABIES. These terms shall mean the
vaccination or inoculation of a dog or cat with an antirabic vaccine approved
by the United States Bureau of Animal Industry, the North Carolina State
Department of Agriculture and the North Carolina State Board of Health and/or
the local health director, as defined in G.S. § 130A-185.
   KENNEL. An establishment wherein any person buys, sells, boards, breeds,
grooms, lets for hire, or trains domesticated animals.
   LIVESTOCK. Any domestic animal including but not limited to cattle, horses,
chicken roosters, sheep, goats or swine raised for home use or for profit.
   OWNER. Any person owning, keeping, harboring, possessing, or acting as
custodian, however temporarily, of any animal; provided, however, that a person
having temporary custody or possession of an animal for the sole purpose of
turning over such animal to a member of the Animal Control Division or other
law enforcement officer shall not be deemed the owner of the animal.
   OWNER’S REAL PROPERTY. Any real property owned or leased by the owner of the
animal, but does not include any public right-of-way or a common area of
condominium, apartment complex, or townhouse development.
   PET. A domesticated animal kept for pleasure rather than utility. PETS
include, but are not limited to: birds, cats, dogs, fish, hamsters, mice,
reptiles, and other animals associated with man's environment.
   PET SHOP. A commercial establishment, which offers for sale live animals
with the intent that they be kept as pets.
   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS ANIMAL.  An animal that the Chief of Police or the
Dangerous Animal Board determines to have:
      (1)   Inflicted a bite on a person that resulted in broken bones or
disfiguring lacerations or required cosmetic surgery or hospitalization; or
      (2)   Killed or inflicted severe injury upon a domestic animal when not
on the owner’s real property; or
      (3)   Approached a person when not on the owner’s real property in a
vicious or terrorizing manner in an apparent attitude of attack.
   PREMISES OF ITS OWNER. Real property owned or leased by the owner of the
animal, but not including any public property, right-of-way, or common areas in
any subdivision, multi-family dwelling, multi-family development or planned
unit developed as defined in §
153.002.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE ANIMAL. Any animal or group of animals which:
      (1)   Is repeatedly found at large;
      (2)   Damages the property of anyone other than its owner's property;
      (3)   Is vicious;
      (4)   Causes fouling of the air by odors;
      (5)   Causes unsanitary condition of enclosures or surroundings;
      (6)   By virtue of number of type is offensive or dangerous to the public
health, safety, or welfare;
      (7)   Excessively makes disturbing noises;
      (8)   Is diseased and dangerous to the public health.
   RESTRAINT.  
      (1)   A dog is under restraint within the meaning of this chapter if:
         (a)   It is within a secure enclosure, or fully operational electronic
fence; or
         (b)   It is controlled by means of a chain, leash or other like
device. If an unattended dog is restrained by a chain, leash or other like
device it shall be designed and placed to prevent choking or strangulation.
Such restraint will not be less than ten feet in length and either on a swivel
designed to prevent the dog from choking or strangling itself, or on a chain
run.
      (2)   Dogs upon their custodian's property and not under the immediate
and direct control of their custodian, or within a secure enclosure or fully
operational electronic fence, are not considered to be restrained.
   SEVERE INJURY. Any physical injury that results in broken bones or
disfiguring lacerations or requires cosmetic surgery or hospitalization.
   TRAINER. Any individual who holds himself available to the general public
for the purpose of training attack and security dogs. This does not include
individuals who are in the business of obedience training only.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL. Any animal which has a propensity or tendency to do any act
which might endanger the safety of persons and property of others in a given
situation.
   WEEKDAYS. Monday through Friday inclusive, excluding local, state, and
national legal holidays.
   WILD ANIMALS. Any living animal which is not usually and customarily kept as
a pet or a domesticated animal. Examples of exotic or wild animals include, but
are not limited to, any animal for which a federal or state permit or license
is required, and such animals as lions, tigers, wildcats, wolves, bears, apes,
monkeys and raccoons. Examples also include dangerous reptiles, such as
alligators and  poisonous reptiles, which are those reptiles that have the
capability of injecting humans or other animals with venom which may cause
death or physical injury. A hybrid of any exotic or wild animal, regardless of
genetic percentages, shall be deemed exotic or wild.
(Am. Ord. 05-14, passed 8-8-05; Am. Ord. 09-04, passed 3-25-09; Am. Ord. 13-11,
passed 7-8-13; Am. Ord. 14-32, passed 5-13-15)
§ 94.02 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to molest, torture, torment,
deprive of necessary sustenance, cruelly beat, needlessly mutilate or kill,
wound, injure, poison, abandon or subject to conditions detrimental to its
health or general welfare any animal, or to cause or procure such action. The
words TORTURE and TORMENT shall be held to include every act, omission or
neglect where unjustifiable physical pain, suffering or death is caused or
permitted; but such terms shall not be construed to prohibit an animals' owner,
a veterinarian, an animal control officer or his agents from destroying
dangerous, unwanted or injured animals in a humane manner. For the purposes of
this chapter, hunting or fishing as allowed by the North Carolina General
Statutes shall not be misconstrued to be cruelty to animals.
   (B)   The Animal Control Division shall investigate all complaints of
abandoned animals on private property and a determination of true status shall
be reported to the Chief of Police before the welfare and health of such animal
has been damaged. Any such animal that is found to have been without necessary
sustenance of a period for 48 hours shall be removed from the premises and
placed in the animal control shelter. The owner shall then be notified pursuant
to §
94.13 and redemption by the owner of such animal shall be in conformance with §
94.14
§ 94.03 BIRD SANCTUARY.
   Except as otherwise provided in G.S. § 160A-188, no person shall shoot,
destroy, or in any way harm birds within the corporate limits of the town,
which is hereby declared to be a bird sanctuary.
§ 94.04 LIVESTOCK PROHIBITED.
   No person shall house, keep, maintain, shelter, or otherwise locate upon
lands, premises or property within 500 feet of occupied residences, other than
their own, within the town, any livestock or domestic fowl of all descriptions,
excluding chicken hens.
(Am. Ord. 06-14, passed 7-26-06; Am. Ord. 13-11, passed 7-8-13; Am. Ord. 14-32,
passed 5-13-15)
§ 94.05 ANIMAL ENCLOSURES.
   All animal enclosures shall be kept in a sanitary condition and in such
manner as to eliminate all offensive odors, and unless so maintained, they are
hereby declared public nuisances.
§ 94.06 [RESERVED].
§ 94.07 EXOTIC OR WILD ANIMALS.
   (A)   Generally. The owner of any exotic or wild animal shall notify the
animal control officer as soon as practicable, but in no event later than 24
hours, after any of the following events:
      (1)   The importing, locating or placing of an exotic or wild animal
within the corporate limits of the town. The owner shall also provide the
animal control officer, for inspection, any required federal or state permits
for the exotic or wild animal;
      (2)   An assault, attack or biting upon any human being committed by an
exotic or wild animal;
      (3)   At attack or biting upon any domesticated animal or pet by an
exotic or wild animal if the injured domestic animal or pet is not also the
property of the owner of the exotic or wild animal;
      (4)   The destruction of, or damage to, property of any other person
committed by an exotic or wild animal;
      (5)   The roaming or escape of an exotic or wild animal that is required
to be restrained or confined.
   (B)   Permit required to own; confinement and control. It shall be unlawful
for any owner of any exotic or wild animal to keep or maintain any such animal
within the town unless any required federal and/or state permits have been
obtained and are currently valid for the time period and circumstances under
which the exotic or wild animal will be maintained within the town, and the
animal is:
      (1)   Confined within a humane and secure enclosure, as approved by the
animal control officer, in accordance with humane practices; or
      (2)   Securely muzzled, if required, and under restraint by a competent
person who, by means of a leash, chain, rope or other device suitable to
adequately restrain the particular exotic or wild animal, has such animal
firmly under control at all times.
   (C)   Confiscation. Any exotic or wild animal which is not properly
restrained or secured as required by this section, or which has injured or
endangered any person or property, or which does not have currently valid
federal or state permits, may be confiscated by any animal control officer or
law enforcement officer and kept and harbored at the expense of the owner
determined to be in violation of this section.
   (D)   Slaying of animal in certain circumstances. Any exotic or wild animal
which has escaped, is running at large, or is otherwise deemed to be a
continuing threat to the public safety may be slain by any law enforcement
officer or animal control officer if attempts to capture the animal are
unsuccessful or if immediate capture is not practical or reasonably possible.
   (E)   Penalty. Notwithstanding any other provision of
Chapter 94 to the contrary, and in addition to confiscation of the animal as
set forth above, violation of this section shall constitute a misdemeanor,
punishable for each day the violation continues by a fine of up to $500 or
imprisonment of not more than 30 days. A law enforcement officer or animal
control officer may initiate the criminal process.
§ 94.08 DEFECATING ON PRIVATE OR PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   Each and every person; keeper or custodian of any dog on any public place,
street, sidewalk, parking lot, on the private property of a person other than
the owner, keeper or custodian, and on the beach shall immediately remove all
feces deposited by the dog, shall carry or have on his person, at all times, an
appropriate waste container for the immediate removal of all feces deposited by
the dog and shall be responsible for displaying, presenting, showing, or
otherwise providing evidence of possession of said container upon the request
of any person responsible for enforcing civil citation offenses of this code
upon presentation of proper identification. Failure to present evidence of such
container shall be a violation of this section and penalty shall be imposed as
provided in §
10.99. Such removal shall be accomplished by depositing such feces in an
appropriate waste container which does not allow leakage or seepage of the
feces and which is ultimately disposed of in a refuse container located on the
property of the person, keeper or custodian of the animal or on the premises of
which the animal's person, keeper or custodian is in lawful possession. Burying
the feces in the sand or depositing the feces in the ocean is prohibited and
constitutes a violation of this chapter.
(Am. Ord. 05-14, passed 8-8-05)
§ 94.09 DOG LICENSE TAX.
   (A)   The owner or keeper of every dog older than four months kept within
the town limits shall pay an annual license tax for each dog. The license tax
shall be due and payable to the Town Cashier not later than ten days after the
dog is brought within the town limits or reaches the age of four months. The
owner or keeper of each dog shall be required to present a current rabies
inoculation number before a dog license tag will be issued.
   (B)   The town will issue for each dog license tax paid an appropriate tag
bearing a distinctive number. This tag shall be securely fastened to the dog's
choke chain, collar or harness, and it shall be unlawful for the owner of a dog
to allow the dog to be within the town without the dog license tag. The license
tag may not be transferred to a different dog, nor may it be transferred to a
different owner of the same dog.
   (C)   The dog license tax fee shall be adopted each year and made a part of
the annual operating budget. The license fee for spayed and neutered dogs shall
be one-half of the regular dog license tax, if satisfactory written
documentation of such spaying or neutering from a licensed veterinarian is
provided to the town at the time the tax is paid.
   (D)   Any owner or keeper of each dog shall be responsible for making
certain the dog license tax is paid.
§ 94.10 RESTRAINT.
   (A)   No person shall allow his dog to be unrestrained at any time that dog
is not on the custodian's property and under his direct control.
   (B)   Animal in the rear or open bed of a vehicle must be secured by leash
or lead, cage, bridle or similar restraint as defined in this chapter.
§ 94.11 RABIES INOCULATION.
   (A)   Required. It shall be unlawful for an owner to fail to provide current
inoculation against rabies (hydrophobia) for any dog or cat four months of age
or older. A rabies inoculation shall be deemed current for a cat or a dog if
two inoculations have been given one year apart and booster doses of rabies
vaccine administered every three years thereafter. Such rabies inoculation must
be performed by a licensed veterinarian or by the animal control officer
certified to administer the rabies inoculation.
   (B)   Proof. Any person inoculating an animal against rabies shall issue to
the owner of the animal inoculated a numbered metallic tag stamped with the
number and the year for which it is issued, and indicating that the animal has
been inoculated against rabies.
   (C)   Inoculation tag. The metal rabies inoculation tag shall be securely
fastened to the dog or cat's choke chain, collar or harness, and it shall be
unlawful for the owner of any dog or cat to allow such animal to be within the
town without the inoculation tag.
§ 94.12 ALTERNATE PROCEDURE FOR ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE CREATED BY DOGS.
   (A)   Declaration of nuisance.
      (1)   As defined in §
94.01, and/or, the running at large of any dog, especially one having dangerous
or destructive propensities indicated by the turning over of garbage
receptacles, the destruction of shrubs, flowers, grass and other plant growth,
the destruction of other property or the killing of other animals or the
attacking of persons or other similar acts is hereby declared to be a public
nuisance, and shall be abated as provided in this section.
      (2)   Any person keeping, within the corporate limits of the town, one or
more dogs which by prolonged and habitual barking, howling or whining cause
serious annoyance to neighboring residents and interfere with the reasonable
use and enjoyment of the premises occupied by such residents shall be guilty of
maintaining a nuisance.
   (B)   Complaint; notice. Upon written, detailed and signed complaint being
made to the Animal Control Division or Police Department by any resident that
any person is maintaining a public nuisance as described in division (A)
hereof, the Chief of Police shall cause the situation complained of to be
investigated and a report and findings thereon to be reduced to writing by the
investigating officer.
   (C)   Abatement. If the written findings of the investigating officer
indicate that the complaint is justified then the Chief of Police shall cause
the owner or keeper of the dog in question to be so notified in writing and
ordered to abate such nuisance within 48 hours by destruction or removal of
such dog, or by penning, fence or otherwise restraining such dog from running
at large at any time. In the event the owner or keeper of the dog is unknown
and cannot be ascertained, such notice and order, along with a general
description of the dog, shall be posted for 48 hours at the Town Hall.
   (D)   Failure to abate–impoundment; destruction. If any owner or keeper of a
dog hereinabove described shall fail or refuse to abate such nuisance upon
order of the Chief of Police within the specified time, the Chief of Police
shall cause the dog in question to be apprehended and impounded in a suitable
place, and the owner or keeper shall be notified in writing of such
impoundment. If the owner or keeper shall so request, the dog shall be released
to him upon his execution of a written agreement comply with the abatement
order. If no such request and execution is made by the owner or keeper within
five days after written notice, the Chief of Police shall cause such dog to be
destroyed. In the event the owner or keeper of such dog is unknown, the Chief
of Police shall cause apprehension and impoundment to be carried out if no one
claims such dog within 48 hours after the notice, order and description were
posted and shall cause a notice of impoundment, along with a general
description of the dog, to be posted for five days at the Town Hall. If no
request for release of the dog and execution of agreement to comply with the
order and abatement respecting the dog is made within the five-day period the
Chief of Police shall cause the dog to be destroyed.
   (E)   Same–misdemeanor. If any owner or keeper of a dog for which an order
of abatement has been issued shall fail or refuse to abate the nuisance as
ordered, he shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (F)   Alternate remedy. This section shall be construed as an alternate
remedy for the abatement of a nuisance and shall not be construed to limit
other sections of this chapter.
§ 94.13 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Generally. Every law enforcement officer or animal control officer
shall apprehend any dog found running at large contrary or is declared to be a
public nuisance in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, and impound
the dog in the town animal control shelter or other suitable place. The animal
control officer, upon receiving such dog shall make a complete registry,
entering the breed, color and sex of such dog.
   (B)   Notification. Immediately upon impounding an animal the Animal Control
Division shall give notice as prescribed in this chapter.
   (C)   Transport to county animal shelter. If any impounded animal is not
properly redeemed within seven days of impoundment, it may be transported to
the county animal shelter where it may be humanely destroyed or otherwise
disposed of.
   (D)   Immediate disposal. If an animal is officially surrendered by the
custodian to the Animal Control Division to be placed in a home or destroyed in
a humane manner, it may be disposed of immediately.
   (E)   Rabies control. Impounded animals which have been bitten by a rabid
animal or appear to be suffering from rabies shall not be redeemed but shall be
dealt with as provided in the rabies control provisions of this chapter.
   (F)   Wounded or diseased animals. Any impounded animal which is badly
wounded or diseased, but not a rabies suspect, and which has no identification
shall be destroyed immediately in a humane manner. If the animal has
identification, the Animal Control Division shall attempt to notify the
custodian before disposing of such animal; but if the custodian cannot be
reached readily and the animal is suffering the Animal Control Division may
destroy the animal at its discretion in a humane manner.
§ 94.14 REDEMPTION PROCEDURES.
   Where any animal has been impounded, notice thereof shall be given to the
custodian, or if the custodian is unknown, then notice thereof shall be posted
for seven days on the outside bulletin board at the Town Hall, 102 Town Hall
Drive, and at the bulletin board at the animal control shelter. This notice
shall give the time and place of taking such animal together with the time and
date of posting the notice or until the animal is transported to the county
animal shelter. Upon payment of any required fees and/or penalties and upon
satisfactorily meeting any other requirements of this chapter, the custodian
may redeem an animal.
§ 94.15 ADOPTION, PAYMENT OF FEES, PENALTIES.
   After the seven days' notice provided for in §
94.14, an animal may be adopted by a suitable applicant upon payment of an
adoption fee of such amount as established by the Board of Commissioners from
time to time and the identification tag fee, as required. It shall be unlawful
for such animal's custodian or record or agent thereof to circumvent the law by
adopting the impounded animal to avoid payment of penalty fees.
§ 94.16 RESPONSIBILITIES AND DUTIES OF CUSTODIAN OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   The custodian of every animal shall be responsible for the care,
licensing, vaccination, actions and behavior of such animal.
   (B)   The custodian of every animal shall take whatever action is necessary
to ensure that the animal does not pose a risk to health or safety of the
public.
   (C)   The custodian of any animal shall not allow that animal to be
habitually or repeatedly chase, snap at, attack or bark at pedestrians,
bicyclists or vehicles, turn over refuse containers, damage gardens, flowers or
vegetables, or conduct itself so as to be a public nuisance.
   (D)   No person in town shall knowingly and intentionally harbor, feed, keep
in possession by confinement, or otherwise, any animal which does not belong to
him or is not in his custodial care, unless he has, within 24 hours from the
time such animal came into his possession, notified the animal control officer
or Police Department. No person shall refuse to surrender any such stray dog or
other animal to an authorized representative of the Animal Control Division
upon demand of the representative.
§ 94.17 ANIMALS TO BE SEIZED HUMANELY.
   (A)   Generally. Any animal control officer or law enforcement officer, in
carrying out his duties under this chapter, shall make every effort to deal
humanely with all animals.
   (B)   Tranquilizing animals. If in the considered judgment of any animal
control officer or law enforcement officer, an attempt to seize an animal would
be dangerous to the person attempting that seizure, the animal control officer
or law enforcement officer may inject the animal with a chemical tranquilizer
which will result in limiting the activity of the animal. The use of a
tranquilizer will be only when every other reasonable method of seizure has
been attempted.
   (C)   Putting animals to death. If, in the considered judgment of any animal
control officer, or law enforcement officer, an attempt to seize an animal
would be dangerous to the person attempting that seizure, then and only then
shall an animal control officer or a law enforcement officer be authorized to
humanely put the animal to death. It is the intent of this subsection to note
that killing any animal is to be done only after every reasonable effort has
been made to seize the animal and only after all other procedures are judged
impossible.
§ 94.18 MUZZLING OF DOGS AND CATS.
   Whenever it becomes necessary to safeguard the public from the danger of
hydrophobia, the mayor, if deemed necessary, shall issue a proclamation
ordering every person owning or keeping a dog or cat to confine it securely on
his premises unless the dog or cat shall have a muzzle of sufficient strength
to prevent its biting any person. Any unmuzzled dog or cat running at large
during the time of the proclamation shall be seized and impounded, unless
noticeably infected with rabies. All dogs or cats so noticeably infected with
rabies and displaying vicious propensities shall be killed by the animal
control officer or any law enforcement officer without notice to the owner.
Dogs or cats impounded during the proclamation shall, if claimed within five
days, be released to the owner, unless infected with rabies, upon payment of
the impounding charges provided for in §
94.14. If unclaimed after that period, the dogs or cats may be summarily
destroyed.
§ 94.19 ANIMALS BITING PERSONS OR SHOWING SYMPTOMS OF RABIES.
   (A)   Every dog or cat which has bitten any person or which shows symptoms
of rabies shall be confined immediately and shall be promptly reported to the
animal control department, and thereupon shall be securely quarantined, at the
direction of the Animal Control Department, for a period of ten days, and shall
not be released from quarantine except by written permission from the Police
Chief or his designee.
   (B)   Dogs and cats quarantined under this section shall be confined in a
veterinary hospital, boarding kennel or town or county animal shelter, at the
expense of the owner; provided, however, that if an animal control officer
determines that the owner of an animal which must be quarantined has adequate
confinement facilities upon his own premises, the animal control officer shall
authorize the animal to be confined on the premises. The animal control officer
may not authorize the animal to be confined on the owner's premises unless the
owner has a fenced-in area in his yard and the fenced-in area has no entrances
or exits that are not locked, and the animal is currently vaccinated against
rabies and has a current license tag. If the animal is confined on the owner's
premises, the animal control officer shall revisit the premises for inspection
purposes at approximately the middle of the confinement period and again at the
conclusion of the confinement period.
   (C)   In the case of stray dogs or cats whose ownership is not known, the
dogs or cats may be euthanized and the head examined for rabies in accordance
with the provisions and requirements of G.S. § 130A-199, or may be kept for the
supervised quarantine period required by this section at the Kill Devil Hills
or Dare County Animal Shelter.
   (D)   If rabies does not develop within ten days after a dog or cat is
quarantined under this section, the dog or cat may be released from quarantine
with the written permission of the Animal Control Division.
§ 94.20 DANGEROUS AND POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   The Chief of Police is the person designated to determine when a dog
or an animal is dangerous or potentially dangerous under the provisions of G.S.
§ 67-4.1 and to determine when an animal is dangerous or potentially dangerous
as defined herein. The Kill Devil Hills Board of Commissioners shall designate
as needed, three members to serve as the Dangerous Animal Appeal Board to hear
appeals from the Police Chief's determination that a dog or an animal is
dangerous or potentially dangerous.
   (B)   Upon receipt of a report that an animal is dangerous or potentially
dangerous:
      (1)   The Animal Control Officer shall promptly investigate the report
and upon completion of the investigation present the findings of such
investigation to the Chief of Police.
      (2)   Upon receipt of the investigative report, the Chief of Police shall
determine whether there is probably cause to believe that the animal which is
the subject of the report is a dangerous or potentially dangerous animal.
      (3)   Upon determining that an animal is a dangerous animal or a
potentially dangerous animal the Chief of Police shall:
         (a)   Notify the owner in writing, giving the reasons for the
determination, before the animal may be considered dangerous or potentially
dangerous.
         (b)   Notify Animal Control of the Police Chief's determination and
direct that the animal be seized and impounded until final disposition is
deemed.
         (c)   Give the owner notice that owner may appeal the determination by
filing written objections with the Dangerous Animal Appeal Board within three
days and provide the address at which to deliver such notice of appeal.
         (d)   Direct the owner to immediately deliver the animal to Kill Devil
Hills Animal Shelter if not previously seized by Kill Devil Hills Animal
Control to be impounded until the animal's disposition is determined as
provided herein.
         (e)   If after reasonable efforts the owner or the whereabouts of the
owner cannot be determined, the Chief of Police and Kill Devil Hills Animal
Control shall proceed as provided herein as if such notice was properly given.
   (C)   An animal control officer is authorized to serve a copy of the Police
Chief's notice upon the owner of the animal and to seize and impound the animal
upon the Police Chief's determination that the animal is dangerous or
potentially dangerous.
   (D)   Within three days of receipt of notice of the Police Chief's
determination that an animal is dangerous or potentially dangerous, the owner
may appeal the determination to the Dangerous Animal Appeal Board. In the event
the written notice of appeal is not received within the times prescribed
herein, the determination of the Chief of Police shall be final. Upon a timely
appeal, the Dangerous Animal Appeal Board shall convene within ten days and
conduct a hearing to determine whether the determination of the Chief of Police
is affirmed. The hearing shall be conducted pursuant to the procedures adopted
by Dangerous Animal Appeal Board may be appealed to the superior court by
filing notice of appeal and a petition for review within ten days of the final
decision of the appellate Board and shall be heard de novo before a superior
court judge sitting in Dare County. In the event that the notice of appeal and
petition for review are not timely filed, the decision of the Dangerous Animal
Appeal Board shall be final.
   (E)   Upon final determination that an animal is dangerous, the animal shall
be humanely destroyed and the owner shall be responsible for all costs and
expenses of impoundment and destruction as set forth on the schedule of fees
adopted by Kill Devil Hills Board of Commissioners. Upon a final determination
that an animal is not dangerous or potentially dangerous, the animal shall be
returned to the owner.
   (F)   Notwithstanding any of the foregoing, the provisions of this chapter
do not apply to:
      (1)   An animal being used by a law enforcement officer to carry out the
law enforcement officer's official duties:
      (2)   An animal being used in a lawful hunt;
      (3)   An animal where the injury or damage inflicted by the animal was
sustained by a domestic animal while the animal was working as a hunting
animal, herding animal, or predator control animal on the property of, or under
the control of, its owner or keeper, and the damage or injury was to a species
or type of domestic animal appropriate to the work of the animal; or
      (4)   An animal where the injury inflicted by the animal was sustained by
a person who, at the time of the injury, was committing a willful trespass or
other tort, was tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the animal, had tormented,
abused, or assaulted the animal, or was committing or attempting to commit a
crime.
(Ord. 09-04, passed 3-25-09)
CHICKEN HENS
§ 94.25 KEEPING HENS.
   The raising of chicken hens shall be primarily for the purpose of collecting
the eggs produced therefrom; this section shall not be construed to allow for
the commercial slaughter or sale of any chicken hens for any purpose. No person
shall keep chicken hens within the town in such a manner that a nuisance or
public nuisance animal is created. At no time shall "chicken hen or hens" be
construed to include "chicken rooster or roosters." A maximum number of six and
no fewer than three chicken hens may be kept on a single lot or tract within
the corporate limits of the town, provided that:
   (A)   Chicken hens, chicken hen houses (coops) and outdoor enclosures (runs)
are permitted as an accessory to a residential or school use, not as a home
occupation or other commercial purpose. Coops and runs are to be located in
rear yards of properties only within the Residential Low, Light Industrial 1,
Light Industrial 2, and Government and Institution (Public and Private) Zoning
Districts that are situated west of the US 158/Croatan Highway, and placement
must, therefore, conform with the setback requirements of §
153.082(B), Exceptions (2) Accessory structures may be built subject to the
following requirements., of the Town Code.
   (B)   The owner of the chicken hens must reside on the property where the
hens are kept. The owner of the chicken hens must either own the property or
have written owner authorization from the property owner in order to keep
chicken hens. These requirements shall not apply to the Dare County Schools.
   (C)   Chicken hens are not allowed to run at large and must be provided with
both a coop and run subject to the following provisions:
      (1)   The chicken coop must provide the chicken hens with adequate
protection from predators, and from the elements and inclement weather, be
covered, well-ventilated, and provide a minimum of two square feet per chicken
hen. Together, the coop and chicken run must provide a minimum total of four
square feet per chicken hen.
      (2)   Chicken coops and runs must be regularly maintained in a manner to
control dust, odor and waste and to prevent such areas from constituting a
public nuisance or health hazard. The accumulation of organic material
furnishing food for flies is prohibited. All manure and waste products shall be
adequately composted or regularly collected and kept in tightly covered
predator-, rodent-, and insect-resistant receptacles and disposed of at least
once a week in a manner approved by the Animal Control Division. A written
waste management plan is required to be submitted for approval by the Animal
Control Division.
      (3)   The coop must be kept clean, dry and sanitary at all times; the
chicken run must be kept clean and sanitary at all times.
      (4)   The coop and run must be located upon a permeable surface that
prevents waste run-off.
      (5)   The chicken run must adequately contain the chicken hens at all
times.
      (6)   Chicken hen food storage container(s) shall be weather-, insect-,
and animal-proof and keep food dry and clean.
      (7)   Chicken hens shall be placed in their coop by 10:00 p.m. and not
let out into the chicken run prior to 6:00 a.m.
      (8)   Chicken hens as defined and regulated in this chapter shall be
limited to location in the Residential Low, Light Industrial 1, Light
Industrial 2, and Government and Institution (Public and Private) Zoning
Districts in the town.
(Ord. 13-11, passed 7-8-13; Am. Ord. 14-32, passed 5-13-15)
§ 94.26 CHICKEN HEN REGISTRATION.
   The Town Manager shall establish a chicken hen registration process as a
condition precedent to the location and construction of any chicken hen house
and the keeping of chicken hens. Such registration shall include:
   (A)   Certification of compliance with building and zoning regulations, and
the standards enumerated in this chapter. Inspection and approval of the plans
and construction of the chicken coop and run shall be coordinated by the Animal
Control Division with the Planning and Inspections Department.
   (B)   Payment of a fee established and amended from time to time by the
Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 13-11, passed 7-8-13; Am. Ord. 14-32, passed 5-13-15)
§ 94.27 COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   Upon complaint, the Animal Control Division shall coordinate an
investigation of any potential or actual violation of the standards pertaining
to chicken hens, chicken hen houses, and chicken hen outdoor enclosures
established by the Kill Devil Hills Town Code.
   (B)   Any chicken hen, chicken coop or run found to be kept in violation of
the relevant standards shall be considered nuisances. Removal and impoundment
by the Animal Control Division will be in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter.
   (C)   The keeping of chicken hens shall be subject to the provisions of the
relevant sections of
Chapter 93, Nuisances, this chapter, and
Chapter 153, Zoning of the Kill Devil Hills Town Code.
(Ord. 13-11, passed 7-8-13; Am. Ord. 14-32, passed 5-13-15)
DOG PARK
§ 94.40 DOG PARK.
   (A)   General. The Board of Commissioners for the town hereby authorizes
within the municipal limits of the town a dog park for the purpose of allowing
the off-leash exercise of dogs. The Board further directs and authorizes the
Town Manager to make rules and regulations for its operation that are
consistent with this chapter.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. A sworn employee of the Kill Devil Hills Police
Department's Animal Control Division.
      ATTENDANT. A person 16 years or older who brings a dog to the dog park.
Such person is expected to be competent and knowledgeable relative to the
behavior of, and have control over, said dog(s) at all times while at or inside
the dog park.
      DOG PARK. An enclosed fenced facility designated by the Board for the
purpose of allowing dogs, under the control of their attendants, to exercise
and socialize off-leash.
      FACILITY. See DOG PARK.
      OWNER. Person having legal ownership of any dog using the dog park.
      VICIOUS ANIMAL. Any animal which has a propensity or tendency to do any
act which might endanger the safety of persons and property of others in a
given situation.
      VISUAL CONTROL. The attendant can see the dog(s) at all times.
      VOICE CONTROL. The attendant is able to control and recall the dog(s) at
all times, and is not allowing the dog(s) to fight with other dogs. A dog under
VOICE CONTROL must immediately come to the attendant when so commanded.
   (C)   Dog park operations. Established dog park will be operated year-round
on a daily basis unless closed by the Town Manager for maintenance, special
events, health and safety, or severe weather. Any law enforcement officer or
Animal Control Officer has the authority to close the dog park at any time for
health and safety or to investigate a violation of this section or other
criminal offense.
   (D)   Dog park general regulations.
      (1)   To ensure the safety of the dogs, their attendants and others, the
following are not permitted within the fenced area of the dog park:
         (a)   Animals other than dogs;
         (b)   Aggressive dogs, those dogs deemed vicious or dogs who have a
previous history of aggressive behavior toward other animals or humans;
         (c)   Female dogs in heat;
         (d)   Dogs less than four months old (note: due to vaccination
advisories and recommendations for young dogs);
         (e)   Any dog known by its owner or attendant to be sick with an
infectious, communicable illness or disease;
         (f)   Bicycles, roller blades, skates, skateboards, exercise
equipment, radio controlled devices, strollers, children's riding toys or any
other item(s) deemed unsafe or disruptive by any law enforcement officer or
Animal Control Officer;
         (g)   Motorized vehicles and devices, except wheelchairs for the
disabled;
         (h)   Glass containers;
         (i)   Alcoholic beverages or controlled substances;
         (j)   Tobacco products or vaping products, including electronic
cigarettes;
         (k)   Drink or food of any type for human consumption; and
         (l)   Dog food, dog biscuits, dog bones, dog chews, dog treats, except
training treats administered by the dog's attendant.
      (2)   No more than three dogs per attendant are allowed in the dog park.
      (3)   No dog may be permitted in the dog park without wearing a collar.
         (a)   The collar must have attached the dog's valid license and rabies
tag. Any law enforcement officer and Animal Control Officer may inspect dogs
within the park for valid and required tags at any time.
         (b)   Spiked collars, choke collars, prong collars and electronic
collars are prohibited.
      (4)   An attendant must immediately remove his or her dog(s) from the dog
park at any time the dog(s) become engaged in excessive barking or exhibits
aggressive behavior toward any human or other dog.
      (5)   An attendant must use a suitable container to promptly remove any
feces deposited by his or her dog(s) and properly dispose of such waste
material in designated receptacles.
      (6)   Children under the age of 12 shall be under the supervision of an
adult who is physically present within the park. All other children in the dog
park must be under the supervision, care and control of an attendant at least
16 years of age or older. The attendant or adult supervising the child is
solely responsible for the child's proper behavior and safety. Children who are
engaged in exciting or antagonizing any dog within the dog park by any means;
but not limited to, shouting, screaming, waving their arms, throwing objects,
running at or chasing dogs must be removed from the dog park immediately.
      (7)   An attendant must have a leash in-hand at all times while inside
the dog park and must have the dog(s) on said leash when outside the dog park.
      (8)   An attendant must fill in any hole dug at the dog park by any dog
under his or her control.
   (E)   Enforcement.
      (1)   A violation of any of the provisions of this section shall
constitute a misdemeanor, punishable as provided in G.S. § 14-4.
      (2)   Any person in violation of any of the provisions of this section or
any violation of posted dog park rules is subject to removal from the dog park
and may be prohibited from future use of the dog park. Any law enforcement
officer or Animal Control Officer has the authority to immediately remove any
person in violation of this section or any posted rules and regulations.
   (F)   Liability.
      (1)   Any person using the dog park shall comply with all rules and
regulations governing the use of the facility.
      (2)   The attendant of any dog utilizing the dog park is responsible for
and liable for any and all injuries and damages caused by any dog under his or
her control to any property, other dogs or other people.
      (3)   The attendant of any dog utilizing the dog park is assumed to have
the full permission of the dog owner to have possession of said dog and to
allow said dog to utilize the facility.
      (4)   Use of the dog park shall constitute the implied consent of the dog
owner and/or attendant to all conditions of this section and shall constitute a
waiver of liability to the town. As such, users of the dog park agree and
undertake to protect, indemnify, defend and hold the town harmless for any
injury or damage caused by, or to, their dog to any property, other dogs or
other people during any time that said dog is unleashed at the facility.
(Ord. 16-24, passed 4-8-19; Am. Ord. 17-6, passed 8-12-19)
CHAPTER 95: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
General Provisions
   
95.01   Definitions
   
95.02   Pit fires
   
95.03   Burning permits
   
95.04   Automatic smoke detector required
   
95.05   Motor vehicle operation at or near emergency scene
   
95.06   Following fire apparatus
   
95.07   Aerial luminary devices, flying sky lanterns or wish lanterns
prohibited
Fire Department
   
95.20   Fire department
   
95.21   Composition
   
95.22   General supervision of personnel
Fire Prevention Code
   
95.30   Fire code adopted
   
95.31   Applicability
   
95.32   Fire officials to enforce
   
95.33   Permits
   
95.34   Summary abatement
   
95.35   Appeals from decisions of fire officials
Fire Hydrants and Automatic Alarms
   
95.50   Fire connections
   
95.51   Automatic alarms
   
95.52   Automatic sprinkler system not to be disabled
   
95.53   Giving false fire alarms; molesting fire alarm, fire-detection or fire-
extinguishing system
   
95.54   More restrictive provisions
Cooperative Fire Response Policy
   
95.60   Established
   
95.61   Duration of agreement
   
95.62   Administrative control
   
95.63   Authority
 
   
95.98   Violations
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 95.01 DEFINITIONS.
   FIRE CHIEF, DEPARTMENT, OFFICIAL. The Kill Devil Hills Fire Chief, Fire
Department, or Fire Official.
   NFPA. The National Fire Protection Association.
§ 95.02 PIT FIRES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to build or set a pit fire or
other open-type burn, for any purpose, except for stationary outdoor gas fire
pits that are required to be permitted and approved by the Fire Marshal and
comply with the North Carolina Mechanical Code.
(Am. Ord. 19-23, passed 8-14-23) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.03 BURNING PERMITS.
   (A)   Generally. The burning of construction debris, scrap wood and building
materials, grass, brush, leaves, tree limbs, sticks, branches and other yard
debris or natural ground cover, is strictly prohibited and no burning permit
will be issued for burning same.
   (B)   For structures. A burning permit to burn any structure shall be
required and may be issued for burning of structures for the purpose of
training firefighters and burning of which has been determined by the Fire
Chief to comply with all requirements and restrictions for burning. No permit
shall be issued to burn any structure between the Friday of Memorial Day
weekend through the Monday of Labor Day weekend. The Fire Department will be
responsible for burning any structure for which a permit has been issued.
Property owners shall be responsible for debris removal once the subject
structure has been burned. Debris removal shall take place in accordance with
the provisions of Chapter 50, Garbage Service, and other provisions of the town
code that may be applicable.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 95.04 AUTOMATIC SMOKE DETECTOR REQUIRED.
   Pursuant to Chapter 911 of the 1989 Session Laws, all rental residential
units, including hotel and motel units, shall have an operational automatic
smoke detector in each dwelling unit. The fire official shall approve the type
and location of all automatic smoke detectors.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 95.05 MOTOR VEHICLE OPERATION AT OR NEAR EMERGENCY SCENE.
   (A)   No person shall drive a motor vehicle over a fire hose or any other
equipment that is being used at a fire at any time, or block a fire-fighting
apparatus or any other equipment from its source of supply regardless of its
distance from a fire.
   (B)   No person shall drive a motor vehicle, other than one on official
business, to park and leave standing a vehicle within one block of Police or
Fire Department vehicles, public or private ambulances, rescue squad emergency
vehicles, or other emergency response vehicles, which are engaged in official
emergency response to the scene, engaged in the investigation of an accident,
or engaged in rendering assistance to victims at the scene.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 95.06 FOLLOWING FIRE APPARATUS.
   No driver of any vehicle other than one on official business shall follow
any fire apparatus traveling in response to a fire alarm closer than 300 feet
or drive into or park the vehicle within one block where fire apparatus has
stopped in answer to a fire alarm.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.07 AERIAL LUMINARY DEVICES, FLYING SKY LANTERNS OR WISH LANTERNS
PROHIBITED.
   (A)   AERIAL LUMINARY DEVICES, FLYING SKY LANTERNS, SKY CANDLE, WISH
LANTERNS, and the like, shall be defined as any homemade or manufactured
balloon or lantern designed to float in the air, often used to celebrate
weddings and other special events, typically constructed of flame-retardant
paper or rice paper, that has an open flame, fuel cell or other heating device
to heat air as a lifting mechanism thus causing the balloon or lantern to lift
into the atmosphere, tethered or untethered, leaving the height and distance it
travels to be determined by existing atmospheric conditions. Such devices shall
be deemed an aerial luminary device.
   (B)   All aerial luminary devices shall be deemed a fire hazard.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to buy, sell, use, possess, ignite or cause to
ignite any such aerial luminary device.
   (D)   Exception. This section shall not apply to signal flares for emergency
use.
(Ord. 13-8, passed 5-13-13) Penalty, see §
10.99
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 95.20 FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   A fire department, to be hereafter known as the Kill Devil Hills Fire
Department, the object of which shall be prevention of fire and the protection
of life and property within the incorporated area of the town as its primary
fire limits, is hereby created.
§ 95.21 COMPOSITION.
   The Fire Department of the town shall consist of both paid and volunteer
members. The number of paid personnel shall be determined by the Board of
Commissioners. The number of volunteers shall be determined by the Fire Chief.
§ 95.22 GENERAL SUPERVISION OF PERSONNEL.
   All paid personnel shall be under the general supervision and direction of
the Town Manager through the Fire Chief. All volunteer personnel shall be under
the supervision and direction of the Fire Chief.
FIRE PREVENTION CODE
§ 95.30 FIRE CODE ADOPTED.
   For the purposes of prescribing regulations governing conditions hazardous
to life and property from fire and explosions, the Board of Commissioners
hereby adopts the North Carolina Fire Code, or any lawfully enacted successor
to this code, as amended.
(Am. Ord. 08-32, passed 11-19-08)
§ 95.31 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   The provisions of the Fire Code shall apply to all buildings,
structures, premises, and conditions that pose danger of fires, explosions, or
related hazards within this jurisdiction, except as provided in Exceptions to
Applicability, of the Fire Code. The provisions of this code shall apply
equally to existing as well as new buildings, structures, premises, and
conditions except that existing buildings, structures, premises, and
conditions, which complied with the minimum safety standards of the code in
effect at the time of construction or installation and which have been properly
maintained shall be deemed as complying with this code. Only those violations
to the technical provisions of the code which create an imminent safety to life
hazard and/or which may create delays in the exiting of the building's
occupants are required to be corrected. When the present building code requires
certain safety to life requirements for existing buildings, those requirements
shall apply.
   (B)   If a building is damaged beyond 50% of its pre-incident, replacement
value, the replacement building shall be required to comply with all current
code requirements.
(Am. Ord. 08-32, passed 11-19-08)
§ 95.32 FIRE OFFICIALS TO ENFORCE.
   The fire officials, as authorized by the town, shall be officers charged
with the administration and enforcement of the fire prevention code. All
persons empowered with the administration and enforcement of this code shall
possess an appropriate valid certificate issued by the North Carolina Code
Officials Qualification Board.
§ 95.33 PERMITS.
   A person, firm, or corporation shall not maintain, store, or handle
materials or conduct processes which produce conditions hazardous to life or
property, or install equipment used in connection with the activities without
first obtaining a permit from the fire official.
§ 95.34 SUMMARY ABATEMENT.
   The fire official shall have the authority to summarily abate any condition
that is in violation of any provision of this code and that presents immediate
fire hazard to life or property.
§ 95.35 APPEALS FROM DECISIONS OF FIRE OFFICIALS.
   Any person may appeal an order, decision, or determination of the fire
official pertaining to the fire prevention code by filing written notice to the
commission of insurance or their designee within ten days after the order,
decision, or determination. A copy of the appeal shall be furnished to each
party.
FIRE HYDRANTS AND AUTOMATIC ALARMS
§ 95.50 FIRE CONNECTIONS.
   All Fire Department connections and fire hydrants, as required by the fire
official, shall be located on the street side of each building, unless
otherwise indicated by the fire official, in an area accessible for Fire
Department operations.
§ 95.51 AUTOMATIC ALARMS.
   The activation of a sprinkler system shall automatically cause the
activation of both a local building alarm and a supervisory alarm at a 24-hour
certified and licensed alarm monitoring service.
§ 95.52 AUTOMATIC SPRINKLER SYSTEM NOT TO BE DISABLED.
   Upon the occupancy of any structure subject to this section, no person shall
shut off or disable any automatic fire sprinkler system and no owner or
resident of the building shall fail to prevent the shutting off or disabling of
the system. A sprinkler system may be shut off in order to perform maintenance
work on the system during the time that qualified maintenance personnel are on
the premises performing necessary maintenance work. Maintenance work shall only
be conducted after notice to and approval by the Fire Department.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 95.53 GIVING FALSE FIRE ALARMS; MOLESTING FIRE ALARM, FIRE-DETECTION OR FIRE-
EXTINGUISHING SYSTEM.
   No person or persons shall wantonly and willfully give or cause to be given,
or to advise, counsel, or aid and abet anyone in giving a false alarm of fire,
or to break the glass key protector, or to pull the slide, arm or lever of any
station or signal box of any fire-alarm system, except in case of fire, or
willfully misuse or damage a portable fire extinguisher, or in any way to
willfully interfere with, damage, deface, molest, or injure any part or portion
of any fire alarm, fire-detection, smoke-detection or fire-extinguishing
system.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 95.54 MORE RESTRICTIVE PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall be in addition to all other
requirements for sprinkler systems or other fire protection systems required by
the North Carolina State Building Code or town ordinances. Where this
subchapter and any other law or ordinance apply, the more restrictive provision
shall be enforced.
COOPERATIVE FIRE RESPONSE POLICY
§ 95.60 ESTABLISHED.
   (A)    In accordance with these rules, policies and guidelines, the Fire
Chief is hereby authorized to enter into mutual assistance arrangements with
municipal, county and volunteer departments, provided that request and
authorizations shall comply with the North Carolina General Statutes.
   (B)   The Fire Chief is hereby authorized to permit officers of the Fire
Department to work temporarily with officers of a requesting department, and
the Fire Chief may lend equipment and supplies to requesting agencies as he
deems advisable.
§ 95.61 DURATION OF AGREEMENT.
   The agreement entered into by and between the town and other fire
departments as provided for herein shall continue in full force and effect
until terminated in writing by either party thereto. A copy of each agreement
shall be kept on file in the Fire Chief's office and on file with the Town
Clerk.
§ 95.62 ADMINISTRATIVE CONTROL.
   Any employee of the Fire Department, while engaged in any duty or activity
outside the corporate limits of the town pursuant to orders of the Fire Chief
or Council, shall have all of the jurisdiction, authority, rights, privileges
and immunities, including coverage under the worker's compensation laws, which
they have within the corporate limits of the town.
§ 95.63 AUTHORITY.
   Each mutual assistance agreement shall be reviewed and approved by the Town
Attorney and shall be effective upon its execution by the Fire Chief and the
appropriate chief of the other fire department that is a party to the
agreement.
§ 95.98 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person who shall violate or fail to comply with any provision of this
chapter or of the North Carolina Fire Code, as adopted, amended, or augmented
by this chapter, or who shall violate or fail to comply with any order made
under this chapter or the North Carolina State Building Code, or who shall
construct or alter any building in violation of any detailed statement of
specifications or plans submitted under this chapter or the North Carolina Fire
Code, or any certificate or permit issued thereunder, shall subject the
violator to civil penalties in accordance with §
10.99 of the town code.
(Am. Ord. 08-32, passed 11-19-08)
CHAPTER 96: SEASIDE REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
96.01   Definitions
   
96.02   Applicability
   
96.03   Glass containers
   
96.04   Surfing leash required
   
96.05   Surfing, swimming, floating and surf-fishing in designated fishing
zones
   
96.06   Animals on the beach
   
96.07   Boating regulations
   
96.08   Duty to obey location orders
   
96.09   Beach equipment
   
96.10   Driving on sand dunes
Beach Driving
   
96.20   Generally
   
96.21   Permits
   
96.22   Rules of operation; operation on beaches
   
96.23   Beach driving privileges for disabled individuals
   
96.24   Exceptions
   
96.25   Closure
   
96.26   Violations, revocation of permit
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 96.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them, except where the context clearly indicates
a different meaning.
   BARRIER DUNE. The easternmost sand dune system of sand dunes which lies just
west of the mean high water mark of the Atlantic Ocean and forms a protective
barrier from the actions of the Atlantic Ocean.
   BEACH EQUIPMENT. Shall include, but not necessarily be limited to, commonly
used and privately or commercially owned personal property, equipment, or other
accouterments used, needed, or wanted, for use or enjoyment on or at the beach
or in the Atlantic Ocean, including but not limited to chairs, coolers,
umbrellas, fishing rods/reels or other equipment, surfboards, boogie boards,
canopies, volleyball/badminton/tennis nets or the like, cabanas, tents,
supplies or other items, materials or gear.
   COMMERCIAL ANGLER. A person holding a valid North Carolina Commercial
Fishing License entitling them to fish in the Atlantic Ocean.
   LEASH. A line capable of being attached to a board used for surfing and to
the surfer, which is of sufficient diameter and strength to restrain the board
at a distance from the surfer no greater than the length of the line.
   OCEAN BEACH; BEACH. The area defined as the dry sand area between the first
line of stable natural vegetation or the eastern base of the barrier dune and
the high water mark; and the area adjacent to the Atlantic Ocean subject to
public trust rights, which includes the wet sand area of the beach that is
subject to regular flooding by tides.
   PUBLIC VEHICULAR AREA. The ocean beach in Kill Devil Hills.
   SAND DUNE. Any mound, hill, ridge or pile of sand which has an overall
height, at its highest point from the mean or average level or elevation of the
area from which the slope of the dune begins, of at least ten feet.
   SPEAR FISHING. Fish underwater using a spearlike implement used manually or
propelled mechanically to impale, stab or pierce any marine life.
   TOE OF SLOPE. That point between the ocean and the barrier sand dune where
the uniform line of slope from the ocean toward the barrier dune begins an
abrupt change of angle of direction upward and becomes the slope of the barrier
dune.
   VEHICLE. Automobiles, trucks, jeeps, beach buggies, motorcycles, dirt-bikes,
ATVs, bicycles, go-carts, helicopters and aircraft, wind-powered vehicles,
physically powered vehicles, amphibious vehicles, extra terrain vehicles or any
other automotive or motor-driven machine, by whatsoever name or description.
   VEHICULAR BEACH ACCESS POINT. An access maintained by the town for use by
vehicles at a designated location, usually on a town street. Vehicle access is
permitted at these points and at no other location.
(Ord. 15-1, passed 6-8-15)
§ 96.02 APPLICABILITY.
   Unless otherwise noted, this chapter shall be applicable on the public trust
beach area, as defined by G.S. § 77-20, and includes all land and water area
between the Atlantic Ocean and the base of the frontal dunes.
(Ord. 15-1, passed 6-8-15)
§ 96.03 GLASS CONTAINERS.
   (A)   The use of glass bottles and containers of any type on the beach area,
east of the western toe of the dune system is a danger to the public health,
comfort, convenience, safety, welfare and prosperity of the residents and
visitors of the town. The necessity and the public interest for the provisions
and prohibitions of this section are declared as a matter of legislative
determination and public policy; it is further declared that the provisions and
prohibitions of this section are in pursuance of securing and promoting the
public health, safety, comfort, convenience, welfare, peace and quiet and
prosperity of the town and its inhabitants and visitors.
   (B)   No person shall carry, possess, transport or otherwise have in his
possession any glass bottle, container or other item which, when broken or
shattered into smaller pieces, can or is reasonably likely to cause injury to
persons walking or otherwise using the beach area east of the western toe of
the dune system.
   (C)   Violation of this section shall constitute a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 15-1, passed 6-8-15)
§ 96.04 SURFING LEASH REQUIRED.
   No person shall use or operate a surfboard within the waters of the Atlantic
Ocean adjacent to the town unless a leash is physically attached to the surface
of the surfboard and the opposite end of the leash is looped so that the leash
shall be placed around the person's ankle or wrist for control of the surfboard
while in operation or use within the waters of the Atlantic Ocean.
(Ord. 15-1, passed 6-8-15)
§ 96.05 SURFING, SWIMMING, FLOATING AND SURF-FISHING IN DESIGNATED FISHING
ZONES.
   (A)   Designated fishing zones shall be marked. The owners of oceanfront
fishing piers shall mark and maintain or cause to be marked and maintained a
zone formed by parallel lines extending 75 yards in width from either side of
the centerline of the eastward extension of any fishing pier in and over the
water of the Atlantic Ocean abutting and contiguous to the town. The zone shall
be marked at its easternmost terminus by buoys or other flotation markers or
devices located at the northeast and southeast comers of the zone. The
northwest and southwest corners shall be marked in a manner as to be visible
from the surface of the water at the northeast and southeast corners of the
zone. The corner markers need not be maintained during periods in which the
responsible oceanfront pier has closed and is not open for commercial activity.
   (B)   No person shall surf, swim or float upon a surfboard or other
flotation device in the zone formed by parallel lines extending 75 yards in
width from either side of the centerline of the eastward extension of any
fishing pier in and over the waters of the Atlantic Ocean abutting and
contiguous to the town and marked at the zone's easternmost terminus by buoys
or other flotation markers or devices located at the northeast and southeast
comers of the zone, which areas have been marked in accordance with the
provisions of division (A) of this section.
   (C)   Surf-fishing, spear fishing within 75 yards of any fishing pier. No
person shall surf-fish or spear fish or swim with a spear fishing gun in the
zone formed by parallel lines extending 75 yards in width from either side of
the centerline of the eastward extension of any fishing pier in and over the
waters of the Atlantic Ocean abutting and contiguous to the town and marked at
the zone's easternmost terminus by buoys or other flotation markers or devices
located at the northeast and southeast corners of the zone, which areas have
been marked in accordance with the provisions of division (A) of this section.
(Ord. 15-1, passed 6-8-15)
§ 96.06 ANIMALS ON THE BEACH.
   Time. Between Memorial Day and Labor Day of each year, no dogs shall be
permitted on the public beach between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.
unless being used as a service animal to accompany the handler. At all other
times, no dogs shall be permitted on the public beaches except upon a leash and
under the control of owner or handler.
(Ord. 15-1, passed 6-8-15; Am. Ord. 15-24, passed 12-12-16; Am. Ord. 19-13,
passed 8-8-22)
§ 96.07 BOATING REGULATIONS.
   No person shall operate or pilot a boat, jet ski, motorboat or other such
like vehicle inside the area in which swimming is permitted or elsewhere along
the public beach in a manner as to create a hazard to bathers.
(Ord. 15-1, passed 6-8-15)
§ 96.08 DUTY TO OBEY LOCATION ORDERS.
   All users of the Atlantic Ocean within the town's jurisdiction, including,
but not limited to swimmers, surfers, skimboarders, and fishermen, shall follow
the orders of ocean rescue life guards and/or police officers which direct the
user(s) regarding the safest manner or location for engaging in their chosen
activity.
(Ord. 15-1, passed 6-8-15)
§ 96.09 BEACH EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Prohibited. The following activities shall be unlawful on the ocean
beach:
      (1)   Beach equipment placed or erected that:
         (a)   Prevents or disrupts the passage of emergency or rescue vehicles
or other town or government services vehicles; or
         (b)   Placement of apparatus, equipment or personal belongings
including but not limited to umbrellas, tents or canopies in such a manner as
to obstruct the line of sight to the water from lifeguard stands or other Ocean
Rescue Division surveillance areas.
      (2)   Overnight placement of beach equipment. Any manner of overnight
placement or storage of privately owned beach equipment, left unattended, in
the open air or, inside any type of container, box or chest; or, bundled, baled
or gathered, covered or uncovered, on the ocean beach between the hours of
sunset and sunrise.
      (3)   Overnight storage of any articles and/or storage containers
associated with any commercial business or rental company. All commercial
rentals or sales must be located within the principal business and property
west of the dry sand area.
   (B)   Remedies. Violations of this section shall result in the
classification of unattended beach equipment, personal property, or debris of
any kind as litter or unsafe property and said property may be removed by the
town and shall disposed of as litter, trash, garbage or rubbish.
(Ord. 15-1, passed 6-8-15)
§ 96.10 DRIVING ON SAND DUNES.
   No persons shall drive any type of vehicle, including but not limited to
bicycles, automobiles, motorcycles, dirt-bikes, ATVs and beach buggies on sand
dunes within the town, provided that this prohibition shall not include police
and other emergency vehicles.
(Ord. 15-1, passed 6-8-15)
BEACH DRIVING
§ 96.20 GENERALLY.
   (A)   No person shall operate any vehicle of any type, such as a beach
buggy, jeep, motorcycle, bicycle, dirt-bike, any one-, two-, three-, four- or
more wheeled vehicle powered by any type of motor or physically propelled on
the ocean beach area from May 1 through September 30.
   (B)   This section shall not prohibit the use of specified vehicles from
that area seaward of and including the frontal dune system by commercial
anglers engaged in commercial fishing activities.
(Ord. 15-1, passed 6-8-15; Am. Ord. 18-15, passed 9-13-21)
§ 96.21 PERMITS.
   (A)   Eligible vehicles. Permits shall be issued only for properly
registered and licensed vehicles having a four-wheel drive or an all-wheel
drive and which shall have passed inspection by the Department of Motor
Vehicles of the state or by the equivalent department or agency of the state in
which such vehicle is licensed, if applicable. Modified utility vehicles
("MUTV") as described in G.S. § 20-4.01(27) shall not be considered an
"eligible" vehicle regardless of whether the MUTV is registered or licensed in
any state. Any boat transported onto the beach must be properly registered and
marked according to the licensing jurisdiction.
   (B)   Applications; period of validity.
      (1)   Any person desiring to operate a permitted vehicle on the beach of
the town shall make application to the appropriately designated employee or
agent(s) of the Town of Kill Devil Hills. A permit issued hereunder shall be
valid from 12:01 a.m. October 1 and shall expire at 11:59 p.m. on April 30 of
the following year.
      (2)   It is further provided that there shall be a separate permit for
each vehicle for which a permit is desired under the terms of this division;
except for holders of a valid state commercial fishing license, operating one
or more vehicles in the business of commercial fishing, upon inspection of all
vehicles so used when owned and titled in the same name and upon payment of the
fee for the issuance of a single permit, duplicate permits shall be issued for
all vehicles so used and owned as hereinabove stated; provided, that all such
vehicles meet the licensing, inspection; and financial requirements as set out
in division (A) of this section.
      (3)   Short-term permits up to 14 days duration may be issued.
   (C)   Fee. An applicant for a permit will pay a non-refundable fee in
accordance with the regularly adopted fee schedule of the town at the time of
issuance of the permit and will receive a device or insignia which must be
permanently affixed and displayed on the left front bumper of the vehicle;
except, however, in the case of a short-term/up to 14 days duration permit, a
paper permit may substitute for a device or insignia which must be visibly
placed on the dashboard when the vehicle is being operated on the beach.
   (D)   Issuance not deemed authority to operate on private property. No
permit issued under this section shall be construed to authorize a vehicle or
the owner or operator thereof to operate on private property without the
permission of the owner of such property.
(Ord. 15-1, passed 6-8-15; Am. Ord. 19-2, passed 12-13-21; Am. Ord. 19-13,
passed 8-8-22)
§ 96.22 RULES OF OPERATION; OPERATION ON BEACHES.
   Vehicles operated on the ocean beach in Kill Devil Hills shall be operated
in accordance with the following rules:
   (A)   Permitted vehicles going to and from the beach area shall use as an
entrance and exit only the designated vehicular beach access points which shall
be designated as such by the Town Manager and appropriately marked. No vehicle
shall at any time cross to the beach unless crossing at designated accesses.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be operated on the beach at a speed in excess of 15
miles per hour.
   (C)   No vehicle shall be operated west of the "toe of slope" of the dune
except in going to and from the beach area at authorized vehicular beach access
points. However, nothing contained in this section shall be construed to permit
driving on the barrier dunes or driving on private property without the express
permission of the owner, even though the "toe of slope" may be located west of
the private property east boundary, which extends to the mean high water mark
of the ocean.
   (D)   No vehicle shall be operated between the waterline and the high tide
mark (commonly referred to as the "wet sand" area).
   (E)   Vehicles having permits may be operated on the beach only from one-
half hour prior to sunrise to one-half hour following sunset daily.
   (F)   Pedestrians, including swimmers, bathers, and sunbathers shall have
the right-of-way over all vehicles being operated on the beach.
   (G)   The ordinances adopted herein and the provisions of G.S. Chapter 20
shall be enforced on the ocean beaches within the boundaries of Kill Devil
Hills as provided by G.S. §§ 160A-205, 160A-175, and Chapter 20.
   (H)   Any operator of any vehicle on the beach area or going to and from the
beach must have a current and valid motor vehicle operator's license issued by
their state of residence and be operating an eligible vehicle as defined in §
96.21(A).
(Ord. 15-1, passed 6-8-15; Am. Ord. 18-15, passed 9-13-21; Am. Ord. 19-13,
passed 8-8-22)
§ 96.23 BEACH DRIVING PRIVILEGES FOR DISABLED INDIVIDUALS.
   The Police Chief or designee may issue permits allowing for the use of an
all-terrain vehicle on areas covered by this section when such use constitutes
a reasonable accommodation under the Americans with Disabilities Act as Amended
to enable a disabled person to operate a vehicle as otherwise authorized under
this chapter. Permits may be obtained at either the Town of Kill Devil Hills
Police Department during normal office hours.
   (A)   The application for a permit shall be accompanied by a certification
from a licensed physician that the applicant has a disability that prevents
them from obtaining a permit to operate a vehicle as defined in this chapter on
the ocean beach.
   (B)   Beach driving for all persons is permitted only from October 1 through
April 30, annually.
   (C)   Upon receiving an application for a beach driving permit that meets
the requirement of this subchapter, the Police Department may issue a beach
driving permit which shall be limited to one beach driving season. Applicants
may seek a permit for each beach driving season.
   (D)   The date and time limitation provided in §
96.21 shall not apply to commercial anglers holding a valid state commercial
angler’s license when engaged in commercial fishing activities.
(Ord. 18-15, passed 9-13-21; Am. Ord. 19-13, passed 8-8-22)
§ 96.24 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Agencies of the United States government, law enforcement agencies,
fire departments, ocean rescue services, wildlife protection and/or
conservation organizations, emergency medical services, and employees, agents,
contractors and subcontractors for the Town of Kill Devil Hills, including
those conducting beach restoration or protection work, engaged in their
official duties are exempt from the provisions of this chapter. The Police
Chief or designee may, from time to time, allow such other services and/or
governmental agencies to utilize town beaches with such conditions as may be
established on a case by case basis provided that such utilization is for the
public benefit.
   (B)   The date and time limitation provided in §
96.21 shall not apply to commercial anglers holding a valid state commercial
fishing license when engaged in commercial fishing activities.
(Ord. 15-1, passed 6-8-15; Am. Ord. 19-13, passed 8-8-22)
§ 96.25 CLOSURE.
   The Town Manager shall have the authority to close any vehicular beach
access points, portion of the beach or all of the beach at such times and
places that extensive beach erosion occurs. This authority may be exercised by
the Town Manager when, as a result of inspections by the Town Manager or the
town employees subject to the Town Manager's authority, it is determined that
the width of the beach between the toe of the slope of the dune and the area
affected by ocean wash and waves is such that driving would either be dangerous
or increase the effects of erosion, or the beach is not sufficiently wide or
stable to support vehicular traffic.
(Ord. 15-1, passed 6-8-15; Am. Ord. 19-13, passed 8-8-22)
§ 96.26 VIOLATIONS, REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Violations of town ordinances shall subject the offender to a criminal
misdemeanor under G.S. § 14-4. Violations of G.S. Chapter 20 shall be punished
as provided by the North Carolina General Statutes.
   (B)   Violations of this subchapter involving threatened or endangered
species shall subject the offender to civil and criminal penalties imposed by
the United States Fish and Wildlife Service. The town will forward all
enforcement actions to the United States Fish and Wildlife Service for maximum
enforcement action.
   (C)   The Police Chief or designee shall have the authority to revoke a
permit issued under this subchapter for one or more violations of this
subchapter. The Police Chief or designee shall consider the number, nature, and
intent associated with the violations in making a determination to revoke a
permit; and shall also determine the time frame said permit is revoked.
(Ord. 15-1, passed 6-8-15; Am. Ord. 19-13, passed 8-8-22)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
110.   BUSINESS REGISTRATION
         
111.   SPECIAL EVENTS – CHARITABLE EVENTS
         
112.   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
         
113.   FIBER OPTIC CABLE SERVICES
         
114.   BODY PIERCING ESTABLISHMENTS
         
115.   TAXICABS
         
116.   NATURAL GAS COMPANY
         
117.   RECYCLING
         
118.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
CHAPTER 110: BUSINESS REGISTRATION
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Construction
   
110.03   Applicability of chapter provisions
   
110.04   Levy of tax
   
110.05   Period of license; due date; annual license
   
110.06   Proration of tax
   
110.07   Refunds
   
110.08   License required for every separate business
   
110.09   Exemptions
   
110.10   Registration process
   
110.11   Application for privilege license
   
110.12   Reasons for refusal or revocation of license
   
110.13   Unqualified applicants; right to conference
   
110.14   Tax collector to issue license; payment of tax a prerequisite
   
110.15   Procedure when amount of tax disputed
   
110.16   Revocation; conference
   
110.17   Record of conferences
   
110.18   Form and contents of license
   
110.19   Assignments
   
110.20   Changes in business conducted by licensee during tax year
   
110.21   Tax collector to furnish duplicates
   
110.22   Providing notice to applicant or licensee
   
110.23   Responsibility of business owner to determine whether tax/fee due
   
110.24   Tax collector to investigate
   
110.25   Keeping records
   
110.26   Duty to permit inspection
   
110.27   Displaying license
   
110.28   Notice of deficiency
   
110.29   Request for conference
   
110.30   Deficiency to become final if conference not requested
   
110.31   Procedures when conference held
   
110.32   Collection of deficiency or delinquent taxes
   
110.33   Releases
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   BUSINESS. Each trade, occupation, profession, business and franchise taxed
or assessed a registration fee under this chapter. The authority to require a
privilege license and tax upon an individual business is bestowed upon the town
by the North Carolina General Assembly, which authority is amended from time to
time. "Person" as used in this chapter means any individual, company,
corporation, firm or other entity.
   BUSINESS WITHIN THE TOWN. A person maintains a business location in the
town, or if, either personally or through agents, he solicits or transacts
business within the town; or picks up or delivers goods, or delivers services
within the town.
   CONDUCTS BUSINESS. A person, firm, corporation or other entity engages in
one act of any business within the town as defined in this chapter.
(Ord. 15-25, passed 12-12-16)
§ 110.02 CONSTRUCTION.
   This chapter is enacted for revenue and regulatory purposes. Therefore, it
should be construed to require payment of the maximum tax or fee permitted
under its terms. In addition, issuance of a license pursuant to this chapter
does not excuse a licensee from compliance with any other applicable ordinance
or statute. This chapter does not prevent the town from imposing license taxes
or fees on additional businesses, from increasing or decreasing the amount of
any license tax or fee, or from regulating any business paying such license tax
or fee.
(Ord. 15-25, passed 12-12-16)
§ 110.03 APPLICABILITY OF CHAPTER PROVISIONS.
   Each person who conducts a business within the town is subject to this
chapter, except as exempted herein.
(Ord. 15-25, passed 12-12-16)
§ 110.04 LEVY OF TAX.
   (A)   Privilege license. An annual privilege license tax as listed in the
consolidated fee schedule is hereby levied on all such businesses conducted
within the town. Those businesses subject to an annual privilege tax imposed by
the State of North Carolina or otherwise exempted from local privilege license
taxes by State law are exempt from the town's privilege license tax.
   (B)   Business registration fee. An annual registration fee as listed in the
consolidated fee schedule is hereby imposed on all such businesses conducted
within the town.
(Ord. 15-25, passed 12-12-16)
§ 110.05 PERIOD OF LICENSE; DUE DATE; ANNUAL LICENSE.
   Unless the section of this chapter levying the privilege license tax
applicable to a particular business provides otherwise, a license issued
pursuant to this chapter is good for the 12-month period beginning July 1 and
ending June 30. The privilege license fee and business registration fee are due
September 1 of each year. However, if a person begins a business after July 1
of a year, the registration fee and, if applicable, tax for that year, are each
due before the business is begun.
(Ord. 15-25, passed 12-12-16)
§ 110.06 PRORATION OF TAX.
   If a business is begun after January 1 and before July 1, the amount of tax
or fee due shall be prorated according to the start date of business
operations.
(Ord. 15-25, passed 12-12-16)
§ 110.07 REFUNDS.
   If for any reason a person discontinues his business during the year for
which a registration fee or privilege license tax are imposed, he is not
entitled to a refund of any fees paid.
(Ord. 15-25, passed 12-12-16)
§ 110.08 LICENSE REQUIRED FOR EVERY SEPARATE BUSINESS.
   Each person doing business within the town is required to register with the
town on an annual basis. A separate registration fee is required and a separate
registration fee must be paid for each place of business unless two or more
places of business subject to the same fee under this chapter are contiguous to
each other and are operated as a unit. Those businesses subject to privilege
license tax imposed under this chapter that pay multiple registration fees
shall likewise pay multiple privilege license taxes.
(Ord. 15-25, passed 12-12-16)
§ 110.09 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Generally. Except as otherwise provided in this section or by state
law, no person is exempt from the payment of a privilege license tax or
registration fee levied by this chapter.
   (B)   Charitable organizations. A person who operates a business for a
religious, educational, civic, patriotic, charitable or fraternal purpose, when
the entire gross income of the business is used for such a purpose, is exempt
from paying any privilege license tax levied by this chapter.
   (C)   Blind persons and members of the armed forces and merchant marine.
Blind persons and persons who serve in the United States armed forces or the
merchant marine are exempt from paying any privilege license tax levied by this
chapter to the extent provided by the general statutes.
   (D)   Those businesses subject to an annual privilege tax imposed by the
State of North Carolina or otherwise exempted from local privilege license
taxes by state law are exempt from the town's privilege license tax and
registration fee.
   (E)   Tax-free license. A person exempt from paying a privilege license tax
or registration fee levied by this chapter shall nevertheless register his
business and obtain any necessary license from the tax collector. The license
shall state that the licensee is exempt from paying the privilege license tax
or registration fee.
(Ord. 15-25, passed 12-12-16)
§ 110.10 REGISTRATION PROCESS.
   A person who conducts business within the town shall register his business
before beginning the conducting of the business. A business shall be registered
by submitting a form provided by the tax collector which shall provide the
following information:
   (A)   The name of the applicant and whether he or it is an individual, a
partnership, a corporation or some other entity;
   (B)   The nature of the business;
   (C)   Where the business is conducted;
   (D)   An address to which may be mailed notices and statements required by
this chapter;
   (E)   Whether the business is one regulated by a state occupational
licensing board subject to G.S. Ch. 93B and, if so, the serial number of the
state license the applicant currently holds; and
   (F)   For any corporation or other entity registered with the North Carolina
Secretary of State, the name and address of their registered agent.
(Ord. 15-25, passed 12-12-16)
§ 110.11 APPLICATION FOR PRIVILEGE LICENSE.
   A person required to apply for a privilege license shall apply to the tax
collector for each license required by this chapter no less than 30 days before
the date the tax is due. The application, which shall be submitted on forms
provided by the tax collector, shall contain:
   (A)   The name of the applicant and whether he or it is an individual, a
partnership, a corporation or some other entity;
   (B)   The nature of the business;
   (C)   Where the business is conducted;
   (D)   An address to which may be mailed notices and statements required by
this chapter;
   (E)   Whether the business is one regulated by a state occupational
licensing board subject to G.S. Ch. 93B and, if so, the serial number of the
state license the applicant currently holds; and
   (F)   Any other information the tax collector determines to be necessary.
(Ord. 15-25, passed 12-12-16)
§ 110.12 REASONS FOR REFUSAL OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   The tax collector shall refuse to issue a license or shall revoke a license
for either of the following reasons:
   (A)   The applicant misrepresents a fact relevant to the amount of tax/fee
due or his qualifications for a license; or
   (B)   The applicant refuses to provide information necessary to complete the
amount of tax/fee due.
(Ord. 15-25, passed 12-12-16)
§ 110.13 UNQUALIFIED APPLICANTS; RIGHT TO CONFERENCE.
   After receipt of the completed application, if the tax collector believes
that a reason exists for refusing a license under §
110.12, he shall refuse to accept payment of the tax/fee and shall not issue
the license. At the applicant's request, the tax collector shall, pursuant to §
110.22, give him a written statement of the reason for refusing the license.
The applicant may, within ten days after the day he receives this statement,
request a conference to discuss the refusal. In his request he shall specify
why his application for a license should not be refused. The tax collector
shall arrange the conference within a reasonable time.
   (B)   If the tax collector refuses to issue a license, the applicant may
reapply for a license at any time thereafter. If the reason for which the
application was refused no longer exists and if no other reason exists for
refusing to issue a license, the tax collector shall issue the license pursuant
to §
110.14.
(Ord. 15-25, passed 12-12-16)
§ 110.14 TAX COLLECTOR TO ISSUE LICENSE; PAYMENT OF TAX A PREREQUISITE.
   After receipt of the completed application, if the tax collector believes
that no reason exists for refusal of a license under §
110.12, he shall determine the amount of tax/fee due and notify the applicant
of that amount. The tax collector shall not issue a license until the tax/fee
is paid.
(Ord. 15-25, passed 12-12-16)
§ 110.15 PROCEDURE WHEN AMOUNT OF TAX DISPUTED.
   If the applicant disputes that he is subject to the business registration
fee or the amount the tax collector determines to be due, he may either refuse
to pay and request a conference with the tax collector to discuss the
determination, or pay the amount and request a conference to discuss his right
for a refund. If a conference is requested, the tax collector shall arrange it
in a reasonable time. The procedures and provisions of §
110.28 shall apply in the event of a dispute under this section.
(Ord. 15-25, passed 12-12-16)
§ 110.16 REVOCATION; CONFERENCE.
   (A)   The tax collector shall revoke a license if a reason exists to revoke
it as set forth in §
110.12. Before the tax collector may revoke a license, he shall give the
licensee written notice of the grounds for revocation, pursuant to §
110.22. The licensee may, within ten days after the day on which notice is
served, request in writing a conference with the tax collector. The request
shall specify the reasons why the license should not be revoked. The tax
collector shall arrange the conference within a reasonable time.
   (B)   If the licensee fails to request a conference within ten days after
the day on which notice is served, the tax collector shall revoke the license.
If the licensee requests a conference, the tax collector may not revoke the
license until after the conference.
   (C)   If the tax collector revokes a license, the former licensee may apply
for a new license at any time thereafter. If the reason for which the license
was revoked no longer exists and if no other reason exists for refusing to
issue a license, the tax collector shall issue the license pursuant to §
110.14.
(Ord. 15-25, passed 12-12-16)
§ 110.17 RECORD OF CONFERENCES.
   The tax collector shall maintain for three years a record of each conference
held pursuant to this chapter. The record shall contain the applicant's or
licensee's name, the date of the conference and a brief statement of the issues
discussed and the result reached. After three years, the tax collector shall
dispose of the record pursuant to G.S. 121-5.
(Ord. 15-25, passed 12-12-16)
§ 110.18 FORM AND CONTENTS OF LICENSE.
   (A)   A license issued pursuant to this chapter shall show:
      (1)   The name of the person licensed;
      (2)   The place where the business is conducted (if it is to be conducted
at one place);
      (3)   The nature of business licensed;
      (4)   The period for which the license is issued; and
      (5)   The amount of tax paid.
   (B)   In addition, if a machine is licensed, the license shall show the
serial number of the machine. The tax collector shall keep a copy of each
license issued.
(Ord. 15-25, passed 12-12-16)
§ 110.19 ASSIGNMENTS.
   (A)   A license issued pursuant to this chapter may be assigned if:
      (1)   A business licensed under this chapter and carried on at a fixed
place is sold as a unit to any person; and
      (2)   The purchaser is to carry on the same business at the same place.
   (B)   Such a change shall be reported to the tax collector within ten days.
Otherwise, each license issued under this chapter is a personal privilege and
is not assignable.
(Ord. 15-25, passed 12-12-16)
§ 110.20 CHANGES IN BUSINESS CONDUCTED BY LICENSEE DURING TAX YEAR.
   A person conducting business within the town shall report a change in their
registration information to the tax collector within ten days after the change
occurs. A licensee or his assignee shall report any change in the information
contained in the license application within ten days after the change occurs.
If information shown on a license issued under this chapter is affected
thereby, the licensee or his assignee shall surrender the license to the tax
collector when reporting the change.
   (A)   Changes affecting amount of tax due. If there are no reasons for
revoking the license under §
110.12 and the change results in the imposition of a separate or additional
tax, the tax collector shall reissue a license reflecting the change upon
payment of the separate or additional tax.
   (B)   Changes not affecting amount of tax due. If there are no reasons for
revoking the license under §
110.12 and the change does not result in an imposition of a separate or
additional tax, the tax collector shall reissue a license reflecting the change
at no charge.
   (C)   Change requiring refusal of license. If there is reason for revoking
the license under §
110.12, the tax collector shall refuse to reissue a license and shall instead
begin proceedings to revoke the license pursuant to §
110.16.
(Ord. 15-25, passed 12-12-16)
§ 110.21 TAX COLLECTOR TO FURNISH DUPLICATES.
   Upon satisfactory proof that a license has been lost or destroyed, the tax
collector shall furnish a duplicate for the fee as listed on the consolidated
fee schedule.
(Ord. 15-25, passed 12-12-16)
§ 110.22 PROVIDING NOTICE TO APPLICANT OR LICENSEE.
   Whenever this chapter requires the tax collector to give a written statement
or notice to a business registered in the Town, or to an applicant or a
licensee, he may do so in any one of three ways:
   (A)   By personally delivering the statement or notice to the applicant or
licensee;
   (B)   By mailing the statement or notice by registered or certified mail,
return receipt requested, to the address specified for that purpose in the
license application; or
   (C)   By causing the statement or notice to be served on the applicant or
licensee in accordance with the procedures for service of process under Rule 4,
North Carolina Rules of Civil Procedure.
(Ord. 15-25, passed 12-12-16)
§ 110.23 RESPONSIBILITY OF BUSINESS OWNER TO DETERMINE WHETHER TAX/FEE DUE.
   Each person has the duty to determine whether the business he conducts is
subject to tax/fee under this chapter, and if so, whether that tax/fee has been
paid for the current tax year.
(Ord. 15-25, passed 12-12-16)
§ 110.24 TAX COLLECTOR TO INVESTIGATE.
   If the tax collector has reason to believe that a person is conducting a
business in the town in violation of this chapter, he shall conduct an
investigation to determine whether the person is subject to the registration
requirement of this chapter. For any person required to obtain a license under
this chapter, the tax collector shall also determine the person's liability.
(Ord. 15-25, passed 12-12-16)
§ 110.25 KEEPING RECORDS.
   Each person who conducts a business required to have a license under this
chapter shall keep all records and books necessary to compute his tax
liability. If a person fails to keep books and records as required, the tax
collector shall make his own determination of that person's tax liability from
the information available to him.
(Ord. 15-25, passed 12-12-16)
§ 110.26 DUTY TO PERMIT INSPECTION.
   Each person who conducts business in the town shall permit the tax collector
to inspect his business premises during normal business hours to determine the
nature of the business conducted there and to examine his books and records to
determine the nature and amount of business transacted.
(Ord. 15-25, passed 12-12-16)
§ 110.27 DISPLAYING LICENSE.
   A licensee shall post his license conspicuously in the place of business
licensed. If he has no regular place of business, the license must be kept
where it may be inspected at all times by the proper town officials. If a
machine is licensed, the license shall be affixed to the machine.
(Ord. 15-25, passed 12-12-16)
§ 110.28 NOTICE OF DEFICIENCY.
   If the tax collector determines that a person has not paid the full amount
of tax/fee due under this article, either for the current license year or for a
prior license year, he shall give the person written notice of the deficiency,
pursuant to §
110.22. The notice of deficiency shall specify the total amount of tax due, the
section upon which the tax is based, the amount of tax paid, any interest due,
the balance owed, the manner and time period in which the person may respond to
the notice of the deficiency and the consequences to the person if he fails to
respond as specified. A similar process shall be followed for the nonpayment of
the business registration fee for any person subject to paying the business
registration fee imposed by this chapter.
(Ord. 15-25, passed 12-12-16)
§ 110.29 REQUEST FOR CONFERENCE.
   The person may, within ten days after the day on which notice of delivery
under this chapter is served, request in writing a conference. The request
shall specify the person's objections to the notice of deficiency. By way of
illustration, but not limitation, a person who receives notice of a deficiency
may object on the grounds that:
   (A)   The tax/fee due has already been paid;
   (B)   The tax collector miscalculated the amount of tax/fee due;
   (C)   The tax collector based his calculation on incorrect or insufficient
information concerning either the nature or amount of business conducted;
   (D)   The tax collector based his determination on an erroneous
interpretation of a section of this chapter, which established a category of
business subject to a particular tax/fee.
(Ord. 15-25, passed 12-12-16)
§ 110.30 DEFICIENCY TO BECOME FINAL IF CONFERENCE NOT REQUESTED.
   If the taxpayer fails to request a conference under §
110.29, the deficiency becomes final and the tax collector shall proceed to
collect the deficiency.
(Ord. 15-25, passed 12-12-16)
§ 110.31 PROCEDURES WHEN CONFERENCE HELD.
   If the taxpayer requests a conference, the tax collector shall not proceed
to collect the deficiency until he hears the taxpayer's objections and
determines that the deficiency should become final. The tax collector shall
maintain for three years a record of each conference held pursuant to §
110.29. The record shall contain the name of the taxpayer, the date of the
conference and a brief statement of the issues discussed and the results of the
discussion. After three years, the tax collector shall dispose of the record
pursuant to G.S. 121-5.
(Ord. 15-25, passed 12-12-16)
§ 110.32 COLLECTION OF DEFICIENCY OR DELINQUENT TAXES.
   (A)   The tax collector may use any of the following methods to collect a
deficiency or delinquent taxes:
      (1)   A civil penalty with §
10.18;
      (2)   Equitable remedies. In addition to the remedies set forth in this
section and §
10.19 of the town code, and in compliance with G.S. § 160A-175(d), the town may
seek an injunction against any person who conducts a business in violation of
this chapter.
      (3)   The remedies of levy and sale and attachment and garnishment, in
accordance with G.S. 160A-207;
      (4)   The remedies of levy and sale of real and personal property of the
taxpayer within the town in accordance with the provisions of G.S. 105-109.
   (B)   Any person who commences or continues to conduct a business taxed
under this chapter without payment of the tax is liable for the additional tax
of five percent each 30 days, imposed by G.S. 105-109.
   (C)   Any business/privilege license invoice older than three years,
regarding a business that the town no longer regards as active, may be removed
from the list of receivable accounts in the town's financial statement. At
least annually, the tax collector will present the Board of Commissioners with
a list of uncollectible accounts, requesting the Board's approval for a formal
write-off of such accounts. The town will use all available means to collect
these accounts to include but not be limited to: bank attachment and payroll
garnishment where applicable, debt set-off, etc.
(Ord. 15-25, passed 12-12-16)
§ 110.33 RELEASES.
   If it is determined that upon the issuance date of a renewal license the
licensee has discontinued his business, the finance director may release the
tax/fee.
(Ord. 15-25, passed 12-12-16)
CHAPTER 111: SPECIAL EVENTS – CHARITABLE EVENTS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Administration and enforcement
   
111.03   Prohibited activities
   
111.04   Exempt activities
   
111.05   Regulation of charitable special events
   
111.06   Additional regulations for charitable events with for-profit itinerant
vendors
   
111.07   Special events on the beach
   
111.08   Permit requirements and application
   
111.09   Application review
   
111.10   Permit issuance and revocation
   
111.11   Permit not grounds for other violations
   
111.12   Permit appeal
   
111.13   Disclaimer of liability
   
111.14   Payment of actual costs required
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ARTICLES OF MERCHANDISE.    Anything of value offered for sale or
solicitation to the public by any person.
   CHARITABLE SPECIAL EVENTS. Any indoor or outdoor event, fair, carnival,
festival, musical concert, sporting competition or contest, conducted,
organized, coordinated or otherwise held by an organization, on public or
private land, from which 100% of the profits realized by the permittee and
vendors, after expenses, shall be donated to an organization that is recognized
as tax-exempt and non-profit, under the provisions of the United States
Internal Revenue Code.
   ITINERANT VENDOR. Any person utilizing any cart, table, equipment, tent, or
other apparatus, which is stationary, designed and intended so as to not be a
permanent fixture on a lot, and which a cart, table, tent, equipment or other
apparatus is used for the retail sale, display, and/or accessory advertising of
merchandise or food.
   NON-CHARITABLE SPECIAL EVENT(S). Event(s) operated solely for the purpose of
providing a venue for itinerant vendors to sell or offer for sale articles of
merchandise, food or beverage.
   PEDDLER. Any person selling, offering for sale, or soliciting orders for
goods, food or services or distributing, disseminating, or gathering
information by written or spoken word upon the streets, sidewalks, multi-use
paths, town-owned property, town-owned parking areas, public beaches or alleys
of the city, or by going from place to place whether by foot or by other means
of transportation.
   PEDDLING. The sale, offering for sale, or distribution of any articles of
merchandise or advertisement from house to house, person to person or upon
personal property by any person or persons from a cart, truck, automobile, by
foot or by other device operated over and upon the streets and highways,
sidewalks, multi-use paths, town-owned property, town-owned parking areas,
public beaches, or alleys of the town.
(Ord. 98-07, passed 8-10-98; Am. Ord. 03-14, passed 7-14-03; Am. Ord. 05-03,
passed 3-17-05; Am. Ord. 09-13, passed 8-10-09; Am. Ord. 12-03, passed 3-12-12;
Am. Ord. 13-13, passed 9-9-13; Am. Ord. 17-5, passed 7-10-19)
§ 111.02 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   The Zoning Administrator or designee will administer and enforce the rules
and regulations of this chapter and authorize issuance of a permit in
cooperation with the Chief of Police, Fire Chief, Public Services Director or
their designee and any other affected departments including Buildings and
Grounds and Ocean Rescue. A copy of the approved application will remain on
file with the Planning and Inspections Department for a period of three years.
(Ord. 98-07, passed 8-10-98; Am. Ord. 03-14, passed 7-14-03; Am. Ord. 05-03,
passed 3-17-05; Am. Ord. 12-03, passed 3-12-12; Am. Ord. 17-5, passed 7-10-19)
§ 111.03 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   The following activities, as defined in §
111.01, shall be prohibited:
   (A)   Itinerant vendors, except as part of an approved special event;
   (B)   Peddlers and/or the act of peddling;
   (C)   Non-charitable special events unless approved by the Board of
Commissioners.
(Ord. 03-14, passed 7-14-03; Am. Ord. 05-03, passed 3-17-05; Am. Ord. 12-03,
passed 3-12-12; Am. Ord. 17-5, passed 7-10-19)
§ 111.04 EXEMPT ACTIVITIES.
   The following itinerant vendors, groups, and special events may be
permitted:
   (A)   Residential yard sales, provided that no residence shall conduct such
sales on more than four separate days during any calendar year;
   (B)   Commercial yard sales for outdoor sales of commercial products at an
approved commercial establishment meeting the following criteria:
      (1)   No more than four events per 12-month period;
      (2)   Ten percent of required parking can be used for merchandise sales;
      (3)   No longer than five consecutive days;
      (4)   Not within any state or local right-of-way or easement;
      (5)   Signage as allowed in §
111.05(H)(1);
      (6)   Approval of commercial yard sale application by the Planning and
Inspection Department.
   (C)   Town-sponsored events and any events located on county property within
the Government and Institutional - Public Zoning District.
(Ord. 03-14, passed 7-14-03; Am. Ord. 05-03, passed 3-17-05; Am. Ord. 12-03,
passed 3-12-12; Am. Ord. 13-13, passed 9-9-13; Am. Ord. 17-5, passed 7-10-19)
§ 111.05 REGULATION OF CHARITABLE SPECIAL EVENTS.
   Those charitable special events defined in this chapter may operate in the
town year round, subject to the regulations set out in this chapter and:
   (A)   The charitable special event shall comply at all times with all local,
state and federal laws.
   (B)   Charitable special events shall be allowed for no more than three
consecutive days and be limited to the hours of 6:00 a.m. until 9:00 p.m.
   (C)   No special event or itinerant vendor shall leave any location without
picking up, removing, and disposing of all trash and other refuse created by,
or during the special event, or any related business activity.
   (D)   All charitable special events must obtain written permission from the
property owner/operator on which the event or itinerant vendor(s) will be
situated prior to the event.
   (E)   Tents, structures, and/or apparatus planned, designed and erected for
purposes of providing temporary shade and cover shall comply with the North
Carolina Fire and Building Codes, and shall not be erected for longer than the
duration of the event, which shall correspond to the issued permit.
   (F)   No special event shall solicit or conduct business with persons
operating motor vehicles.
   (G)   No charitable special event shall be held on or within any public
street or highway right-of-way except approved race/parade events.
   (H)   Signage.
      (1)   Temporary on-site signage, as follows:
         (a)   The total amount of temporary signage for any charitable special
event shall not exceed 100 square feet in area. Such signage may be in a single
sign or a combination of signs.
         (b)   Each itinerant vendor within the charitable special event shall
be allowed temporary signage not to exceed 36 square feet per each itinerant
vendor.
         (c)   All temporary signs shall be located within the boundaries of
the area in which the event will be held.
         (d)   Temporary signs may be displayed 24 hours prior to the event and
shall be promptly removed by the permittee within 24 hours of the conclusion of
the event.
         (e)   Temporary signs shall not be located in a manner that impedes
the movement of pedestrians or emergency response vehicles on the beach.
         (f)   Temporary signs shall be placed as to not blow over or cause a
nuisance or become litter.
      (2)   Off-site temporary directional signage, as follows:
         (a)   Not more than two off-site temporary directional signs shall be
allowed for any charitable special event.
         (b)   No directional sign shall exceed 36 square feet for any
charitable special event, and shall not be erected more than one week prior to
the permitted event and shall be removed within 24 hours of the conclusion of
the permitted event.
         (c)   No signage shall be located within a sight triangle.
   (I)   Parking. Event site may use up to 10% of the required parking for a
commercial establishment for a special event. If using more than 10% of the
required parking, the establishment will be required to close for regular
business during the event.
(Ord. 03-14, passed 7-14-03; Am. Ord. 05-03, passed 3-17-05; Am. Ord. 12-03,
passed 3-12-12; Am. Ord. 13-13, passed 9-9-13; Am. Ord. 17-5, passed 7-10-19)
§ 111.06 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR CHARITABLE EVENTS WITH FOR-PROFIT ITINERANT
VENDORS.
   Charitable events with itinerant vendors not donating proceeds to a
charitable organization or for-profit itinerant vendors are permitted between
September 30 through May 1 and subject to the requirements of §
111.05 and itinerant vendors shall be allowed as part of the event subject to
the following provisions:
   (A)   (1)   No more than 20 itinerant vendors per event;
      (2)   The permittee shall provide a list of itinerant vendors at the time
of application and the permit application shall include a depiction of each
itinerant vendor's location on the physical site of the event.
   (B)   The permittee shall be required to donate 100% of the profits
realized, after expenses, to a charitable organization that is recognized as
tax-exempt and non-profit under the United States Internal Revenue Code. The
permittee shall provide the town with an accounting of the event within ten
days after the conclusion of the event including the name(s) of the
organization receiving the donation(s).
(Ord. 17-5, passed 7-10-19)
§ 111.07 SPECIAL EVENTS ON THE BEACH.
   Charitable events occurring on the beach or dry sand area between the high
water mark and the first line of stable natural vegetation shall meet all of
the requirements in §
111.05 in addition to the following:
   (A)   No event shall block any portion of the beach or beach access for
emergency personnel and lifeguard services. No apparatus, equipment or personal
belongings including but not limited to umbrellas, tents or canopies shall be
placed in such a manner as to obstruct the site line required for a lifeguard
to perform his or her duties.
   (B)   No more than 300 linear feet of dry beach parallel to the shoreline
shall be used per event unless approved by the Board of Commissioners at a
public meeting. This restriction shall not apply in the water.
   (C)   No itinerant vendors or rentals shall be permitted.
   (D)   No physical structures, materials or apparatus shall be permitted on
the beach or dry sand beach area overnight (9:00 p.m. until 6:00 a.m.).
   (E)   No live music.
   (F)   No driving on the beach except as permitted by the Town Code.
(Ord. 17-5, passed 7-10-19)
§ 111.08 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS AND APPLICATION.
   (A)   Requirements. No permittee shall conduct business nor shall any
special event be advertised, conducted, organized, coordinated, or otherwise
held until such time as a permit is applied for and issued by the town in
accordance with this chapter. Except as otherwise provided, such permit shall
be valid only for a period of seven consecutive days. No permit will be issued
for the same sponsor (charity), or more than four times in 12 consecutive
months. All itinerant vendor operations and/or special events shall be either
within the applicant's property or within property upon which the applicant has
written permission from the owner to use.
   (B)   Permit application; charitable special events. Any person, group or
organization sponsoring a charitable special event shall submit a permit
application to the Zoning Administrator or designee. The application shall
provide the following minimum required information:
      (1)   The name, address of the applicant, person, group or organization
applying for the permit and/or sponsoring the special event in whose name the
permit may be issued;
      (2)   A written description of the proposed business activity including,
but not limited to, the location of the proposed charitable special event;
      (3)   A written description or photograph of any stand to be used in
connection with the business;
      (4)   A designation, by reference to identifiable landmarks, on a site
sketch, describing the approximate area in which such event will be contained,
such are to include that required for parking for the special event, tent(s),
and any other related activities;
      (5)   An estimate of the anticipated attendance of both participants and
spectators;
      (6)   Written permission from the land/business owner(s) to hold the
charitable event at that location;
      (7)   A certificate of health inspection, or letter of exemption, from
the Dare County Health Department with respect to any food products prepared by
any food operation required to be licensed. Sanitary facilities must be
provided as required by the Dare County Health Department or the North Carolina
Building Code;
      (8)   In summary format, the general plans of the applicant and sponsor
concerning the following matters (as applicable to the event):
         (a)   Crowd control procedures;
         (b)   Traffic and parking control;
         (c)   The impact of the performance or event on existing parking
areas, streets, highways and the burden placed upon public agencies for traffic
and crowd security and control;
         (d)   The effects of such performance or event on fire control and
fire prevention, including safety precautions;
         (e)   Provisions for emergency medical services and first aid;
         (f)   Provisions for collection and disposal of solid wastes,
including trash and garbage, and sanitary provisions, including human waste
collection and disposal and the providing of sanitary facilities;
         (g)   Provisions for returning the site to its pre-event conditions,
including but not limited to the removal of all debris and trash immediately
after the event;
         (h)   The amount, type, and location of temporary signage.
      (9)   Such other information as the Zoning Administrator or designee may
determine necessary.
(Ord. 03-14, passed 7-14-03; Am. Ord. 05-03, passed 3-17-05; Am. Ord. 12-03,
passed 3-12-12; Am. Ord. 13-13, passed 9-9-13; Am. Ord. 17-5, passed 7-10-19)
§ 111.09 APPLICATION REVIEW.
   The Zoning Administrator or designee shall, upon receipt of an application
for a permit, review it with the applicant or sponsoring organization to
determine any other matters deemed relevant and for the obtaining of more
specific information concerning the items presented in the permit application.
In determining whether or not to issue such permit, the Zoning Administrator or
his or her designee shall consider those items required to be presented in the
permit application and shall also consider conflicts and possible conflicts
with other events and performances, the burden placed by the event on public
agencies, the adequacy of security, traffic control and crowd control
provisions, the health and safety conditions for those attending the
performance or event and the capacity of the area designated for the event to
contain the expected number of vehicles, participants, and spectators. In
addition, the Zoning Administrator or designee must find that the provisions
and plans for crowd and traffic control and security, health and sanitation and
all matters required to be included in the permit application are adequate and
that the applicant and sponsor have the reasonable capability of carrying out
such plans and preparations.
(Ord. 03-14, passed 7-14-03; Am. Ord. 05-03, passed 3-17-05; Am. Ord. 12-03,
passed 3-12-12; Am. Ord. 17-5, passed 7-10-19)
§ 111.10 PERMIT ISSUANCE AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator or designee, after review of the requirements
contained in this chapter and the permit application, shall either grant or
deny a charitable special event within five working days after a permit
application has been submitted.
   (B)   Such permit shall be issued when the Zoning Administrator or designee
finds that:
      (1)   The proposed activity will not unreasonably interfere with the
rights of the general public in having free access along public ways and
streets, after consultation with the Chief of Police or designee and such other
public officials as may be deemed appropriate;
      (2)   The proposed activity will not unreasonably interfere with or
detract from the promotion of public health, welfare, safety and recreation;
      (3)   Adequate public services are available for crowd and traffic
security and control;
      (4)   The proposed activity is not reasonably anticipated to incite
violence, crime or disorderly conduct; that the proposed activity will not
entail extraordinary or burdensome expense or operations on the Police
Department and other public agencies;
      (5)   The activities will not interfere with other scheduled events.
   (C)   The granting of a permit shall be by letter to the applicant setting
out all conditions of the permit and incorporating any provisions or conditions
in addition to statements and presentations in the permit application.
   (D)   Any deviation from the terms and conditions of the permit, or the
approved statements contained in the application, or any misstatements of fact
made in such application shall be grounds for immediate revocation of the
permit at any time by the Zoning Administrator or designee or the Police Chief
or designee.
(Ord. 03-14, passed 7-14-03; Am. Ord. 05-03, passed 3-17-05; Am. Ord. 12-03,
passed 3-12-12; Am. Ord. 17-5, passed 7-10-19)
§ 111.11 PERMIT NOT GROUNDS FOR OTHER VIOLATIONS.
   The granting of an application is not grounds for the violation of any other
ordinance of the town, county or state, and the applicant shall comply with all
ordinances of the town. Failure to make provisions for complying shall be
grounds for revocation under this chapter.
(Ord. 03-14, passed 7-14-03; Am. Ord. 05-03, passed 3-17-05; Am. Ord. 12-03,
passed 3-12-12; Am. Ord. 17-5, passed 7-10-19)
§ 111.12 PERMIT APPEAL.
   In the event the Zoning Administrator or designee denies the permit, or
subsequently revokes the permit, the applicant shall have seven days in which
to appeal such denial or revocation to the Board of Commissioners. Such appeal
shall be in writing, stating the grounds therefore and shall be addressed to
the Mayor with a copy to the Town Manager. The Board of Commissioners shall
hear the appeal at the next public meeting. The decision of the Board of
Commissioners shall be final.
(Ord. 03-14, passed 7-14-03; Am. Ord. 05-03, passed 3-17-05; Am. Ord. 12-03,
passed 3-12-12; Am. Ord. 13-13, passed 9-9-13; Am. Ord. 17-5, passed 7-10-19)
§ 111.13 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   In no event shall the issuance of a permit under this chapter make or
cause the town to be deemed a sponsor of the event. Further, the town shall
incur no liability for any injury to person or property arising out of any
events regulated by this chapter. Further, as a condition of any permit issued
pursuant to this chapter, the permittee and sponsor(s) shall protect, defend
and hold the town and its officers, employees and agents free and harmless from
and against any and all losses, penalties, damages, settlements, costs,
charges, professional fees or other expenses or liabilities of every kind and
arising out of or relating to any and all claims, liens, demands, obligations,
actions, proceedings, or causes of action of every kind in connection with or
arising out of the event, agreement and/or the performance hereof that are due
to the negligence of the sponsor, its officers, employees, or agents, and not
the result of the town's sole negligence. The sponsor further agrees to
investigate, handle, respond to, provide defense for and defend the same at its
sole expense and agrees to bear all other costs and expenses related thereto.
The indemnity called for herein shall be in writing and signed by the sponsor
of the event.
   (B)   The applicant shall provide proof of comprehensive liability insurance
in the amount of $1,000,000 individual and aggregate limits covering the event
and naming the town as an additional insured as well as proof of workers'
compensation coverage as required by the state.
(Ord. 03-14, passed 7-14-03; Am. Ord. 05-03, passed 3-17-05; Am. Ord. 12-03,
passed 3-12-12; Am. Ord. 13-13, passed 9-9-13; Am. Ord. 17-5, passed 7-10-19)
§ 111.14 PAYMENT OF ACTUAL COSTS REQUIRED.
   If the permittee fails to follow the conditions of the approved permit
resulting in expense to the town, or requests the use of town services over and
above those provided during a regular workday or shift including but not
limited to off-duty police officers for security, off-duty lifeguards, or
failure to collect and dispose of litter and trash, the actual costs of these
services will be calculated and billed to the permittee by the town and the
permittee shall be responsible for payment within 30 days. Failure to pay for
these services shall be a violation of the Town Code, and the permittee shall
be subject to the penalties contained in § 10.99 General Penalty.
(Ord. 13-13, passed 9-9-13; Am. Ord. 17-5, passed 7-10-19)
CHAPTER 112: SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   Findings of fact
   
112.02   Definitions
Licensing
   
112.15   Licensing of sexually oriented businesses
   
112.16   Issuance of license
   
112.17   Annual business license
   
112.18   Fees
   
112.19   Denial or revocation of license
Requirements
   
112.30   Inspection of a sexually oriented business
   
112.31   Location of a sexually oriented business
   
112.32   Posting of license
   
112.33   Hours of operation
   
112.34   Patronage of a sexually oriented business by minors and employment of
minors
   
112.35   Regulations pertaining to sexually oriented businesses
   
112.36   Prohibited conduct on premises of sexually oriented businesses
   
112.37   Regulations pertaining to the exterior portions of sexually oriented
businesses
   
112.38   Prohibitions
 
   
112.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate sexually
oriented businesses in order to protect the public health, safety and welfare
of citizens and visitors in the town and to establish reasonable and uniform
regulations to prevent the deleterious effects of sexually oriented businesses
within the town. The provisions of this chapter are intended to have neither
the purpose nor effect of imposing a limitation or restriction on the content
of any communicative materials, including sexually oriented materials.
Similarly, it is not the intent nor effect of this chapter to restrict or deny
access by adults to sexually oriented materials protected by the First
Amendment or to deny access by the distributors and exhibitors of sexually
oriented entertainment to their intended market. Neither is it the intent or
effect of this chapter to condone or legitimize the distribution of obscene
material.
   (B)   Rationale. The following regulations were designed to address two
distinct issues:
      (1)   The town desires to minimize the potential secondary impacts of
sexually oriented businesses on identified sensitive uses, for example,
residential districts, schools, churches, day care centers and the like;
      (2)   The town wants to provide an area where people can exercise their
First Amendment right of expression without infringing upon the rights of
others. In allowing these uses, the town has balanced its Constitutional
obligations with the need to guarantee that the town's economy and quality of
life are not impeded. The Light Industrial 1 Zoning District is the most
appropriate place to allow sexually oriented businesses. This District was
chosen for its lack of visibility from identified tourist corridors. Sexually
oriented businesses have a negative affect on tourism. Tourism is a major part
of our economy and the town cannot allow it to be diminished or adversely
affected by any use.
   (C)   Findings. Based on evidence concerning the adverse secondary effects
of adult uses on the community; on findings incorporated in the cases City of
Renton v. Playtime Theaters. Inc., 475 US 41(1986), Young v. American Mini
Theaters, Inc., 427 US 50 (1976), and Barnes v. Glenn Theater, Inc., 501 US 560
(1991); on studies in other communities, including but not limited to: Phoenix,
Arizona; Tucson, Arizona; Saint Paul, Minnesota; Houston, Texas; Austin, Texas;
Indianapolis, Indiana; Amarillo, Texas; Garden Grove, California; on findings
from the Report of the Attorney General's Working Group on the Regulation of
Sexually Oriented Businesses (June 6, 1989, State of Minnesota); on a report on
The Regulation of Adult Establishments in North Carolina (May 22, 1996); and
findings from the 1997 Town of Kill Devil Hills Land Use Plan Survey
questionnaire dealing with sexually oriented businesses, the Board of
Commissioners find:
      (1)   Sexually oriented businesses lend themselves to ancillary unlawful
and unhealthy activities which are uncontrolled by the operators of the
establishments. Without reasonable regulations, there are no mechanisms to make
owners of sexually oriented businesses responsible for the activities that
occur on or about their premises;
      (2)   Employees of sexually oriented businesses engage in higher
incidents of illicit sexual behavior than employees of other commercial
establishments;
      (3)   Sexual acts, including masturbation, oral and/or anal sex may occur
at sexually oriented businesses, especially those which provide private or
semi-private booths or cubicles for viewing films, videos or live sex shows;
      (4)   Offering and providing such space encourages such activities, which
creates unhealthy conditions;
      (5)   Persons may frequent certain adult theaters, adult cabarets and
other sexually oriented businesses for the purpose of engaging in sexual
activities within the premises of such sexually oriented businesses;
      (6)   At least 50 communicable diseases are spread by activities
occurring in sexually oriented businesses, including but not limited to
syphilis, gonorrhea, human immunodeficiency virus infection (HIV-AIDS), genital
herpes, hepatitis B, Non A, Non B amebiasis, salmonella infections and shigella
infections;
      (7)   Since 1981 there has been an increasing number of reported cases of
AIDS caused by the human immunodeficiency virus infection (HIV) in the United
States, in the State of North Carolina and in Dare County;
      (8)   The number of cases of early (less than one year) syphilis reported
in the United States annually has risen, with 33,613 cases reported in 1982 and
68,953 reported in the United States in 1996-97;
      (9)   The number of cases of gonorrhea in the United States reported
annually remains at a high level, with 392,848 cases being reported in 1995;
      (10)   According to the scientific evidence, AIDS and HIV infection, as
well as syphilis and gonorrhea, are principally transmitted by sexual acts;
      (11)   Sanitary conditions in some sexually oriented businesses are
unhealthy, in part, because the activities conducted there are unhealthy and,
in part, because of the unregulated nature of the activities, the failure of
the owners and the operators of the facilities to self-regulate those
activities and the failure of the owners and the operators to maintain their
facilities;
      (12)   Numerous studies and reports have determined that semen is found
in the areas of sexually oriented businesses where persons view adult-oriented
films;
      (13)   Numerous studies and reports have demonstrated that the
consumption of alcohol or alcoholic beverages at a sexually oriented business
increases the potential for illicit sexual activity, for violence, for acts
characterized as disturbing the peace and for other identified nuisances to
occur;
      (14)   Studies have demonstrated that sexually oriented businesses are
regional businesses and as such have a regional population that consists
largely of adult males in their twenties, whose interests and activities are
different from those of older adults and/or families;
      (15)   It has been documented in trade studies that small towns do not
have sufficient target populations to support sexually oriented businesses;
      (16)   Studies have demonstrated that sexually oriented businesses in
small towns, because of their small size and lack of depth to their commercial
districts, raise the probability of substantial negative impacts of sexually
oriented businesses upon residential areas of the town;
      (17)   The 1992 Kill Devil Hills Land Use Plan, Chapter 4, Section D,
Economic and Community Development Issues, identifies tourism as the backbone
of the Kill Devil Hills economy. Kill Devil Hills has encouraged the continued
development of single-family residences designed to attract tourists to our
area;
      (18)   In 1997, in an effort to identify local concerns over sexually
oriented businesses, the town conducted a citizen questionnaire in conjunction
with it's Land Use Plan Update, where a number of questions were asked
pertaining to adult entertainment. Out of the 7,000 surveys distributed, 21.4%
were returned. The survey asked three questions related to sexual oriented
businesses and requested residents and property owners to answer with: strongly
agree, agree, disagree, strongly disagree or not sure. The questions were as
follows:
         (a)   The presence of adult entertainment would enhance the vacation/
resort attraction of the town for vacationers;
         (b)   The presence of adult entertainments would negatively influence
my decision to buy a vacation cottage or home in the town if I were in the
market to purchase one;
         (c)   The presence of adult entertainment establishments would
negatively influence my decision to vacation in a resort area.
      (19)   Responses to the questions were as follows:
         (a)   79.8% of the respondents disagreed or strongly disagreed that
adult entertainment "would enhance the vacation/resort attraction of Kill Devil
Hills;"
         (b)   73.3% of the respondents agreed or strongly agreed that adult
entertainment "would negatively influence my decision to buy a vacation cottage
or home in Kill Devil Hills if I were in the market to purchase one;"
         (c)   67.1% of the respondents agreed or strongly agreed that adult
entertainment "would negatively influence my decision to vacation in a resort
area."
      (20)   The results of the 1997 questionnaire on growth and development
have lead the Board of Commissioners to conclude that the location of adult
entertainment businesses with Kill Devil Hills is of concern to property owners
and residents and would affect the town's ability to attract tourists and other
single-family residents into our area.
      (21)   The finding noted in subsections (1) through (20) of this
division, raise substantial governmental concerns;
      (22)   Sexually oriented businesses have operational characteristics
which should be reasonably regulated in order to protect substantial
governmental concerns;
      (23)   A reasonable licensing procedure is an appropriate mechanism to
regulate the owners and operators of sexually oriented businesses and the
operation of such businesses. Further, such a licensing procedure will place
incentives on owners and operators to insure that sexually oriented businesses
are run in a manner consistent with the health, safety and welfare of their
patrons and employees and the citizens and visitors of the town. It is
appropriate to require reasonable assurances that the licensee is the actual
operator of the sexually oriented business, fully in possession and control of
the premises and activities occurring therein;
      (24)   Requiring licensees of sexually oriented businesses and keeping
information regarding current employees and past employees will help reduce the
incidence of certain types of criminal behavior by facilitating the
identification of potential witnesses or suspects and by preventing minors from
working in such establishments;
      (25)   The disclosure of certain information by those persons responsible
for the day-to-day operation and maintenance of the sexually oriented business
(which is substantially related to the significant governmental interest in the
operation of such uses) will aid in preventing the spread of sexually
transmitted diseases;
      (26)   It is desirable in the prevention of the spread of communicable
diseases to obtain a limited amount of information regarding certain employees
who may engage in the conduct which this chapter is designed to prevent or who
are likely to be witnesses to such activity;
      (27)   An applicant for a sexually oriented business license who has been
convicted of a sexually related crime is a person who is likely to engage in
conduct in contravention of federal and state law and this chapter;
      (28)   The barring of such individuals from the management of adult
oriented businesses serves as a deterrent to and prevents conduct which leads
to the transmission of sexually transmitted diseases;
      (29)   Establishing location criteria to keep sexually oriented
businesses away from sensitive uses, such as residential districts, schools,
day care centers and the like, reduces the potential for the identified
secondary harms to be felt by a sensitive use;
      (30)   Establishing additional lighting requirements for the interior and
exterior portions of a sexually oriented business reduces the potential for
illicit sexual activity or criminal activities occurring on or near the
premises of a sexually oriented businesses;
      (31)   Establishing a prohibition on employing minors or allowing minors
within the premises reduces the potential for the exploitation of such minors
by a sexually oriented business;
      (32)   Requiring internal design configuration standards and regulating
the location of manager stations allows the operators to observe and police
their own patrons and reduces the potential for illicit sexual activity or
criminal activities occurring at a sexually oriented business;
      (33)   The general welfare, health and safety of the citizens and
visitors of the town will be promoted by the enactment of these regulations.
(Ord. 99-02, passed 2-8-99)
§ 112.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT ARCADE. Any place to which the public is permitted or invited wherein
coin-operated or slug-operated or electronically, electrically or mechanically
controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors or other image
producing devices are maintained to show images to five or fewer persons per
machine at any one time and where the images so displayed are distinguished or
characterized by the depicting or describing of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE. A bookstore that:
      (1)   Receives a majority of its gross income during any calender month
from the sale of publications (including books, magazines and other
periodicals) which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on
matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas, as defined in this section; or
      (2)   Has as preponderance of its publications, books, magazines and
other periodicals which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on
matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or to
specified anatomical areas, as defined in this section.
   ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, restaurant or similar commercial
establishment that for at least 10% of its business hours in any day features:
      (1)   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or semi-nudity;
      (2)   Live performances that are characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities;
      (3)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other
photographic reproductions that are characterized by the depiction or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas; or
      (4)   Persons who engage in lewd, lascivious or erotic dancing or
performances that are intended for the sexual interests or titillation of an
audience or customers.
   ADULT ESCORT. A person who, for a fee, tip or any other consideration,
agrees to act, offers to act or acts as a companion, guide or date for another
person for the purpose of participating in, engaging in, providing or
facilitating specified sexual activities.
   ADULT ESCORT AGENCY. A person or business that for a fee, tip or other
consideration furnishes, offers to furnish or advertises to furnish adult
escorts as one of its business purposes.
   ADULT LIVE ENTERTAINMENT. Any performance of or involving the actual
presence of real people which exhibits specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas, as defined in this section.
   ADULT LIVE ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS. Any establishment or business wherein
adult live entertainment is shown for observation by patrons.
   ADULT MEDIA CENTER. Includes but is not limited to an adult bookstore and an
adult video store and includes any place:
      (1)   Which receives more than 50% of its gross income during any
calendar month from the sale, rental or both of books, periodicals, magazines,
video-tapes, CD-ROM, computer software, movies and other products offered in
photographic, print, electronic, magnetic or digital or other imaging media
which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting,
describing or presenting specified anatomical areas or specified sexual
activities, sexually oriented devices or any combination thereof; or
      (2)   Having more than 25% of its merchandise inventory consisting of
books, periodicals, magazines, video-tapes, CD-ROM, computer software, movies
and other products offered in photographic, print, electronic, magnetic or
digital or other imaging media which are distinguished or characterized by
their emphasis on matter depicting, describing or presenting specified
anatomical areas, specified sexual activities, sexually oriented devices or any
combination thereof.
      (3)   A commercial establishment having other business purposes on the
same building site that do not involve the offering for sale or rental of
material depicting or describing specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas may still be defined as an ADULT MEDIA CENTER. Such other
business purposes will not serve to exempt such commercial establishments from
being defined as an ADULT MEDIA CENTER so long as one of its business purposes
is the offering for sale or rental, for consideration, materials which depict
or describe specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT MERCHANDISE. Any product dealing in or with explicitly sexual material
as characterized by matter depicting, describing or relating to specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT MINI MOTION PICTURE THEATER. An enclosed building with viewing booths
designed to hold patrons which is used for presenting motion pictures, a
preponderance of which are distinguished by or characterized by an emphasis on
matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas as defined in this section for observation by
patrons therein.
   ADULT MOTEL. A hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment that:
      (1)   Offers accommodation to the public for any form of consideration
and provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions, films,
motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other photographic reproductions
that are characterized by the depiction or description of specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas and has a sign visible from the public
rights-of-way that advertises the availability of this adult type of
photographic reproductions;
      (2)   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is less
than 12 hours; or
      (3)   Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to subrent the room
for a period of time that is less than 12 hours.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. An enclosed building or premises used for
presenting motion pictures, a preponderance of which are distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, as defined in this
section, for observation by patrons therein. ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER does
not include any adult mini motion picture theater as defined in this section.
   ADULT THEATER. A theater, concert hall, auditorium or similar commercial
establishment that for at least 10% of its business hours in any day features
persons who appear in a state of nudity or live performances that are
characterized by the exposure of specified anatomical areas or by specified
sexual activities.
   ADULT VIDEO STORE. A commercial establishment that, as one of its principal
business purposes, offers for sale or rental, for any form of consideration,
any one or more of the following: books, magazines, periodicals, other printed
matter, photographs, films, motion picture, video tapes or cassettes, video
reproductions, CD-ROMs, slides or other visual representations, which depict or
describe specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas or any
combination thereof.
   BOTTOMLESS. A state of nudity where a person exposes to view a human bare
buttock, anus, male genitals or female genitals.
   EMPLOYEE OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. A person who performs any service on
the premises of a sexually oriented business on a full-time, part-time or
contract basis, whether or not the person is denominated an employee,
independent contractor, agent or otherwise and whether or not the person is
paid a salary, wage or other compensation by the operator of said business.
EMPLOYEE does not include a person exclusively on the premises for repair or
maintenance of the premises or equipment on the premises or for the delivery of
goods to the premises.
   LAP. The area between a person's knees and his waist.
   NON-ADULT USE BUSINESS. Any business or establishment not defined as a
sexually oriented business in this chapter or in the zoning code.
   NUDE MODEL STUDIO. Any place where a person who appears in a state of nudity
or displays specified anatomical areas to be observed, sketched, drawn,
painted, sculptured, photographed or similarly depicted by other persons who
pay money or any form of consideration. There is excepted from this definition
any studio which is part of a school for artists who are regularly enrolled in
a course of instruction in the arts and in which the use of nude models
involves less than 10% of the course hours.
   NUDITY or A STATE OF NUDITY. The appearance of a human bare buttock, anus,
male genitals, female genitals or female breast without a fully opaque complete
covering of the breast below a point immediately above the top of the areola or
human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state even if completely and
opaquely covered.
   PATRON. Any person who is physically present on the premises of a sexually
oriented business and who is not an owner, employee, agent, subcontractor,
independent contractor, entertainer or performer at the business.
   SEMI-NUDE. A state of dress in which clothing covers no more than the human
bare buttock, anus, male genitals, female genitals, female breast without a
fully opaque complete covering of the breast below a point immediately above
the top of the areola or human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state even
if completely and opaquely covered.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. A business which offers its customers or patrons
any device, activity or demonstration depicting specified sexual activities or
which is intended to appeal to sexual interests, titillation or arousal of the
customer or patron. A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS shall include an adult
establishment and, in addition, without limitation, shall include adult arcade,
adult bookstore, adult video store, adult cabaret, adult media center, adult
live entertainment business, adult motel, adult motion picture theater, adult
mini motion picture theater, adult theater, adult escort agency, nude model
studio and sexual encounter center.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS ACTIVITIES. Those activities usually provided
for, promoted or offered by a sexually oriented business as defined herein,
whether or not as the principal business purpose or as a sideline or accessory
business purpose and whether or not in connection with or on the same premises
with a business which is not a sexually oriented business.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED DEVICES. Any artificial or simulated specified anatomical
area or device or paraphernalia that is designed principally for specified
sexual activities but shall not mean any contraceptive device.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREA.
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered:
         (a)   Human genitals, pubic region;
         (b)   Buttock; or
         (c)   Female breast below a point immediately above the top of the
areola; or
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.
      (1)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal;
      (2)   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse or sodomy; or
      (3)   Fondling or any erotic touching of human genitals, pubic regions,
buttocks or female breasts.
   TOUCH or TOUCHING. Any form of intentional, physical, bodily contact,
whether exposed or clothed parts of either body involved.
   TOURISM CORRIDORS. The following roads within the corporate limits of the
town:
      (1)   NC 12 (Virginia Dare Trail);
      (2)   US 158 (Croatan Highway);
      (3)   Wrightsville Avenue;
      (4)   Memorial Boulevard;
      (5)   Ocean Bay Boulevard;
      (6)   Colington Road.
(Ord. 99-02, passed 2-8-99)
LICENSING
§ 112.15 LICENSING OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   The following license provisions and regulations are ordained for the
purpose of operating a sexually oriented business.
   (A)   No person shall operate a sexually oriented business unless such
person has received site plan approval in accordance with the zoning code of
the town set forth in Ch. 153 and received a sexually oriented business license
as provided by this chapter.
   (B)   Every application for a sexually oriented business license prescribed
herein shall be upon a form approved by the Town Manager and shall be filed
with the town. An application shall be made under oath and shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   If the applicant is a person, the name and residence address of
such person, including any aliases or other names by which the applicant is
known or which the applicant has used at any time; the residences and addresses
for the past two years; business and home telephone numbers; occupation; date
and place of birth; social security number; drivers license number; and a
recent photograph of the applicant. If the applicant is a partnership,
corporation, association or other entity, the same information is required for
all partners, corporate officers, directors and any individuals having 10% or
greater interest in the corporation, partnership, association or other entity;
      (2)   The address of the premises where the proposed sexually oriented
business is located;
      (3)   A complete statement of all convictions of any person whose name is
required to be given in subsection (B)(1) for prostitution; for any sexually
related crime; for any violation of any law relative to prostitution; or for
any crime involving sexual misconduct as codified in the laws of the United
States, this or any other state, including but not limited to convictions of
violations of any of the offenses enumerated in G.S. Ch. 14, Arts. 26, 26A and
27 or the same offenses as codified in the laws of the United States, this or
of any other state;
      (4)   A complete statement of any denial and/or revocation of any
license, including the grounds and reasons theretofore, to operate a sexually
oriented business by any governmental unit, listed by name and address of any
person whose name is required to be given in subsection (B)(1) for the five
years preceding the date of the filing of this application;
      (5)   For any person whose name is required to be given in subsection (B)
(1), a complete statement of any convictions or violations of any statute, law,
ordinance or regulation concerning the operation of a sexually oriented
business by any governmental unit for the five-year period preceding the date
of the filing of the application;
      (6)   A description of any other business proposed to be operated on the
same premises or on adjoining premises owned or controlled by the applicant or
any other person or entity listed in subsection (B)(1) above;
      (7)   All applicants, and any individual listed in subsection (B)(1),
shall submit to fingerprinting by a town police officer. The fingerprint cards
shall be submitted to the F.B.I. for processing. Returned fingerprint cards and
any criminal histories shall be kept on file in the Town Police Department;
      (8)   A site plan showing the floor layout, customer area and location of
the structure to be used as a sexually oriented business on the property in
accordance with all the requirements outlined in this subchapter and in the
zoning code;
      (9)   A current certificate and straight-line drawing prepared by a
registered land surveyor, depicting the property lines and the structure
containing the proposed sexually oriented business and its distance from:
existing land uses, including but not limited to established dwellings within
the Light Industrial I Zoning District; the Commercial Zoning District; the
residential zoning districts (Residential Low, Residential High, Ocean Impact
Residential); the Government and Institutional Zoning Districts; other sexually
oriented businesses; religious complexes; libraries; schools; state licensed
child day care centers; public playgrounds; public swimming pools; public
parks; and any outdoor recreational use;
      (10)   A statement signed under oath that the applicant has personal
knowledge of the information contained in the application, that the information
contained therein is true and correct, that the applicant consents to the
investigation of his background by the town to verify the information provided
and that the applicant has read and understands the provisions of this chapter
regulating sexually oriented businesses.
   (C)   In addition to the above requirements, every licensed sexually
oriented business shall maintain a current list of all employees employed by
the licensee showing: the legal name, current stage name, current address,
current phone number, date of birth and current drivers license number. In
addition, the licensee of a sexually oriented business shall maintain a record,
updated at least every six months, of the height, weight, hair and eye color,
scars, tattoos and passport quality photograph of each employee.
   (D)   The licensee shall keep the records required by this chapter available
and open for inspection by the Town Police Department or Town Director of
Planning and Inspections or authorized designee or the State of North Carolina
or Dare County Health Departments at any time the sexually oriented business is
open for business.
(Ord. 99-02, passed 2-8-99)
Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.16 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Any and all new site plans and/or applications for change of use for
sexually oriented businesses shall move forward in accordance with the
provisions of this code.
   (B)   Upon receipt of a completed sexually oriented business application,
which contains all the required information outlined in §
112.15, the Town Clerk shall transmit a copy to: the Police Department for an
investigative report; the Planning and Inspections Department to determine
compliance with all zoning and land use ordinances and regulations; and the
Fire Department to determine compliance with any law relating to fire
protection.
   (C)   The Police, Planning and Inspections and Fire Departments shall,
within a reasonable time, not to exceed 45 working days from the receipt of a
complete application, report the results of their examinations on the sexually
oriented business license application to the Town Clerk, who shall, upon
receipt of the Planning Board's site plan review or change of use application
recommendation, place the entire application package (site plan and sexually
oriented business license application) on the agenda for the next regularly
scheduled meeting of the Board of Commissioners.
   (D)   If the Police, Fire and Planning and Inspections Departments do not
report to the Town Clerk within 45 working days from the date of the receipt of
a complete application, then the sexually oriented business license application
shall not require the approval of such departments and the package shall move
forward to the Board of Commissioners, as stated in division (C) of this
section.
   (E)   Upon receipt of the application for a sexually oriented business
license, the Board of Commissioners shall review the commercial site plan or
change of use application and the sexually oriented business license
application and approve the issuance of the license if the Board determines
that:
      (1)   The application contains no misstatement of fact;
      (2)   The applicant, or any person or entity having any legal or
beneficial ownership interest in the application, has not been convicted of a
sexually related crime or felony, prostitution or a violation of any law
relative to prostitution, crime involving sexual misconduct as codified in the
laws of the United States, this or any other state, including but not limited
to convictions of violations of the offenses enumerated in G.S. Ch. 14, Arts.
26, 26A and 27 or the same offenses as codified in the laws of the United
States, this or any other state;
      (3)   The applicant conforms to all requirements of applicable zoning,
building and fire prevention codes;
      (4)   The applicant or any person, corporation, partnership, association
or other entity having a legal or beneficial ownership interest in the
applicant has not, during the five-year period preceding the application, had a
license to operate a sexually oriented business in any state, suspended or
revoked;
      (5)   The applicant's commercial site plan or change of use application
meets all conditions of the code of the town and is approved by the Board of
Commissioners.
(Ord. 99-02, passed 2-8-99)
§ 112.17 ANNUAL BUSINESS LICENSE.
   (A)   The license required under this chapter is annual and shall be valid
for a period of 12 months as outlined in
Ch. 110. The license fees shall be due and payable in the same manner as
prescribed for other privilege licenses issued by the town.
   (B)   Not less than 30 days prior to the expiration of a sexually oriented
business license, a written application shall be submitted for license renewal.
   (C)   A license granted pursuant to this chapter shall be for a period of
one year and shall be subject to annual review by the town. The licensee shall
renew the license upon a finding by the town that the applicant has not been
convicted of any specified criminal activity as defined within this chapter;
committed any act during the existence of the previous license, which would be
grounds to deny the initial license application; and has complied with and
remains in compliance with all the terms and conditions of previous approval.
The renewal of the license shall be subject to the payment of the fee as set
forth in
Ch. 110.
   (D)   The license required under this subchapter is annual and shall be
valid for a period of 12 months as outlined in
Ch. 110. The license fees shall be due and payable in the same manner as
prescribed for other privilege licenses issued by the town.
   (E)   Any violation of the licensing provisions in this chapter will result
in the denial of the renewal application.
   (F)   All licensees shall be issued for a business conducted at a specific
location and all fees shall be non-refundable. All licenses shall be non-
transferable to any person, partnership, corporation, association or other
entity.
(Ord. 99-02, passed 2-8-99)
§ 112.18 FEES.
   (A)   Every application for a sexually oriented businesses license, whether
for a new license or for renewal of an existing license, shall be accompanied
by a non-refundable application and investigation fee as enumerated in the
consolidated fee schedule.
   (B)   Sexually oriented businesses shall be required to pay all applicable
businesses and privilege license fees as outlined in
Ch. 110.
(Ord. 99-02, passed 2-8-99)
§ 112.19 DENIAL OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Before the Board of Commissioners revokes a license issued pursuant to
this subchapter, or if the Board of Commissioners determines reasonable grounds
exist to deny an application for a license pursuant to this subchapter, the
Board of Commissioners shall cause a written notice to be sent by certified
mail to the licensee or applicant affected at the address stated in the license
or application. The notice shall advise the affected party of a right to appear
before the Board of Commissioners, with or without legal counsel, at a stated
time and place for the purpose of presenting any evidence relevant to such
revocation or denial and for the purpose of hearing all evidence submitted and
examining or cross examining any person providing such evidence.
   (B)   A license issued pursuant to this section shall be revoked by action
of the Board of Commissioners if the Board of Commissioners determines that:
      (1)   The licensee has violated any provision of this subchapter;
      (2)   The licensee, or the legal or beneficial owner of any interest in
the licensee is convicted of: any felony; prostitution or any violation of any
law relative to prostitution; any crime involving sexual misconduct; or any
offense against public morality and decency as codified in the laws of the
United States, this or any other state, including but not limited to
convictions of violations of any of the offenses enumerated in G.S. Ch. 14,
Arts. 26, 26A and 27 or the same offenses as codified in the laws of any other
state;
      (3)   Any employee or contract personnel of the licensee is convicted of:
any felony; prostitution or any violation of any law relative to prostitution;
crime involving sexual misconduct; or any offense against public morality and
decency as codified in the laws of the United States, this or any other state,
including but not limited to convictions of violations of any of the offenses
enumerated in G.S. Ch. 14, Arts. 26, 26A and 27 or the same offenses as
codified in the laws of any other state, which arises out of or in the course
of the business of the licensee;
      (4)   The licensee has knowingly, willingly or intentionally allowed
possession, consumption or sale of alcohol, alcoholic beverages or controlled
substances on the premises;
      (5)   The licensee has knowingly, willingly or intentionally operated a
sexually oriented business during a period of time when the licensee's license
was suspended for any reason;
      (6)   The licensee has knowingly, willingly or intentionally allowed
prostitution on the premises;
      (7)   The licensee has knowingly, willingly or intentionally violated
State ABC laws;
      (8)   There has been any violation of any terms, conditions of approval
or provisions of the town code.
   (C)   A license issued pursuant to this subchapter is immediately terminated
and of no force and effect if the licensee moves or ceases operating a sexually
oriented business at the location stated in the application for license
pursuant to §
112.15. For the purposes of this chapter, evidence of the cessation shall
include but is not be limited to such factors as termination of water or
electrical services for a period of three consecutive months, nonuse of the
premises for a period of three consecutive months and any other evidence that
the use of the premises as a sexually oriented business has ceased.
   (D)   When the town revokes a license, the revocation shall continue for one
year and the licensee shall not be issued a sexually oriented business license
for one year from the date the revocation became effective. If subsequent to
revocation the town finds that the basis for the revocation has been corrected
or abated, the applicant may be granted a license if at least 90 days have
elapsed since the date the revocation became effective.
   (E)   Upon denial of an application, denial of a renewal of an application
or revocation of any license and upon the applicant exhausting all
administrative measures and remedies, the applicant or licensee may seek prompt
judicial review of such action by the town in any court of competent
jurisdiction.
(Ord. 99-02, passed 2-8-99)
REQUIREMENTS
§ 112.30 INSPECTION OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS.
   An applicant or licensee shall permit representatives of the Town Police
Department, Fire Department, Planning and Inspections Department, other town
departments or agencies or the Dare County Health Department to inspect the
premises of any sexually oriented business for the purpose of insuring
compliance with the law at any time it is occupied or open for business.
Failure or refusal by any person to permit a lawful inspection of the premises
during regular business hours shall be punishable in accordance with §
112.99 and in addition may result in the revocation of the privilege license in
accordance with §
112.19.
(Ord. 99-02, passed 2-8-99)
Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.31 LOCATION OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS.
   (A)   As specified in
Ch. 153, Zoning Code, sexually oriented businesses may not:
      (1)   Locate within 400 feet in any direction from a building used as a
dwelling in the Light Industrial I Zoning District;
      (2)   Locate within 400 feet in any direction from a residential zoning
district (Residential Low, Residential High and Ocean Impact Residential Zone),
Government and Institution Zoning District or Commercial Zoning District;
      (3)   Locate within 200 feet in any direction from a building in which a
sexually oriented business is located;
      (4)   Locate within 1,000 feet in any direction from a building in which
a religious complex is located;
      (5)   Locate within 1,000 feet in any direction from a building in which
a library, school or a state licensed child day care center is located;
      (6)   Locate within 1,000 feet in any direction from any lot or parcel on
which a public playground, public swimming pool or public park is located.
   (B)   Measurement shall be made in a straight line, without regard to the
intervening structures or objects, from the nearest portion of the building or
structure used as the part of the premises where a sexually oriented business
is conducted to the nearest portion of a building, structure or zoning district
listed above.
(Ord. 99-02, passed 2-8-99)
§ 112.32 POSTING OF LICENSE.
   Every person, corporation, partnership or association licensed under
Ch. 110 shall display such license in a prominent place, visible to patrons of
the sexually oriented business.
(Ord. 99-02, passed 2-8-99)
Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.33 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   No sexually oriented business shall be open for business before 8:00
a.m. or after 2:00 a.m. daily, local time.
   (B)   No business, nor any owner, agent or employee, licensed under §
112.15 shall admit customers or prospective customers, remain open for
business, operate, allow, permit or condone any customer or patron upon the
premises of a sexually oriented business before 8:00 a.m. or after 2:00 a.m.
daily, local time.
(Ord. 99-02, passed 2-8-99)
Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.34 PATRONAGE OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS BY MINORS AND EMPLOYMENT OF
MINORS.
   (A)   No sexually oriented business licensed under §
112.15 shall allow, nor its owner, agent or employee permit or condone, the
patronage of any person under the age of 18 years upon the licensed premises. A
violation of this division shall be grounds for revocation of the sexually
oriented business license.
   (B)   No business, corporation, partnership, association or other entity
licensed pursuant to §
112.15 of this chapter shall employ any person under the age of 18 years. A
violation of this division shall be grounds for revocation the sexually
oriented business license.
(Ord. 99-02, passed 2-8-99)
Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.35 REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   (A)   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented
business other than an adult motel which exhibits on the premises a film, video
cassette, live entertainment, sells adult oriented merchandise, including
books, magazines, novelty items, computer software, videos or shows other video
reproductions which depicts specified sexual activities, shall comply with the
following requirements. The following conditions shall be included on the site
plan in order for it to be considered a complete application:
      (1)   Upon application for a sexually oriented business license, the
application shall be accompanied by a diagram of the premises showing a plan
thereof, specifying the location of one or more manager's stations and the
location of all overhead lighting fixtures and designating any portion of the
premises in which patrons will not be permitted. A manager's station may not
exceed 32 square feet of floor area. The diagram shall also designate the place
where the business license will be conspicuously posted, if granted. A
professionally prepared diagram in the nature of an engineer's or architect's
blueprint shall be required; however, each diagram should be oriented to the
north or to some designed street and should be drawn to a designated scale or
with marked dimensions sufficient to show the various internal inches;
      (2)   No alteration in the configuration of a manager's station may be
made without prior approval of the Planning and Development Director or
designee;
      (3)   It is the duty of the owners and operator of the premises to insure
that at least one employee is on duty and situated in each manager's station at
all times when a patron is inside the premises to insure that no illegal
activity is taking place within the establishment;
      (4)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from a manager's station of the entire area
of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose,
excluding restrooms. Restrooms may not contain video reproduction or
surveillance equipment, books or any items offered for sale. If the premises
has two or more manager's stations, then the interior of the premises shall be
configured in such a manner that there is an unobstructed view from at least
one of the manager's stations of the entire area of the premises to which any
patron is permitted access for any purpose, excluding restrooms. The view
required in this subsection shall be by direct line of sight from the manager's
station;
      (5)   It shall be the duty of the owner(s) and operator(s) and it shall
be the duty of any agent(s) and employee(s) present in the premises to insure
that the view area specified in subsection (4) remains unobstructed by any
doors, walls, merchandise, display racks or other materials at all times and to
insure that no patron is permitted access to any area of the premises that has
been designated as off-limits to patrons, which areas shall include the
manager's station or office;
      (6)   Sexually oriented businesses shall be equipped with overhead
lighting fixtures of sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which
patrons are permitted access at an illumination of not less than five
footcandles as measured at the floor level. It shall be the duty of the owners
and operator and it shall be the duty of any agents and employees present in
the premises to insure that this illumination is maintained at all times when
any patron is present within the premises;
      (7)   Adult motion picture theaters, adult mini motion picture theaters
and adult theaters shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted
access at an illumination of not less than five foot-candles as measured at the
floor level. The seating area of the theater, however, shall observe an
illumination of not less than 0.5 foot-candles as measured at the floor level.
It shall be the duty of the owners and operator and it shall be the duty of any
agents and employees present in the premises to insure that this illumination
is maintained at all times when any patron is present within the premises;
      (8)   Adult motion picture theaters and adult theaters shall be in an
enclosed building with no less than 100 fixed seats. No private viewing rooms
or semi-private booths are allowed;
      (9)   An adult mini motion picture theater shall not allow more than one
person in a viewing room at any time;
      (10)   No owner or operator shall allow openings of any kind to exist
between viewing rooms within an adult mini motion picture theater;
      (11)   The owner or operator of an adult mini motion picture theater
shall, during each business day, regularly inspect the walls between the
viewing rooms to determine if any openings or holes exist;
      (12)   The owner or operator of an adult mini motion picture theater
shall cause all floor coverings in viewing rooms to be nonporous, easily
cleanable surfaces, with no rugs or carpeting;
      (13)   The owner or operator of an adult mini motion picture theater
shall cause all wall and ceiling surfaces in viewing rooms to be constructed
of, or permanently covered by, nonporous, easily cleanable material;
      (14)   A fully detailed lighting plan shall be included with the
commercial site plan for any sexually oriented business.
   (B)   A person having a duty under subsections (A)(1) through (14) is in
violation of this chapter if he knowingly, willfully or intentionally fails to
fulfill that duty.
(Ord. 99-02, passed 2-8-99)
Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.36 PROHIBITED CONDUCT ON PREMISES OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   (A)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person in a sexually
oriented business to appear in a state of full nudity or depict specified
sexual activities.
   (B)   No owner, operator, manager, employee, entertainer or contract
personnel, nor any customer or patron, shall appear "bottomless" or in a state
of full nudity while on the premises of a sexually oriented business.
   (C)   No owner, operator, manager, employee, entertainer or contract
personnel, nor any customer or patron, shall perform any specified sexual
activities as defined in this chapter, wear or use any device or covering
exposed to view which stimulates any specified anatomical area, use artificial
devices or inanimate objects to perform or depict any of the specified sexual
activities, as defined in this chapter, or participate in any act of
prostitution while on the premises of a sexually oriented business.
   (D)   No owner, operator, manager, employee, entertainer or contract
personnel, nor any customer or patron, shall knowingly touch, fondle or caress
any specified anatomical area of another person, knowingly permit another
person to touch, fondle or caress any specified anatomical area of his, whether
such specified anatomical areas are clothed, unclothed, covered or exposed or
sit on or in or otherwise occupy the lap of anyone while on the premises of a
sexually oriented business.
   (E)   No owner, operator, manager, employee, entertainer or contract
personnel shall knowingly or intentionally appear in a semi-nude condition,
unless the person, while semi-nude, is at least ten feet from any patron or
customer and on a stage that is at least two feet from the floor.
   (F)   No employee shall solicit or accept any pay or gratuity from any
patron or customer while the employee is in a state of semi-nudity while on the
premises of a sexually oriented business.
   (G)   No private dance, viewing, projection or meeting areas shall be
allowed within a sexually oriented business.
   (H)   Non-adult businesses shall not display or merchandise adult, sexually
oriented implements and paraphernalia, including but not limited to: dildos,
auto sucks, sexually oriented vibrators, edible underwear, benwa balls,
inflatable orifices, anatomical balloons with orifices, simulated and battery
operated vaginas and similar sexually oriented devices.
(Ord. 99-02, passed 2-8-99)
Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.37 REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO THE EXTERIOR PORTIONS OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED
BUSINESSES.
   It shall be unlawful for an owner or operator of a sexually oriented
business to allow the merchandise or activities of the establishment to be
visible or audible from any point outside the establishment.
(Ord. 99-02, passed 2-8-99)
Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.38 PROHIBITIONS.
   Sexually oriented businesses are permitted only as specifically provided in
the town code. Adult motels, adult escorts and adult escort agencies are
prohibited.
(Ord. 99-02, passed 2-8-99)
Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Any violation of the provisions of this chapter shall subject the offender
to the penalties provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 99-02, passed 2-8-99)
CHAPTER 113: FIBER OPTIC CABLE SERVICES
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Franchise granted
   
113.03   Town to be furnished indemnity against injuries, damage and nuisances
   
113.04   Obligation of company to furnish fiber optic services
   
113.05   Town to be furnished access to maps on request
   
113.06   Conditions of revocation
   
113.07   Notices
   
113.08   Binding effect
   
113.09   Changes or amendments
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMPANY. A corporation organized under the laws of the State of North
Carolina and authorized to do business in the State of North Carolina and any
successor in interest to _______________ under this franchise chapter.
   FIBER OPTIC CABLE. When used as an unqualified term shall mean a cable
consisting of one or more thin flexible fibers with a glass core through which
light signals can be sent with very little loss of strength.
   TOWN or TOWN OF KILL DEVIL HILLS. The Town of Kill Devil Hills, a municipal
corporation located in Dare County, North Carolina; the area now or hereafter
within the territorial town limits of the Town of Kill Devil Hills, or the Town
Board of Commissioners or any officer or agent duly authorized in acting on
behalf of the town as a municipal corporation, as indicated by the context by
which the term is used.
   TOWN BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS. The governing body of the Town of Kill Devil
Hills.
(Ord. 19-16, passed 3-13-23)
§ 113.02 FRANCHISE GRANTED.
   (A)   The company is hereby granted a nonexclusive right to install, operate
and maintain a fiber optic cable system within the town for the production,
transmission, and distribution of high-speed internet services to consumers and
users within the town and to the town and any and all agencies and departments
thereof.
   (B)   (1)   To the extent that the town may legally do so, the company is
hereby granted the right, authority and privilege, after written notice
delivered to the town, to install, operate, maintain, lay or relay, renew,
replace and repair, (except no advance notice shall be required for emergency
repairs) fiber optic cables, conduits, regulators, connections and services
thereto (hereinafter "facilities"), in, through, across, along and under
streets, avenues, roads, public alleys, lanes, and such other town properties
and facilities as may be approved by the Town Manager (hereinafter "public
properties") in the town for the production, transmission, and distribution of
high-speed internet services to consumers and users within the town and to the
town and any and all agencies and departments thereof, subject to the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth in this chapter. Such activities shall be
conducted so as to minimize to the greatest extent practicable (within
reasonable economic costs) inconvenience to the public, and damage to the area
disturbed. All work shall be done with full consideration of the facilities and
rights of others. All company activities shall be accomplished in accordance
with the rules, regulations and standards of the North Carolina Utilities
Commission and shall be subject to the provisions of the Kill Devil Hills Town
Code. Company agrees to abide by all present and future laws, regulations and
ordinances regulating utility cuts in public properties, but town shall not
adopt any ordinance, rule or regulation which shall have the effect of
modifying, amending, altering, or voiding all or any part of this franchise.
      (2)   Whenever the company shall cause any opening, excavation or
alteration to be made in any public properties within the town in the
construction, operation or maintenance of any of its facilities owned or used
by it, the company shall repair and restore expeditiously such portions of such
public properties to the same condition in which it found them as nearly as
practicable. Additionally, if the company shall fail following completion of
repairs to restore the area to its approximate former condition within a
reasonable time, and a written notice is provided by the town to the company,
the town may proceed after five calendar days' notice by mail or personally
delivered to company to restore such public properties as nearly as practicable
to their original condition, and the town shall submit a statement of the costs
for this restoration to the company. The company agrees to pay the town for
these costs within 30 days. Interest at 9% per annum shall accrue on these
costs beginning on the thirty-first day following the date that the town mails
notice of such costs or the date that the town hand delivers such notice to
company. Conflicts in elevations of company piping with town or other utilities
that require adjustment of town or other utilities shall be at company's
expense, and any damage to all such utilities while company is readjusting
company facilities shall be the responsibility of company.
      (3)   In the case of temporary repairs, any opening, excavation or
alteration in any public properties shall be backfilled immediately after the
temporary repairs are finished, and the excavated area shall be kept in a safe
condition by the company until the permanent repair is made. The permanent
repair shall be made as expeditiously as possible.
      (4)   Except in emergency situations, the company shall not excavate in
any public properties of the town until it shall obtain written approval from
the town, which shall state in particular the location of proposed excavation
and the approximate time to be required to complete the work at the excavated
area. The town will act upon such requests within a reasonable time and shall
not be unreasonable in refusing to grant approval of a company request. In no
event though shall the town fail to cooperate with the company to reach
agreement as to a commercially feasible method for the company to comply with
its legal obligations in the provision of natural gas service. All excavations,
back-filling and paving shall be subject to inspection by the town and shall be
done according to the standard practice of the town in the installment of its
water and sewer installations.
      (5)   In all cases where any public properties shall be excavated,
disturbed or altered by the company, it shall take all precautions necessary or
proper for the protection of the public and shall maintain adequate warning
signs, barricades, signals and other devices necessary or proper to give
adequate notice or warning to the public of the existence of all actual
conditions and hazards present. Company shall undertake every reasonable option
available to prevent creating a hardship to adjoining properties, including,
without limitation, businesses and residences. Company agrees to abide by all
present and future laws, regulations and ordinances regulating utility cuts in
public properties, but town shall not adopt any ordinance, rule or regulation
which shall have the effect of modifying, amending, altering, or voiding all or
any part of this franchise.
      (6)   Whenever the town shall grade or re-grade any public properties in,
along, under or across which the company shall have installed any of its
facilities, and such grading or re-grading necessitates removal or relocation
of such facilities for company to remain in compliance with federal or state
law or regulation applicable to such facilities, it shall be the duty of the
company, at the request of the town, at its own cost and expense, to promptly
change said facilities so as to conform to the new grade which is then being or
has been established.
   (C)   If the town decides to pave or repave a public property, it shall give
60 days prior notice to the company of the intention to pave or repave such
street. When such notice is given, the company shall perform such work as the
company deems necessary for the extension of new facilities or the repair or
relocation of existing facilities within public property prior to the time the
town begins paving or repaving of the public property. With prior written
approval by the town, the company may perform such work as the company deems
necessary for the extension of new facilities or the relocation of existing
facilities within public property after one year from the date that specific
portion of the public property has been paved or repaved or if required to
serve a customer that requests natural gas service and the company can
economically provide such service.
   (D)   This franchise is granted for a term of       years beginning        ,
20     and ending at midnight             , 20    . This franchise supersedes
any and all former rights or franchises of the company to operate a fiber optic
cable system in the town with respect to all acts and things done or admitted
to be done, on or after                 , 20    .
   (E)   The company agrees to pay an annual franchise tax equal to the amount
set by any applicable General Statutes of North Carolina and which sum shall be
payable in accordance with such statutes. The grant of this franchise shall not
cause the company to be liable for any other taxes, licenses or fees that it
would not otherwise be chargeable with under state law.
   (F)   The company is hereby granted the right during the existence of this
franchise to mortgage or hypothecate this franchise, together with all rights
and privileges thereunder and any right or interest therein, as security for
indebtedness, subject to acceptance by any such creditor or holder of
indebtedness of the obligations, duties, liabilities, limitations and
prohibitions set out herein and subject to approval by the North Carolina
Utilities Commission or other governmental agency the approval of which is
required by law. The company shall not assign or transfer its rights under this
agreement, provided, however, that this provision shall not prohibit the
company from assigning its rights hereunder to the surviving corporation in any
corporate reorganization to which the company is a party.
(Ord. 19-16, passed 3-13-23)
§ 113.03 TOWN TO BE FURNISHED INDEMNITY AGAINST INJURIES, DAMAGE AND NUISANCES.
   The company agrees that it will at all times indemnify and hold harmless the
town, its officers, employees, and servants for each and all such nuisances,
damage, injury (including death) loss, cost or expense (including reasonable
attorney fees), caused or occasioned or contributed to by any act or failure to
act, of the company, its officers, agents, servants and employees, in the
construction, installation, repairing, maintaining, or operation of said
facilities, including making cuts, disturbances and excavations in the public
properties, except such indemnity shall not apply to any such loss, cost or
expense caused by the negligence of the town; and the company shall secure and
file with the town, if requested by the town, certificates for liability
insurance in an amount of at least $2,000,000.
(Ord. 19-16, passed 3-13-23)
§ 113.04 OBLIGATION OF COMPANY TO FURNISH FIBER OPTIC CABLE SERVICES.
   (A)   Subject to the company's determination of economic feasibility in
accordance with its criteria, the company agrees to deliver to and distribute
for the use of the inhabitants, offices, businesses, commercial enterprises,
churches, charities and professional establishments within the town, during the
period of this franchise, and providing there is a demand for same, fiber optic
cable services which provide for high-speed internet in sufficient quantity to
supply the demand customers within the town who may be served under the
provisions of this franchise.
   (B)   Service interruptions or impairment for reasons beyond the control of
the company shall not be a breach of this franchise, but such interruptions or
impairments shall be corrected within a reasonable time with as little
interruption as possible.
(Ord. 19-16, passed 3-13-23)
§ 113.05 TOWN TO BE FURNISHED ACCESS TO MAPS ON REQUEST.
   The company shall from time to time, at the request of the town, allow town
officials and/or employees to review or inspect maps of its transmission and
distribution system within the town. The company shall maintain up to date,
accurate copies of said maps at all times.
(Ord. 19-16, passed 3-13-23)
§ 113.06 CONDITIONS OF REVOCATION.
   This franchise may be revoked only upon failure of the company to remedy any
breach of its terms within 30 days after receiving notice in writing of such
breach from the town or, if the breach cannot reasonably be cured within 30
days, the company must begin the cure within the 30-day period and thereafter
proceed to complete the cure with due diligence.
(Ord. 19-16, passed 3-13-23)
§ 113.07 NOTICES.
   All notices shall be in writing and hand delivered or mailed by registered
or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid to:
               Town of Kill Devil Hills
               Attention: Town Manager
               PO Box 1719
               Kill Devil Hills, NC 27948
or to such other addresses as may be provided in writing from time to time.
Mailed notices shall be deemed received three days after posting.
(Ord. 19-16, passed 3-13-23)
§ 113.08 BINDING EFFECT.
   This franchise shall bind and inure to the benefit of ___________ and the
Town of Kill Devil Hills to the full extent allowed by applicable law.
(Ord. 19-16, passed 3-13-23)
§ 113.09 CHANGES OR AMENDMENTS.
   No agreement, promise, term or condition not contained herein shall have any
efficacy or validity. No change or amendment shall be effective until lawfully
adopted by the town and agreed to by the company.
(Ord. 19-16, passed 3-13-23)
CHAPTER 114: BODY PIERCING ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
General Provisions
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   Licensing of body piercing establishments
   
114.03   Issuance of license
   
114.04   Annual business license
   
114.05   Revocations
Business Operation
   
114.20   Inspection of a body piercing business
   
114.21   Posting of business license
   
114.22   Hours of operation
   
114.23   Patronage of a body piercing business by minors and employment of
minors
   
114.24   Regulations pertaining to body piercing businesses
   
114.25   Records to be maintained on activities
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   BODY PIERCING BUSINESS. A legitimately and legally licensed operation
offering body piercing services to the general public.
   BODY PIERCING. Refers to any method of piercing the skin or other body
tissues for the express intention of the insertion of any object including but
not limited to jewelry. Excluded from this definition are the following: ear
piercing as hereinafter defined, medical or surgical procedures performed by or
under the supervision of a licensed physician, or dental procedures performed
by or under the supervision of a licensed dentist.
   DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES. The North Carolina Department of
Health and Human Services.
   EAR PIERCING. The piercing of the fatty lobe part of the ear by an ear
piercing gun. The piercing of any other part of the ear, or the use of any
other procedure other than the ear piercing gun, shall be considered body
piercing.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The Dare County Health Department.
   LICENSEE. An individual, firm, corporation, company, or association that
applies for a body piercing business license for the purpose of owning and/or
operating a body piercing business.
   OSTEOPATH. Includes any person licensed and authorized to practice
osteopathic medicine pursuant to the laws of the state.
   PATRON. Any person over the age of 18 years who receives a body piercing
under such circumstances that is reasonably expected that he will pay money or
give any other consideration for the body piercing or the object to be inserted
therein.
   PHYSICIAN. Includes any person licensed and authorized to practice medicine
pursuant to the laws of the state.
   PLANNING AND INSPECTIONS, PLANNING, and/or POLICE DEPARTMENTS. The Planning
and Police Departments.
   PLANNING DIRECTOR. The Town Planning Director.
   TAX COLLECTOR. The Town Tax Collector.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The Town Zoning Administrator.
(Ord. 01-07, passed 7-25-01)
§ 114.02 LICENSING OF BODY PIERCING ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   The following license provisions and regulations are ordained for the
purpose of operating a body piercing business:
      (1)   No person shall perform or offer to perform body piercing services
at any body piercing business unless said person is a licensed osteopath or
physician pursuant to the laws of the state.
      (2)   Every application for a body piercing business license prescribed
herein shall be upon an approved form and shall be filed with the Zoning
Administrator. An application shall contain the following information:
         (a)   If the applicant is a person, the name and current physical
address and mailing address of such person including any aliases or other names
by which the applicant is known or which the applicant has used at any time;
the physical address for the past two years; the business and home telephone
numbers; occupation; date and place of birth; social security number; valid
driver's license number; and a recent photograph of the applicant. If the
applicant is a partnership, corporation, association, or other entity the same
information is required for all corporate officers, directors, and any
individuals having a 10% or greater interest in the corporation, partnership,
association, or other entity.
         (b)   The address of the premises where the proposed body piercing
business is proposed to be located.
         (c)   A description of any other business proposed to be operated on
the same premises or on adjoining premises owned or controlled by the applicant
or any other person or entity listed in (2)(a) above.
         (d)   Every licensed body piercing business shall maintain a current
list of all employees, including the identified osteopath or physician directly
responsible for performing the daily body piercing activities, employed by the
licensee, showing: the legal name, current address, current phone number, date
of birth, and current driver's license number. The applicant shall provide the
town a copy of the valid North Carolina license for each osteopath or physician
performing body piercing.
         (e)   A signed and notarized statement that the applicant has personal
knowledge of the information contained in the application, that the information
contained therein is true and correct, and that the applicant consents to the
investigation of his background by the town to verify the information provided,
and that the applicant has read and understands the provisions of this chapter
regulating body piercing businesses.
         (f)   A copy of a form proposed for use by the applicant as required
by §
114.23(A) in the event a patron is less than 18 years of age, which shall
include the following statement:
The undersigned certifies that he/she is the parent or legal guardian of
                   and does by execution of this document authorize
                                        to perform body piercing upon the
                                       of the above named minor.
                                                                      
   Signature of parent or guardian
   Notary Seal
                                                                          
   Notary Acknowledgement
   (B)   No person shall engage in the business of, or operate, a body piercing
business unless such person has received a body piercing business license as
provided by this section.
(Ord. 01-07, passed 7-25-01)
§ 114.03 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator shall transmit a copy of the completed
application, containing all the required information to the Police and Planning
Departments who shall investigate and determine compliance with Title XI and
with all other applicable provisions of the town code.
   (B)   The Police and Planning Departments shall, within a reasonable time,
not to exceed ten working days, report the results of their investigations in
writing to the Zoning Administrator.
   (C)   Upon receipt of said application for a body piercing business license,
and the departmental reports, the Zoning Administrator shall review the
application and approve the issuance of the license by the Tax Collector
subject to the following criteria:
      (1)   The application contains no misstatement of fact;
      (2)   The operation, as proposed by the applicant, complies with all
applicable zoning and licensing criteria.
      (3)   The applicant has not had a license to operate a body piercing
business denied, revoked, or suspended for any violation of the regulations
outlined within this chapter, or any violation of any applicable state or
federal law, within two years prior to the date of the submitted application.
      (4)   The applicant has a duly licensed osteopath or physician to perform
the body piercing.
      (5)   The applicant, and all employees assigned any duties related to the
body piercing service, are over the age of 18.
(Ord. 01-07, passed 7-25-01)
§ 114.04 ANNUAL BUSINESS LICENSE.
   (A)   The license required under this chapter is annual and shall be valid
for a period of 12 months as outlined in §
110.17 of the town code. Such license fees shall be due and payable in the same
manner as prescribed for other business licenses issued by the town.
   (B)   All licenses shall be issued for a business conducted at a specific
location and all fees shall be non-refundable. All licenses shall be non
transferable to any person, partnership, corporation, association, or other
entity.
(Ord. 01-07, passed 7-25-01)
§ 114.05 REVOCATIONS.
   Any license issued pursuant to this chapter shall be subject to suspension
or revocation by the Town Manager for violation of any provision of this
chapter for any grounds that would warrant the denial of issuance of such
license in the first place. The Town Manager, upon such revocation or
suspension, shall state the reasons for the action in writing specifying the
particular grounds for such revocation or suspension. Any person aggrieved by a
decision of the Town Manager may appeal, in writing, within 30 days of such
decision to the Board of Commissioners who shall hold a hearing to review the
complaint at the next regularly scheduled meeting.
(Ord. 01-07, passed 7-25-01)
BUSINESS OPERATION
§ 114.20 INSPECTION OF A BODY PIERCING BUSINESS.
   An applicant or licensee shall permit representatives of the town, health
department, and/or Department of Health and Human Services to inspect the
records required by §§
114.02 and
114.25, and the premises of any body piercing business for the purpose of
insuring compliance with the law, at any time it is occupied, or open for
business. Failure or refusal by any person to permit a lawful inspection of the
premises during anytime it is occupied, or open for business, shall be
punishable in accordance with the town code and in addition shall be grounds
for the revocation of the business license.
(Ord. 01-07, passed 7-25-01)
§ 114.21 POSTING OF BUSINESS LICENSE.
   Every person, corporation, partnership, or association licensed under this
chapter shall display such license in a prominent place.
(Ord. 01-07, passed 7-25-01)
§ 114.22 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No body piercing business shall be open for business before 3:00 a.m. or
after 10:00 p.m. daily, local time.
(Ord. 01-07, passed 7-25-01)
§ 114.23 PATRONAGE OF A BODY PIERCING BUSINESS BY MINORS AND EMPLOYMENT OF
MINORS.
   (A)   No business, nor any owner, agent, or employee, of a body piercing
business shall allow, permit or condone the patronage of any person under the
age of 18 years upon the licensed premises for the purpose of obtaining a body
piercing unless such person is accompanied by one parent or legal guardian who
executes, in person, the original form required by §
114.02(A)(2)(f) which thereby authorizes the body piercing. A violation of this
subsection shall be grounds for revocation of the business license issued to
such violator pursuant to this subchapter.
   (B)   No business, corporation, partnership, association, or other entity
licensed pursuant to this chapter shall employ any person under the age of 18
years whose assigned duties shall include any service related to body piercing.
A violation of this subsection shall be grounds for revocation of the business
license issued to such violator pursuant to this subchapter.
(Ord. 01-07, passed 7-25-01)
§ 114.24 REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO BODY PIERCING BUSINESSES.
   Body piercing businesses shall adhere to all applicable state, federal, and
OSHA regulations. Any deviation from these regulations shall result in the
immediate revocation of the business license as outlined in this subchapter.
(Ord. 01-07, passed 7-25-01)
§ 114.25 RECORDS TO BE MAINTAINED ON ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   Each body piercing establishment shall maintain permanent records for
each patron. Before the body piercing operation begins, the patron shall be
required to personally complete a form to be provided by the body piercing
establishment, containing such information as may be required by the
establishment, including but not necessarily limited to: name, legal proof of
age, address, and telephone number. In the event that the patron is less than
18 years of age, then the records required by this section shall also include
the original, executed form required by §
114.02(A)(2)(f).
   (B)   Such records shall be maintained on the premises for a period of no
less than two years and shall be available for examination by the town, health
department, and/or the Department of Health and Human Services.
(Ord. 01-07, passed 7-25-01)
CHAPTER 115: TAXICABS
Section
General Provisions
   
115.01   Definitions
   
115.02   Markings required
   
115.03   Rates and fares to be posted inside
   
115.04   Insurance required
   
115.05   Owner information file
   
115.06   Filing description
   
115.07   Restriction on number of passengers
   
115.08   Passenger safety regulations
   
115.09   Taxicab parking generally
Certificate of Taxicab Company Operation
   
115.20   Required; application generally
   
115.21   Board of Commissioners review of application; public hearing
   
115.22   Investigation of application for certificate
   
115.23   Factors bearing upon issuance or denial of certificate
   
115.24   Issuance; terms and conditions; grounds for denial
   
115.25   Revocation of certificates
   
115.26   Annual license tax imposed; validity of certificate contingent upon,
payment of tax
   
115.27   Effect of failure to begin operations within 30 days from grant of
certificate
   
115.28   Transferability of certificates
Drivers
   
115.40   Permit required
   
115.41   Application for permit
   
115.42   Investigation by Chief of Police
   
115.43   Issuance of permit
   
115.44   A driver's permit and license to be displayed at all times
   
115.45   Annual renewal of permits
   
115.46   Revocation
   
115.47   Appeals
 
   
115.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 115.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates
or requires a different meaning.
   CHIEF OF POLICE OR HIS DESIGNEE. The Kill Devil Hills Chief of Police or
someone from his office with proper authority, acting for and in behalf of the
Chief.
   TAXICAB. Includes the terms VEHICLE FOR HIRE, SHARED-RIDE SERVICE and
EXCLUSIVE RIDE SERVICE. The word TAXICAB shall exclude motorcarriers regulated
pursuant to G.S. Ch. 62. SHARED-RIDE SERVICE is defined as a taxi service in
which two or more persons, with either different origins or with different
destinations or both, occupy a taxicab at one time. EXCLUSIVE-RIDE SERVICE is
defined as a taxi service in which the first passenger or party requests
exclusive use of the taxicab. This definition shall not include limousines as
defined in G.S. § 20-87(4) who are in possession of valid contract for such
limousine services.
(Ord. 93-14, passed 12-13-93; Am. Ord. 94-07, passed 6-27-94)
§ 115.02 MARKINGS REQUIRED.
   Each taxicab operating under a certificate issued pursuant to this chapter
shall be painted or otherwise permanently marked on both sides thereof in
letters of such size and color as to be readily seen at a distance of 50 feet,
words designating the vehicle as a taxicab, its cab fleet number and giving the
name or business name of the holder of the certificate.
(Ord. 93-14, passed 12-13-93)
§ 115.03 RATES AND FARES TO BE POSTED INSIDE.
   Each taxicab operating under a certificate issued pursuant to this chapter
shall have at all times prominently posted and displayed therein, so as to be
visible to the passengers therein, the rates and fares for the use of such cab.
(Ord. 93-14, passed 12-13-93)
§ 115.04 INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   For each taxicab, liability and property damage insurance shall be in effect
for each taxicab or other such vehicle for hire a policy or policies of
insurance as required by G.S. § 20-280, as amended. Such policy or policies
shall be filed with the Chief of Police or his designee as a condition
precedent to the operation of any such vehicle over the streets of the town.
Each insurance policy or policies shall, among other things, set forth a
description of each and every taxicab operated under the terms of such policy
or policies, including the make, model and vehicle identification number of
each and every such taxicab. The owner of a taxicab company with an insurance
policy as required herein shall provide the Chief of Police or his designee
with a certificate of insurance confirming coverage of the items listed in this
section and shall not allow such coverage to lapse. Notice of cancellation of
this insurance coverage shall be provided to the Chief of Police or his
designee by the insurance carrier five days prior to any cancellation of the
policy or policies.
(Ord. 93-14, passed 12-13-93)
§ 115.05 OWNER INFORMATION FILE.
   Every taxicab company owner shall maintain on file with the Chief of Police
or his designee his name, fixed business address from which all taxicabs will
be dispatched, all business telephone numbers listed in his name, the names of
all drivers, their valid drivers' license numbers and addresses and shall, 48
hours after any change in connection therewith, report such change or changes
to the Chief of Police or his designee in writing. The Chief of Police or his
designee shall report, on a quarterly basis, to the Board of Commissioners the
average number of taxis in operation for any given taxicab company during the
preceding quarter.
(Ord. 93-14, passed 12-13-93)
§ 115.06 FILING DESCRIPTION.
   (A)   Every owner shall keep a description of his current equipment at all
times on file with the Chief of Police or his designee, showing the make,
model, the motor number and vehicle identification number, cab fleet number,
and the state license number of each taxicab for which he holds a permit.
   (B)   Substitute vehicles must be filed with the Chief of Police or his
designee in accordance with this section.
(Ord. 93-14, passed 12-13-93)
§ 115.07 RESTRICTION ON NUMBER OF PASSENGERS.
   No driver shall permit more persons to be carried in a taxicab at any one
time than the seating capacity of such taxicab (as rated by the automobile
manufacturer), including the driver.
(Ord. 93-14, passed 12-13-93)
§ 115.08 PASSENGER SAFETY REGULATIONS.
   Compliance with motor vehicle safety requirements contained in the North
Carolina General Statutes, including, but not limited to, G.S. § 20-137.1 and
G.S. § 20-135.2(a), shall be verified by the owner to the Chief of Police or
his designee prior to the issuance of any permit.
(Ord. 93-14, passed 12-13-93)
§ 115.09 TAXICAB PARKING GENERALLY.
   All taxicabs, whether on duty or off duty, shall be parked in accordance
with the parking provisions contained in
Chapter 72.
(Ord. 93-14, passed 12-13-93)
CERTIFICATE OF TAXICAB COMPANY OPERATION
§ 115.20 REQUIRED; APPLICATION GENERALLY.
   (A)   Required. No person shall engage in the business of operating a
taxicab within the town, or between the town and unincorporated places within
the County of Dare, whose fares originate in Dare County, without having a
valid certificate of taxicab company operation, hereinafter in this chapter
referred to as a "certificate," issued to them by the Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   Application. Each application for a certificate shall be on a form
prescribed by the town and shall set forth all information required by the
Board of Commissioners to determine whether or not the certificate applied for
should be issued. Each such application shall be verified by the applicant and
shall be filed with the Chief of Police or his designee.
   (C)   Application fee. There is hereby established a charge which shall be
in an amount set out in the town fee schedule and on file in the office of the
Town Clerk, and amended from time to time by the Board of Commissioners, for
each application for a certificate of operation which is for the purpose of
helping to defray the expenses involved in checking the application and for
services rendered by town personnel. This charge shall be in addition to and
not in lieu of any license tax or other charge imposed by the code and shall
not be refundable.
(Ord. 93-14, passed 12-13-93)
§ 115.21 BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS REVIEW OF APPLICATION; PUBLIC HEARING.
   Each application for a certificate shall be scheduled for review by the
Board of Commissioners and a public hearing, if the Board determines that such
hearing is necessary. Such review shall be conducted at the next regular
meeting of the Board of Commissioners, subject to meeting agenda preparation
constraints, after such application is filed with the Chief of Police or his
designee. The applicant shall be notified by the Town Clerk by mail, at the
business address set forth in the application, of the date and time of such
meeting; such notification to be mailed or delivered at least seven days before
the date set for the meeting.
(Ord. 93-14, passed 12-13-93)
§ 115.22 INVESTIGATION OF APPLICATION FOR CERTIFICATE.
   Before any application for certificate is presented to the Board of
Commissioners, the Chief of Police or his designee shall investigate all facts
and conditions that may relate to the permit application and shall cause to be
made a full and complete report of these findings to the Board of
Commissioners, including conformance with local, state and federal ordinances
and regulations.
(Ord. 93-14, passed 12-13-93)
§ 115.23 FACTORS BEARING UPON ISSUANCE OR DENIAL OF CERTIFICATE.
   In determining whether to grant a certificate under this chapter, the Board
of Commissioners shall, among other things, take into consideration the
following factors:
   (A)   The number and condition of vehicles;
   (B)   The number of taxicabs to be operated;
   (C)   Such other relative facts as may be deemed necessary and advisable,
which shall include a history of past violations of local, state or federal
regulations.
(Ord. 93-14, passed 12-13-93)
§ 115.24 ISSUANCE; TERMS AND CONDITIONS; GROUNDS FOR DENIAL.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners shall grant a certificate when the
application therefor has established to the Board's satisfaction that the
requirements of this chapter will be complied with and that the factors
considered by the Board, as set out in §
115.23, favor the issuance of a certificate. Each certificate may contain such
terms and conditions as the Board of Commissioners may consider desirable to
impose for the public welfare and/or safety, convenience and necessity.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners may deny a certificate to an applicant who
does not establish to the Board's satisfaction that the issuance of a
certificate when, in the considered opinion of the Board, the applicant would
or could not comply with the provisions of this code or that the factors
considered by the Board, as set out in §
115.23, favor disapproval of the application.
(Ord. 93-14, passed 12-13-93)
§ 115.25 REVOCATION OF CERTIFICATES.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners may at any time, during open meeting,
revoke any certificate issued by authority of this subchapter for any one or
more of the following causes:
      (1)   Failure to operate a taxicab specified in the certificate in such a
manner as to serve the public adequately and efficiently;
      (2)   Failure to pay the full amount of the tax imposed upon each taxicab
when due;
      (3)   Repeated and persistent violation, by the taxicab drivers employed
by the holder of the certificate, of the state law or provisions of this code;
      (4)   Failure to report accidents;
      (5)   Willful failure to comply with any provision of the state law or
this code or other ordinance of the town relating to the operation of taxicabs.
   (B)   No certificate shall be revoked for violating any one or more of the
provisions listed above until the owner has had at least five days' notice by
personal service or certified mail of the charges against him and of the time
and place of the meeting. If, after the meeting, it is found that the owner is
in violation of or has violated one or more of the provisions listed herein,
the Board of Commissioners shall have the power to revoke the certificate or to
condition a revocation upon compliance of its order within any time fixed by
it.
(Ord. 93-14, passed 12-13-93)
§ 115.26 ANNUAL LICENSE TAX IMPOSED; VALIDITY OF CERTIFICATE CONTINGENT UPON,
PAYMENT OF TAX.
   There is hereby imposed upon each holder of a certificate an annual tax for
each vehicle authorized by such certificate to be operated as a taxicab. This
tax shall be due and payable at the same time and in the same manner as
business license taxes. No new certificate shall become valid until the tax
imposed by this section has been paid and the validity of each certificate at
any time shall be contingent upon payment, for the current license year, of the
annual tax imposed by this code. (See G.S. § 20-97)
(Ord. 93-14, passed 12-13-93)
§ 115.27 EFFECT OF FAILURE TO BEGIN OPERATIONS WITHIN 30 DAYS FROM GRANT OF
CERTIFICATE.
   If a certificate is granted to an applicant under this subchapter and such
applicant shall fail, in accordance with the provisions of the certificate, to
begin operations within 30 days after the date of the certificate, then the
certificate shall become null and void, provided that this provision may be
waived by the Board of Commissioners on good cause being shown.
(Ord. 93-14, passed 12-13-93)
§ 115.28 TRANSFERABILITY OF CERTIFICATES.
   A certificate for a taxicab company issued under this chapter shall not be
transferable.
(Ord. 93-14, passed 12-13-93)
DRIVERS
§ 115.40 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall drive any taxicab carrying passengers for hire in Kill Devil
Hills without having a valid taxicab driver permit, hereinafter in this
subchapter referred to as a "permit," issued to him by the Chief of Police or
his designee.
(Ord. 93-14, passed 12-13-93)
§ 115.41 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Contents, verification and filing. Each application for a permit shall
be on a form prescribed by the town and shall contain the applicant's name,
address, photograph, age, weight, height, race, color of hair and eyes,
fingerprints, prospective employer, previous employer, number of his valid
driver's license and such other information as may be required to determine
whether or not the permit applied for should be issued. Each application shall
be verified by the applicant and shall be filed with the Chief of Police or his
designee.
   (B)   Fingerprints and photograph.
      (1)   Upon filing of an application for a permit, the applicant shall
avail himself to the Chief of Police or his designee for the taking of
fingerprints. Two 3½-inch by 5-inch current color photographs of the
applicant's upper torso (head and shoulders) shall accompany the application
for a permit and in no case shall an application be processed without these
photographs.
      (2)   A certified check made payable to the North Carolina Department of
Justice in an amount equal to the fees charged by the State Bureau of
Investigation (SBI) and Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) for fingerprint
investigations shall accompany each application. These fees are nonrefundable.
      (3)   In the event that an applicant for a taxicab driver's permit in the
town of Kill Devil Hills is currently licensed for taxicab operation in another
local municipality and further in the event that the licensing requirements in
that municipality are similar to Kill Devil Hills' needs, then duplication of
fingerprint investigation will not be necessary. The applicant shall request
the municipality in which he is licensed to forward by confidential mail a
certified, true copy of his or her fingerprint investigations to the Kill Devil
Hills Chief of Police or his designee. The applicant shall be responsible for
any fees charged by the licensing municipality for these copies.
      (4)   The fingerprints and photographs shall constitute a part of such
application.
   (C)   Application fee. There is hereby established a nonrefundable charge in
accordance with the town's current fee schedule for each application for a
permit, which is for the purpose of helping to defray the expenses involved in
checking the application and services rendered by town personnel.
   (D)   False statements. Any false statement of material fact made in an
application for a permit shall invalidate the permit issued thereon and such
permit shall be immediately revoked by the Chief of Police or his designee.
(Ord. 93-14, passed 12-13-93; Am. Ord. 95-08, passed 7-10-95)
§ 115.42 INVESTIGATION BY CHIEF OF POLICE.
   The Chief of Police, or his designee, shall investigate to his satisfaction
the facts stated in each application for a permit, including checking the state
and federal repositories for criminal history plus records. There shall be no
redissemination of records to noncriminal justice agencies.
(Ord. 93-14, passed 12-13-93)
§ 115.43 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   If the Chief of Police or his designee finds that an applicant for a permit
has not been convicted of any crime involving any felony or misdemeanor drug
violations in the last 24 months, prostitution and related offenses, or similar
crimes involving moral turpitude, and whose submitted application is in
compliance with the provisions and conditions of this chapter, the Chief of
Police shall issue a permit to the applicant.
(Ord. 93-14, passed 12-13-93)
§ 115.44 A DRIVER'S PERMIT AND LICENSE TO BE DISPLAYED AT ALL TIMES.
   Each driver's permit issued by the Kill Devil Hills Chief of Police or his
designee in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, along with the
driver's valid driver's license, shall at all times be prominently posted and
displayed in the taxicab he is currently operating so as to be visible to the
passengers therein.
(Ord. 93-14, passed 12-13-93)
§ 115.45 ANNUAL RENEWAL OF PERMITS.
   Taxicab driver permits shall expire annually. Each person who has been
issued a permit which is in effect shall present such permit to the Chief of
Police, or his designee, within 30 days preceding the expiration date printed
on the permit for the purpose of having it renewed. All permits which are not
presented for renewal in accordance with this section shall become null and
void on the day following the permit's expiration date.
(Ord. 93-14, passed 12-13-93; Am. Ord. 95-03, passed 5-8-95)
§ 115.46 REVOCATION.
   The permit shall be effective for the period specified on the permit,
contingent on the applicant's record remaining clear of any criminal conviction
of any felony or misdemeanor drug convictions in the last 24 months,
prostitution and related offenses, or similar crimes involving moral turpitude,
or any felony, or the revocation of valid driver's license of the applicant. At
any time it is found that the applicant has been convicted of any of the above,
the permit shall be immediately revoked by the Chief of Police or his designee.
Upon any second revocation, such revocation shall be deemed permanent
(Ord. 93-14, passed 12-13-93)
§ 115.47 APPEALS.
   Decisions rendered by the Chief of Police or his designee regarding issuance
or revocation of a taxicab driver's permit as provided in this subchapter may
be appealed directly to the Board of Commissioners at their next regular
meeting subject to meeting agenda constraints.
(Ord. 93-14, passed 12-13-93)
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Compliance. All taxicab companies for which a valid 1993/94 fiscal
year Kill Devil Hills privilege license was issued on or before the date of
adoption of this chapter by the tax collector shall come into compliance with
the provisions of this chapter by June 1, 1994. All other taxicab companies
that may petition the tax collector for a license to conduct business in Kill
Devil Hills after the date of adoption of this chapter shall meet the
requirements of this chapter before such license shall be issued.
   (B)   Enforcement. Violations of this chapter shall be punishable as a
misdemeanor offense under G.S. § 14-4 and §
10.99 of the Kill Devil Hills code of ordinances.
(Ord. 93-14, passed 12-13-93)
CHAPTER 116: NATURAL GAS COMPANY
Section
   
116.01   Definitions
   
116.02   Franchise granted
   
116.03   Town to be furnished indemnity against injuries, damage and nuisances
   
116.04   Obligation of company to furnish natural gas
   
116.05   Town to be furnished access to maps on request
   
116.06   Conditions of revocation
   
116.07   Notice
   
116.08   Binding effect
   
116.09   Changes or amendments
§ 116.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMPANY. Eastern North Carolina Natural Gas Company, a corporation organized
under the laws of the State of North Carolina and authorized to do business in
the State of North Carolina and any successor in interest to Eastern North
Carolina Natural Gas Company under this franchise chapter.
   TOWN or TOWN OF KILL DEVIL HILLS. The Town of Kill Devil Hills, a municipal
corporation located in Dare County, North Carolina; the area now or hereafter
within the territorial town limits of the Town of Kill Devil Hills, or the Town
Board of Commissioners or any officer or agent duly authorized in acting on
behalf of the town as a municipal corporation, as indicated by the context by
which the term is used.
   TOWN BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS.  The governing body of the Town of Kill Devil
Hills.
   GAS. When used as an unqualified term shall mean either natural or
artificial gas, by whatever process or processes derived or manufactured, or
both such gases either separately or a mixture of them.
(Ord. 05-07, passed 5-25-05)
§ 116.02 FRANCHISE GRANTED.
   (A)   The company is hereby granted a nonexclusive right to construct,
operate and maintain a gas utilities system within the town for the production,
transmission, distribution and sale for gas to consumers and users within the
town and to the town and any and all agencies and departments thereof.
   (B)   (1)   To the extent that the town may legally do so, the company is
hereby granted the right, authority and privilege, after written notice
delivered to the town, to construct and install, operate, maintain, lay or
relay, renew, replace and repair, (except no advance notice shall be required
for emergency repairs) gas pipes, mains, pipelines, conduits, regulators,
connections and services thereto hereinafter "facilities"), in, through,
across, along and under streets, avenues, roads, public alleys, lanes, and such
other town properties and facilities as may be approved by the Town Manager
(hereinafter "public properties") in the town for the production, pumping,
handling, transmission, distribution and sale of gas for any and all purposes,
subject to the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth in this chapter. Such
activities shall be conducted so as to minimize to the greatest extent
practicable (within reasonable economic costs) inconvenience to the public, and
damage to the area disturbed. All work shall be done with full consideration of
the facilities and rights of others. All company activities shall be
accomplished in accordance with the rules, regulations and standards of the
North Carolina Utilities Commission and shall be subject to the provisions of
the Kill Devil Hills Town Code. Company agrees to abide by all present and
future laws, regulations and ordinances regulating utility cuts in public
properties, but town shall not adopt any ordinance, rule or regulation which
shall have the effect of modifying, amending, altering, or voiding all or any
part of this franchise.
      (2)   Whenever the company shall cause any opening, excavation or
alteration to be made in any public properties within the town in the
construction, operation or maintenance of any of its facilities owned or used
by it, the company shall repair and restore expeditiously such portions of such
public properties to the same condition in which it found them as nearly as
practicable. Additionally, if the company shall fail following completion of
repairs to restore the area to its approximate former condition within a
reasonable time, and a written notice is provided by the town to the company,
the town may proceed after five calendar days notice by mail or personally
delivered to company to restore such public properties as nearly as practicable
to their original condition, and the town shall submit a statement of the costs
for this restoration to the company. The company agrees to pay the town for
these costs within 30 days. Interest at 9% per annum shall accrue on these
costs beginning on the 31st day following the date that the town mails notice
of such costs or the date that the town hand delivers such notice to company.
Conflicts in elevations of company piping with town or other utilities that
require adjustment of town or other utilities shall be at company's expense,
and any damage to all such utilities while company is readjusting company
facilities shall be the responsibility of company.
      (3)   In the case of temporary repairs, any opening, excavation or
alteration in any public properties shall be backfilled immediately after the
temporary repairs are finished, and the excavated area shall be kept in a safe
condition by the company until the permanent repair is made. The permanent
repair shall be made as expeditiously as possible.
      (4)   Except in emergency situations, the company shall not excavate in
any public properties of the town until it shall obtain written approval from
the town, which shall state in particular the location of proposed excavation
and the approximate time to be required to complete the work at the excavated
area. The town will act upon such requests within a reasonable time and shall
not be unreasonable in refusing to grant approval of a company request. In no
event though shall the town fail to cooperate with the company to reach
agreement as to a commercially feasible method for the company to comply with
its legal obligations in the provision of natural gas service. All excavations,
back-filling and paving shall be subject to inspection by the town and shall be
done according to the standard practice of the town in the installment of its
water and sewer installations.
      (5)   In all cases where any public properties shall be excavated,
disturbed or altered by the company, it shall take all precautions necessary or
proper for the protection of the public and shall maintain adequate warning
signs, barricades, signals and other devices necessary or proper to give
adequate notice or warning to the public of the existence of all actual
conditions and hazards present. Company shall undertake every reasonable option
available to prevent creating a hardship to adjoining properties, including,
without limitation, businesses and residences. Company agrees to abide by all
present and future laws, regulations and ordinances regulating utility cuts in
public properties, but town shall not adopt any ordinance, rule or regulation
which shall have the effect of modifying, amending, altering, or voiding all or
any part of this franchise.
      (6)   Whenever the town shall grade or re-grade any public properties in,
along, under or across which the company shall have installed any of its
facilities, and such grading or re-grading necessitates removal or relocation
of such facilities for company to remain in compliance with federal or state
law or regulation applicable to such facilities, it shall be the duty of the
company, at the request of the town, at its own cost and expense, to promptly
change said facilities so as to conform to the new grade which is then being or
has been established.
   (C)   If the town decides to pave or repave a public property, it shall give
60 days prior notice to the company of the intention to pave or repave such
street. When such notice is given, the company shall perform such work as the
company deems necessary for the extension of new facilities or the repair or
relocation of existing facilities within public property prior to the time the
town begins paving or repaving of the public property. With prior written
approval by the town, the company may perform such work as the company deems
necessary for the extension of new facilities or the relocation of existing
facilities within public property after one year from the date that specific
portion of the public property has been paved or repaved or if required to
serve a customer that requests natural gas service and the company can
economically provide such service.
   (D)   This franchise is granted for a term of 30 years beginning May 25,
2005 and ending at midnight May 25, 2036. This franchise supersedes any and all
former rights or franchises of the company to operate a gas utilities system in
the town with respect to all acts and things done or admitted to be done, on or
after May 25, 2006.
   (E)   The company agrees to pay an annual franchise tax equal to the amount
set by the General Statutes of North Carolina and which sum shall be payable in
accordance with such statutes. The grant of this franchise shall not cause the
company to be liable for any other taxes, licenses or fees that it would not
otherwise be chargeable with under state law.
   (F)   The company is hereby granted the right during the existence of this
franchise to mortgage or hypothecate this franchise, together with all rights
and privileges thereunder and any right or interest therein, as security for
indebtedness, subject to acceptance by any legal successor in interest of the
obligations, duties, liabilities, limitations and prohibitions set out herein
and subject to the approval by the North Carolina Utilities Commission or other
governmental agency the approval of which is required by law. The company shall
not assign or transfer its rights under this agreement, provided, however, that
this provision shall not prohibit the company from assigning its rights
hereunder to the surviving corporation in any corporate reorganization in which
the company is a party.
(Ord. 05-07, passed 5-25-05)
§ 116.03 TOWN TO BE FURNISHED INDEMNITY AGAINST INJURIES, DAMAGE AND NUISANCES.
   The company agrees that it will at all times indemnify and save harmless the
town, its officers, employees, and servants for each and all such nuisances,
damage, injury (including death) loss, cost or expense (including reasonable
attorney fees), caused or occasioned or contributed to by any act or failure to
act, of the company, its officers, agents, servants and employees, in the
construction, installation, repairing, maintaining, or operation of said
facilities, equipment or devices of the company for the sale, transportation
and distribution of gas in said town, including making cuts, disturbances and
excavations in the public properties, except such indemnity shall not apply to
any such loss, cost or expense caused by the negligence of the town; and the
company shall secure and file, if requested, with the town certificates for
liability insurance in an amount of at least $1,000,000.
(Ord. 05-07, passed 5-25-05)
§ 116.04 OBLIGATION OF COMPANY TO FURNISH NATURAL GAS.
   (A)   Subject to the company's determination of economic feasibility in
accordance with its criteria, the company agrees to deliver to and distribute
for the use of the inhabitants, offices, businesses, commercial enterprises,
churches, charities and professional establishments within the town, during the
period of this franchise, and providing there is a demand for same, natural gas
in sufficient quantity to supply the demand customers within the town who may
be served under the provisions of this franchise.
   (B)   Service interruptions or impairment for reasons beyond the control of
the company shall not be a breach of this franchise, but such interruptions or
impairments shall be corrected within a reasonable time with as little
interruption as possible.
(Ord. 05-07, passed 5-25-05)
§ 116.05 TOWN TO BE FURNISHED ACCESS TO MAPS ON REQUEST.
   The company shall from time to time, at the request of the town, allow town
officials and/or employees to review or inspect maps of its transmission and
distribution system within the town which the company shall maintain up to
date.
(Ord. 05-07, passed 5-25-05)
§ 116.06 CONDITIONS OF REVOCATION.
   This franchise may be revoked only upon failure of the company to remedy any
breach of its terms within 30 days after receiving notice in writing of such
breach from the town or, if the breach cannot reasonably be cured within 30
days, the company must begin the cure within the 30-day period and thereafter
proceed to complete the cure with due diligence.
(Ord. 05-07, passed 5-25-05)
§ 116.07 NOTICES.
   All notices shall be in writing and hand delivered or mailed by registered
or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid to:
      Town of Kill Devil Hills
      Attention Town Manager
      PO Box 1719
      Kill Devil Hills, NC 27948
      Eastern North Carolina Natural Gas
      c/o Piedmont Natural Gas Company, Inc.
      Attention: Senior Vice President — Utility Operations
      1915 Rexford Road
      Charlotte, NC 28211
or to such other addresses as may be provided in writing from time to time.
Mailed notices shall be deemed received three days after posting.
(Ord. 05-07, passed 5-25-05)
§ 116.08 BINDING EFFECT.
   This franchise shall bind and inure to the benefit of Eastern North Carolina
Natural Gas Company and its successors and assigns and the Town of Kill Devil
Hills to the full extent allowed by applicable law.
(Ord. 05-07, passed 5-25-05)
§ 116.09 CHANGES OR AMENDMENTS.
   No agreement, promise, term or condition not contained herein shall have any
efficacy or validity. No change or amendment shall be effective until lawfully
adopted by the town and agreed to by the company.
(Ord. 05-07, passed 5-25-05)
CHAPTER 117: RECYCLING
Section
Recycling Franchises
   
117.01   Intent and purpose
   
117.02   Short title
   
117.03   Conditions of curb side recycling franchise
   
117.04   Definitions
   
117.05   Unlawful to operate without franchise
   
117.06   Exclusive franchise
   
117.07   Terms of a franchise
   
117.08   Scope of services
   
117.09   Recyclable materials collected
   
117.10   Refusal to collect
   
117.11   Public information program
   
117.12   Reporting requirements
   
117.13   Disposition of recyclable materials
   
117.14   Payment for services
   
117.15   Rate review and adjustment
   
117.16   Termination of franchise
   
117.17   Insurance requirements
   
117.18   General indemnity
   
117.19   Miscellaneous provisions
   
117.20   Authority to execute franchise agreement
RECYCLING FRANCHISES
§ 117.01 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   The town, pursuant to applicable state law, is authorized to grant an
exclusive franchise for the operation of a public enterprise including solid
waste collection and disposal systems, which includes the collection and
disposal of recyclable materials.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners finds that KDH has the responsibility to
provide for the health and welfare of its citizens and recognizes the
responsibility of the town to safeguard the naturally unique Outer Banks
environment; that recycling has proven effective in the reduction of solid
waste placed in landfills, and the town has received requests from citizens to
establish a curbside recycling program.
   (C)   The Board further finds that the public convenience, safety and
general welfare can best be served by establishing regulatory powers for a
curbside recycling program that are vested in the town or the persons the town
designates.
   (D)   It is the intent of this subchapter to ensure that the local franchise
operator for the collection of recyclable materials from residential units
provides the best possible service to the residents of the town and any
franchise issued pursuant to this subchapter shall be deemed to include these
findings as an integral part thereof.
(Ord. 08-14, passed 4-14-08)
§ 117.02 SHORT TITLE.
   (A)   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as
Chapter 117 and shall become a part of the ordinances of the town.
   (B)   This chapter shall take effect and be enforced from and after its
adoption.
   (C)   All ordinances or parts of the Town of Kill Devil Hills Code that
conflict with the provisions of this chapter are hereby repealed.
(Ord. 08-14, passed 4-14-08)
§ 117.03 CONDITIONS OF CURB SIDE RECYCLING FRANCHISE.
   (A)   The franchise granted by the adoption of the ordinance codified herein
shall be subject to the following rights of the town, but this enumeration
shall not be exclusive or impair the right of the Council to insert in such
franchise any provision within the power of the town:
      (1)   To repeal the same for misuse, non-use or failure to comply with
the provisions thereof;
      (2)   To require proper and adequate service and maintenance thereof at
the highest practicable standard of efficiency;
      (3)   To establish reasonable standards of service, quality of products
and prevent unjust discrimination in service or rates;
      (4)   To require continual and uninterrupted service to the public in
accordance with the terms of the franchise throughout the entire period
thereof;
      (5)   To use, control and regulate the use of its streets, alleys,
bridges and public places and the space above and beneath them;
      (6)   To impose such other regulations as may be determined by the
Council to be conducive to the safety, welfare and accommodation of the public.
(Ord. 08-14, passed 4-14-08)
§ 117.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. When not
inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the
future tense, words in the plural number include the singular number and words
in the singular number include the plural number. The words SHALL and WILL are
mandatory and MAY is permissive. Words not defined shall be given their common
and ordinary meaning.
   CURBSIDE COLLECTION SITE. A space within two feet of the paved portion of
Kill Devil Hills streets.
   EFFECTIVE DATE. The date the franchise becomes effective in accordance with
the franchise ordinance and the rules and procedures of the town.
   ELIGIBLE DWELLING UNITS. All single-family, two-family and multiple-family
dwelling units serviced by roll-off carts and presently being served by the
town's residential solid waste collection service and all future such units
which may be constructed in Kill Devil Hills.
   FRANCHISE AGREEMENT. The document executed by the town and the grantee
pursuant to the authority of the franchise ordinance.
   FRANCHISE AREA.
      (1)   The geographic area for which a franchise is granted under the
authority of this subchapter.
      (2)   If not otherwise specifically stated in the franchise ordinance,
the FRANCHISE AREA shall be the entire geographic area within the town as it is
now, or may in the future, be constituted.
   FRANCHISE ORDINANCE. The document which grants a franchise pursuant to this
subchapter.
   GRANTEE. A person who is granted a franchise or that person's lawful
successors, transferees or assigns.
   GRANTOR. The Town of Kill Devil Hills.
   PARTICIPATING CUSTOMERS. All single-family, two-family and multi-family
residential customers presently being served by Kill Devil Hills Public
Services Department and Solid Waste Division who contract with grantee/
franchisee for the subscription type voluntary curbside recycling program
outlined in the franchise.
   PERSON. Any corporation, partnership, proprietorship, individual,
organization, company, governmental entity or any natural person.
   REASONABLE NOTICE. Written notice addressed to the town or grantee at the
location as the parties have designated in the franchise agreement as the
address to which notice shall be transmitted to it, which notice shall be sent
by certified mail and postmarked not less than seven business days prior to
that date on which the party giving the notice shall commence any action which
requires the giving of notice. In computing the seven days, holidays recognized
by the town shall be excluded.
   RECYCLABLE MATERIALS CART. A 90 to 98 gallon roll-out type container,
including a lid and wheels, with a standard recycling logo, and be of a color
approved by the Town of Kill Devil Hills.
   RESIDENT. Any person residing in the town.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. Each of the following of which have been, are hereafter
dedicated to the public and maintained by any public authority or by others and
located within the town, including without limitation, the surface and space
within, above and below any real property in which the town has an interest in
law or equity, whether held in fee, or other estate or interest, or as trustee
for the public, including, but not limited to, any public street, boulevard,
road, highway, freeway, lane, alley, court, sidewalk, parkway, swell, river,
tunnel, viaduct, bridge, park, or any place, area, easements, rights-of-way in
similar public property and areas, or real property owned by or under the
control of the town.
   SCHEDULE OF COLLECTION. A schedule for the collection of recyclables
approved by the Town Administrator.
   SUBSCRIBER. Any person who or which elects to subscribe to the curbside
recycling service provided by a grantee.
   TOWN. The Town of Kill Devil Hills, North Carolina as it is now, or may in
the future be, constituted.
   TOWN ADMINISTRATOR. A person designated by the Town Manager to represent the
town in all business with the grantee.
(Ord. 08-14, passed 4-14-08)
§ 117.05 UNLAWFUL TO OPERATE WITHOUT FRANCHISE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a residential curbside
recycling service in the town without a franchise.
(Ord. 08-14, passed 4-14-08) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 117.06 EXCLUSIVE FRANCHISE.
   The franchise granted pursuant to this subchapter is exclusive.
(Ord. 08-14, passed 4-14-08)
§ 117.07 TERMS OF A FRANCHISE.
   The length of the term of a recycling franchise shall be as approved or
amended from time to time by action of the Board of Commissioners in accordance
with North Carolina statutory requirements for franchises and franchise
ordinances, and in open meeting.
(Ord. 08-14, passed 4-14-08; Am. Ord. 14-06, passed 3-10-14)
§ 117.08 SCOPE OF SERVICES.
   The franchisee shall provide the personnel, equipment, materials and other
such appurtenances as may be required to:
   (A)   Provide, manage, and supply 90 to 98-gallon roll-type recycling
containers with attached and fitted lids and wheels to all contracted
residential customers.
      (1)   Each of the containers will be imprinted with a standard recycling
logo.
      (2)   All containers and lids shall remain the property of the
franchisee.
      (3)   Commercial establishments. The scope of services does not include
commercial establishments in Kill Devil Hills; however, nothing in the scope of
services, or the intended franchise, shall prohibit the franchisee from seeking
out and establishing a professional relationship for recycling services with
commercial establishments.
   (B)   On a weekly basis, collect commingled recyclable materials within the
corporate limits of Kill Devil Hills on the same day as regular refuse
collection or as determined by the Town Administrator, including, but not
limited to, old newsprint, clear and colored glass, aluminum beverage
containers, tin cans, steel cans, bi-metal cans, #1 and #2 plastics, magazines,
phonebooks, corrugated cardboard, pressboard, paperboard and junk mail from the
contractual customers.
      (1)   Holiday collections will be coordinated with the Town
Administrator.
      (2)   The franchisee will be responsible for all recyclables collected in
accordance with this subchapter. No more than 5% by weight of all recyclable
materials are to be land filled and/or incinerated without the express, written
permission of the Town Administrator.
   (C)   Transport collected recyclable materials to a materials recovery
facility or any recyclable materials handling and disposition facility other
than an incinerator or a landfill.
   (D)   Make monthly reports to the Town Administrator detailing weight and
constituents of materials collected and their processing or final disposal.
   (E)   Be responsible for removing carts from Kill Devil Hills streets to
participating dwelling units prior to emergency situations.
   (F)   Be responsible for tracking service location of carts.
   (G)   Manage cart capacity issues and ensure that adequate capacity is
provided to each customer.
   (H)   Be solely responsible for stolen carts.
(Ord. 08-14, passed 4-14-08)
§ 117.09 RECYCLABLE MATERIALS COLLECTED.
   (A)   The franchise granted by this subchapter requires curbside collection
of recyclable materials, management of roll type recycling containers,
transport of materials, brokering, sale and disposal of selected recyclable
materials from each of the participating residential housing units;
uninterrupted service; billing and collecting (accounts payable/accounts
receivable); for such services from participating customers, and keeping and
maintaining such other financial records, including independent audits, that
may be identified in this subchapter, in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principals, and subject to the inspection and review of the Town of
Kill Devil Hills. The grantee shall be required to supply all labor, equipment
and other materials necessary to collect, manage and divert recyclable
materials from regional landfills.
   (B)   The franchisee shall collect all recyclable materials. The parties may
agree to add other items as the market for recyclable materials allows. The
franchisee will be responsible for preparing and distributing information to
participating customers describing the change and how to comply therewith.
   (C)   The franchisee is responsible for picking up and removing any
materials that have blown out or dropped from trucks or the collection
container due to any reason, even if a return trip is required.
   (D)   All trucks used for collection will be properly marked with recycling
signage for identification purposes.
   (E)   The franchisee shall require each employee to be courteous at all
times, to work quietly and shall not allow the use of loud or profane language.
The franchisee shall require each employee to work in a diligent manner. The
franchisee shall immediately investigate any notice of employee misbehavior and
take prompt and appropriate action. Any official or employee of franchisee who
is under the influence of alcohol or drugs or demands pay from the residents of
a dwelling unit for services rendered, or verbally or physically abuses any
resident of a dwelling unit, shall be immediately removed from work and shall
provide no other service to the Town of Kill Devil Hills. All carts must be
removed by residents from the curbside collection area within 24 hours of
collection.
   (F)   Collect recyclable materials on the same day as regular refuse
collection within the Town of Kill Devil Hills or as determined by the Town
Administrator, by a pre-arranged routed schedule, for the participating
customers. Routes shall begin no earlier than 6:00 a.m. unless authorized by
the Town Administrator. The franchisee shall provide to Kill Devil Hills a
complete list and map of schedules and dates for each curbside collection area.
   (G)   Leaks and spills shall be handled quickly and appropriately based on
the type and amount and according to state and federal spill response
guidelines. Equipment shall be well maintained so as not to allow liquid or
solid waste to leak or blow out of the collection equipment.
(Ord. 08-14, passed 4-14-08)
§ 117.10 REFUSAL TO COLLECT.
   (A)   When service is refused at any eligible dwelling unit, information
shall be provided to that dwelling unit, by the franchisee, describing the
reasons for the refusal and the appropriate remedial action, which must be
taken in order to have the bin collected in the future. The franchisee shall
also contact the Town Administrator by the end of the day of any recyclable
materials, which were refused, and the reasons for the refusal. This notice may
be by fax, electronic mail or other written communication. The franchisee may
telephone the Town Administrator and follow the oral notice by written
communication provided the oral and written notices are made on the same day as
the refusal.
   (B)   When a participating customer complains to the franchisee that a bin
has not been collected or has been missed, it shall be the duty of the
franchisee to respond to any and all complaints received and take whatever
steps may be necessary to remedy the complaint. The franchisee shall remedy the
complaint on or before 9:30 a.m. on the next business day after the complaint
has been received.
(Ord. 08-14, passed 4-14-08)
§ 117.11 PUBLIC INFORMATION PROGRAM.
   It will be the responsibility of the franchisee to design and implement a
program for the purpose of informing those who will be receiving curbside
recycling services under this contract concerning the proper method for
preparing recyclable materials, use of the recycling container, role of
curbside recycling, date and time of program initiation. This program will
include distribution of informational brochures to eligible dwelling units. The
cost for this program shall be borne by the franchisee and all proposed
activities, brochures, mailings, advertisements, and the like shall be approved
by the Town Administrator prior to use. All actions taken and all materials
prepared as a part of the public information program will be submitted to the
Town Administrator for approval prior to implementation or use. The franchisee
will deliver brochures or such other information on residential curbside
recycling or the franchise, which is produced by Kill Devil Hills on request by
the town.
(Ord. 08-14, passed 4-14-08)
§ 117.12 REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.
   The franchisee shall be required to supply the Town Administrator with
monthly reports on or before the fifth day of the following month which
include:
   (A)   A listing by street address of the residences which have been refused
curbside recycling services by the franchisee at least one time within the past
month and the reasons for that refusal;
   (B)   A summary of all recyclable materials collected at the curbside
reported on a weight basis and delineated as to the various types of individual
recyclable constituents which are being collected as part of this program; and
   (C)   A summary of all materials, delineated by weight and by component,
which were collected at the curbside but which were land filled and/or
incinerated. Loads that are not delivered to a materials recovery facility due
to mechanical failure, contamination, and the like should be reported
immediately to the Town Administrator.
   (D)   In addition, the franchisee will submit an annual report to the Town
Administrator each year within 90 days after the anniversary date of the
contract in which the franchisee/contractor will summarize:
      (1)   Total weight of materials recycled and land filled/incinerated over
the previous year disaggregated by individual constituent such as aluminum
beverage container, #1 plastic, old newsprint, and the like;
      (2)   Average annual participation rate aggregated from monthly data;
      (3)   Efforts undertaken by the franchisee/contractor as part of the
public information program required by this contract and the observed effects
of this program;
      (4)   Suggestions from the franchisee, based on the previous year's
experience, for modifications to the current curbside recycling program which
may increase recycling, increase convenience to residents served by the
program, or decrease program costs.
   (E)   Any other reporting as deemed necessary by the Town Administrator to
aid in its own reporting to local, state or federal agencies or for analysis of
the effect on the waste stream and/or the effectiveness and efficiency of the
overall program.
(Ord. 08-14, passed 4-14-08)
§ 117.13 DISPOSITION OF RECYCLABLE MATERIALS.
   The franchisee shall be responsible for all recyclables collected in
accordance with this subchapter. No more than 5% by weight of all recyclable
materials are to be landfilled and/or incinerated without the express, written
permission of the Town Administrator.
(Ord. 08-14, passed 4-14-08) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 117.14 PAYMENT FOR SERVICES.
   (A)   As compensation for performing the services required under this
subchapter, the franchisee shall be authorized to collect from subscribers
reasonable fees set by Kill Devil Hills and collected from subscribers in
accordance with the duly adopted fee schedule for the town.
   (B)   All revenues received by the franchisee from the sale of recyclable
materials collected by the franchisee and all fees received by the franchisee
from subscribers for services provided hereunder shall become the property of
the franchisee.
   (C)   Kill Devil Hills shall not be responsible for the payment of any
federal, state or local taxes due as a result of compensation received by the
franchisee pursuant to this franchise and the franchise agreement.
(Ord. 08-14, passed 4-14-08; Am. Ord. 14-06, passed 3-10-14)
§ 117.15 RATE REVIEW AND ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   A request for rate adjustment may be made annually on the anniversary
date of the execution of the franchise agreement by both parties. Rate
adjustment applications shall be filed by the franchisee 30 days prior to the
anniversary date to provide adequate time for consideration by the Board of
Commissioners. Rate adjustments may be sought for all reasonable grounds. If
approved by Kill Devil Hills Board of Commissioners in an open meeting, a rate
adjustment shall not be effective until at least 30 days from date of approval
in order for the franchisee to give all clients a minimum 30 day notice of the
approved rate adjustment.
   (B)   If a rate adjustment is sought pursuant to this subchapter, the Town
Administrator or Commissioners may require the franchisee to provide a
financial audit for the previous year of operations. The audit shall be
completed according to generally accepted accounting principles and shall be at
no cost to the town. The auditor shall be chosen by Kill Devil Hills with the
concurrence of the franchisee. The franchisee shall be entitled to recover the
reasonable costs of the audit through the franchisee's rates.
(Ord. 08-14, passed 4-14-08)
§ 117.16 TERMINATION OF FRANCHISE.
   Violation by the franchisee of any local, state or federal law or any term
or provision of this franchise agreement or filing bankruptcy or failing to
maintain insurance required by this subchapter, may result in immediate
termination of the franchise without notice by Kill Devil Hills, except that
either party may terminate the franchise agreement upon 120 days written notice
to the other and to all subscribers.
(Ord. 08-14, passed 4-14-08)
§ 117.17 INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   During the term of this franchise, franchisee/contractor shall maintain in
full force and effect the following insurance, naming Kill Devil Hills as an
additional insured. Certificates of insurance shall be submitted to Kill Devil
Hills within ten days of the franchise agreement. (Ordinance being enacted.)
COVERAGE LIMITS OF LIABILITY
COVERAGE                                    LIMITS OF LIABILITY
Worker's Compensation                       Statutory
Employer's Liability                        $ 500,000
Bodily Injury Liability Except Automobile   $1,000,000 each occurrence
                                            $1,000,000 aggregate
Property Damage Liability Except Automobile $1,000,000 each occurrence
                                            $1,000,000 aggregate
Automobile Bodily Injury                    $1,000,000 each person
Automobile Property Damage Liability        $1,000,000 each occurrence
Excess Umbrella Liability                   $1,000,000 each occurrence
 
(Ord. 08-14, passed 4-14-08)
§ 117.18 GENERAL INDEMNITY.
   The franchisee shall hold harmless and indemnify Kill Devil Hills, its
employees, attorneys and agents from any claims, damages, losses and
liabilities resulting from the work performed under the provisions of the
franchise ordinance and agreement codified herein.
(Ord. 08-14, passed 4-14-08)
§ 117.19 MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Franchisee shall furnish all labor, equipment and supervision
necessary to accomplish its full and satisfactory performance of the franchise.
Franchisee shall use only personnel qualified to perform the work assigned and
shall see that all work is performed in an efficient and workmanlike manner and
in compliance with federal and state OSHA standards.
   (B)   EEO. Franchisee shall not discriminate against any employee or
applicant for employment because of sex, race, religion, color, creed,
handicap, national origin or ancestry. Franchisee shall post conspicuously a
notice of its equal employment opportunity policy.
   (C)   Franchisee as independent contractor. Nothing in this franchise may be
construed to create the relationship of employer and employee between
franchisee or franchisee's employees or agents and Kill Devil Hills. Franchisee
and any subcontractor employed by franchisee with Kill Devil Hills's consent
shall comply with all minimum wage standards, worker's compensation,
unemployment compensation and all other laws federal, state and local pertinent
to its employees. Franchisee and any sub-contractor employed by franchisee with
Kill Devil Hills' consent shall abide by all applicable local, state and
federal laws and regulations pertaining to the activities carried on under this
contract and to its employees and equipment used to fulfill the terms of this
franchise. Franchisee shall take all actions necessary to ensure that any
approved sub-contractor complies with all the requirements of this division.
   (D)   Franchisee's equipment. Franchisee shall maintain all trucks and
equipment used in the performance of this contract in a reasonable clean
condition and free of unpleasant odors by spray washing, disinfecting and steam
cleaning.
   (E)   Designated contact person. Franchisee agrees to assign qualified
personnel to be in charge of the service provided for by this franchise and
agrees to provide the names of the personnel to the Town Administrator.
   (F)   Continuous service required. Franchisee agrees that in the event of
equipment breakdown, strike or other occurrence which would delay or prevent
timely performance of its obligations under the franchise it shall immediately
take action necessary, including, but not limited to, replacement of equipment
and personnel in order to assure prompt restoration of regular services and in
any case before the next regular collection date.
   (G)   Excuse of performance. The performance of any obligation under this
franchise may be temporarily suspended in the event that performance is
prevented by a cause or causes beyond the control of franchisee and shall be
resumed as soon as possible. Such causes shall include, but not be limited to:
acts of God, acts of war, riot, fire, explosion, accident, hurricane and flood.
   (H)   In the event of flood or hurricane or other natural disaster which
interrupts Kill Devil Hills business, Kill Devil Hills reserves the right, at
no cost to Kill Devil Hills, to notify franchisee to suspend collections until
the emergency conditions have ended.
   (I)   Inspection. All services performed by franchisee under this franchise
shall be subject to the inspection and approval of the Kill Devil Hills Town
Manager or the Town Administrator. When the town determines that franchisee's
performance is unsatisfactory, franchisee shall immediately commence action
necessary to remedy the problem.
   (J)   Franchisee to supply all licenses. Franchisee shall, at its own
expense, purchase and keep in force all business licenses and other licenses
and permits required by federal, state or local law, ordinances and regulations
pertinent to franchisee's performance of this franchise.
   (K)   Environmental considerations. Any costs associated with violations of
the law including, but not limited to, remediation, clean up costs, fines,
administrative or civil penalties or charges, and third party claims imposed by
any regulatory agency or by any third party as a result of the noncompliance
with federal, state or local environmental laws and regulations or nuisance
statutes by the franchisee or by sub-contractors, consultants, sub-consultants,
or any other persons, corporations or legal entities retained by the
franchisee/contractor for this franchise, shall be paid by the franchisee.
   (L)   Modification. There may be no modification of this franchise, except
in writing, approved by Kill Devil Hills and the franchisee. The franchisee may
not subcontract with any entity or assign its rights under the franchise
ordinance and agreement without the express consent of Kill Devil Hills Board
of Commissioners.
(Ord. 08-14, passed 4-14-08)
§ 117.20 AUTHORITY TO EXECUTE FRANCHISE AGREEMENT.
   Upon the enactment of the ordinance codified herein, the Kill Devil Hills
Town Manager is authorized to enter into a franchise agreement with Bay
Disposal Inc. d/b/a Outer Banks Hauling, containing the terms as set out in the
ordinance codified herein.
(Ord. 08-14, passed 4-14-08)
CHAPTER 118: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
118.01   Wine, fortified wine, and mixed beverages on Sunday mornings
§ 118.01 WINE, FORTIFIED WINE, AND MIXED BEVERAGES ON SUNDAY MORNINGS.
   The sale of malt beverages, unfortified wine, fortified wine and mixed
beverages shall be allowed within Kill Devil Hills’ corporate limits at any
premises licensed pursuant to G.S. § 18B-1001 on Sundays beginning at 10:00
a.m.
(Ord. 16-4, passed 7-10-17)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      Chapter
         
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
General Offenses
   
130.01   Disorderly conduct
   
130.02   Noise
   
130.03   Posting signs
   
130.04   Living, residing or sleeping in open air or vehicles
   
130.05   Tents
   
130.06   Riding in town vehicles
   
130.07   Discharge of firearms
   
130.08   Play vehicles on private property
   
130.09   Use of slingshots prohibited
   
130.10   Sexually oriented businesses
   
130.11   Consumption and storage of alcoholic beverages on town property
   
130.12   Certain activities prohibited on improved recreational accesses to
oceanfront or estuarine beaches
Smoking in and on Municipal Facilities
   
130.40   Purpose and findings
   
130.41   Definitions
   
130.42   Regulation of smoking in city-owned facilities
   
130.43   Prohibition of smoking in certain places
   
130.44   Posting requirements
   
130.45   Enforcement
   
130.46   Violations
   
130.47   Nonretaliation
Prohibition of Concealed Weapons on Certain Municipal Property
   
130.60   Purpose
   
130.61   Posting of signs required
   
130.62   Location of signs
Skateboard, Skating, and Water Parks
   
130.75   Definitions
   
130.76   Responsibility of users
   
130.77   Notice
   
130.78   Town immune from liability
 
   
130.99   Penalty
GENERAL OFFENSES
§ 130.01 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   Any person who engages in any of the following shall be guilty of
disorderly conduct:
      (1)   Any person who shall act in a violent or tumultuous manner toward
another, whereby any person is placed in danger of safety of his life, limb or
health;
      (2)   Any person who shall act in a violent or tumultuous manner toward
another, whereby public property or property of any other person is placed in
danger of being destroyed or damaged;
      (3)   Any person who shall endanger lawful pursuits of another by acts of
violence or threats of bodily harm;
      (4)   Any person who shall cause, provoke or engage in any fight, brawl
or riotous conduct so as to endanger the life, limb, health or property of
another or public property;
      (5)   Any person who shall assemble or congregate with another and cause,
provoke or engage in any fight or brawl;
      (6)   Any person who shall collect in bodies or in crowds and engage in
unlawful activities;
      (7)   Any person who shall assemble or congregate with another and engage
or attempt to engage in gaming as defined in G.S. Ch. 14;
      (8)   Any person who shall frequent any public place and obtain money
from another by an illegal or fraudulent scheme, trick, artifice or device or
attempt to do so;
      (9)   Any person who assembles with another and engages in any fraudulent
scheme, device or trick to obtain any valuable thing in any place or from any
person or attempts to do so;
      (10)   Any person who utters, in a public place or any place open to the
public, any obscene words or epithets;
      (11)   Any person who shall use fighting words directed towards any
person who becomes outraged and thus creates turmoil;
      (12)   Any person who shall assemble or congregate with another and do
bodily harm to another;
      (13)   Any person who shall, by acts of violence, interfere with
another's pursuit of a lawful occupation;
      (14)   Any person who shall congregate with another or others in or on
any public way so as to halt the flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic and
refuses to clear such public way when ordered to do so by a police officer or
other person having authority;
      (15)   Any person who damages, befouls or disturbs public property or the
property of another so as to create a hazardous, unhealthy or physically
offensive condition; or
      (16)   Any person who shall urinate in the town except in facilities,
including mobile units, designed and constructed for the disposal and
elimination of human waste.
   (B)   Any person convicted of disorderly conduct, as defined in this
section, shall be punished as provided in §
130.99.
(`88 Code, § 13-1) (Ord. passed 6-8-82)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.02 NOISE.
   (A)   Definitions. Unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, the words
and phrases used in this section shall have the following meanings:
      (1)   “A” WEIGHTING SCALE. The sound pressure level, in decibels, as
measured with the sound level meter using the “A” weighted network (scale). The
standard unit of notation is dB(A).
      (2)   DAYTIME HOURS. 7:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m., local time.
      (3)   DECIBEL (dB(A)). The decibel is a unit of measure of sound (noise)
level relative to a standard reference sound on a logarithmic scale.
      (4)   ELECTRONIC SOUND AMPLIFICATION SYSTEM. Any radio, tape player,
compact disc player, loud speaker or other electronic device used for the
amplification of sound.
      (5)   EMERGENCY WORK. Work necessary to restore property to a safe
condition following a public calamity or work required to protect persons or
property from an imminent exposure to danger by private or public utilities
when restoring utility service.
      (6)   MOTOR VEHICLE. For purposes of this section, the term motor vehicle
includes any vehicle which is propelled or drawn on land by a motor, including
but not limited to motorcycles, passenger cars, trucks, truck-trailers,
semitrailers, campers, go-carts, amphibious craft on land, dune buggies, racing
vehicles, mopeds, motorized bicycles or motorized scooters or skateboards.
      (7)   MOTOR BOAT. Any vessel which operates on water and is propelled by
a motor, including, but not limited to, boats, barges, amphibious craft, water
ski towing devices, jet skis and hovercraft.
      (8)   MUFFLER OR SOUND DISSIPATING DEVICE. An apparatus consisting of a
series of chambers or baffled plates designed for the purpose of transmitting
gases while reducing sound emanating from such apparatus.
      (9)   NIGHTTIME HOURS. 11:01 p.m. to 6:59 a.m., local time.
      (10)   NOISE. Any sound which annoys or disturbs humans or which causes
or tends to cause an adverse psychological or physiological effect on humans.
      (11)   NOISE DISTURBANCE. Any sound which endangers or injures the safety
or health of humans or animals; a noise that disturbs a reasonable person with
normal sensitivities; endangers or injures personal or real property; or is
unreasonably loud, disturbing or excessive noise.
      (12)   NOISE SENSITIVE ZONE. Any area designated by the town for the
purpose of ensuring exceptional quiet.
      (13)   OWNER OF REAL PROPERTY. The owner or listed owner, of real
property as defined in North Carolina General Statute 105-302.
      (14)   PERSON. A person, firm, association, co-partnership, joint
venture, corporation, or any entity, public or private in nature.
      (15)   REAL PROPERTY BOUNDARY. A line along the ground surface and its
vertical extension, which separates the real property owned by one person from
that owned by another, but not including intra-budding real property divisions.
      (16)   RIGHT OF WAY. Any street, avenue, boulevard, highway, sidewalk or
alley or similar plan which is owned or controlled by a governmental entity.
      (17)   SOUND AMPLIFICATION DEVICES. Any radio, tape player, compact disc
player, MP3 player, loud speaker, amplifier, or other device used for the
amplification of sound.
      (18)   SOUND LEVEL (NOISE LEVEL) IN DECIBELS. The level measured on the
A-weighted scale as defined in the American National Standards S-1.4-1983.
      (19)   SOUND LEVEL METER. An instrument designed for the measuring of
sound levels and a means of displaying the sound level using the A-weighting
network.
      (20)   TENANT. One who resides on or has the temporary use or occupancy
of real property owned by another person. In the case of residential property,
the term “tenant” shall be considered to mean any individual actually residing
at the residential location, whether such person is listed on a lease or not.
      (21)   UNREASONABLY LOUD, DISTURBING OR EXCESSIVE NOISE. Any sound which
because of its volume, level, duration or character disturbs, discomforts,
injures or endangers the health, peace or safety of a reasonable person with
normal sensitivities. For purposes of this chapter, such a sound shall be
deemed to be a noise disturbance.
      (22)   ZONING DISTRICTS. Means land classification within the town that
regulate the uses and the locations of structures. Zoning Districts are
established in Chapter 153 of this Code.
   (B)   Noise Measurement Techniques.
      (1)   Sound level meters.
         (a)   For the purpose of determining decibels, (dB(A)'s) as referred
to in this chapter, noise shall be measured on the A-weighting scale on a sound
level meter of standard design and quality having characteristics established
by the American National Standards Institute.
         (b)   The sound level meter should be certified to meet or exceed the
American National Standards Institute or its successor bodies and shall be
serviced, calibrated and operated as recommended by the manufacturer. Persons
utilizing the sound level meter for purposes of this chapter shall be familiar
with sound level measurement and the operation of sound level measurement
equipment, and shall operate the sound level meter in accordance with the
manufacturer's instructions.
      (2)   Alternative Measurement Techniques.
         (a)   In the event that the noise cannot be measured on a sound level
meter operated on the “A” weighting network (scale) or it is otherwise
impractical to utilize this measurement technique under the circumstances: (i)
the complaints of two or more persons, at least one of whom resides in a
different location from the other complaining person or persons, when combined
with the complaint of an authorized investigating officer, shall be prima facie
evidence that the sound is unreasonably loud, disturbing or excessive noise;
and/or (ii) if the noise is of such a nature that a reasonable person with
normal sensitivities should have known that the noise was creating an
unreasonably loud, disturbing or excessive noise the same shall be prima facie
evidence of a violation of this chapter. Sound emission decibel measurements
shall not be required for establishment of a violation under the circumstances
set out above and the same shall be deemed to be a noise disturbance.
         (b)   In determining whether a noise, under this section, is of such
character as to be noise disturbance the investigating officer shall consider
the following non-exclusive list of factors:
            1.   Does the noise cross property lines?;
            2.   Complaints of neighbors regarding the noise;
            3.   Effect on neighbors complaining of the noise;
            4.   Time of day at which the noise takes place;
            5.   The intensity and duration of the noise;
            6.   The type of noise produced;
            7.   The reason or reasons for the noise; and
            8.   The alternative means available which will not produce
excessive noise.
      (3)   Location of Measurement.
         (a)   Except for noise within multi-family or multi-tenanted
structures, all noise measurements shall be made at or beyond the property line
of the property from which the noise originates to determine if the noise
creates a noise disturbance. For purposes of measurement, the back of the curb,
the outside edges of driveways, fences, hedges or other physical features
commonly associated with property boundaries are presumed to be at a point
which is at or beyond the property line.
         (b)   In the case of noise within multi-family or multi-tenanted
structures, noise measurements shall be made in the complaining unit with all
windows and doors closed and at a point that is approximately the center of the
room in the complaining unit that is nearest the unit from which the noise
originates. If access to the complaining unit is not possible, then the
measurement shall be at least 25 feet from the nearest point of habitable space
of the unit from which the noise originates.
   (C)   Maximum Permitted Sound Levels By Zoning Classification.
      (1)   All zoning districts. It shall be unlawful to create, cause or
allow the continuance of a noise disturbance, which interferes with neighboring
residents' reasonable use and enjoyment of their properties when measured at or
beyond the property line of the property from which the sound originates.
      (2)   Sounds Affecting Residential Zones. (Ocean Impact Residential Zone,
Low Density, Residential Zones, Maritime Forest Environmental District, High
Density Residential Zone) It shall be unlawful to create, cause or allow any
mechanical, amplified or sound from any source which registers more than 60 dB
(A) during daytime hours or 55 dB(A) during nighttime hours at or beyond the
property line of the property from which the sound originates.
      (3)   Sounds affecting Commercial and Industrial Zones. (Commercial Zone,
Light Industrial One Zone, Light Industrial Two Zone) It shall be unlawful to
create, cause or allow any mechanical, amplified or sound from any source which
registers more than 75 dB(A) during daytime hours or 65 dB(A) during nighttime
hours at or beyond the property line from which the sound originates.
      (4)   When the zoning classification of the property where the sound
originates differs from the zoning classification of the adjoining sound
receiving property, then the maximum permitted sound level which will apply
will be the higher of the two.
      (5)   Noise sensitive zones. Notwithstanding their location, hospitals,
rest homes, other healthcare facilities, churches, other places of worship,
educational institutions and day care facilities are noise sensitive zones and
it shall be unlawful for any person to cause or allow the emission of sound
onto said facilities during the facilities' operating hours which exceeds the
noise limitations or reasonableness standards for sound levels affecting
residential zones established by this chapter. For purposes of this section,
measurements shall be made at the real property boundary of the noise sensitive
zone facility nearest the real property boundary of the property from which the
noise originates.
   (D)   Prohibited Noise.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person:
         (a)   To create or cause the creation of a noise disturbance so as to
disturb or disrupt the peace and quietude of any person in the town; or
         (b)   To create, cause or allow the emission of sound beyond the
boundaries of his property or onto the property of another:
            1.   Which endangers or injures the safety or health of humans or
animals;
            2.   Which annoys or disturbs a reasonable person with normal
sensitivities;
            3.   Which endangers or injures personal or real property; or
            4.   Where the sound level indicated for the zoning district in
which the sound originates for that time of day is exceeded when measured with
a sound level meter as provided in this chapter.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the following
acts, among others, which are declared to be a noise disturbance in violation
of this chapter but such enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive:
         (a)   The playing of any television set, musical instrument or other
electronic sound amplification system in such a manner or with such volume as
to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of a reasonable person with
normal sensitivities;
         (b)   The keeping of an animal which, by causing frequent or long
continued noise, shall disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of the neighborhood
to such an extent as to constitute a nuisance;
         (c)   The creation of any noise on any street adjacent to any noise
sensitive zone which interferes with the workings of or which disturbs or
unduly annoys the citizens;
         (d)   The shouting and crying of peddlers, hawkers and vendors which
disturbs the peace and quiet of the neighborhood;
         (e)   The use of any drum, loud speaker or other instrument or device
for the purpose of attracting attention by creation of noise, to any
performance, show or sale or display of merchandise;
         (f)   The use of air-horns, klaxons or whistles inside any town
facility;
         (g)   The loading, unloading, opening, closing or other handling of
boxes, crates, containers, building materials, garbage cans, dumpsters of
similar objects between the hours of 11:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. the following day,
in such a manner as to cause a noise disturbance across a residential real
property boundary or within a noise sensitive zone is prohibited as set forth
in the maximum decibel levels set for each zone at the times of day consistent
with this chapter;
         (h)   The use of any mechanical device operated by compressed air
unless the noise created thereby is effectively muffled and reduced.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to play, use or
permit to be played any electronic sound amplification system which generates a
sound level exceeding the decibel limits set forth in this chapter for the
zoning district in which it is located for any of the following:
         (a)   Any public property including any public street, highway,
building, sidewalk, park or thoroughfare;
         (b)   Any motor vehicle on a public street, highway, public space or
commercial space; or
      (4)   Possession by a person of any machines or devices which may be
classified as an electronic sound amplification system enumerated and defined
in this chapter shall be prima facie evidence that person or those persons
operated that machine or device.
      (5)   Equipment being used for construction, agricultural, lawn care,
vehicle or boat repairs, or the like is prohibited after 8:00 p.m. and cannot
commence before 7:00 a.m. Monday through Saturday and prohibited after 6:00
p.m. and cannot commence before 9:00 a.m. on Sunday; provided that, all
equipment shall be operated in accordance with the manufacturer's
specifications, manufacturers mufflers and noise reducing equipment are in use
and in proper operating condition and is not used in a manner or with such
volume as to indicate an intent to disturb or annoy a reasonable person with
normal sensitivities. The building inspector may, in the case of urgent
necessity and in the interest of public safety issue a permit for other times,
which may be renewed for a period of three days or less while the emergency
continues.
      (6)   Nothing in this section shall preclude any citizen, without the
benefit of noise measuring equipment or contacting a law enforcement officer,
from appearing before a judicial officer to obtain a warrant based on this
chapter.
   (E)   Motor Vehicles and Motor Boats. It shall be unlawful to operate or
allow the operation of any motor vehicle or motor boat in the town:
      (1)   Which has its muffler, exhaust, and/or other noise-control
equipment removed, altered or maintained in such disrepair as to create
unreasonably loud or disturbing noises to a reasonable person with normal
sensitivities;
      (2)   By engaging in spinning tires, racing engines, or other operations
that create unreasonably loud and disturbing noises to a reasonable person with
normal sensitivities;
      (3)   By playing or operating any sound system or sound producing
instrument, device or apparatus installed or located in a motor vehicle or
motor boat when the speaker volume is elevated to such an extent that the sound
is clearly audible more than 50 feet from the vehicle. The provisions of this
division shall apply regardless of whether the vehicle is traveling upon the
streets of the town, parked on public property, or stopped in traffic. If the
vehicle or boat is parked on private property then the restrictions set forth
in “Maximum Permitted Sound Levels” for each zoning district shall also apply;
and
      (4)   By the sounding of any horn or signal device on any boat,
automobile, motorcycle, bicycle, bus or other vehicle, except as a danger
signal, so as to create an unreasonably loud or harsh sound, or the sounding of
such device for an unreasonable period of time, or the use of siren horns on a
boat, bicycle, automobile, or other vehicle except upon authorized emergency
service vehicles.
   (F)   Exemptions. This section shall not apply to the following sources:
      (1)   Emergency work;
      (2)   Generators for production of electricity at times when electrical
service has been interrupted due to natural calamity or accidental disruption.
Generators used for the production of electricity not exempted by this chapter
shall be operated in accordance with the maximum decibel requirements of the
zoning district where located.
      (3)   Parades, fairs, circuses, or other similar public entertainment,
sporting events taking place during the daytime hours in areas set aside for
such activities, or any activities normally associated with any of the above,
including use of a loud speaker or public address system;
      (4)   Musical chimes or the sounding of bells emanating from a public,
educational or religious institution or facility provided the sound is of
reasonable duration and frequency;
      (5)   Noise from lawful fireworks and noisemakers on holidays and for
ceremonies;
      (6)   The intentional sounding or permitting the sounding of any fire,
burglar, or civil defense alarm, siren, whistle or similar stationary emergency
signaling device for emergency purposes or for routine testing;
      (7)   Any activity to the extent regulation thereof has been pre-empted
by state or federal law;
      (8)   Any other noise resulting from activities for which a permit
allowing exemption from this article has been granted by the town. Regulation
of noises emanating from operations under such permit shall be according to the
conditions and limits stated on the permit;
      (9)   Noise resulting from the provision of sanitation or recycling
collection trucks between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m.;
      (10)   Noise resulting from the loading and unloading, opening, closing
or other handling of boxes, crates, containers, building materials, or similar
objects between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m.; and
      (11)   Any person may play a musical instrument between the hours of 3:00
p.m. and 7:00 p.m. Monday through Friday and 12:00 p.m. to 7:00 p.m. on
Saturdays and Sundays provided said sound does not exceed 65 dB(A) at the
property line of the property from which the sound emanates.
      (12)   Agencies of the United States, North Carolina, County of Dare, or
Town of Kill Devil Hills, including but not limited to law enforcement
agencies, fire departments, ocean rescue services, refuse collection vehicles
or apparatuses, and beach nourishment service contractors engaged in their
lawful duties are exempt from the provisions of this section.
   (G)   Permits to Exceed Noise Limitations.
      (1)   Application.
         (a)   Each applicant for a permit to use or operate a sound producing
device, instrument or apparatus or otherwise exceed the noise limitations
within the town shall complete and sign an application on a form supplied by
the town and file the same with the Chief of Police (or designee) at least
seven days prior to the date upon which the sound producing equipment is to be
used or operated or excessive noise is to occur. Where good cause is shown, or
in the judgment of the Chief of Police (or designee) the activity would involve
significant political or religious features and therefore be entitled to
enhanced deference or protection under the state or federal constitution, the
Chief of Police (or designee) may consider an application filed after the
deadline.
         (b)   The application shall describe the sound producing equipment or
excessive noise, state the specific location, day, and hour or hours in which
such sound producing equipment is to be used or operated or where the excessive
sound will occur, and shall specify other terms and conditions as are essential
to secure and protect the public safety. If sound producing equipment is to be
used or operated on private property, the owners of such property must consent
in writing.
      (2)   Issuance of permit. The Chief of Police (or designee) shall issue a
permit for the use of the requested sound producing equipment, device or
apparatus, or otherwise excessive sound to any applicant who complies with the
provisions of this section unless he finds in writing that one or more of the
special considerations specified in division (3) below cannot be adjusted to
minimize adverse effects upon the community or surrounding area and would
jeopardize the public health, safety and welfare, or unless the issuance of a
permit for the time and location requested would overlap a previously applied
for permit.
      (3)   Special considerations.
         (a)   Timeliness of the application;
         (b)   Nature of the requested activity or event;
         (c)   Time of the event;
         (d)   Duration of the event;
         (e)   Other activities in the vicinity of the location proposed;
         (f)   Effect of the activity on the residential areas of the town and
surrounding community;
         (g)   Permit applicant's willingness to change the arrangement of
amplifying equipment or sound instruments upon the request of the town so as to
minimize disturbance of others beyond the property line or otherwise comply
with special restrictions set forth by the town;
         (h)   Trash, litter and debris pick-up;
         (i)   Locations within 500 feet of a school, courthouse, place of
worship, hospital, nursing home, or other institution caring for the sick,
aged, or infirm;
         (j)   Locations where the Chief of Police (or designee), upon
investigation, determines that the conditions of vehicular or pedestrian
traffic or both are such that the use of excessive noise will constitute a
threat to the safety of pedestrians or vehicle operation;
         (k)   Those adjoining property owners of the proposed site will be
notified by the applicant of the event within a reasonable period of time prior
to the proposed event;
         (1)   Previous experience with the applicant; and
         (m)   Previous violations of the noise ordinance by the applicant at
the site at which the event will be held.
      (4)   A permit shall be denied if the applicant has been cited for a
violation of the noise ordinance or if a violation has occurred at the site of
the proposed event within the last 12 months from the date of the application.
      (5)   A copy of the permit shall be displayed at the site of the proposed
event.
      (6)   Processing Time; Right of Appeal. Applications for permits to use a
sound producing instrument, device or apparatus or otherwise exceed the noise
limits of this chapter shall be processed and any decision made as
expeditiously as possible. If an applicant has been denied a permit under this
section and can show good cause that the denial is illegal by virtue of
applicable state or federal law, he or she shall promptly submit a copy of the
denied permit application together with a short statement of reasons
demonstrating he or she has a good faith belief of entitlement to a permit to
the Town Manager (or designee). The Town Manager (or designee) shall have the
discretion to grant an exceptional permit waiving geographical, time, and/or dB
(A) requirements upon his or her deterrnination that the applicant has made a
substantial showing of legal entitlement. Any such exceptional permit shall be
promptly reported to the Board of Commissioners.
      (7)   Fee for permit. Every application for a permit or permits shall
require payment of a $25.00 administrative fee.
   (H)   Enforcement.
      (1)   This chapter shall be enforced in accordance with Chapter 10 of the
Kill Devil Hills Town Code, G.S. § 160A-175 and G.S.§ 14-4.
      (2)   When it is reasonable and practical to do so, a person or persons
believed to be violating any portion of this chapter may be given an oral order
to cease or abate the noise immediately, or as soon as is reasonable or
practical to do so, prior to being charged with a violation.
      (3)   If the order to cease or abate the noise is not complied with, or
if the person declines to comply, the person or persons responsible may be
charged with a violation of this chapter.
      (4)   Any violation of this chapter for which a criminal citation is
issued pursuant to G.S. § 14-4 shall subject the defendant to fine not to
exceed $250.00 for each violation.
      (5)   In addition to the fine associated with a criminal violation, the
town shall have all remedies as provided in
Chapter 10 of the Kill Devil Hills Town Code and G.S. § 160A-175 including the
civil remedies of abatement and injunction.
(Ord. 12-20, passed 11-14-12; Am. Ord. 15-11, passed 2-8-16)
§ 130.03 POSTING SIGNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person(s), firm or corporation to post, tack,
nail, attach or in any other manner fasten or locate bills, circulars, posters,
notices, papers, menus or other advertising materials of any description to any
poles, tree, vehicle, public or private property, or any other structure
situated within the town and adjacent to or on the streets, roadways and access
areas, provided that lawful signs as are permitted under the Zoning Code shall
not be affected by this section.
(`88 Code, § 13-3) (Ord. 09-13, passed 8-10-09)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.04 LIVING, RESIDING OR SLEEPING IN OPEN AIR OR VEHICLES.
   No person shall engage in any act of living, residing or sleeping at night
in the open air or in an automobile or vehicle.
(`88 Code, § 13-4)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.05 TENTS.
   No person shall erect or cause to be erected on property within the town any
tent or tenting material serving as a temporary dwelling or overnight
accommodation. Children using tents on their own property shall be exempted
from the provisions of this section.
(`88 Code, § 13-5)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.06 RIDING IN TOWN VEHICLES.
   No person shall ride in town vehicles except town officials and their
guests, town employees or persons in the custody of police or where necessary
because of a state of emergency.
(`88 Code, § 13-6)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.07 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   (A)   No person shall fire a pistol, rifle, shotgun or other firearm or
lethal or deadly weapon of any description within the corporate limits of the
town, except where the person shall have authorization provided by law for
discharge of the weapon.
   (B)   Bow hunting for deer is authorized, as defined by the North Carolina
Wildlife Resources Commission, on lands located within the corporate limits of
the town as designated and included in the Report of the Deer Committee dated
July 5, 1995 by persons properly registered and in a regulated "Bow Hunt," who
have signed releases of the appropriate agencies, the Town of Kill Devil Hills,
the Town of Nags Head and The Nature Conservancy.
(`88 Code, § 13-7) (Ord. 95-09, passed 9-11-95; Am. Ord. 96-14, passed 7-24-96;
Am. Ord. 98-05, passed 7-13-98)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.08 PLAY VEHICLES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   Riding play vehicles on public property is prohibited. No person shall ride
a play vehicle upon any privately owned sidewalk, pedestrian walkway or parking
area where signs prohibiting the activity or activities have been posted by the
owner, lessee or property manager of that property. For the purposes of this
section, a play vehicle shall include but not be limited to bicycles (except
whereby bicycles may be used as a contemporary mode of transportation upon the
vehicular travel area), coasters, skateboards, roller skates, in-line skates,
unicycles, sleds or other non-motorized vehicles upon which a person may ride.
(`88 Code, § 13-8) (Ord. 97-12, passed 9-24-97)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.09 USE OF SLINGSHOTS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful in the town to launch, throw, sling, fling,
heave, hurl, toss, catapult or project any object from any device in a manner
that would cause or could cause any personal injury or physical property
damage.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, device shall include but not be
limited to slings, slingshots or other similar devices.
(Am. Ord. 98-06, passed 7-13-98)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.10 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, partnership, corporation,
association or other entity to operate a sexually oriented business, except as
specifically permitted by the Zoning Code and licensed in accordance with
Ch. 112 of the town code.
   (B)   Any and all activities associated or related to sexually oriented
businesses shall occur only on the premises of a previously approved and
licensed sexually oriented business as outlined in the Zoning Code.
(Am. Ord. 99-03, passed 2-8-99)
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.11 CONSUMPTION AND STORAGE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES ON TOWN PROPERTY.
   (A)   Definitions. For purposes of this section the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Any beverage containing at least 0.5% alcohol by
volume, including malt beverages, unfortified wine, fortified wine, spirituous
liquor, and mixed beverages.
      OPEN CONTAINER. A container whose seal has been broken, or a container
other than the manufacturer's unopened original container.
      TOWN PROPERTY.  The Ocean Bay Boulevard Regional Bathhouse and adjacent
and designated parking areas; Meekins Field and adjacent parking area, Hayman
Park, Aviation Park and Centennial Paths and adjacent parking area; Copley
Drive Park; the Casey R. Logan Disc Golf Course; and all town-owned buildings.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess any alcoholic beverage
in an open container on town property. It shall be unlawful to store alcoholic
beverages in any town-owned buildings.
   (C)   It shall not be unlawful for unopened alcoholic beverages in vehicles,
coolers, or other storage devices at the following locations: the Ocean Bay
Boulevard Regional Bathhouse and adjacent and designated parking areas; Meekins
Field and adjacent parking area, Hayman Park, Aviation Park and Centennial
Paths and adjacent parking area; Copley Drive Park; and the Casey R. Logan Disc
Golf Course.
   (D)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to law enforcement
agencies of the Town of Kill Devil Hills, Dare County, State of North Carolina,
or federal government engaged in the conduct of their official duties.
(Ord. 07-02, passed 2-12-07; Am. Ord. 17-11, passed 9-11-19)
§ 130.12 CERTAIN ACTIVITIES PROHIBITED ON IMPROVED RECREATIONAL ACCESSES TO
OCEANFRONT OR ESTUARINE BEACHES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a bicycle, skates, skateboard, "heelies," or
any type of moped, scooter, or other vehicle or device intended for recreation
or transportation purposes, on town-owned walkways, decks, piers, or gazebos.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to vehicles or devices aiding or being
used by physically challenged persons.
   (C)   Law enforcement agencies, fire departments and/or other emergency
services, or personnel of the town engaged in their official duties are exempt
from the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 07-08, passed 5-23-07)
Penalty, see § 130.99
SMOKING IN AND ON MUNICIPAL FACILITIES
§ 130.40 PURPOSE AND FINDINGS.
   The Board of Commissioners finds as follows:
   (A)   Numerous studies have found that tobacco smoke is major contributor to
indoor air pollution;
   (B)   Reliable studies have shown that breathing sidestream or secondhand
smoke is a significant health hazard for certain population groups, including
children, elderly people, individuals with cardiovascular disease and
individuals with impaired respiratory functions, including asthmatics and those
with obstructive airway disease;
   (C)   Health hazards induced by breathing sidestream or secondhand smoke
include lung cancer, respiratory function, bronchial-constriction and
bronchial-spasm;
   (D)   Nonsmokers with allergies, respiratory diseases and those who suffer
other ill effects of breathing sidestream or secondhand smoke may experience a
loss of job productivity or may be forced to take periodic sick leave because
of adverse reactions to same;
   (E)   The smoking of tobacco or any other weed or plant is a proven danger
to health. Accordingly, it has been determined that the health, safety and
general welfare of the residents of, persons employed in and persons who
frequent this town would be benefitted by the elimination of smoking in
designated enclosed places, including places of employment; and
   (F)   Additional studies have found that electronic nicotine delivery
systems, or generally “electronic cigarettes,” contain chemicals that are
potentially toxic to humans, and that inhaled secondhand electronic cigarette
emissions/vapor are harmful to non-users, as the mist contains heavy metals and
other toxic pollutants. As a result, the Dare County Health and Human Services
Board prohibited all such devices in all restaurants and bars in Dare County in
2015.
(`88 Code, § 13-60) (Ord. 92-01, passed 1-13-92; Am. Ord. 17-4, passed 6-10-19)
§ 130.41 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person who is employed by any employer in consideration for
direct or indirect monetary wages or profit.
   EMPLOYER. Any person, partnership, corporation or other entity, including a
municipal corporation, who employs the service of more than two persons.
   ENCLOSED. Closed in by a roof and four walls with appropriate openings for
ingress and egress.
   PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT. Any enclosed area which is occupied by two or more
employees under the control of an employer, including but not limited to work
areas, employee lounges, conference rooms, employee cafeterias, restrooms or
any other rooms or areas utilized primarily for the benefit or use of the
employees.
   SMOKING. The carrying or holding of a lighted pipe, cigar or cigarette of
any kind or other lighted smoking equipment or the lighting or emitting or
exhaling the smoke of a pipe, cigar or cigarette of any kind. This term also
includes any non-combustible product that employs a mechanical heating element,
battery, or electronic circuit regardless of shape or size and that can be used
to heat a liquid nicotine solution contained in a vapor cartridge, such as an
electronic cigarette, cigar, cigarillo, or pipe.
(`88 Code, § 13-61) (Ord. 92-01, passed 1-13-92; Am. Ord. 17-4, passed 6-10-19)
§ 130.42 REGULATION OF SMOKING IN CITY-OWNED FACILITIES.
   Any facility owned by the town and designated by the Board of Commissioners
shall be subject to the provisions of this subchapter.
(`88 Code, § 13-62) (Ord. 92-01, passed 1-13-92; Am. Ord. 10-25, passed 11-10-
10; Am. Ord. 17-4, passed 6-10-19)
§ 130.43 PROHIBITION OF SMOKING IN CERTAIN PLACES.
   (A)   In designated enclosed places. Smoking shall be prohibited in the
following places within the town:
      (1)   All enclosed areas available to and customarily used by the general
public, elected or appointed town officials and employees, included but not
limited to the following:
         (a)   Hazardous material or operations areas;
         (b)   Mechanical areas;
         (c)   Computer and sensitive office equipment areas;
         (d)   Conference rooms (during meetings of three or more persons);
         (e)   Private offices;
         (f)   Classrooms;
         (g)   Restrooms;
         (h)   Hallways;
         (i)   Any assembly room;
         (j)   Open enclosed work areas shared by two or more employees.
      (2)   There may be, subject to the approval of the Town Manager, separate
areas designated as smoking rooms so long as the areas are separate and apart
from the general areas patronized by the public and occupied by employees of
the town.
(`88 Code, § 13-63)
   (B)   In places of employment.
      (1)   It shall be the responsibility of all department heads to submit to
the Town Manager for final approval of any area believed suitable for
designation as a "Smoking Area." It shall be incumbent on each department head
to enforce the provisions of this section.
      (2)   Each department head in each building of the town shall adopt,
implement and make known a written smoking policy, which shall contain at a
minimum the following requirements:
         (a)   Prohibition of smoking in hazardous material or operations
areas, mechanical areas, computer and sensitive office equipment areas,
conference rooms (during meetings of three or more persons), private offices,
classrooms, restrooms, hallways, any assembly rooms and open enclosed work
areas shared by two or more employees;
         (b)   In any dispute arising under this smoking policy, the rights of
the nonsmoker shall be given precedence;
         (c)   The smoking policy shall be communicated to all employees within
30 days after its adoption and at least annually thereafter;
         (d)   "No Smoking" signs shall be posted as prescribed by the Manager.
(`88 Code, § 13-64)
   (C)   Aviation Park, including the skate park, hockey rink, Frog Pond, Paws
Dog Park, and any future improved areas connected to these facilities; Hayman
Boulevard Park; Meekins Field; Copley Drive Park; the Disc Golf Course; Nags
Head Woods Multi-Purpose Trail; and Ocean Bay Boulevard Bathhouse are hereby
declared smoke-free areas in the Town of Kill Devil Hills and all use of
tobacco or tobacco products is hereby prohibited.
(Ord. 92-01, passed 1-13-92; Am. Ord. 10-25, passed 11-10-10; Am. Ord. 17-4,
passed 6-10-19)
§ 130.44 POSTING REQUIREMENTS.
   “No Smoking” signs with letters of not less than one inch in height or the
international “No Smoking” symbol (consisting of a pictorial representation of
a burning cigarette enclosed in a red circle with a red bar across it) shall be
clearly, sufficiently and conspicuously posted in every building or other place
where smoking is controlled by this chapter by the department head and/or
manager having jurisdiction of the building or other place.
(`88 Code, § 13-65) (Ord. 92-01, passed 1-13-92; Am. Ord. 17-4, passed 6-10-19)
§ 130.45 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Enforcement shall be implemented by the Town Manager or designee.
   (B)   Any citizen who desires to register a complaint hereunder may initiate
enforcement with the Town Manager or designee.
   (C)   Notwithstanding anything in this subchapter, a private citizen may
bring a legal action for nuisance to enforce this subchapter in the designated
places.
(`88 Code, § 13-66) (Ord. 92-01, passed 1-13-92 ; Am. Ord. 17-4, passed 6-10-
19)
§ 130.46 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to smoke in any area restricted by
the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any department head or supervisor to permit
smoking in the area which may be designated as a no smoking area.
(`88 Code, § 13-67) (Ord. 92-01, passed 1-13-92 ; Am. Ord. 17-4, passed 6-10-
19)   
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.47 NONRETALIATION.
   No person, employer or supervisor shall discharge, refuse to hire or in any
manner retaliate against any employee or applicant for employment because the
employee or applicant exercises any rights afforded by this subchapter.
(`88 Code, § 13-69) (Ord. 92-01, passed 1-13-92 ; Am. Ord. 17-4, passed 6-10-
19)
PROHIBITION OF CONCEALED WEAPONS
ON CERTAIN MUNICIPAL PROPERTY
§ 130.60 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners of the town finds that:
      (1)   Whereas, Chapter 398 of the 1995 Session Laws (G.S. Ch. 14, Art.
54B) made changes to the laws governing concealed weapons by establishing a
system that will allow private citizens to obtain permits to carry concealed
handguns;
      (2)   Whereas, this change will significantly increase the number of
individuals who may legally carry concealed handguns;
      (3)   Whereas, it is necessary to restrict the carrying of concealed
handguns on certain town property in order to protect the health and safety of
municipal employees and the community at large;
      (4)   Whereas, G.S. § 14-415.23 authorizes municipalities to adopt
ordinances to permit the posting of a prohibition against a concealed handgun,
in accordance with G.S. § 14-415.11(c), on local government buildings, their
appurtenant premises and parks;
      (5)   Whereas, it is the intent of this subchapter to direct the posting
of municipal property such that, pursuant to G.S. § 14-415.11(c), the carrying
of concealed handguns on the posted premises will constitute a violation of
G.S. Ch. 14, Art. 54B.
   (B)   Now, therefore, be it ordained by the Board of Commissioners of the
town that the provisions set forth in this subchapter be added to the code.
(`88 Code, § 13-79) (Ord. 95-10, passed 11-15-95)
§ 130.61 POSTING OF SIGNS REQUIRED.
   The Town Manager is authorized and instructed to have constructed and posted
conspicuous signage at appropriate locations on or within each park and each
building or portion of a building owned, leased as lessee, operated, occupied,
managed or controlled by the town, as well as the appurtenant premises to the
buildings, indicating that carrying a concealed handgun is prohibited therein.
(`88 Code, § 13-80) (Ord. 95-10, passed 11-15-95)
§ 130.62 LOCATION OF SIGNS.
   Signs on buildings shall be visibly posted on the exterior of each entrance
by which the general public can access the building. The Town Manager shall
exercise discretion in determining the number and appropriate location of signs
to be placed on or within appurtenant premises and parks.
(`88 Code, § 13-81) (Ord. 95-10, passed 11-15-95)
SKATEBOARD, SKATING, AND WATER PARKS
§ 130.75 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HAZARDOUS RECREATIONAL ACTIVITY. Skateboarding, skating, freestyle
bicycling, or water park activities.
   INHERENT RISK. Those dangers or conditions that are characteristic of,
intrinsic to, or an integral part of skateboarding, skating, freestyle
bicycling, and water park activities.
   SKATEBOARD, SKATING, OR WATER PARK. A facility established on town-owned
property which is designed for the purpose of engaging in hazardous
recreational activities and which is specifically designated by the town for
such use, or any such facility which is operated by the town and designated by
the town for such use that is not established on town-owned property.
(Ord. 08-24, passed 8-11-08; Am. Ord. 19-21, passed 7-10-23)
§ 130.76 RESPONSIBILITY OF USERS.
   (A)   Any persons engaged in hazardous recreational activities are
responsible for utilizing protective safety gear and equipment.
   (B)   Any person who observes, participates in or assists in hazardous
recreational activities assumes the known or unknown inherent risks in these
activities, irrespective of age, and is legally responsible for all damages,
injury or death to himself or herself or other persons or property that result
from these activities.
   (C)   While engaged in hazardous recreational activities, irrespective of
where such activities occur, a participant is responsible for doing all of the
following:
      (1)   Acting within the limits of his or her ability and the purpose and
design of the equipment used.
      (2)   Maintaining control of his or her person and equipment used.
      (3)   Refraining from acting in any manner that may cause or contribute
to death or injury of himself or herself or other persons or property.
   (D)   Failure to comply with the requirements of division (C) above shall
constitute negligence.
(Ord. 08-24, passed 8-11-08; Am. Ord. 19-21, passed 7-10-23) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.77 NOTICE.
   The town shall post signs in prominent locations that may be readily viewed
by users at all parks that contain hazardous recreational activities that
afford reasonable notice to all users of the following:
   (A)   Skateboard and skating parks.
      (1)   Any person engaged in a hazardous recreational activity at the
skateboard or skating park must wear a helmet, elbow pads, and kneepads at all
times.
      (2)   The town does not provide regular supervision of the skateboard and
skating parks.
      (3)   Users of the skateboard and skating parks assume all risks
associated with the use of the skateboard or skating park; skating and/or
skateboarding is permitted in designated areas only.
      (4)   No alcohol or controlled substances, smoking, vaping, or tobacco
products.
      (5)   Failure to comply with these requirements for use may subject the
violator to sanctions as provided for under this subchapter.
   (B)   Water parks.
      (1)   Warning: No lifeguard on duty - users assume all risk.
      (2)   Users must exit the water park with any signs of thunder,
lightning, or oncoming severe weather.
      (3)   Any person with open cuts or sores, infectious disease, or diarrhea
shall not use the water park.
      (4)   Swimsuits and/or appropriate attire must be worn at all times
within the water park.
      (5)   Swim diapers are required for children not fully toilet-trained.
      (6)   All children must be under direct adult supervision at all times.
Children ages 12 and under must be accompanied by an adult.
      (7)   The application of sunscreen should be completed before entering
the water park.
      (8)   No animals, food, drink, or glass containers allowed in water park
area.
      (9)   Do not drink the water park water.
      (10)   No running or rough play allowed.
      (11)   No carrying mud, sand, or debris into the water park.
      (12)   Users must not climb or hang on water features or pipes.
      (13)   Users must not cover water fixtures and drains.
      (14)   No inflatable pool toys, athletic, or other recreation equipment
are permitted in/on the water park.
      (15)   No alcohol or controlled substances, smoking, vaping, or tobacco
products.
      (16)   No littering.
      (17)   No skateboards, rollerblades, bicycles, scooters, or wheeled toys
permitted in the water park.
      (18)   No weapons are permitted in the water park.
      (19)   Any person violating any instruction or rule may be required to
leave the water park.
(Ord. 08-24, passed 8-11-08; Am. Ord. 19-21, passed 7-10-23)
§ 130.78 TOWN IMMUNE FROM LIABILITY.
   The town, including its officials, employees and agents, shall not be liable
to any person who voluntarily participates in hazardous recreational activities
for any damage or injury to property or persons that arises out of the person’s
participation in the activity and that takes place at a skateboard, skating, or
water park and as provided in G.S. § 99E-25.
(Ord. 08-24, passed 8-11-08; Am. Ord. 19-21, passed 7-10-23)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever shall violate any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is provided shall be punished as set forth:
      (1)   As authorized by G.S. § 160A-175, the violation of any of the
provisions of this code shall subject the person or entity violating such
provisions to a civil penalty of $50 per day for each of the first 15 days such
violation continues after notice of the violation from the town, $100 per day
for the sixteenth through the thirtieth day such violation continues after the
initial notice from the town, and $500 or the maximum amount authorized under
the provisions of the North Carolina General Statutes, whichever is greater,
for each day after 30 days that such violation continues after the initial
notice from the town.
      (2)   The imposition and collection of the foregoing civil penalties
shall be in addition to all other remedies available to the town at law or in
equity, authorized under the provisions of the North Carolina General Statutes,
including but not limited to the suspensions of licenses and permits and
actions to abate, enjoin or otherwise remedy violations of this code and all
such remedies shall be cumulative. The imposition of civil penalties or the use
of any other civil remedy available to the town shall be in addition to and not
exclusive of any criminal proceeding and/or penalties available and/or imposed
for the violation of this code.
      (3)   Each day's continuing violation shall be a separate and distinct
offense.
   (B)   In addition to other penalties provided for in this code, any person
who violates the provisions of §§ 130.75 through 130.78 may be subject to
sanctions imposed by the Town of Kill Devil Hills, including, but not limited
to, suspension or permanent revocation of the privilege to use the skateboard/
skating park or water park and assessment for the full costs of any damages to
the skateboard/skating or water park caused by the person.
(`88 Code, § 13-68) (Ord. 92-01, passed 1-13-92; Ord. 08-24, passed 8-11-08;
Am. Ord. 19-21, passed 7-10-23)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      Chapter
         
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
         
151.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
            APPENDIX A:   DECLARATION OF RESTRICTIVE COVENANT; NONCONVERSION
AGREEMENT
            APPENDIX B:   RELEASE OF RESTRICTIVE COVENANT
         
152.   SUBDIVISIONS
         
153.   ZONING CODE
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Compliance with zoning regulations; setback certification
   
150.02   Moving buildings
   
150.03   Certificate of occupancy
   
150.04   Construction prohibited in certain areas
   
150.05   Building Inspector
   
150.06   Duties and responsibilities of the code compliance officer
   
150.07   Building Code
Permits and Licenses
   
150.20   Building permit required
   
150.21   Site plan; surety bond
   
150.22   Sand hauling
   
150.23   Permit for land-disturbing activity
   
150.24   Expiration
   
150.25   Permit and development review fees
   
150.26   Development review fees
   
150.27   Building permit fees
   
150.28   Transportation license; surety bond; failure to repair public property
   
150.29   Development review and building permit information
Uniform Street Address System
   
150.40   Established
   
150.41   Base streets
   
150.42   Directional prefixes
   
150.43   Diagonal streets
   
150.44   Numbering of blocks
   
150.45   Determination of intervals and addresses
   
150.46   Address assignment
   
150.47   Placement of numbers and letters
   
150.48   Address record book
   
150.49   Compliance with subdivision regulations
   
150.50   Duplicate names
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 COMPLIANCE WITH ZONING REGULATIONS; SETBACK CERTIFICATION.
   (A)   All construction and additions to present buildings must conform to
the requirements of
Ch. 153 and
Ch. 151.
   (B)   After foundation installation, no work shall continue until the person
holding the building permit presents to the Building Inspector an "as built
foundation" survey by a registered surveyor which affirmatively shows that the
building or structure is located in accordance with the application for the
permit and that the front, side and rear line setbacks, as well as other
requirements of this chapter, have been complied with and that such structure
is properly located on its lot or parcel of land in accordance with this
chapter.
(`88 Code, § 4-1) (Ord. passed 12-14-87; Am. Ord. 18-8, passed 6-23-21)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 150.02 MOVING BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Into town. Before any building shall be moved into the town, it shall
be inspected by the Building Inspector and shall meet construction standards
for buildings located within the town prior to the issuance of a building
permit.
   (B)   Within town. Before any house shall be moved from any place in town to
another place within the town, it must have been inspected by the Building
Inspector and received a written permit to so move the building.
(`88 Code, § 4-2) (Ord. passed 12-14-87; Am. Ord. 18-8, passed 6-23-21)
Statutory reference:
   Moving permit required, see G.S. § 160A-417
§ 150.03 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   No building or structure within the town shall be occupied for human
habitation, commercial use or other use until the person holding the building
permit has affirmatively shown the Building Inspector that the conditions
required by all applicable town codes, site plans and building permits have
been complied with, including an as built survey of improvements. Upon such an
affirmative showing and upon paying the appropriate fee, which shall be kept on
file in the office of the Building Inspector, the Building Inspector is
authorized to issue a certificate of occupancy.
(`88 Code, § 4-3) (Ord. passed 12-14-87; Am. Ord. 18-8, passed 6-23-21)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 150.04 CONSTRUCTION PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN AREAS.
   (A)   No person shall build upon any lot or parcel that abuts a dedicated
street right-of-way that is designated as unimproved by the current year’s
Powell Bill Map.
   (B)   No person shall build upon a lot or parcel that does not have public
water available at street-side.
   (C)   No person shall build upon any lot or parcel in violation of any other
applicable section of this chapter.
(`88 Code, § 4-4) (Ord. passed 12-14-87; Am. Ord. 18-8, passed 6-23-21)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 150.05 BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   Office created; appointment; designation of duties. The office of
Building Inspector is created. The Town Manager shall appoint the Inspector and
designate the general duties of the Building Inspectors. (`88 Code, § 4-41)
   (B)   Powers. The Building Inspector shall possess all the power conferred
and perform all the duties prescribed by state law. He shall possess such
further power and perform such further duties as may be prescribed by the
Board. The Inspector or his deputies shall have the right to enter at all
reasonable times any building, structure or premises within the town for the
purposes of inspecting or in the performance of his duties, upon presentation
of proper credentials as provided in G.S. §§ 160D-1113 and 160D-1117. (`88
Code, § 4-42)
   (C)   The Building Inspectors shall comply with conflict of interest
standards in §
153.364.
(Ord. passed 12-14-87; Am. Ord. 18-8, passed 6-23-21)
§ 150.06 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITY OF THE CODE COMPLIANCE OFFICER.
   (A)   Enforcement within their planning and development regulations
jurisdictions state and local law relating to:
      (1)   Construction of building and other structures;
      (2)   Installation of such facilities as plumbing systems, electrical
systems, heating systems, refrigeration systems, and air conditioning systems;
      (3)   The maintenance of buildings and other structures in a safe,
sanitary, and healthy condition;
      (4)   All chapters of the town code related to building, nuisance, and
development regulations;
      (5)   Performing inspections in accordance with G.S. § 160D-1104(c) -
(f); and
      (6)   Other matters that may be specified by the Board of Commissioners.
(G.S. § 160D-1104) (Ord. 18-8, passed 6-23-21)
§ 150.07 BUILDING CODE.
   (A)   Adopted.
      (1)   The North Carolina State Building Code, Volume I, General
Construction; Volume I-A, Administration and Enforcement; Volume I-C,
Accessibility Code; Volume II, Plumbing; Volume III, Mechanical; Volume IV,
National Electric Code; Volume V, Fire; Volume VI, Gas; Volume VII,
Residential; Volume VIII, Modular Construction Regulations, Regulations for
Manufactured/Mobile Homes; Volume IX, Existing Buildings; and Volume X, Energy,
as now in effect or as may be subsequently amended, are adopted by reference as
if set forth fully herein as the Building Code of the town. It is adopted to
the extent such code is applicable for safe and stable design, methods of
construction, minimum standards and use of materials in buildings or structures
erected, enlarged, altered, repaired or otherwise constructed or reconstructed
after December 14, 1987.
         (a)   Appendix M, International Residential Code/NC, as amended.
      (2)   A member of the Town Planning and Inspections Department, certified
by the North Carolina Code Qualifications Board, shall administer and enforce
the provisions of the North Carolina State Building Code, except that in
accordance with
Ch. 95 of this code, the Fire Department shall administer and enforce the
provisions of Volume 5, Fire Prevention.
(`88 Code, § 4-61)
   (B)   Penalties for violation.
      (1)   Notwithstanding anything else to the contrary in this chapter, if
any building or structure is erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered,
repaired, converted or maintained, or any building, structure or land is used
in violation of this chapter, the Building Inspector, or any appropriate
authority, in addition to other remedies, may institute any appropriate action
or proceeding to prevent such unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction,
alteration, repair, conversion, maintenance or use to restrain, correct or
abate such violation, to prevent the occupancy of such building, structure or
land or to prevent any illegal act, conduct, business or use in or about such
premises.
      (2)   Violation of the provisions of these regulations shall be a
misdemeanor under G.S. § 14-4, and each day’s continuing violation shall be a
separate offense. Notwithstanding the criminal penalties, the Building
Inspector or the Zoning Administrator may institute a civil action against the
offender seeking enforcement by appropriate equitable remedy, injunction and
order of abatement or by any remedy authorized by G.S. §§ 160A-175 and 160D-
1119, as amended.
      (3)   Enforcement.
         (a)   Any work or activity subject to regulations pursuant to this
chapter or other applicable local development regulations or any state law
delegated to the local government undertaken in substantial violation of any
state to local law, or in a manner that endangers life or property, staff may
order that work or activity to be immediately stopped.
         (b)   When an activity is undertaken in violation of the development
regulations adopted pursuant to this chapter or other local development
regulations or any state law delegated to the local government for enforcement
purposes a notice of violation can be issued in accordance with §
10.99. Notice of violation shall be posted on the property.
(`88 Code, § 4-62) (Ord. passed 12-14-87; Am. Ord. 91-01, passed 5-13-91; Am.
Ord. 05-10, passed 6-22-05; Am. Ord. 09-05, passed 5-27-09; Am. Ord. 11-03,
passed 1-26-11; Am. Ord. 18-8, passed 6-23-21)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town to adopt building code, see G.S. § 143-138
   Violations, see G.S. § 143-138(h)
   Authority of town to adopt building code by reference, see G.S. § 160A-76
   Police power, see G.S. §§ 160A-174 et seq.
   Permits generally, see G.S. §§ 160D-110 et seq.
   Authority of town to set and enforce standards, see G.S. §§ 160D-1104 et
seq.
PERMITS AND LICENSES
§ 150.20 BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall commence construction of any kind within the town without
first securing a permit from the Planning and Inspections Department therefor
and in accordance with development review and building permit fee schedules.
(`88 Code, § 4-81) (Ord. passed 12-14-87; Am. Ord. 18-8, passed 6-23-21)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 150.21 SITE PLAN; SURETY BOND.
   (A)   A site plan shall be submitted before a permit to build will be
issued.
   (B)   At the time of application for a building permit for construction
within the town, the applicant shall, in addition to obtaining a building
permit as provided for by §
150.20 and paying any required fees, exhibit a bond as provided for by §
150.28 guaranteeing that such construction will not damage streets, water
lines, sewer lines or other utilities or public facilities during the period of
such construction. At the time of the issuance of an occupancy permit for such
construction, the Building Inspector shall certify and record in his records
whether or not any public facilities have been damaged during construction. If
such damage has occurred on or about the premises upon which construction has
been made and the public facilities adjacent thereto, then the Building
Inspector shall proceed in accordance with §
150.06(B) and shall not issue an occupancy permit until such damage has been
paid for or repaired.
   (C)   This section shall apply to all construction of any kind, nature or
description in which the public facilities, such as streets, water lines, sewer
lines or other public facilities, are used as a means of ingress and egress to
and from such construction site.
(`88 Code, § 4-82) (Ord. passed 12-14-87; Am. Ord. 18-8, passed 6-23-21)
Statutory reference:
   Protection of underground utilities, G.S. §§ 87-100 et seq.
   Maintenance of streets by municipalities, see G.S. § 136-66.4
   Power to regulate use of streets, see G.S. § 160A-296(a)
§ 150.22 SAND HAULING.
   (A)   A contractor must obtain written permission from the property owner
for hauling sand prior to any issuance of a permit. Contractors owning property
from which sand is removed shall obtain a sand hauling permit, which shall be
issued subject to the regulations of the State Division of Mining and Quarry.
The contractor is responsible for availing himself of these regulations by
contacting such agency.
   (B)   The procedure for obtaining and hauling sand shall be as follows:
      (1)   Dunes shall be rounded off to prevent any dangerous areas of cave-
in or steep incline;
      (2)   Sand shall be hauled from a level no lower than the adjoining
street elevation;
      (3)   All streets used in hauling shall be maintained and repaired if
they are damaged by hauling; and
      (4)   Hauling shall be done on weekdays between the hours of 8:00 a.m.
and 5:30 p.m. and between 9:00 a.m. and 1:00 p.m. on Saturdays.
(`88 Code, § 4-83) (Ord. passed 12-14-87; Am. Ord. 18-8, passed 6-23-21)
Statutory reference:
   Division of Mining and Quarry, see G.S. §§ 74-24.1 et seq.
   Mining regulations generally, see G.S. §§ 74-46 et seq.
   "Minerals" includes "sand" under mining regulations, see G.S. § 74-49(6)
   Underground Damage Prevention Act, see G.S. §§ 87-100 et seq.
§ 150.23 PERMIT FOR LAND-DISTURBING ACTIVITY.
   No person shall conduct any land-disturbing activity upon any property
within the town without first obtaining a written permit from the Building
Inspector, which shall be valid for a period of 60 days. Within 30 days from
the expiration date of the permit, the applicant shall seed or plant the
disturbed area to minimize the erosion of the entire site.
(`88 Code, § 4-84) (Ord. passed 12-14-87; Am. Ord. 18-8, passed 6-23-21)
Penalty, see § 10.99
Statutory reference:
   Regulation of land-disturbing activity; Sedimentation Pollution Control Act
of 1973, see G.S. §§ 113A-50 et seq.
§ 150.24 EXPIRATION.
   A permit issued for work under this chapter shall expire by limitation six
months after the date of issuance if the work authorized has not commenced. If
after commencement the work is discontinued for a period of 12 months, the
permit therefor shall immediately expire. No work authorized by any permit that
has expired shall thereafter be performed until a new permit has been secured.
(`88 Code, § 4-85) (Ord. passed 12-14-87; Am. Ord. 18-8, passed 6-23-21)
§ 150.25 PERMIT AND DEVELOPMENT REVIEW FEES.
   (A)   The town shall charge development review fees and building permit fees
not to exceed the actual expenditures required to effectively administer and
review plats and site plans, the performance of inspections and other related
services, as set out in §§
150.26 and
150.27, but may be amended upon due notice and hearing as may be deemed
necessary by the Board. The commercial land-use area concept shall be used to
assess outdoor areas proposed for commercial activities, whether separate or in
combination with a structure. Assessable land-use areas include all areas
proposed for commercial activities.
   (B)   All development review fees shall be paid in full, prior to acceptance
of a site plan for review by the Planning and Inspections Department.
(`88 Code, § 4-86) (Ord. passed 12-14-87; Am. Ord. 18-8, passed 6-23-21)
§ 150.26 DEVELOPMENT REVIEW FEES.
   The development review fee schedule shall be kept on file in the office of
the Town Clerk.
(`88 Code, § 4-87) (Ord. passed 12-14-87; Am. Ord. 18-8, passed 6-23-21)
§ 150.27 BUILDING PERMIT FEES.
   All building permit fees shall be paid, along with all other required town
fees, prior to the issuance of any permit. All permits shall be consistent with
the North Carolina Uniform Building Code. The fee schedule shall be kept on
file in the Town Clerk’s office.
(`88 Code, § 4-88) (Ord. passed 12-14-87; Am. Ord. 18-8, passed 6-23-21)
§ 150.28 TRANSPORTATION LICENSE; SURETY BOND; FAILURE TO REPAIR PUBLIC
PROPERTY.
   (A)   Any person engaged in the contracting business within the town and
constructing or reconstructing buildings or structures, driveways, streets,
installing water lines or any other type of exterior construction which
includes any type of transportation to and from the site of construction upon
the town’s streets, highways or access areas shall obtain a license from the
town, pay the appropriate fee and furnish to the town a surety bond in the
minimum amount of $5,000, which bond shall guarantee that the licensee will
repair at his expense any damage caused to public facilities belonging to the
town. Such damage shall be repaired at the expense of the licensee within 30
days from notice from the Building Inspector.
   (B)   If such licensee does not make such repairs as requested, the licensee
and his bondsman shall be duly notified by certified mail, return receipt
requested, of the cost of such repair as determined by the town. The licensee
and his bondsman shall be liable for such costs as determined by the town. Levy
of such penalty shall be enforceable by a legal action instituted by the town
for the recovery of such damages. Any licensee who fails to pay or whose
bondsman fails to pay such damages as assessed by the town shall not be
permitted to apply for or secure a building permit for construction within the
town during the period of his forfeiture.
(`88 Code, § 4-89) (Ord. passed 12-14-87; Am. Ord. 18-8, passed 6-23-21)
Statutory reference:
   Protection of underground utilities, see G.S. §§ 87-100 et seq.
   Maintenance of streets, see G.S. § 136-66.4
   Authority to regulate and license trades, see G.S. § 160A-194
   Power to regulate use of streets, see G.S. § 160A-296
§ 150.29 DEVELOPMENT REVIEW AND BUILDING PERMIT INFORMATION.
   Current building permit and development review fee schedules and procedural
requirements information shall be kept on file in the office of the Town Clerk.
(`88 Code, § 4-90) (Ord. passed 12-14-87; Am. Ord. 18-8, passed 6-23-21)
§ 150.30 INSPECTIONS.
   Local inspectors shall make as many inspections thereof as necessary to
stratify that the work has been done according to the provisions of any
applicable state and local law and of the terms of the permit. The inspector
shall have the right to enter on any premises with the jurisdiction of the
Planning and Inspections Department at all reasonable hours for the purpose of
inspection or other enforcement action, upon presentation of proper
credentials. Any inspection performed under the authority of this chapter shall
be subject to the restriction names in G.S. § 160D-403. (G.S. § 160-1113)
(Ord. 18-8, passed 6-23-21)
UNIFORM STREET ADDRESS SYSTEM
§ 150.40 ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   There is established a uniform street address system by which all
vacant parcels, lots and tracts of land fronting on all streets, avenues and
public rights-of-way in the town and all houses and other buildings shall be
numbered.
   (B)   A Street Address Committee is created consisting of the Mayors of the
Towns of Kill Devil Hills, Kitty Hawk and Nags Head or their duly appointed
representatives. This Committee will recommend street name changes to the towns
and act on questions of implementation of the street address system.
(`88 Code, § 18-106) (Ord. passed 4-18-83; Am. Ord. 18-8, passed 6-23-21)
§ 150.41 BASE STREETS.
   Ocean Bay Boulevard in Kill Devil Hills shall constitute the baseline for
numbering principal buildings and vacant parcels, lots and tracts of land along
all streets running in a northerly and southerly direction. Croatan Highway
shall constitute the baseline for numbering buildings and vacant parcels, lots
and tracts of land along all streets running in an easterly and westerly
direction.
(`88 Code, § 18-107) (Ord. passed 4-18-83; Am. Ord. 18-8, passed 6-23-21)
§ 150.42 DIRECTIONAL PREFIXES.
   Each northerly and southerly street south of Ocean Bay Boulevard shall be
assigned the prefix “South.” Each northerly and southerly street north of Ocean
Bay Boulevard shall be assigned the prefix “North.” Each easterly and westerly
street west of Croatan Highway shall be assigned the prefix “West.” Each
easterly and westerly street east of Croatan Highway shall be assigned the
prefix “East.”
(`88 Code, § 18-108) (Am. Ord. 18-8, passed 6-23-21)
§ 150.43 DIAGONAL STREETS.
   All buildings and vacant parcels, lots and tracts of land on diagonal
streets shall be numbered as though they are on northerly and southerly streets
if the diagonal runs predominantly north to south. All buildings and vacant
parcels, lots and tracts of land on diagonal streets shall be numbered as
though they are on easterly and westerly streets if the diagonal runs
predominantly east to west. All diagonal streets having a deviation of exactly
45 degrees from a line running exactly north and south shall be considered as
northerly and southerly streets.
(`88 Code, § 18-109) (Am. Ord. 18-8, passed 6-23-21)
§ 150.44 NUMBERING OF BLOCKS.
   (A)   Each block shall be numbered consecutively from the baseline beginning
with the number one. For example, the first block from the baseline is numbered
one and the second block is numbered two. A block generally shall be considered
the area encompassed by streets. If vacant land fronts a street uninterrupted
for several hundred feet, the vacant land may be considered as more than one
block. The Street Address Committee shall determine the number of blocks into
which the vacant land is divided based upon the length of adjoining blocks, the
layout of the streets in the area and future development plans. If a block
encompassed by streets is very small, the Street Address Committee may combine
the small block with an adjoining block for the purpose of numbering.
   (B)   All vacant parcels, lots, tracts of land and principal buildings
facing streets not extending through to the baseline shall be assigned the same
relative block numbers as if the street did extend to the baseline.
(`88 Code, § 18-110) (Am. Ord. 18-8, passed 6-23-21)
§ 150.45 DETERMINATION OF INTERVALS AND ADDRESSES.
   (A)   Beginning at the end of the block nearer the baseline, each 50-foot
interval within each block shall be assigned two-digit numbers beginning with
00. Existing lots of less than 50 feet in width shall be numbered as though
they were 50 feet wide. All numbers assigned to the west or north side of a
street shall be even numbers. All numbers assigned to the east or south side of
a street shall be odd numbers.
   (B)   The block and interval number shall be joined to constitute the
address number; for example, Block 2, interval 09 will create 209.
   (C)   Where any building has more than one unit serving separate occupants,
a separate internal number shall be assigned to each unit serving a separate
occupant, provided such building occupies a lot, parcel or tract having a
frontage equal to or greater than 50 feet for each unit. If the building is not
located on a lot, parcel or tract which would permit the assignment of one
number to each such unit, a single number shall be assigned to the building and
letters shall be used to identify the individual units.
(`88 Code, § 18-111) (Ord. passed 4-18-83; Am. Ord. 18-8, passed 6-23-21)
§ 150.46 ADDRESS ASSIGNMENT.
   When the survey required by the ordinance of April 18, 1983 has been
completed and each principal structure has been assigned its respective number,
the owner shall place or cause to be placed upon each principal structure owned
by him the numbers and letters assigned under the uniform system as provided in
this subchapter.
(`88 Code, § 18-112) (Ord. passed 4-18-83; Am. Ord. 18-8, passed 6-23-21)
§ 150.47 PLACEMENT OF NUMBERS AND LETTERS.
   (A)   Street address numbers, and letters as required, shall be placed on
lots fronting new streets within 90 days of acceptance of such street by the
town.
   (B)   The numbers, and letters when required, shall be conspicuously placed
on the side of the structure facing the street or between the structure and the
street so as to be seen plainly from the street. Whenever any structure is
situated more than 100 feet from the street, the numbers shall be placed near
the street next to the walk, driveway or entrance to such structure.
   (C)   The numbers, and letters when required, shall be at least three inches
in height and contrast in color with their background.
   (D)   Whenever any house, building or structure is to be erected or located
in the town after August 31, 1984 in order to preserve the continuity and
uniformity of the street address system, it shall be the duty of the owner to
procure the correct numbers, and letters when required, and to fasten them upon
such structure(s) as provided by this subchapter. No building permit shall be
issued for any construction, repair, alteration or modification until the owner
has ascertained the official address of the premises. Final approval of any
structure erected, repaired, altered or modified after the effective date of
this subchapter shall be withheld by the Building Inspector until permanent and
proper numbers, and letters when required, have been affixed to such structure.
(`88 Code, § 18-113) (Ord. passed 4-18-83; Am. Ord. passed 6-11-84; Am. Ord.
18-8, passed 6-23-21)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 150.48 ADDRESS RECORD BOOK.
   For the purpose of facilitating correct numbering, a plat book of all
streets, avenues and public rights-of-way within the town showing the proper
numbers for all structures and property shall be kept on file in the Town Hall.
These plats shall be open to inspection by all persons during the office hours
of the Town Hall.
(`88 Code, § 18-114) (Ord. passed 4-18-83; Am. Ord. 18-8, passed 6-23-21)
§ 150.49 COMPLIANCE WITH SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS.
   Every subdivision plat submitted to the town for approval after the
effective date of this subchapter shall bear upon its face proper names of any
and all streets, avenues and public rights-of-way and the proper addresses of
all lots. No street name shall duplicate or be phonetically similar to the name
of an existing street used elsewhere in the Towns of Nags Head, Kitty Hawk or
Kill Devil Hills.
(`88 Code, § 18-115) (Ord. passed 4-18-83; Am. Ord. 18-8, passed 6-23-21)
Cross-reference:
   Subdivisions, see
Ch. 152
§ 150.50 DUPLICATE NAMES.
   In the case of duplicate use of names for existing streets in the Towns of
Nags Head, Kitty Hawk and Kill Devil Hills, street names shall be changed by
the respective governing board upon the recommendation of the Street Address
Committee based upon the following criteria:
   (A)   Length of the street;
   (B)   Length of time the street name has been used;
   (C)   Number of residences and businesses along the street;
   (D)   Historical significance of the street name, if any; and
   (E)   Significance of the street name to a particular theme.
(`88 Code, § 18-116) (Ord. passed 4-18-83; Am. Ord. 18-8, passed 6-23-21)
CHAPTER 151: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
Statutory Authorization, Findings of Fact, Purpose and Objectives
   
151.01   Definitions
   
151.02   Statutory authorization
   
151.03   Findings of fact
   
151.04   Statement of purpose
   
151.05   Objectives
General Provisions
   
151.06   Lands to which chapter applies
   
151.07   Basis for establishing special flood hazard areas
   
151.08   Establishment of local elevation standard to serve as regulatory flood
protection elevation in Shaded X and Unshaded X Zones
   
151.09   Establishment of floodplain development permit
   
151.10   Compliance
   
151.11   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
151.12   Interpretation
   
151.13   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
151.25   General standards
   
151.26   Specific standards
   
151.27   Standards for floodplains without established base flood elevations
   
151.28   Standards for riverine floodplains with base flood elevations but
without established floodways or non-encroachment areas
   
151.29   Floodways and non-encroachment areas
   
151.30   Coastal high hazard areas (Zones VE)
   
151.31   Standards for areas of shallow flooding (Zone AO)
Administration
   
151.40   Designation of Floodplain Administrator
   
151.41   Floodplain development application, permit and certification
requirements
   
151.42   Duties and responsibilities of Floodplain Administrator
   
151.43   Corrective procedures
   
151.44   Variance procedures
Legal Status Provisions
   
151.50   Effect on rights and liabilities under the existing flood damage
prevention ordinance
   
151.51   Effect upon outstanding floodplain development permits
   
151.52   Effective date
 
   
151.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A:   Declaration of Restrictive Covenant; Nonconversion Agreement
   
Appendix B:   Release of Restrictive Covenant
STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES
§ 151.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure located on the same
parcel of property as the principal structure and the use of which is
incidental to the use of the principal structure. Garages, carports and storage
sheds are common urban ACCESSORY STRUCTURES. Pole barns, hay sheds and the like
qualify as ACCESSORY STRUCTURES on farms, and may or may not be located on the
same parcel as the farm dwelling or shop building. For floodplain management
purposes, ACCESSORY STRUCTURES are considered structures used for parking and
storage only. The definition used for floodplain management purposes may vary
from similar definitions found in the Kill Devil Hills Zoning Ordinance.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING BUILDING). An extension or increase in the floor
area or height of a building or structure.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator's
interpretation of any provision of this chapter.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated Zone AO or AH on a community's Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with base flood depths determined to be from one to
three feet. These areas are located where a clearly defined channel does not
exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate, and where
velocity flow may be evident.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. See SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA).
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). A determination of the water surface elevations
of the base flood as published in the Flood Insurance Study. When the BFE has
not been provided in a special flood hazard area, it may be obtained from
engineering studies available from a federal, state, or other source using FEMA
approved engineering methodologies. This elevation, when combined with the
freeboard, establishes the regulatory flood protection elevation.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BREAKAWAY WALL. A wall that is not part of the structural support of the
building and is intended through its design and construction to collapse under
specific lateral loading forces without causing damage to the elevated portion
of the building or the supporting foundation system.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   CERTIFIED LOCAL GOVERNMENT (CLG) PROGRAMS. Programs approved by the U.S.
Department of the Interior in cooperation with the North Carolina Department of
Cultural Resources through the State Historic Preservation Office as having met
the requirements of the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, as amended
in 1980.
   CHEMICAL STORAGE FACILITY. A building, portion of a building, or exterior
area adjacent to a building used for the storage of any chemical or chemically
reactive products.
   COASTAL A ZONE (CAZ). An area within a special flood hazard area, landward
of a V zone or landward of an open coast without mapped V zones; in a COASTAL A
ZONE, the principal source of flooding must be astronomical tides, storm
surges, seiches, or tsunamis, not riverine flooding. During the base flood
conditions, the potential for wave heights shall be greater than or equal to
1.5 feet. Coastal A Zones are not normally designated on FIRMs. (See LIMIT OF
MODERATE WAVE ACTION (LiMWA).)
   COASTAL AREA MANAGEMENT ACT (CAMA). North Carolina's Coastal Area Management
Act. This act, along with the Dredge and Fill Law and the Federal Coastal Zone
Management Act, is managed through North Carolina Department of Environmental
Quality's (NCDEQ's) Division of Coastal Management (DCM).
   COASTAL BARRIER RESOURCES SYSTEM (CBRS). Consists of undeveloped portions of
coastal and adjoining areas established by the Coastal Barrier Resources Act
(CoBRA) of 1982, the Coastal Barrier Improvement Act (CBIA) of 1990, and
subsequent revisions, and includes areas owned by federal or state governments
or private conservation organizations identified as Otherwise Protected Areas
(OPA).
   COASTAL HIGH HAZARD AREA. A special flood hazard area extending from
offshore to the inland limit of a primary frontal dune along an open coast and
any other area subject to high velocity wave action from storms or seismic
sources. The area is designated on a FIRM, or other adopted flood map as
determined in §§
151.07 and
151.08, as Zone VE and any property east of NC 12.
   DESIGN FLOOD. See REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
   DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITY. Any activity defined as development which will
necessitate a floodplain development permit. This includes buildings,
structures, and non-structural items, including (but not limited to) fill,
bulkheads, piers, pools, docks, landings, ramps, and erosion control/
stabilization measures.
   DIGITAL FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (DFIRM). The digital official map of a
community, issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), on which
both the special flood hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to
the community are delineated.
   DISPOSAL. As defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(6), the discharge, deposit,
injection, dumping, spilling, leaking, or placing of any solid waste into or on
any land or water so that the solid waste or any constituent part of the solid
waste may enter the environment or be emitted into the air or discharged into
any waters, including ground waters.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. A non-basement building which has its lowest elevated
floor raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear walls, posts, piers,
pilings, or columns.
   ENCLOSURE/ENCLOSED AREA. That portion of an elevated building below the
lowest elevated floor that is either partially or fully shut in by rigid/solid
walls and located either partially or fully below the Regulatory Flood
Protection Elevation (RFPE).
   ENCROACHMENT. The advance or infringement of uses, fill, excavation,
buildings, structures or development into a special flood hazard area, which
may impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   EXISTING BUILDING or EXISTING STRUCTURE. Any building and/or structure for
which the "start of construction" commenced before May 4, 1973.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) was completed before the initial
effective date of the floodplain management regulations adopted by the
community, dated May 4, 1973.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD INSURANCE. The insurance coverage provided under the National Flood
Insurance Program.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, issued by
FEMA, on which both the special flood hazard areas and the risk premium zones
applicable to the community are delineated (see also DFIRM).
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). An examination, evaluation, and determination
of flood hazards, corresponding water surface elevations (if appropriate),
flood hazard risk zones, and other flood data in a community issued by the
FEMA. The Flood Insurance Study report includes Flood Insurance Rate Maps
(FIRMs) and Flood Boundary and Floodway Maps (FBFMs), if published.
   FLOOD-PRONE AREA. See FLOODPLAIN.
   FLOOD ZONE. A geographical area shown on a Flood Hazard Boundary Map or
Flood Insurance Rate Map that reflects the severity or type of flooding in the
area.
   FLOODPLAIN. Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any
source.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. The individual appointed to administer and enforce
the floodplain management regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. Any type of permit that is required in
conformance with the provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of
any development activity.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including, but not limited
to, emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations, and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances, and other applications of police power. This term describes
federal, state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide
standards for preventing and reducing flood loss and damage.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitation facilities,
structures, and their contents.
   FLOOD-RESISTANT MATERIAL. Any building product (material, component or
system) capable of withstanding direct and prolonged contact (minimum 72 hours)
with floodwaters without sustaining damage that requires more than low-cost
cosmetic repair. Any material that is water-soluble or is not resistant to
alkali or acid in water, including normal adhesives for above-grade use, is not
FLOOD-RESISTANT. Pressure-treated lumber or naturally decay-resistant lumbers
are acceptable flooring materials. Sheet-type flooring coverings that restrict
evaporation from below and materials that are impervious, but dimensionally
unstable are not acceptable. Materials that absorb or retain water excessively
after submergence are not FLOOD-RESISTANT. Please refer to Technical Bulletin
2, Flood Damage-Resistant Materials Requirements, and available from the FEMA.
Class 4 and 5 materials, referenced therein are acceptable FLOOD-RESISTANT
MATERIALS.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse, including the area
above a bridge or culvert when applicable, and the adjacent land areas that
must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively
increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
   FREEBOARD. The height added to the BFE to account for the many unknown
factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the height
calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as wave
action, blockage of bridge or culvert openings, storm surge, precipitation
exceeding the base flood and the hydrological effect of urbanization of the
watershed. The BFE plus the FREEBOARD establishes the regulatory flood
protection elevation.
   FREE OF OBSTRUCTION. The required space below the lowest floor of an
elevated structure located in the Coastal High Hazard Zone, V Zone or east of
NC 12 that must be open and designed to be free and clear to allow floodwaters
to flow freely beneath the structure. The space below the lowest floor that is
unobstructed shall be a minimum vertical distance of 12 inches measured from
the bottom of the lowest horizontal structural member of the lowest floor to
the highest adjacent grade directly beneath the structure. Non-bearing
breakaway walls, open lattice panels and insect screening are not considered
obstructions and may be allowed below the lowest floor.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT FACILITY. A facility which cannot be used for its
intended purpose unless it is located in close proximity to water, limited to a
docking or port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or
passengers, shipbuilding, or ship repair. The term does not include long-term
storage, manufacture, sales, or service facilities.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT FACILITY. As defined in G.S. Ch. 130A, Art. 9, a
facility for the collection, storage, processing, treatment, recycling,
recovery, or disposal of hazardous waste.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE (HAG). The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface, prior to construction, immediately next to the proposed walls of the
structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the U.S. Department of Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of Interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic landmarks in
communities with a Certified Local Government (CLG) Program; or
      (4)   Certified as contributing to the historical significance of a
historic district designated by a community with a Certified Local Government
(CLG) Program.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). An official determination issued by FEMA that
amends or revises an effective Flood Insurance Rate Map or Flood Insurance
Study. LETTERS OF MAP CHANGE include:
      (1)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). An official amendment, by letter,
to an effective National Flood Insurance Program Map. A LOMA is based on
technical data showing that a property had been inadvertently mapped as being
in the floodplain, but is actually on natural high ground above the base flood
elevation. A LOMA amends the current effective Flood Insurance Rate Map and
establishes that a specific property, portion of a property, or structure is
not located in a special flood hazard area.
      (2)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). A revision based on technical data
that may show changes to flood zones, flood elevations, special flood hazard
area boundaries and floodway delineations, and other planimetric features.
      (3)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F). A determination that
a structure or parcel of land has been elevated by fill above the BFE and is
therefore no longer located within the special flood hazard area. In order to
qualify for this determination, the fill must have been permitted and placed in
accordance with the community's floodplain management regulations.
      (4)   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR). A formal review and
comment as to whether a proposed project complies with the minimum NFIP
requirements for such projects with respect to delineation of special flood
hazard areas. A CLOMR does not revise the effective Flood Insurance Rate Map or
Flood Insurance Study; upon submission and approval of certified as-built
documentation, a LETTER OF MAP REVISION may be issued by FEMA to revise the
effective FIRM.
   LIGHT DUTY TRUCK. Any motor vehicle rated at 8,500 pounds Gross Vehicular
Weight Rating or less which has a vehicular curb weight of 6,000 pounds or less
and which has a basic vehicle frontal area of 45 square feet or less as defined
in 40 C.F.R. 86.082-2 and is:
      (1)   Designed primarily for purposes of transportation of property or is
a derivation of such a vehicle;
      (2)   Designed primarily for transportation of persons and has a capacity
of more than 12 persons; or
      (3)   Available with special features enabling off-street or off-highway
operation and use.
   LIMIT OF MODERATE WAVE ACTION (LiMWA). The boundary line given by FEMA on
coastal map studies marking the extents of Coastal A Zones (CAZs).
   LOCAL ELEVATION STANDARD. A locally adopted elevation level used as the
Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation (RFPE) in Shaded X and X Zones or used in
conjunction with the BFE and freeboard standard to mitigate flood hazards in
the AE, AO, VE, as depicted on the FIRMs for the town.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE (LAG). The lowest elevation of the ground, sidewalk or
patio slab immediately next to the building, or deck support, alter completion
of the building.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access, or limited storage in an area other than
a basement area is not considered a building's LOWEST FLOOR, provided that such
an enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MAP REPOSITORY. The location of the official flood hazard data to be applied
for floodplain management. It is a central location in which flood data is
stored and managed. In North Carolina, FEMA has recognized that the application
of digital flood hazard data products carries the same authority as hard copy
products. Therefore, the NCEM's Floodplain Mapping Program websites house
current and historic flood hazard data. For effective flood hazard data the NC
FRIS website (https://fris.nc.gov/fris) is the MAP REPOSITORY, and for
historical flood hazard data the FloodNC website (http://floodnc.gov/ncflood)
is the MAP REPOSITORY.
   MARKET VALUE. The building value, not including the land value and that of
any accessory structures or other improvements on the lot. MARKET VALUE may be
established by independent certified appraisal; replacement cost depreciated
for age of building and quality of construction (actual cash value); or
adjusted tax assessed values.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the "start of construction" commenced
on or after the effective date of the initial floodplain management regulations
and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NON-CONVERSION AGREEMENT. A document stating that the owner will not convert
or alter what has been constructed and approved. Violation of the agreement is
considered a violation of this chapter and is therefore subject to the same
enforcement procedures and penalties. The agreement must be filed with the Dare
County Register of Deeds.
   NON-ENCROACHMENT AREA (NEA). The channel of a river or other watercourse,
including the area above a bridge or culvert when applicable, and the adjacent
land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot as
designated in the Flood Insurance Study report.
   OTHERWISE PROTECTED AREA (OPA). See COASTAL BARRIER RESOURCES SYSTEM (CBRS).
   POST-FIRM. Construction or other development for which the "start of
construction" occurred on or after May 4, 1973, the effective date of the
initial Flood Insurance Rate Map.
   PRE-FIRM. Construction or other development for which the "start of
construction" occurred before May 4, 1973, the effective date of the initial
Flood Insurance Rate Map.
   PRIMARY FRONTAL DUNE (PFD). A continuous or nearly continuous mound or ridge
of sand with relatively steep seaward and landward slopes immediately landward
and adjacent to the beach and subject to erosion and overtopping from high
tides and waves during major coastal storms. The inland limit of the PRIMARY
FRONTAL DUNE occurs at the point where there is a distinct change from a
relatively steep slope to a relatively mild slope. This definition is used for
flood management purposes only and varies from the definition from the Coastal
Area Management Act regulations.
   PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND. At least 51% of the actual cash value of the
structure is above ground.
   PUBLIC SAFETY or NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to the safety or
health of an entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of
persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV).
      (1)   A vehicle which is:
         (a)   Built on a single chassis;
         (b)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
         (c)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck;
         (d)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use;
and
         (e)   Is fully licensed and ready for highway use.
      (2)   Tiny homes/houses and park models that do not meet the items listed
above are not considered RECREATIONAL VEHICLES and should meet the standards of
and be permitted as residential structures.
   REFERENCE LEVEL.
      (1)   For structures within the special flood hazard areas designated as
Zones AE and AO, the REFERENCE LEVEL is the bottom of the lowest floor or the
bottom of the lowest attendant utility including ductwork, whichever is lower,
with only flood-resistant materials located below the reference level.
      (2)   For structures within the special flood hazard areas designated as
Zone VE, the REFERENCE LEVEL is the bottom of the lowest horizontal structural
member of the lowest floor or the bottom of the lowest attendant utility
including ductwork, whichever is lower.
      (3)   For structures within Zones Shaded X or X, the REFERENCE LEVEL is
the bottom of the lowest floor or the bottom of the lowest attendant utility
including ductwork, whichever is lower, with only flood-resistant materials
located below the reference level.
   REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (RFPE). In special flood hazard areas,
the base flood elevation plus the freeboard for those areas where base flood
elevations have been determined on the FIRM; the base flood depth above the
highest adjacent grade or local elevation standards for those areas identified
as AO zones of the FIRM; or the local elevation standard for those areas
identified as Shaded X or X zones on the FIRM. For Kill Devil Hills, the RFPE
is as follows:
      (1)   In VE zones, the RFPE is the base flood elevation as designated on
the effective FIRM plus one foot free of obstruction.
      (2)   In AE zones, the RFPE is the base flood elevation as designated on
the effective FIRM plus three feet of freeboard or an elevation to above eight
feet NAVD 1988, whichever is greater.
      (3)   In AO zones, the RFPE is the designated base flood depth on the
effective FIRM, plus a freeboard of one foot above the highest natural adjacent
grade or an elevation to or above eight feet NAVD 1988, whichever is greatest.
      (4)   In Shaded X and X zones west of NC 12, the RFPE is eight feet NAVD
1988 or the natural grade elevation if the natural grade is greater than eight
feet NAVD 1988.
      (5)   In Shaded X and X Zones east of NC 12, the RFPE is eight feet NAVD
1988 or natural grade elevation if the natural grade is greater than eight feet
NAVD 1988 plus one foot of free of obstruction.
   REMEDY A VIOLATION. To bring the structure or other development into
compliance with state and community floodplain management regulations, or, if
this is not possible, to reduce the impacts of its noncompliance. Ways that
impacts may be reduced include protecting the structure or other affected
development from flood damages, implementing the enforcement provisions of this
chapter or otherwise deterring future similar violations, or reducing federal
financial exposure with regard to the structure or other development.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, etc.
   SALVAGE YARD. Any non-residential property used for the storage, collection,
and/or recycling of any type of equipment, and including but not limited to
vehicles, appliances and related machinery,
   SAND DUNES. Naturally occurring accumulations of sand in ridges or mounds
landward of the beach.
   SECONDARY STRUCTURE. A structure that features habitable conditioned space
above the RFPE located on the same parcel as a primary use structure. A
SECONDARY STRUCTURE is not an accessory structure as defined in this section.
   SHADED X ZONE. Areas of moderate flood hazard shown on the FIRM and the
areas between the limits of the base flood and the 0.2% annual chance for
flood. Also commonly referred to as the “500-year flood”.
   SHEAR WALL. Walls used for structural support but not structurally joined or
enclosed at the end (except by breakaway walls). SHEAR WALLS are parallel or
nearly parallel to the flow of the water.
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITY. Any facility involved in the disposal of
solid waste, as defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(35).
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL SITE. As defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(36), any place
at which solid wastes are disposed of by incineration, sanitary landfill, or
any other method.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). The land in the floodplain subject to a 1%
or greater chance of being flooded in any given year, as determined in §§
151.07 and
151.08.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement, or other
improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start means
either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site,
such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading, and filling; nor does
it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include
excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of
temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
not part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start
of construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of the building, whether or not that alteration affects
the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, a manufactured home, or a gas,
liquid, or liquefied gas storage tank that is principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure during any
one-year period whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before-
damaged condition would equal or exceed 50% of the market value or current tax
value of the structure before the damage occurred. (See also SUBSTANTIAL
IMPROVEMENT.) The one-year period shall commence on the date of certificate of
occupancy/certificate of compliance.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any combination of repairs, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, or other improvement of a structure, taking place
during any one-year period, for which the cost equals or exceeds 50% of the
market value or current tax value of the structure before the "start of
construction" of the improvement. This term includes structures which have
incurred substantial damage, regardless of the actual repair work performed.
The one-year period shall commence on the date of certificate of occupancy/
certificate of compliance. The term does not, however, include either:
      (1)   Any correction of existing violations of state or community health,
sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been identified by the
community code enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
historic structure and the alteration is approved by variance issued pursuant
to §
151.44.
   TECHNICAL BULLETIN AND TECHNICAL FACT SHEET. A FEMA publication that
provides guidance concerning the building performance standards of the NFIP,
which are contained in 44 C.F.R. 60.3. The bulletins and fact sheets are
intended for use primarily by state and local officials responsible for
interpreting and enforcing NFIP regulations and by members of the development
community, such as design professionals and builders. New bulletins, as well as
updates of existing bulletins, are issued periodically as needed. The bulletins
do not create regulations; rather they provide specific guidance for complying
with the minimum requirements of existing NFIP regulations.
   TEMPERATURE CONTROLLED. Having the temperature regulated by a heating and/or
cooling system, built-in or appliance.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in §§
151.25 through
151.31 and §§
151.40 through
151.44 is presumed to be in VIOLATION until such time as that documentation is
provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION (WSE). The height, in relation to NAVD 1988 or
approved datum applicable at the time of construction, of floods of various
magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine areas.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
   X ZONE. The areas of minimal flood hazard shown on the FIRM which are areas
outside of the special flood hazard areas and higher than the elevation of the
0.2% annual flood chance. Also referred to as Unshaded X Zone in this chapter.
(Ord. 06-15, passed 7-26-06; Am. Ord. 17-23, passed 6-10-20)
§ 151.02 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   (A)   The Legislature of the State of North Carolina has in Part 6, Article
21 of Chapter 143; Article 6 of Chapter 153A; Article 8 of Chapter 160A; and
Articles 7, 9, and 11 of Chapter 160D (Effective January 1, 2021) of the North
Carolina General Statutes, delegated to local governmental units the authority
to adopt regulations designed to promote the public health, safety, and general
welfare.
   (B)   Therefore, the Board Of Commissioners of the Town of Kill Devil Hills,
North Carolina, does ordain as follows.
(Ord. 06-15, passed 7-26-06; Am. Ord. 17-23, passed 6-10-20)
§ 151.03 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood-prone areas within the jurisdiction of Kill Devil Hills are
subject to periodic inundation which results in loss of life, property, health
and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services,
extraordinary public expenditures of flood protection and relief, and
impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the public health,
safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities and by the
occupancy in flood-prone areas of uses vulnerable to floods or other hazards.
(Ord. 06-15, passed 7-26-06; Am. Ord. 17-23, passed 6-10-20)
§ 151.04 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions within flood-prone areas by establishing provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water or erosion hazards or that result in damaging increases
in erosion, flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities that
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and all other development that may
increase erosion or flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers that will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(Ord. 06-15, passed 7-26-06; Am. Ord. 17-23, passed 6-10-20)
§ 151.05 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are to:
   (A)   Protect human life, safety, and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business losses and interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities (i.e., water and
gas mains, electric, telephone, cable and sewer lines, streets, and bridges)
that are located in flood-prone areas;
   (F)   Minimize damage to private and public property due to flooding;
   (G)   Make flood insurance available to the community through the National
Flood Insurance Program;
   (H)   Maintain the natural and beneficial functions of floodplains;
   (I)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood-prone areas;
   (J)   Ensure that potential buyers are aware that property is in a special
flood hazard area or an area subject to potential flooding; and
   (K)   Mitigate flood risks in all areas of Kill Devil Hills by implementing
local elevation standards for all special flood hazard areas and Shaded X and X
Zones.
(Ord. 06-15, passed 7-26-06; Am. Ord. 17-23, passed 6-10-20)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.06 LANDS TO WHICH CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all areas within the jurisdiction of the Town of
Kill Devil Hills.
(Ord. 06-15, passed 7-26-06; Am. Ord. 17-23, passed 6-10-20)
§ 151.07 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   The special flood hazard areas are those identified under the Cooperating
Technical State (CTS) agreement between the State of North Carolina and FEMA in
its FIS dated June 19, 2020 for Dare County and associated Digital Flood
Insurance Rate Map (DFIRM) panels, including any digital data developed as part
of the FIS, which are adopted by reference and declared a part of this chapter
and all revisions thereto after January 1, 2021. Future revisions to the FIS
and DFIRM panels that do not change flood hazard data within the jurisdictional
authority of the town are also adopted by reference and declared a part of this
chapter. Subsequent letters of map revision (LOMRs) and/or physical map
revisions (PMRs) shall be adopted within three months.
(Ord. 06-15, passed 7-26-06; Am. Ord. 17-23, passed 6-10-20)
§ 151.08 ESTABLISHMENT OF LOCAL ELEVATION STANDARD TO SERVE AS REGULATORY FLOOD
PROTECTION ELEVATION IN SHADED X AND UNSHADED X ZONES.
   A locally adopted elevation standards shall apply to any Shaded X or X Zones
as identified on the effective DFIRMs for the town or used in conjunction with
the BFE and freeboard standard to mitigate flood hazards in the AE, AO, VE
Zones, as depicted on the FIRMs for the town. These areas may be vulnerable to
flooding from storm surge, wind-driven tides, and excessive rainfall associated
with storm systems. Many of these areas have flooded during past storm events
and continue to remain at risk to flooding. Therefore, a local elevation
standard and other floodplain development standards including regulatory flood
protection elevation have been determined by the town to be appropriate for
these Shaded X and X Zones as defined in §
151.01. All development activities in any Shaded X or X Zone shall conform to
the provisions set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 17-23, passed 6-10-20)
§ 151.09 ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities in AE, AO, VE, Shaded X and X zone areas.
(Ord. 06-15, passed 7-26-06; Am. Ord. 17-23, passed 6-10-20)
§ 151.10 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted,
altered, or developed in any way without full compliance with the terms of this
chapter and other applicable regulations.
(Ord. 06-15, passed 7-26-06; Am. Ord. 17-23, passed 6-10-20)
§ 151.11 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions
shall prevail.
(Ord. 06-15, passed 7-26-06; Am. Ord. 17-23, passed 6-10-20)
§ 151.12 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 06-15, passed 7-26-06; Am. Ord. 17-23, passed 6-10-20)
§ 151.13 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
consideration. Larger floods can and will occur. Actual flood heights may be
increased by man-made or natural causes. This chapter does not imply that land
outside the special flood hazard areas or uses permitted within such areas will
be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not create liability
on the part of the town or by any officer or employee thereof for any flood
damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative
decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. 06-15, passed 7-26-06; Am. Ord. 17-23, passed 6-10-20)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 151.25 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas the following provisions are required.
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be designed
(or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, and
lateral movement of the structure.
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage in accordance
with the FEMA Technical Bulletin 2, Flood Damage-Resistant Materials
Requirements.
   (C)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damages.
   (D)   All new electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, and other service equipment shall be located at or above the RFPE or
designed and installed to prevent water from entering or accumulating within
the components during the occurrence of the base flood. These include, but are
not limited to, HVAC equipment, water softener units, bath/kitchen fixtures,
ductwork, electric/gas meter panels/boxes, utility/cable boxes, water heaters,
and electric outlets/switches.
      (1)   Replacements that are part of a substantial improvement,
electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning equipment, and
other service equipment shall also meet the above provisions.
      (2)   Replacements that are for maintenance and not part of a substantial
improvement, may be installed at the original location provided the addition
and/or improvements only comply with the standards for new construction
consistent with the code and requirements for the original structure.
   (E)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
   (F)   All new and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into flood waters.
   (G)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (H)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the repair, reconstruction, or
replacement of a building or structure existing on the effective date of this
chapter and located totally or partially within the floodway, non-encroachment
area, or stream setback, provided there is no additional encroachment below the
regulatory flood protection elevation in the floodway, non-encroachment area,
or stream setback, and provided that such repair, reconstruction, or
replacement meets all of the other requirements of this chapter.
   (I)   New solid waste disposal facilities and sites, hazardous waste
management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage facilities shall not
be permitted, except by variance as specified in §
151.44(K). A structure or tank for chemical or fuel storage incidental to an
allowed use or to the operation of a water treatment plant or wastewater
treatment facility may be located in a special flood hazard area only if the
structure or tank is either elevated or floodproofed to at least the regulatory
flood protection elevation and certified in accordance with the provisions of §
151.41(C).
   (J)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall be
consistent with the need to minimize flood damage.
   (K)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water
systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage.
   (L)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (M)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
received all necessary permits from those governmental agencies for which
approval is required by federal or state law, including Section 404 of the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972 (33 U.S.C. 1334).
   (N)   When a structure is partially located in a special flood hazard area,
the entire structure shall meet the requirements for new construction and
substantial improvements.
   (O)   When a structure is located in multiple flood hazard zones or in a
flood hazard risk zone with multiple base flood elevations, the provisions for
the more restrictive flood hazard risk zone and the highest RFPE shall apply.
(Ord. 06-15, passed 7-26-06; Am. Ord. 17-23, passed 6-10-20)
§ 151.26 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   The following provisions, in addition to the provisions of §
151.25, are required:
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure (including manufactured homes) shall have the
reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the regulatory
flood protection elevation, as defined in §
151.01.
   (B)   Non-residential construction. New construction and substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or other non-residential structure
shall have the reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the
regulatory flood protection elevation, as defined in §
151.01. Structures located in A, AE, AH, AO, A99, Shaded X and X Zones may be
floodproofed to the regulatory flood protection elevation in lieu of elevation
provided that all areas of the structure, together with attendant utility and
sanitary facilities, below the regulatory flood protection elevation are
watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water, using
structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and the effect of buoyancy. For AO Zones, the floodproofing
elevation shall be in accordance with §
151.31(B). A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the floodproofing standards of this division are satisfied. Such certification
shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator as set forth in §
151.41(C) along with the operational plan and the inspection and maintenance
plan.
   (C)   Manufactured homes.
      (1)   New and replacement manufactured homes shall be elevated so that
the reference level of the manufactured home is no lower than the regulatory
flood protection elevation, as defined in §
151.01.
      (2)   Manufactured homes shall be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement, either
by certified engineered foundation system, or in accordance with the most
current edition of the State of North Carolina Regulations for Manufactured
Homes adopted by the Commissioner of Insurance, pursuant to G.S. § 143-143.15.
Additionally, when the elevation would be met by an elevation of the chassis 36
inches or less above the grade at the site, the chassis shall be supported by
reinforced piers or engineered foundation. When the elevation of the chassis is
above 36 inches in height, an engineering certification is required.
      (3)   All enclosures or skirting below the lowest floor shall meet the
requirements of division (D) below.
      (4)   An evacuation plan must be developed for evacuation of all
residents of all new, substantially improved or substantially damaged
manufactured home parks or subdivisions located within flood-prone areas. This
plan shall be filed with and approved by the Floodplain Administrator and the
local Emergency Management Coordinator.
   (D)   Elevated buildings. Enclosed area/enclosure, as defined in §
151.01, of new construction and substantially improved structures, which is
below the lowest floor in AE, AO, AH, Shaded X or X Zones or below the lowest
horizontal structural member in VE Zones:
      (1)   Shall not be designed or used for human habitation, but shall only
be used for parking of vehicles, building access, or limited storage of
maintenance equipment used in connection with the premises. Access to the
enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow for parking of vehicles
(garage door) or limited storage of maintenance equipment (standard exterior
door), or entry to the living area (stairway or elevator). The interior portion
of such enclosed area shall not be finished or partitioned into separate rooms,
except to enclose storage areas;
      (2)   Shall not be temperature-controlled or conditioned. Non-
temperature-controlled dehumidifiers may be used in enclosed areas and shall
not result in the enclosed area being determined to be conditioned space;
      (3)   Shall be constructed entirely of flood-resistant materials at least
to the regulatory flood protection elevation; and
      (4)   Shall include, in A, AE, AH, AO, A99, Shaded X and X Zones, flood
openings to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on walls by
allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters. To meet this requirement, the
openings must either be certified by a professional engineer or architect or
meet or exceed the following minimum design criteria:
         (a)   A minimum of two flood openings on different sides of each
enclosed area subject to flooding;
         (b)   The total net area of all flood openings must be at least one
square inch for each square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding or a
minimum of one engineered square inch for each square foot of enclosed area for
an engineered opening;
         (c)   If a building has more than one enclosed area, each enclosed
area must have flood openings to allow floodwaters to automatically enter and
exit;
         (d)   The bottom of all required flood openings shall be no higher
than one foot above the higher of the interior or exterior adjacent grade;
         (e)   Flood openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other
coverings or devices, provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions; and
         (f)   Enclosures made of flexible skirting are not considered
enclosures for regulatory purposes, and, therefore, do not require flood
openings. Masonry or wood underpinning, regardless of structural status, is
considered an enclosure and requires flood openings as outlined above.
      (5)   Shall, in coastal high hazard areas, be free of obstruction which
allows construction with breakaway walls, open wood latticework or insect
screening, provided they are not part of the structural support of the building
and are designed so as to break away, under abnormally high tides or wave
action without causing damage to the elevated portion of the building or
supporting foundation system or otherwise jeopardizing the structural integrity
of the building. The following design specifications shall be met:
         (a)   Material shall consist of open wood or plastic lattice or insect
screening; or
         (b)   Breakaway walls shall meet the following design specifications:
            1.   Design safe loading resistance shall be not less than ten nor
more than 20 pounds per square foot; or
            2.   Breakaway walls that exceed a design safe loading resistance
of 20 pounds per square foot (either by design or when so required by state or
local codes) shall be certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect that the breakaway wall will collapse from a water load less than
that which would occur during the base flood event, and the elevated portion of
the building and supporting foundation system shall not be subject to collapse,
displacement, or other structural damage due to the effects of wind and water
loads acting simultaneously on all building components (structural and
nonstructural). The water loading values used shall be those associated with
the base flood. The wind loading values used shall be those required by the
State Building Code.
      (6)   Property owners shall be required to execute and record a non-
conversion agreement prior to issuance of a building permit declaring that the
area below the lowest floor shall not be improved, finished or otherwise
converted to habitable space. This agreement shall be recorded with the County
Register of Deeds and shall transfer with the property in perpetuity. The town
will have the right to inspect the enclosed areas.
      (7)   Release of restrictive covenant. If a property which is bound by a
non-conversion agreement is modified to remove enclosed areas below RFPE, then
the owner may request release of restrictive covenant after staff inspection
and submittal of confirming documentation.
   (E)   Additions, improvements and conversions.
      (1)   In AE, AO and VE Zones, additions and/or improvements to pre-FIRM
structures when the addition and/or improvements in combination with any
interior modifications to the existing structure are:
         (a)   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or improvements
must be designed to minimize flood damages and must not be any more
nonconforming than the existing structure;
         (b)   A substantial improvement, with modifications/rehabilitations/
improvcmcnts to the existing structure or the common wall is structurally
modified more than installing a doorway, both the existing structure and the
addition must comply with the standards for new construction.
      (2)   Additions to pre-FIRM or post-FIRM structures that are a
substantial improvement with no modifications/rehabilitations/improvements to
the existing structure other than a standard door in the common wall shall
require only the addition to comply with the standards for new construction.
      (3)   Additions and/or improvements to post-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
         (a)   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or improvements
only must comply with the standards for new construction consistent with the
code and requirements for the original structure;
         (b)   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and the
addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
      (4)   Any combination of repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition
or improvement of a building or structure taking place during a one-year
period, where the cumulative cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market
value or tax value of the structure before the improvement or repair is
started, must comply with the standards for new construction. For each building
or structure, the one-year period begins on the date of the certificate of
compliance of the first improvement or repair of that building or structure
subsequent to the effective date of this chapter. If the structure has
sustained substantial damage, any repairs are considered substantial
improvement regardless of the actual repair work performed. The requirement
does not, however, include either:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a building required to correct
existing health, sanitary or safety code violations identified by the Code
Enforcement Official and that are the minimum necessary to assume safe living
conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a historic structure provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
historic structure.
      (5)   Areas in existing structures shall not be converted for use as
conditioned, temperature controlled space unless the reference level is located
to or above the RFPE.
      (6)   In Shaded X and X Zones:
         (a)   The substantial improvement/substantial damage definitions as
established in §
151.01 do not apply to Shaded X and Z zones.
         (b)   Laterals additions (increase in the footprint of the
conditioned, temperature-controlled space) to existing structures shall have
the reference level elevated to or above the RFPE that was applicable at the
time of construction.
         (c)   Remodeling or renovations of existing structures with the
reference level located below the current applicable RFPE that do not increase
the footprint of the structure may be authorized at the existing reference
level or higher.
         (d)   Reconstruction of damaged portions of a structure may be
authorized at the existing reference level or higher; however, if a structure
is entirely demolished for whatever reason, the replacement structure shall be
constructed to or above the RFPE.
         (e)   Structures that are relocated on the same site or to another
site shall be elevated to or above the RFPE.
         (f)   Areas in existing structures shall not be converted for use as
conditioned, temperature-controlled space unless the reference level is located
to or above the RFPE.
   (F)   Recreational vehicles.
      (1)   Temporary placement. Recreational vehicles shall either:
         (a)   Be on site for fewer than 180 consecutive days; or
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use. (A recreational
vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is
attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities, and has no
permanently attached additions.)
      (2)   Permanent placement. Recreational vehicles that do not meet the
limitations of temporary placement shall meet all the requirements for new
construction.
   (G)   Temporary non-residential structures. Prior to the issuance of a
floodplain development permit for a temporary structure, the applicant must
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a plan for the removal of such structure
(s) in the event of a hurricane, flash flood or other type of flood warning
notification. The following information shall be submitted in writing to the
Floodplain Administrator for review and written approval:
      (1)   A specified time period for which the temporary use will be
permitted. Time specified may not exceed three months, renewable up to one
year;
      (2)   The name, address, and phone number of the individual responsible
for the removal of the temporary structure;
      (3)   The timeframe prior to the event at which a structure will be
removed (i.e., minimum of 72 hours before landfall of a hurricane or
immediately upon flood warning notification);
      (4)   A copy of the contract or other suitable instrument with the entity
responsible for physical removal of the structure; and
      (5)   Designation, accompanied by documentation, of a location outside
the special flood hazard area, to which the temporary structure will be moved.
   (H)   Accessory structures. The following criteria shall be met:
      (1)   Accessory structures shall not be used for human habitation
(including working, sleeping, living, cooking or restroom areas);
      (2)   Accessory structures shall not be temperature-controlled;
      (3)   Accessory structures shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential;
      (4)   Accessory structures shall be constructed and placed on the
building site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
      (5)   Accessory structures shall be firmly anchored in accordance with
the provisions of §
151.25(A);
      (6)   Accessory structures, regardless of size or cost, shall not be
permitted below elevated structures;
      (7)   All service facilities such as electrical shall be installed in
accordance with the provisions of §
151.25(D);
      (8)   Flood openings to facilitate automatic equalization of hydrostatic
flood forces shall be provided below regulatory flood protection elevation in
conformance with the provisions of division (D)(4) above. The Floodplain
Administrator shall certify installation of required flood openings in
compliance with the provisions of division (D)(4) above; and
      (9)   Other structures located on the same parcel in addition to a
principal use structure which feature conditioned, temperature-controlled areas
elevated above the regulatory flood protection elevation shall be constructed
consistent with §§
151.25,
151.41(C)(1), and this section.
   (I)   Tanks. Gas and liquid storage tanks shall meet the following criteria:
      (1)   Underground tanks. Underground tanks in flood hazard areas shall be
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads during conditions of the design flood,
including the effects of buoyancy assuming the tank is empty.
      (2)   Above-ground tanks, elevated. Above-ground tanks in flood hazard
areas may be elevated to or above the regulatory flood protection elevation on
a supporting structure that is designed to prevent flotation, collapse or
lateral movement during conditions of the design flood. Tank-supporting
structures shall meet the foundation requirements of the applicable flood
hazard area.
      (3)   Above-ground tanks, not elevated. Above ground tanks that do not
meet the elevation standards of division (B) of this section shall not be
permitted in VE Zones. Above-ground tanks in flood hazard areas may be located
below the regulatory flood protection elevation provided the tanks are
designed, constructed, installed, and anchored to resist all flood-related and
other loads, including the effects of buoyancy and lateral movement, during
conditions of the design flood and without release of contents in the
floodwaters or infiltration by floodwaters into the tanks. Tanks shall be
designed, constructed, installed, and anchored to resist the potential buoyant
and other flood forces acting on an empty tank during design flood conditions.
      (4)   Tank inlets and vents. Tank inlets, fill openings, outlets and
vents shall be located at or above the regulatory flood protection elevation or
fitted with covers designed to prevent lateral movement, the inflow of
floodwater or outflow of the contents of the tanks during conditions of the
design flood.
(Ord. 06-15, passed 7-26-06; Am. Ord. 08-05, passed 2-11-08; Am. Ord. 08-15,
passed 6-25-08; Am. Ord. 08-31, passed 11-19-08; Am. Ord. 09-18, passed 10-28-
09; Am. Ord. 10-08, passed 6-14-10; Am. Ord. 10-10, passed 7-12-10; Am. Ord.
13-12, passed 8-8-13; Am. Ord. 17-23, passed 6-10-20)
§ 151.27 STANDARDS FOR FLOODPLAINS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS.
   Within the special flood hazard areas designated as Approximate Zone A and
established in §
151.07, where no BFE data has been provided by FEMA, the following provisions,
in addition to the provisions of §
151.25, shall apply:
   (A)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements or new development shall be permitted within a distance of 20 feet
each side from top of bank or five times the width of the stream, whichever is
greater, unless certification with supporting technical data by a registered
professional engineer is provided demonstrating that such encroachments shall
not result in any increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the base
flood discharge.
   (B)   The BFE used in determining the regulatory flood protection elevation
shall be determined based on the following criteria:
      (1)   When BFE data is available from other sources, all new construction
and substantial improvements within such areas shall also comply with all
applicable provisions of this chapter and shall be elevated or floodproofed in
accordance with standards in §§
151.25 and
151.26;
      (2)   When floodway or non-encroachment data is available from a federal,
state, or other source, all new construction and substantial improvements
within floodway and non-encroachment areas shall also comply with the
requirements of §§
151.26 and
151.29;
      (3)   All subdivision, manufactured home park and other development
proposals shall provide BFE data if development is greater than five acres or
has more than 50 lots/manufactured home sites. Such BFE data shall be adopted
by reference in accordance with §
151.07 and utilized in implementing this chapter;
      (4)   When BFE data is not available from a federal, state, or other
source as outlined above, the reference level shall be elevated or floodproofed
(nonresidential) to or above the regulatory flood protection elevation, as
defined in §
151.01. All other applicable provisions of §
151.26 shall also apply.
(Ord. 17-23, passed 6-10-20)
§ 151.28 STANDARDS FOR RIVERINE FLOODPLAINS WITH BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS BUT
WITHOUT ESTABLISHED FLOODWAYS OR NON- ENCROACHMENT AREAS.
   Along rivers and streams where BFE data is provided by FEMA or is available
from another source but neither floodway nor non-encroachment areas are
identified for a special flood hazard area on the FIRM or in the FIS report,
the following requirements shall apply to all development within such areas:
   (A)   Standards of §§
151.25 and
151.26; and
   (B)   Until a regulatory floodway or non-encroachment area is designated, no
encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial improvements, or
other development, shall be permitted unless certification with supporting
technical data by a registered professional engineer is provided demonstrating
that the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined with all
other existing and anticipated development, will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point within the
community.
(Ord. 17-23, passed 6-10-20)
§ 151.29 FLOODWAYS AND NON-ENCROACHMENT AREAS.
   Areas designated as floodways or non-encroachment areas are located within
the special flood hazard areas established in §
151.07. The floodways and non-encroachment areas are extremely hazardous areas
due to the velocity of floodwaters that have erosion potential and carry debris
and potential projectiles. The following provisions, in addition to standards
outlined in §§
151.25 and
151.26, shall apply to all development within such areas:
   (A)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements and other developments shall be permitted unless:
      (1)   It is demonstrated that the proposed encroachment would not result
in any increase in the flood levels during the occurrence of the base flood
discharge, based on hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance
with standard engineering practice and presented to the Floodplain
Administrator prior to issuance of floodplain development permit; or
      (2)   A conditional letter of map revision (CLOMR) has been approved by
FEMA. A letter of map revision (LOMR) must also be obtained within six months
of completion of the proposed encroachment.
   (B)   If division (A) is satisfied, all development shall comply with all
applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Manufactured homes may be permitted provided the following provisions
are met:
      (1)   The anchoring and the elevation standards of §
151.26(C); and
      (2)   The encroachment standards of division (A) of this section.
(Ord. 17-23, passed 6-10-20)
§ 151.30 COASTAL HIGH HAZARD AREAS (ZONES VE).
   Coastal high hazard areas are special flood hazard areas established in §
151.01. These areas have special flood hazards associated with high velocity
waters from storm surges or seismic activity and, therefore, all new
construction and substantial improvements shall meet the following provisions
in addition to the provisions of §§
151.25 and
151.26:
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be located
landward of the reach of mean high tide and comply with all applicable setback
standards of the town's zoning ordinance.
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be elevated so
that the bottom of the lowest horizontal structural member of the lowest floor
(excluding pilings or columns) is no lower than the regulatory flood protection
elevation plus free of obstruction. Floodproofing shall not be utilized on any
structures in coastal high hazard areas to satisfy the regulatory flood
protection elevation requirements.
   (C)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall have the space
below the bottom of the lowest horizontal structural member of the lowest floor
free of obstruction so as not to impede the flow of flood waters, with the
following exceptions:
      (1)   Open wood or plastic latticework or insect screening may be
permitted below the lowest floor for aesthetic purposes only and must be
designed to wash away in the event of wave impact and in accordance with the
provisions of §
151.26(D)(5)(a). Design plans shall be submitted in accordance with the
provisions of §
151.41(A)(4)(c); or
      (2)   Breakaway walls may be permitted provided they meet the criteria
set forth in §§
151.26(D)(1), (2), (3) and (5)(b). Design plans shall be submitted in
accordance with the provisions of §
151.41(A)(4)(c)1.
   (D)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be securely
anchored to pile or column foundations. All pilings and columns and the
structure attached thereto shall be anchored to resist flotation, collapse, and
lateral movement due to the effect of wind and water loads acting
simultaneously on all building components.
      (1)   Water loading values used shall be those associated with the base
flood.
      (2)   Wind loading values used shall be those required by the current
edition of the State Building Code.
   (E)   For concrete pads, including patios, decks, parking pads, walkways,
driveways, pool decks, etc., the following is required:
      (1)   Shall be structurally independent of the primary structural
foundation system of the structure and shall not adversely affect structures
through redirection of floodwaters or debris; and
      (2)   Shall be constructed to breakaway cleanly during design flood
conditions, shall be frangible, and shall not produce debris capable of causing
damage to any structure. Note: The installation of concrete in small segments
(approximately four feet by four feet) that will easily break up during the
base flood event, or score concrete in four feet by four feet maximum segments
is acceptable to meet this standard.
      (3)   Reinforcing, including welded wire fabric, shall not be used in
order to minimize the potential for concreted pads being a source of debris;
and
      (4)   Pad thickness:
         (a)   Shall not exceed four inches; or
         (b)   Shall be certified by a design professional that the design and
method of construction to be used shall be compliant with the applicable
criteria of this section.
   (F)   (1)   For swimming pools and spas, the following is required:
         (a)   Be designed to withstand all flood-related loads and load
combinations;
         (b)   Be elevated so that the lowest horizontal structural member is
elevated above the RFPE;
         (c)   Be designed and constructed to break away during design flood
conditions without producing debris capable of causing damage to any structure;
or
         (d)   Be sited to remain in the ground during design flood conditions
without obstructing flow that results in damage to any structure.
      (2)   Registered design professionals must certify to local officials
that a pool or spa beneath or near a VE Zone building will not be subject to
flotation or displacement that will damage building foundations or elevated
portions of the building or any nearby buildings during a coastal flood.
   (G)   For all elevators, vertical platform lifts, chair lifts, etc., the
following is required:
      (1)   Elevator enclosures must be designed to resist hydrodynamic and
hydrostatic forces as well as erosion, scour, and waves;
      (2)   Utility equipment in coastal high hazard areas must not be mounted
on, pass through, or be located along breakaway walls;
      (3)   The cab, machine/equipment room, hydraulic pump, hydraulic
reservoir, counter weight and roller guides, hoist cable, limit switches,
electric hoist motor, electrical junction box, circuit panel, and electrical
control panel shall:
         (a)   Be elevated to or above the regulatory flood protection
elevation; or
         (b)   Constructed using flood damage-resistant components/materials.
   (H)   Accessory structures, regardless of size or cost, shall not be
permitted below the elevated structure.
   (I)   A registered North Carolina design professional shall certify that the
design, specifications and plans for construction are in compliance with the
provisions of §
151.41 and divisions (C) and (D) of this section, on the current version of the
North Carolina V-Zone Certification Form or equivalent local version. In
addition, prior to the certificate of compliance/occupancy issuance, a
registered professional engineer or architect shall certify the finished
construction is compliant with the design, specifications and plans for VE Zone
construction.
   (J)   Fill/grading. Fill shall not be used for structural support of
building. Minor grading and the placement of minor quantities of nonstructural
fill may be permitted for landscaping and for drainage purposes under and
around buildings and for support of parking slabs, pool decks, patios and
walkways. Fill shall not prevent free passage of floodwaters and waves beneath
elevated buildings. Fill must not divert floodwaters or deflect waves such that
increased damage is sustained by adjacent or nearby buildings.
   (K)   There shall be no alteration of sand dunes or mangrove stands which
would increase potential flood damage.
   (L)   No manufactured homes shall be permitted except in an existing
manufactured home park or subdivision. A replacement manufactured home may be
placed on a lot in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision provided
the anchoring and elevation standards of this section have been satisfied.
   (M)   Recreational vehicles may be permitted in coastal high hazard areas
provided that they meet the recreational vehicle criteria of §
151.26(F)(1).
   (N)   A deck that is structurally attached to a building or structure shall
have the bottom of the lowest horizontal structural member at or above the
regulatory flood protection elevation and any supporting members that extend
below the regulatory flood protection elevation shall comply with the
foundation requirements that apply to the building or structure, which shall be
designed to accommodate any increased loads resulting from the attached deck.
The increased loads must be considered in the design of the primary structure
and included in the V Zone Certification required under §
151.41(C)(6).
   (O)   A deck or patio that is located below the regulatory flood protection
elevation shall be structurally independent from buildings or structures and
their foundation systems, and shall be designed and constructed either to
remain intact and in place during design flood conditions or to break apart
into small pieces to minimize debris during flooding that is capable of causing
structural damage to the building or structure or to adjacent buildings and
structures.
   (P)   In coastal high hazard areas, development activities other than
buildings and structures shall be permitted only if also authorized by the
appropriate state or local authority; if located outside the footprint of, and
not structurally attached to, buildings and structures; and if analyses
prepared by qualified registered design professionals demonstrate no harmful
diversion of floodwaters or wave runup and wave reflection that would increase
damage to adjacent buildings and structures. Such other development activities
include but are not limited to:
      (1)   Bulkheads, seawalls, retaining walls, revetments, and similar
erosion control structures;
      (2)   Solid fences and privacy walls, and fences prone to trapping
debris, unless designed and constructed to fail under flood conditions less
than the design flood or otherwise function to avoid obstruction of
floodwaters;
      (3)   Docks, piers and similar structures.
(Ord. 06-15, passed 7-26-06; Am. Ord. 17-23, passed 6-10-20)
§ 151.31 STANDARDS FOR AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING (ZONE AO).
   Located within the special flood hazard areas established in §
151.07 are areas designated as shallow flooding areas. These areas have special
flood hazards associated with base flood depths of one to three feet where a
clearly defined channel does not exist and where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate. In addition to §§
151.25 and
151.26, all new construction and substantial improvements shall meet the
following requirements:
   (A)   The reference level shall be elevated at least as high as the depth
number specified on the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), in feet, plus a
freeboard of one foot above the highest adjacent grade; or at eight feet NAVD
1988, whichever is greater above the highest adjacent grade if no depth number
is specified.
   (B)   Non-residential structures may, in lieu of elevation, be floodproofed
to the same level as required in division (A), so that the structure, together
with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, below that level shall be
watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and
with structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. Certification is required in
accordance with §§
151.26(B) and
151.41(C).
   (C)   Adequate drainage paths shall be provided around structures on slopes,
to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed structures.
(Ord. 17-23, passed 6-10-20)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 151.40 DESIGNATION OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Planning Director, or their designee, hereinafter referred to as the
Floodplain Administrator, is hereby appointed to administer and implement the
provisions of this chapter. In instances where the Floodplain Administrator
receives assistance from others to complete tasks to administer and implement
this chapter, the Floodplain Administrator shall be responsible for the
coordination and community's overall compliance with the National Flood
Insurance Program and the provisions of this chapter,
(Ord. 06-15, passed 7-26-06; Am. Ord. 17-23, passed 6-10-20)
§ 151.41 FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT APPLICATION, PERMIT AND CERTIFICATION
REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Application requirements. Application for a floodplain development
permit shall be made to the Floodplain Administrator prior to any development
activities. The following items shall be presented to the Floodplain
Administrator to apply for a floodplain development permit:
      (1)   A plot plan drawn to scale which shall include, but shall not be
limited to, the following specific details of the proposed floodplain
development:
         (a)   The nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the area of
development/disturbance; existing and proposed structures, utility systems,
grading/pavement areas, fill materials, storage areas, drainage facilities, and
other development;
         (b)   The boundary of any special flood hazard area, as determined in
§
151.07, as delineated on the FIRM or other flood map, or a statement that the
entire lot is within the special flood hazard area;
         (c)   Flood zones including X and Shaded X designation of the proposed
development area as determined on the FIRM or other flood map as determined in
§
151.07;
         (d)   The boundary of the floodway(s) or non-encroachment area(s) as
determined in §
151.07;
         (e)   The base flood elevation (BFE) and/or regulatory flood
protection elevation where provided as set forth in §§
151.07,
151.08,
151.27, or
151.40;
         (f)   The old and new location of any watercourse that will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development;
         (g)   The boundary and designation date of the Coastal Barrier
Resource System (CBRS) area or Otherwise Protected Areas (OPAs), if applicable;
and
         (h)   The certification of the plot plan by a registered land surveyor
or professional engineer.
      (2)   Proposed elevation, and method thereof, of all development,
including, but not limited to:
         (1)   Elevation in relation to NAVD 1988 or approved datum applicable
at time of construction of the proposed reference level (including basement) of
all structures;
         (b)   Elevation in relation to NAVD 1988 or approved datum applicable
at time of construction to which any non-residential structure in A, AE, AH,
AO, A99, Shaded X or X Zones will be floodproofed; and
         (c)   Elevation in relation to NAVD 1988 or approved datum applicable
at time of construction to which any proposed utility systems will be elevated
or floodproofed.
      (3)   If floodproofing, a floodproofing certificate (FEMA Form 086-0-34)
with supporting data, an operational plan, and an inspection and maintenance
plan that include, but are not limited to, installation, exercise, and
maintenance of floodproofing measures.
      (4)   A foundation plan, drawn to scale, which shall include details of
the proposed foundation system to ensure all provisions of this chapter are
met. These details include but are not limited to:
         (a)   The proposed method of elevation, if applicable (i.e., fill,
solid foundation perimeter walls, solid backfilled foundation, open foundation
on columns/posts/piers/piles/shear walls);
         (b)   Openings to facilitate automatic equalization of hydrostatic
flood forces on walls in accordance with § 151.26(D)(4) when solid foundation
perimeter walls are used in A, AE, AH, AO, A99, Shaded X or X Zones; and
         (c)   The following, in coastal high hazard areas, in accordance with
the provisions of §§
151.26(D)(5) and
151.30.
            1.   V Zone certification with accompanying plans and
specifications verifying the engineered structure and any breakaway wall
designs. In addition, prior to the certificate of compliance/occupancy
issuance, a registered professional engineer or architect shall certify the
finished construction is compliant with the design, specifications and plans
for VE Zone construction;
            2.   Plans for open wood latticework or insect screening, if
applicable; and
            3.   Plans for non-structural fill, if applicable. If non-
structural fill is proposed, it must be demonstrated through coastal
engineering analysis that the proposed fill would not result in any increase in
the BFE or otherwise cause adverse impacts by wave ramping and deflection on to
the subject structure or adjacent properties.
      (5)   Usage details of any enclosed areas below the lowest floor;
      (6)   Plans and/or details for the protection of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems to be located and
constructed to minimize flood damage;
      (7)   Certification that all other local, state and federal permits
required prior to floodplain development permit issuance have been received;
      (8)   Documentation for placement of recreational vehicles and/or
temporary structures, when applicable, to ensure that the provisions of §§
151.26(D), (F) and (G) are met;
      (9)   A description of proposed watercourse alteration or relocation,
when applicable, including an engineering report on the effects of the proposed
project on the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse and the effects to
properties located both upstream and downstream; and a map (if not shown on
plot plan) showing the location of the proposed watercourse alteration or
relocation.
   (B)   Permit requirements. The floodplain development permit shall include,
but not be limited to:
      (1)   A complete description of all the development to be permitted under
the floodplain development permit (e.g. house, garage, pool, septic, bulkhead,
cabana, pier, bridge, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation or
drilling operations, or storage of equipment or materials, etc.);
      (2)   The flood zone determination for the proposed development in
accordance with available data specified in §§
151.07 and
151.08;
      (3)   The regulatory flood protection elevation required for the
reference level and all attendant utilities;
      (4)   The regulatory flood protection elevation required for the
protection of all public utilities;
      (5)   All certification submittal requirements with timelines;
      (6)   The flood openings requirements, if in Zones A, AE, AH, AO, A99,
Shaded X or X Zone;
      (7)   Limitations of below-RFPE enclosure uses (parking, building access
and limited storage only);
      (8)   A statement, if in Zone VE, that there shall be no alteration of
sand dunes which would increase potential flood damage;
      (9)   A statement, if in Zone VE, that there shall be no fill used for
structural support;
      (10)   A statement that all materials below RFPE must be flood-resistant
materials.
   (C)   Certification requirements.
      (1)   Elevation certificates for AH, AO, VE, Shaded X and X Zones.
         (a)   An elevation certificate is required prior to the actual start
of any new construction. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to
the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the elevation reference level
in relation to NAVD 1988 or other approved datum applicable at time of
construction. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data
submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the
permit holder prior to the beginning of construction. Failure to submit the
certification or failure to make required corrections shall be cause to deny a
floodplain development permit. In shaded X and X Zones, a survey or other
approved FEMA form prepared by a licensed professional may be used to
demonstrate the natural grade of the parcel exceeds the RFPE, of eight feet
instead of an elevation certificate.
         (b)   An under-construction elevation certificate is required, for the
AE, AO, and VE Zones only, prior to completion of the framing inspection by the
town. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to the Floodplain
Administrator or his or her designee a certification of the under-construction
elevation of the reference level in relation to NAVD 1988. The under-
construction certificate shall be submitted at the time a framing inspection is
scheduled with the Town Building Inspector. The Floodplain Administrator or his
or her designee shall review the certificate and report any deficiencies to the
permit holder immediately and such deficiencies shall be corrected immediately
prior to further work being permitted to proceed. Failure to submit the under-
construction elevation certificate or failure to make required corrections
shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the project.
         (c)   A final finished construction elevation certificate (FEMA Form
086-0-33) is required after construction is completed and prior to certificate
of compliance/occupancy issuance. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of final as-built
construction of the elevation of the reference level and all attendant
utilities. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data
submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the
permit holder immediately and prior to certificate of compliance/occupancy
issuance. In some instances, another certification may be required to certify
corrected as-built construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure
to make required corrections shall be cause to withhold the issuance of a
certificate of compliance/occupancy. The finished construction elevation
certificate certifier shall provide at least two photographs showing the front
and rear of the building taken within 90 days from the date of certification.
The photographs must be taken with views confirming the building description
and diagram number provided in Section A of the finished construction elevation
certificate. To the extent possible, these photographs should show the entire
building including foundation. If the building has split-level or multi-level
areas, provide at least two additional photographs showing side views of the
building. In addition, when applicable, provide a photograph of the foundation
showing a representative example of the flood openings or vents. All
photographs must be in color and measure at least three inches by three inches.
Digital photographs are acceptable. In Shaded X and X Zones, an as built survey
or other approved FEMA form prepared by a licensed professional may be used to
demonstrate the natural grade of the parcel exceeds the RFPE of eight feet
instead of an elevation certificate.
      (2)   Floodproofing certificate.
         (a)   If non-residential floodproofing is used to meet the regulatory
flood protection elevation requirements, a floodproofing certificate (FEMA Form
086-0-34), with supporting data, an operational plan, and an inspection and
maintenance plan are required prior to the actual start of any new
construction. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to the
Floodplain Administrator a certification of the floodproofed design elevation
of the reference level and all attendant utilities, in relation to NAVD 1988 or
other approved datum applicable at lime of construction. Floodproofing
certification shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
professional engineer or architect and certified by same. The Floodplain
Administrator shall review the certificate data, the operational plan, and the
inspection and maintenance plan. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be
corrected by the applicant prior to permit approval. Failure to submit the
certification or failure to make required corrections shall be cause to deny a
floodplain development permit. Failure to construct in accordance with the
certified design shall be cause to withhold the issuance of a certificate of
compliance/occupancy.
         (b)   A final finished construction floodproofing certificate (FEMA
Form 086-0-34), with supporting data, an operational plan, and an inspection
and maintenance plan are required prior to the issuance of a certificate of
compliance/occupancy. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to
the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the floodproofed design
elevation of the reference level and all attendant utilities, in relation to
NAVD 1988 or other approved datum applicable at time of construction.
Floodproofing certificate shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision
of a professional engineer or architect and certified by same. The Floodplain
Administrator shall review the certificate data, the operational plan, and the
inspection and maintenance plan. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be
corrected by the applicant prior to certificate of occupancy. Failure to submit
the certification or failure to make required corrections shall be cause to
deny a floodplain development permit. Failure to construct in accordance with
the certified design shall be cause to deny a certificate of compliance/
occupancy.
      (3)   If a manufactured home is placed within A, AE, AH, AO, A99, Shaded
X and X Zones and the elevation of the chassis is more than 36 inches in height
above grade, an engineered foundation certification is required in accordance
with the provisions of §
151.26(C)(2).
      (4)   If a watercourse is to be altered or relocated, a description of
the extent of watercourse alteration or relocation; a professional engineer's
certified report on the effects of the proposed project on the flood-carrying
capacity of the watercourse and the effects to properties located both upstream
and downstream; and a map showing the location of the proposed watercourse
alteration or relocation shall all be submitted by the permit applicant prior
to issuance of a floodplain development permit.
      (5)   Certification exemptions. The following structures, if located
within A, AE, AH, AO, A99, Shaded X and X Zones are exempt from the elevation/
floodproofing certification requirements specified in divisions (C)(1) and (2)
above:
         (1)   Recreational vehicles meeting requirements of §
151.26(F)(1);
         (2)   Temporary structures meeting requirements of §
151.26(G); and
         (3)   Accessory structures that are 150 square feet or less and
meeting requirements of §
151.26(H).
      (6)   A V Zone certification with accompanying design plans and
specifications is required prior to issuance of a floodplain development permit
within coastal high hazard areas. It shall be the duty of the permit applicant
to submit to the Floodplain Administrator said certification to ensure the
design standards of this chapter are met. A registered professional engineer or
architect shall develop or review the structural design, plans, and
specifications for construction and certify that the design and methods of
construction to be used are in accordance with accepted standards of practice
for meeting the provisions of this chapter. This certification is not a
substitute for an elevation certificate. In addition, prior to the certificate
of compliance/occupancy issuance, a registered professional engineer or
architect shall certify the finished construction is compliant with the design,
specifications and plans for VE Zone construction.
      (7)   A signed, completed non-conversion agreement (see Appendix A of
this chapter) is required prior to the issuance of a flood development permit.
This agreement shall be completed by the property owner of record (if different
than the permit holder) and shall be recorded with the County Register of
Deeds. A copy of the recorded agreement shall be provided to the Town Building
Inspector prior to the issuance of the building permit. Failure to submit the
certification shall be cause denial of a permit. This non-conversion agreement
shall be required for all new construction and substantial improvements which
feature an enclosure below the RFPE and with walls greater than four feet in
height that may be converted after occupancy of the structure.
      (8)   Release of restrictive covenant. If a property which is bound by a
non-conversion agreement is modified to remove enclosed areas below RFPE, then
the owner may request release of restrictive covenant after staff inspection
and submittal of confirming documentation. The release is located in Appendix B
of this chapter.
      (9)   Acknowledgment forms for construction shall be signed and completed
by property owners at the time construction permits are issued by the Town
Building Inspector. These acknowledgment forms indicate the specific flood zone
designation for the subject property, outline the construction standards for
elevation of the structure to the regulatory flood elevation and explain the
use restrictions associated with the property. Acknowledgment forms are
attached to Ordinance 17-23, passed June 10, 2020.
   (D)   Determinations for existing buildings and structures. Applications for
building permits to improve buildings and structures, including alterations,
movement, relocation, enlargement, replacement, repair, change of occupancy,
additions, rehabilitations, renovations, substantial improvements, repairs of
substantial damage, and any other improvement of or work on such buildings and
structures, the Floodplain Administrator, in coordination with the Building
Official, shall:
      (1)   Estimate the market value, current tax value or require the
applicant to obtain an appraisal of the market value prepared by a qualified
independent appraiser, of the building or structure before the start of the
proposed construction; in the case of repair, the market value of the building
or structure shall be the market value before the damage occurred and before
any repairs are made;
      (2)   Compare the cost to perform the improvement, the cost to repair a
damaged building to its pre-damaged condition, or the combined costs of
improvements and repairs, if applicable, to the market value of the building or
structure;
      (3)   Determine and document whether the proposed work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage; and
      (4)   Notify the applicant if it is determined that the work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage and that compliance
with the flood-resistant construction requirements of the State Building Code
and this chapter is required.
(Ord. 06-15, passed 7-26-06; Am. Ord. 17-23, passed 6-10-20)
§ 151.42 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Floodplain Administrator shall perform, but not be limited to, the
following duties:
   (A)   Review all floodplain development applications and issue permits for
all proposed development to assure that the requirements of this chapter have
been satisfied;
   (B)   Review all proposed development to assure that all necessary local,
state and federal permits have been received, including Section 404 of the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972 (33 U.S.C. 1334);
   (C)   Notify adjacent communities and the North Carolina Department of
Public Safety, North Carolina Division of Emergency Management, and State
Coordinator for the National Flood Insurance Program prior to any alteration or
relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification to the
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA);
   (D)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is maintained;
   (E)   Prevent encroachments into floodways and non-encroachment areas unless
the certification and flood hazard reduction provisions of §
151.29 are met;
   (F)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to NAVD 1988 or other approved
datum applicable at time of construction) of the reference level (including
basement) and all attendant utilities of all new and substantially improved
structures, in accordance with the provisions of §
151.41(C);
   (G)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to NAVD 1988 or other approved
datum applicable at time of construction) to which all new and substantially
improved structures and utilities have been floodproofed, in accordance with
the provisions of §
151.41(C);
   (H)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to NAVD 1988 or other approved
datum applicable at time of construction) of all public utilities in accordance
with the provisions of §
151.41(C);
   (I)   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, obtain
certifications from a registered professional engineer or architect in
accordance with the provisions of §§
151.26(B) and
151.41(C);
   (J)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of boundaries
of the special flood hazard areas, Shaded X or X Zones floodways, or non-
encroachment areas (for example, where there appears to be a conflict between a
mapped boundary and actual field conditions), make the necessary
interpretation. The person contesting the location of the boundary shall be
given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation as provided in this
subchapter;
   (K)   When BFE data has not been provided in accordance with the provisions
of §
151.07, obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any BFE data, along with
floodway data or non-encroachment area data available from a federal, state, or
other source, including data developed pursuant to §
151.27, in order to administer the provisions of this chapter;
   (L)   When BFE data is provided but no floodway or non-encroachment area
data has been provided in accordance with the provisions of §
151.07, obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any floodway data or non-
encroachment area data available from a federal, state, or other source in
order to administer the provisions of this chapter;
   (M)   Permanently maintain all records that pertain to the administration of
this chapter and make these records available for public inspection,
recognizing that such information may be subject to the Privacy Act of 1974, as
amended;
   (N)   Make on-site inspections of work in progress. As the work pursuant to
a floodplain development permit progresses, the Floodplain Administrator shall
make as many inspections of the work as may be necessary to ensure that the
work is being done according to the provisions of the local ordinance and the
terms of the permit. In exercising this power, the Floodplain Administrator has
a right, upon presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises
within the jurisdiction of the community at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action;
   (O)   Issue stop-work orders as required. Whenever a building or part
thereof is being constructed, reconstructed, altered, or repaired in violation
of this chapter, the Floodplain Administrator may order the work to be
immediately stopped. The stop-work order shall be in writing and directed to
the person doing or in charge of the work. The stop-work order shall state the
specific work to be stopped, the specific reason(s) for the stoppage, and the
condition(s) under which the work may be resumed. Violation of a stop-work
order constitutes a misdemeanor;
   (P)   Revoke floodplain development permits as required. The Floodplain
Administrator may revoke and require the return of the floodplain development
permit by notifying the permit holder in writing stating the reason(s) for the
revocation. Permits shall be revoked for any substantial departure from the
approved application, plans, and specifications; for refusal or failure to
comply with the requirements of state or local laws; or for false statements or
misrepresentations made in securing the permit. Any floodplain development
permit mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable state or local law may
also be revoked;
   (Q)   Make periodic inspections throughout the special flood hazard areas
within the jurisdiction of the community. The Floodplain Administrator and each
member of his or her inspections department shall have a right, upon
presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises within the
territorial jurisdiction of the department at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action;
   (R)   Follow through with corrective procedures of §
151.43;
   (S)   Review, provide input, and make recommendations for variance requests;
   (T)   Maintain a current map repository to include, but not limited to,
historical and effective FIS report, historical and effective FIRM and other
official flood maps and studies adopted in accordance with the provisions of §
151.07, including any revisions thereto including letters of map change, issued
by FEMA. Notify state and FEMA of mapping needs;
   (U)   Coordinate revisions to FIS reports and FIRMs, including letters of
map revision based on fill (LOMR-Fs) and letters of map revision (LOMRs).
(Ord. 06-15, passed 7-26-06; Am. Ord. 17-23, passed 6-10-20)
§ 151.43 CORRECTIVE PROCEDURES.
   (A)    Violations to be corrected. When the Floodplain Administrator finds
violations of applicable state and local laws; it shall be his or her duty to
notify the owner or occupant of the building of the violation. The owner or
occupant shall immediately remedy each of the violations of law cited in such
notification.
   (B)   Actions in event of failure to take corrective action. If the owner of
a building or property shall fail to take prompt corrective action, the
Floodplain Administrator shall give the owner written notice by certified or
registered mail to the owner's last known address or by personal service,
stating:
      (1)   That the building or property is in violation of the floodplain
management regulations;
      (2)   That a hearing will be held before the Floodplain Administrator at
a designated place and time, not later than ten days after the date of the
notice, at which time the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or by
counsel and to present arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter; and
      (3)   That following the hearing, the Floodplain Administrator may issue
an order to alter, vacate, or demolish the building; or to remove fill as
applicable.
   (C)   Order to take corrective action. If, upon a hearing held pursuant to
the notice prescribed above, the Floodplain Administrator shall find that the
building or development is in violation of this chapter, he or she shall issue
an order in writing to the owner, requiring the owner to remedy the violation
within a specified time period, not less than 60 calendar days, nor more than
180 days. Where the Floodplain Administrator finds that there is imminent
danger to life or other property, he or she may order that corrective action be
taken in such lesser period as may be feasible.
   (D)   Appeal. Any owner who has received an order to take corrective action
may appeal the order to the local elected governing body by giving notice of
appeal in writing to the Floodplain Administrator and the clerk within ten days
following issuance of the final order. In the absence of an appeal, the order
of the Floodplain Administrator shall be final. The local governing body shall
hear an appeal within a reasonable time and may affirm, modify and affirm, or
revoke the order.
   (E)   Failure to comply with order. If the owner of a building or property
fails to comply with an order to take corrective action for which no appeal has
been made or fails to comply with an order of the governing body following an
appeal, the owner shall be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor, pursuant to G.S. §
143-215.58 and shall be punished at the discretion of the court.
(Ord. 06-15, passed 7-26-06; Am. Ord. 08-30, passed 10-13-08; Am. Ord. 12-05,
passed 3-28-12; Am. Ord. 17-23, passed 6-10-20)
§ 151.44 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   These procedures apply in AE, AO, VE, Shaded X and X Zones as depicted
on the FIRMs for the town.
   (B)   The Town Board of Adjustment as established by the town, hereinafter
referred to as the Appeal Board, shall hear and decide requests for variances
from the requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the appeal board may appeal
such decision to the Court, as provided in G.S. Ch. 7A.
   (D)   Variances may be issued for:
      (1)   The repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon the
determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the
structure's continued designation as a historic structure and that the variance
is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the
structure;
      (2)   Functionally dependent facilities if determined to meet the
definition as stated in §
151.01, provided the provisions of divisions (J)(2), (3) and (5) of this
section have been satisfied, and such facilities are protected by methods that
minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats
to public safety; or
      (3)   Any other type of development provided it meets the requirements of
this section.
   (E)   In passing upon variances, the Appeal Board shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other
sections of this chapter, and:
      (1)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (2)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location as defined
under §
151.01 as a functionally dependent facility, where applicable;
      (6)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
      (7)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   The safety of access to the property in times of flooding for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
      (10)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
      (11)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
   (F)   A written report addressing each of the above factors shall be
submitted with the application for a variance.
   (G)   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of
this chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes and objectives of this
chapter.
   (H)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the RFPE and the elevation to which
the structure is to be built and that such construction below the RFPE
increases risks to life and property, and that the issuance of a variance to
construct a structure below the RFPE may result in increased premium rates for
flood insurance up to $25 per $100 of insurance coverage. Such notification
shall be maintained with a record of all variance actions, including
justification for their issuance.
   (I)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all appeal
actions and report any variances to FEMA and the State of North Carolina upon
request.
   (J)   Conditions for variances.
      (1)   Variances shall not be issued when the variance will make the
structure in violation of other federal, state, or local laws, regulations, or
ordinances.
      (2)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway or
non-encroachment area if the variance would result in any increase in flood
levels during the base flood discharge.
      (3)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (4)   Variances shall only be issued prior to development permit
approval.
      (5)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, or
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
   (K)   A variance may be issued for solid waste disposal facilities or sites,
hazardous waste management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage
facilities that are located at elevations below the RFPE located in the SFHA
and Shaded X and X Zones, provided that all of the following conditions are
met.
      (1)   The use serves a critical need in the community.
      (2)   No feasible location exists for the use outside the special flood
hazard area.
      (3)   The reference level of any structure is elevated or floodproofed to
at least the regulatory flood protection elevation.
      (4)   The use complies with all other applicable federal, state and local
laws.
      (5)   The town has notified the Secretary of the State Department of
Public Safety of its intention to grant a variance at least 30 calendar days
prior to granting the variance.
(Ord. 06-15, passed 7-26-06; Am. Ord. 17-23, passed 6-10-20)
LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS
§ 151.50 EFFECT ON RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES UNDER THE EXISTING FLOOD DAMAGE
PREVENTION ORDINANCE.
   This chapter in part comes forward by re-enactment of some of the provisions
of the flood damage prevention ordinance enacted May 4, 1973 as amended, and it
is not the intention to repeal but rather to re-enact and continue to enforce
without interruption of such existing provisions, so that all rights and
liabilities that have accrued thereunder are reserved and may be enforced. The
enactment of this chapter shall not affect any action, suit or proceeding
instituted or pending. All provisions of the flood damage prevention ordinance
of the town enacted on May 4,1973 as amended, which are not re-enacted herein
are repealed.
(Ord. 06-15, passed 7-26-06; Am. Ord. 17-23, passed 6-10-20)
Editor’s note:
   The date of the initial flood damage prevention ordinance for Dare County is
October 6, 1978.
§ 151.51 EFFECT UPON OUTSTANDING FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMITS.
   Nothing herein contained shall require any change in the plans,
construction, size, or designated use of any development or any part thereof
for which a floodplain development permit has been granted by the Floodplain
Administrator or his or her authorized agents before the time of passage of
this chapter; provided, however, that when construction is not begun under such
outstanding permit within a period of six months subsequent to the date of
issuance of the outstanding permit, construction or use shall be in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 06-15, passed 7-26-06; Am. Ord. 17-23, passed 6-10-20)
§ 151.52 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall become effective June 19, 2020.
(Ord. 06-15, passed 7-26-06; Am. Ord. 17-23, passed 6-10-20)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
its requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with grants of variance or special exceptions, shall constitute a
Class 1 misdemeanor pursuant to G.S. § 143-215.58. Any person who violates this
chapter or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined not more than $100 or imprisoned for not more than 30 days,
or both. Each day such violation continues shall be considered a separate
offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the town from taking such other
lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 06-15, passed 7-26-06; Am. Ord. 17-23, passed 6-10-20)
APPENDIX A: DECLARATION OF RESTRICTIVE COVENANT; NONCONVERSION AGREEMENT
NORTH CAROLINA   DECLARATION OF RESTRICTIVE COVENANT
DARE COUNTY   NONCONVERSION AGREEMENT
   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
This DECLARATION made this        day of                 , 20     ,
by                   ("Owner") having an
address
at                                                                                
   WITNESSETH
WHEREAS, The Owner is the record owner of all that real property (herein
referred to as the Property) which is located in the Town of Kill Devil Hills,
in the County of Dare, designated in the Tax Records
as                                                               , and having a
legal description of                          , and a street address
of                                                               
WHEREAS, the Owner has applied for a permit to place or modify a structure on
the Property that either (1) does not conform, or (2) may be noncompliant by
later conversion, to the strict elevation requirements of Chapter 151: Flood
Damage Prevention of the Kill Devil Hills Town Code and under Permit
Number                     ("Permit").
WHEREAS, the Owner has entered this DECLARATION for the purpose of imposing the
following covenant, conditions, and restrictions upon the Property as a
condition of granting the Permit, with the Intention that this Declaration
shall hereafter run with the land and become applicable to the rights and
obligations of the Owner and shall be binding on the Owner, his heirs, personal
representatives, successors and assigns.
NOW THEREFORE, BASED UPON THE RECITALS SET FORTH ABOVE AND SUBJECT TO THE
CONDITIONS, witness the following:
The structure or part thereof to which these conditions apply is:
                                                     
                                                                                                                                               
At this site, the Base Flood Elevation is         feet above mean sea level,
North American Vertical Datum, 1988.
Enclosed areas of the structure located below the Base Flood Elevation shall be
used solely for parking of vehicles, limited storage, or access to the
building. All interior walls, ceilings and floors below the Base Flood
Elevation shall be constructed of flood resistant materials. Mechanical,
electrical or plumbing devices shall not be installed below the Base Flood
Elevation.
The walls of the enclosed area below the Base Flood Elevation shall be equipped
and remain equipped with vents as shown on the Permit as published In the Flood
Insurance Study for Dare County dated September 20, 2006.
Any alterations or changes from these conditions constitute a violation of the
Permit and may render the structure uninsurable or increase the cost of flood
insurance. Violations of the Permit may subject the Property to orders of
condemnation, fines and remedial sanctions. The jurisdiction issuing the Permit
and enforcing the Ordinance may take any appropriate legal action to correct
any violation.
In addition to the foregoing terms the following additional conditions apply:
                                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                             
In witness whereof the undersigned set their hands and seals this      day
of                    , 20      .
                                                                                                
(Seal)
      Owner                        Owner (spouse)
STATE OF                              
COUNTY OF                          
I,                                               , a Notary Public for said
County and State, do hereby certify that
                                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                             
                                                                                                                                             
personally appeared before me this day and acknowledged the due execution of
the foregoing instrument.
   Witness my hand and official seal, this the        day
of                    , 20     .
                                                                                              
                                             Notary Public
                              My Commission Expires:
                                                                               
(Ord. 09-18, passed 10-28-09)
APPENDIX B: RELEASE OF RESTRICTIVE COVENANT
NORTH CAROLINA   RELEASE OF RESTRICTIVE COVENANT
DARE COUNTY
This DECLARATION made this          day of                    , 20   , by and
between the Town of Kill Devil Hills, a body politic and corporate, of Post
Office Box 1719, Kill Devil Hills, NC 27948 (hereafter "The Town") and
                               having an address at
                                     (hereafter "Owner(s)")
   WITNESSETH
WHEREAS, The Owner(s) is the record owner of all that real property (herein
referred to as the Property) which is located in the Town of Kill Devil Hills,
in the County of Dare, designated in the Tax Records as Pin #
                           Parcel #                                  , and
having a legal description of                      see Exhibit "A" attached
herein                       , and a street address of
                                                       
WHEREAS, the Owner has entered into a Declaration of Restrictive Covenant
(Nonconversion Agreement) filed in DB                     PG
                     in the Dare County Register of Deeds for the purpose of
flood damage prevention, with the intention that the Declaration shall
hereafter run with the land and become applicable to the rights and obligations
of the Owner and shall be binding on the Owner, his heirs, personal
representatives, successors and assigns.
WHEREAS, the property has been altered such that one or more of the following
has satisfied the conditions addressed by the restrictive covenant. This has
been confirmed by the Town of Kill Devil Hills per a physical inspection of the
property and the presentation of a properly completed FEMA Form 81-31
documenting the same.
      Enclosures below Base Flood Elevation (BFE) have been removed.
      The lowest floor has been elevated by fill or other measures to above BFE
      Structure has been demolished or moved
      Applicable Federal and State Laws and regulations and County and Town
ordinances have been modified in a manner which nullifies the effect of the
Restrictive Covenants previously recorded as set out above
      Other
   Therefore, the restrictive covenant on this property has been released.
In witness whereof the undersigned set their hands and seals this           
day of                      , 20   .
(TOWN SEAL)   TOWN OF KILL DEVIL HILLS
By:                                         , Mayor
ATTEST:
                                                
Clerk, Town of Kill Devil Hills
NORTH CAROLINA
DARE COUNTY
   I, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for the aforesaid county and
state, do hereby certify that __________________ personally appeared before me,
and being by me first duly sworn deposes and says: that he/she is Mayor of the
Town of Kill Devil Hills and knows the official seal of the Town of Kill Devil
Hills and the said writing was signed by him and sealed by him on behalf of the
Town of Kill Devil Hills by authority duly and legally given by the Board of
Commissioners of the Town of Kill Devil Hills; and the said Mayor acknowledged
the said writing to be the act and deed of the Town of Kill Devil Hills by and
through its Board of Commissioners and the Town Clerk hereby attests to same.
   Witness my hand and official seal, this        day of
                      , 20   .
                                                                                 
                              Notary Public
                              My Commission Expires:
                                                                               
(SEAL)
(Ord. 09-18, passed 10-28-09)
CHAPTER 152: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Title
   
152.02   Authority and purpose
   
152.03   Substance
   
152.04   Definitions
Minimum Developmental Requirements
   
152.15   Minimum requirements; variance
   
152.16   Modification of requirements by Planning Board
Procedure for Subdivision Plat Approval
   
152.25   Sketch plan or preliminary plat requirement may be waived
   
152.26   Sketch plan
   
152.27   Preliminary plat
   
152.28   Final plat
Standards
   
152.35   Design and improvement standards
   
152.36   Reference points
   
152.37   General standards
   
152.38   Suitability of land
   
152.39   Storm water drainage system
   
152.40   Subdivision name
   
152.41   Street/road name signs
   
152.42   Utility and other easements
   
152.43   Water and sanitary sewer systems
   
152.44   Streets
Administration and Enforcement
   
152.55   Records, minutes, budgetary requirements
   
152.56   Amendments
   
152.57   Conflicts with the town code
   
152.58   Violations
   
152.59   Recording of exempt plats
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the Subdivision Code of the Town of Kill
Devil Hills.
(Am. Ord. 18-3, passed 6-14-21)
§ 152.02 AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   Purpose. The Board of Commissioners does hereby adopt this chapter
under the authority of G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 8. The purpose of this chapter is to
establish procedures and standards for the development and subdivision of real
estate within the town in an effort to, among other things, ensure proper legal
description, identification, monumentation and recordation of real estate
boundaries; further the orderly layout and appropriate use of land; provide
safe, convenient and economic circulation of vehicular traffic; provide
suitable building sites which drain properly and are readily accessible to
emergency vehicles; assure the proper installation of roads and utilities; and
help conserve and protect the physical and economic resources of the town.
   (B)   Territorial jurisdiction. The regulations hereinafter shall apply to
all of the incorporated areas of the town.
   (C)   Required compliance with regulations. All plats for the subdivision of
land shall conform to the requirements of this chapter, and shall be submitted
in accordance with the procedures and specifications established herein.
   (D)   Fees. Reasonable fees sufficient to recover incurred costs of review
will be charged in accordance with the adopted fee schedule.
   (E)   Enforcement and penalties. It shall be the duty of the Zoning
Administrator to enforce the provisions of this chapter and to bring to the
attention of the Board of Commissioners any violations or lack of compliance.
Violation of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed a misdemeanor,
punishable as provided by law and with each day such violation continues
constituting a separate offense. The Planning Department shall have recourse to
such remedies in law and equity as may be necessary to ensure compliance with
the provisions of these regulations.
(Am. Ord. 18-3, passed 6-14-21)
§ 152.03 SUBSTANCE.
   (A)   Recordation. No plat of a subdivision of land within the town shall be
recorded by the Dare County Register of Deeds until a final plat of the
subdivision has been approved by the Town Planning Board.
   (B)   Interpretation, conflict, and severability. In their interpretation
and application, the provisions of this chapter shall be held to be the minimum
requirements. More stringent provisions may be required if it is demonstrated
that different standards are necessary to promote the public health, safety and
welfare.
   (C)   Conditions imposed by chapter. Where the conditions imposed by any
provisions of this chapter are either more restrictive or less restrictive than
comparable conditions imposed by any other applicable law, ordinance,
resolution, rule, or regulation of any kind, the regulations which are more
restrictive and impose higher standards or requirements shall govern.
(Am. Ord. 18-3, passed 6-14-21)
§ 152.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly states or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE. The line within a property defining the required
minimum distance between any building and the adjacent right-of-way or lot.
   CUL-DE-SAC or MINOR DEAD-END ROAD. A road permanently terminated by a
turnaround or deadend.
   DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOT. A lot within front and rear street frontage.
   LOT. A plot, tract, or parcel of land or any number of contiguous plots,
tracts, and parcels of land in single ownership with or without improvements.
   MARGINAL ACCESS ROAD. A minor (service) road which parallels and is
immediately adjacent to a primary road or highway, which provides access to the
properties abutting it and which separates the abutting properties from high-
speed vehicular traffic.
   OFFICIAL MAPS OR PLANS. Any maps or plans officially adopted by the Board of
Commissioners as a guide for the development of the town.
   PRIMARY ROAD. A road designed to carry heavy volumes of vehicular traffic.
   ROAD. A right-of-way for vehicular traffic. The word ROAD shall include the
word STREET.
   SECONDARY or COLLECTOR ROAD. A road designed to carry medium volumes of
vehicular traffic, to provide access to the primary road and to provide access
to abutting properties.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person, owner, broker, surveyor, engineer, planner,
corporation, partnership or the like who subdivides or develops any land deemed
to be a subdivision as defined in this section.
   SUBDIVISION. Any division of a tract or parcel of land into two or more
lots, building sites, or other divisions, for the purpose, whether immediate or
future, of sale or building development, including any division of land
involving the dedication of a new street or a change in existing streets;
provided, that the following shall not be included within this definition, nor
shall they be subject to the regulations prescribed by this chapter:
      (1)   The combination or recombination of portions of previously platted
lots where the total number of lots is not increased and the resultant lots are
equal to the standards of the town;
      (2)   The division of parcels of land into parcels greater than ten acres
where no street right-of-way dedicating is involved;
      (3)   The public acquisition by purchase of strips of land for the
widening or opening of streets;
      (4)   The division of a tract in single ownership where the entire area
of which is no greater than two acres into not more than three lots, if no
street right-of-way dedication is involved and if the resultant lots are equal
to the standards of the town.
(Am. Ord. 18-3, passed 6-14-21)
MINIMUM DEVELOPMENTAL REQUIREMENTS
§ 152.15 MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS; VARIANCE.
   The requirements set out in this subchapter shall be considered the minimum
requirements and shall be varied only in specific cases.
(Am. Ord. 18-3, passed 6-14-21)
§ 152.16 MODIFICATION OF REQUIREMENTS BY PLANNING BOARD.
   The provisions of this subchapter concerning street widths, block lengths
and widths, dead-end streets, lot widths and areas may be modified by the
Planning Board, subject to final approval by the Board of Commissioners, in the
case of an approved planned unit development (PUD), or a multi-family
development in accordance with a well-studied plan, properly safeguarded by
restrictions and which adequately provides for health, safety, traffic
circulation, light and air needs and recreational requirements for the maximum
anticipated population and containing such other requirements as may be
recommended by the Planning Board and approved by the Board of Commissioners.
(Am. Ord. 08-01, passed 1-2-08; Am. Ord. 18-3, passed 6-14-21)
PROCEDURE FOR SUBDIVISION PLAT APPROVAL
§ 152.25 SKETCH PLAN OR PRELIMINARY PLAT REQUIREMENT MAY BE WAIVED.
   A sketch plan and preliminary plan required may be waived by the Planning
Director for minor subdivisions provided that no new streets are proposed, and
no improvements are required to be installed by the subdivider according to the
provisions of this chapter. Additionally, final plat approval of minor
subdivision plats where no streets are proposed, and no improvements are may be
granted by the Chairperson of the Planning Board upon receipt of written
technical review and certification of compliance from the Planning Director.
Such action shall be reported for the record to the Planning Board at the next
regularly scheduled meeting.
(Am. Ord. 18-3, passed 6-14-21)
§ 152.26 SKETCH PLAN.
   (A)   Contents.  
      (1)   Prior to the filing of an application for approval of the
preliminary plan, the subdivider shall submit to the Planning Department 15
copies of a sketch plan of the proposed subdivision.
      (2)   The sketch plan (prepared by architect, engineer, or hand drawn)
will contain the following information:
         (a)   A sketch map of the vicinity of the proposed subdivision showing
its location in relation to neighboring tracts, subdivisions, roads, and
waterways;
         (b)   The boundaries of the entire tract in common ownership and the
portion of the tract to be subdivided;
         (c)   The total acreage to be subdivided;
         (d)   The existing and proposed uses of the land within the
subdivision and the existing uses of land adjoining it;
         (e)   The proposed street layout with approximate pavement and right-
of-way width, lot layout and size of lots;
         (f)   The name, address, and telephone number of the owner, and if
applicable, a written and acknowledged statement of the owner designating the
subdivider or other person to act as his agent for the submission of plats;
         (g)   The name of the proposed subdivision;
         (h)   Streets and lots of adjacent developed or platted properties,
street rights-of-way and street names;
         (i)   The zoning classification of the tract and of adjacent
properties; and
         (j)   A statement from the Dare County Health Department that a copy
of the sketch plan has been submitted to them.
   (B)   Review.  
      (1)   The Planning Department shall review the sketch plan for general
compliance with the requirements of this chapter and other applicable policies.
The Planning Department shall advise the subdivider of the policies applicable
to the proposed subdivision and the procedures to be followed in the
preparation and submission of the preliminary and final plats.
      (2)   One copy of the sketch plan shall be retained for the files of the
Planning Board.
(Am. Ord. 18-3, passed 6-14-21)
§ 152.27 PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   Submission and contents. After the Planning Department has reviewed
the sketch plan, the subdivider shall submit to the Planning Department, on or
before the third Tuesday of the month prior to the meeting of the Planning
Board, a preliminary plat of the subdivision at a scale of not smaller than 1
inch to 100 feet, drawn on a sheet 18 inches by 24 inches or such other size as
may be required for recording by the Dare County Register of Deeds. The
preliminary plat shall be prepared by a professional engineer or land surveyor
currently licensed or registered by the North Carolina State Board of
Registration for Professional Engineers and Land Surveyors. The preliminary
plat shall show or have attached to it a document with the following
information:
      (1)   Title block containing:
         (a)   Property designation;
         (b)   Name of owner;
         (c)   Location (including township, county and state);
         (d)   Date or dates survey was conducted and plat prepared;
         (e)   A scale of drawing in feet per inch listed in words or figures;
         (f)   Name, address, registration number and seal of the land surveyor
and/or professional engineer.
      (2)   A map of the vicinity of subdivision showing the relationship
between the proposed subdivision and surrounding area;
      (3)   Corporate limits, township boundaries, county lines if on the
subdivision tract;
      (4)   The names, titles, firm association, addresses, and the telephone
numbers of all owners, subdividers, mortgages, planners, architects, landscape
architects, and engineers responsible for the subdivision;
      (5)   North arrow and orientation;
      (6)   Boundary lines of the tract to be subdivided, fully dimensioned by
lengths and bearings, and the location of existing boundary lines of adjoining
lands;
      (7)   The names of owners of adjoining properties;
      (8)   The names of any adjoining subdivisions of record, proposed or
under review;
      (9)   Minimum building setback lines, front, side, and rear;
      (10)   The zoning classification of the tract to be subdivided and
adjoining properties;
      (11)   Existing property lines on the tract to be subdivided and on
adjoining properties;
      (12)   Existing buildings or other structures, water courses, bridges,
culverts, storm drains, both on the land to be subdivided and land immediately
adjoining;
      (13)   Proposed lot lines, lot and block numbers, and approximate
dimensions;
      (14)   Lots numbered consecutively throughout the subdivision;
      (15)   Wooded areas, marshes, swamps, mean high tide line, vegetation
line, primary and other dunes, ponds or lakes, streams or streambeds, and any
other natural features affecting the site;
      (16)   Flood hazard, floodway and floodway fringe areas;
      (17)   Base flood elevation data if available;
      (18)   The following data concerning streets:
         (a)   Proposed streets;
         (b)   Existing and platted streets on adjoining properties and in the
proposed subdivision;
         (c)   Right of way location and dimensions;
         (d)   Pavement widths;
         (e)   Approximate grades;
         (f)   Design engineering data for all corners and curves;
         (g)   Typical street cross sections; and
         (h)   Street names.
      (19)   The location and dimensions of all:
         (a)   Utility and other easements;
         (b)   Riding trails;
         (c)   Natural buffer areas;
         (d)   Pedestrian or bicycle paths;
         (e)   Parks and recreation areas with specific types indicated,
subdivisions with 15 or more lots or multi-family housing developments with
more than 25 units shall provide open space for parks or recreation at the rate
of 360 square feet per lot;
         (f)   School sites;
         (g)   Areas to be dedicated to or reserved for public use;
         (h)   The proposed ownership and maintenance of recreation and open
space lands, trails, paths, and the like.
      (20)   The plans for utility layouts, including:
         (a)   Sanitary sewers;
         (b)   Storm sewers;
         (c)   Other drainage facilities;
         (d)   Water distribution lines;
         (e)   Natural gas lines;
         (f)   Telephone lines;
         (g)   Electric lines;
         (h)   Cable television lines and illustrative connections to existing
systems, line sizes, the location of fire hydrants, blowoffs, manholes,
forcemains and gate valves, and the like;
         (i)   Lighting plan for streets and highways within the subdivision.
      (21)   Plans for individual water supply and sewage disposal systems;
      (22)   Profiles based upon mean sea level datum for sanitary sewers and
storm sewers;
      (23)   Site calculations including:
         (a)   Acreage in total tract to be subdivided;
         (b)   Acreage in parks and recreation areas, areas of environmental
concern, and other non-residential uses, by category;
         (c)   Total number of parcels created acreage in the smallest lot in
the subdivision;
         (d)   Linear feet in streets.
      (24)   The name and location of any property or buildings within the
proposed subdivision or within any contiguous property that is located on the
U.S. Department of Interior's National Register of Historic Places;
      (25)   Sufficient engineering data to determine readily and reproduce on
the ground every straight or curved line, street line, lot line, right of way
line, easement line, and setback line, including dimensions, bearings, or
deflection angles, radii, central angles, and tangent distance for the center
line or curved property lines that are not the boundary line of curved streets.
All dimensions shall be measured to the nearest 1/10 foot and all angles to the
nearest minute;
      (26)   The accurate locations and descriptions of all monuments,
elevations, markers and control points;
      (27)   A copy of any proposed deed restrictions or similar covenants;
      (28)   A copy of the document or documents for the creation and continued
operation of the home owners, land owners, or similar association of the
consumers of the subdivision. Topographic map when it is determined by the
Planning Board that one is needed, with contour intervals and scale as
determined by the Planning Board;
      (30)   Boundaries of all Areas of Environmental Concern designated in
accordance with the Coastal Area Management Act of 1974;
      (31)   If any portion of any lot within the subdivision falls within an
area of environmental concern, the following notice shall be placed on the face
of the plat: “Some portion of some lots in this subdivision are located in
Areas of Environmental Concern. Individual permits may be required before
development may take place in these areas;”
      (32)   If the subdivision is to be developed in phases, the boundaries of
each phase and the sequence in which each is to be developed;
      (33)   An inventory and evaluation of the soil and water resources within
the proposed subdivision; and
      (34)   Statement from the chief executive official of the town water
system indicating if the proposed subdivision may be connected to that system.
   (B)   Review.
      (1)   Fees. Fees for review are established by the regularly adopted fee
schedule. Fifteen copies of the preliminary plats are required for initial
submission.
      (2)   Review by other agencies. The Planning and Inspections Department
will submit the preliminary plat to the District Highway Engineer, the County
Health Director, and to other appropriate agencies including review necessary
to assure coordination with the North Carolina Coastal Management Program and
offices of the town for their review and recommendations.
         (a)   After considering any report and/or recommendations received in
addition to any comments which the subdivider may have, the Planning Board
shall recommend approval, table, or recommend disapproval of the preliminary
plat to the Board of Commissioners.
         (b)   If the Planning Board disapproves the preliminary plat, the
reasons for such action shall be stated, and recommendations made on the basis
of which the proposed subdivision could be approved.
      (3)   Review by Board of Commissioners.
         (a)   The Board of Commissioners shall approve, table, or disapprove
the preliminary plat.
         (b)   If the Board of Commissioners disapproves the preliminary plat,
the reasons for such action shall be stated and recommendations made on the
basis of which the proposed subdivision could be approved.
(Am. Ord. 08-01, passed 1-2-08; Am. Ord. 18-3, passed 6-14-21)
§ 152.28 FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   Preparation of final plat and installation of improvements. Upon
approval of the preliminary plat by the Board of Commissioners, the subdivider
may proceed with the preparation of the final plat and the installation of
required improvements in accordance with the approved preliminary plat and the
requirements of this chapter. Prior to approval of a final plat, the subdivider
shall have installed the improvements specified in this chapter. No final plat
will be accepted for review by the Planning Board unless accompanied by a
statement signed by the subdivider certifying that all of the provisions of
this chapter have been complied with and that all of the required improvements
have been installed. The final plat shall include only that portion of the
preliminary plat which the subdivider proposes to record at that time.
   (B)   Submission of the final plat. The subdivider shall submit to the
Planning Board the final plat, so marked, on or before the last Tuesday of the
month:
      (1)   The final plat for the subdivision or for the first phase of the
subdivision as indicated in the sequence of phases on the approved preliminary
plat shall be submitted not more than 12 months after the date on which the
preliminary plat was approved; otherwise, approval of the preliminary plat
shall expire.
      (2)   Final phasing of the subdivision approval shall be in accordance
with the site specific vesting requirements outlined in §
153.360 of the town code.
      (3)   The final plat shall be prepared in accordance with the highest
professional standards by a land surveyor or professional engineer currently
licensed and registered in the state by the North Carolina State Board of
Registration for Professional Engineers and Land Surveyors. The final plat
shall conform to the provisions for plats, subdivisions, and mapping
requirements set forth in G.S.§ 47-30 and shall show or have attached to it a
document showing the same information required for the preliminary plat.
      (4)   Fifteen copies of the final plat shall be submitted; three shall be
reproducible black or blue line prints.
      (5)   The final plat shall be of a size suitable for recording with the
Dare County Register of Deeds and shall be at a scale of not less than 1 inch
equals 200 feet. Maps may be placed on more than one sheet with appropriate
match lines.
      (6)   Submission of the final plat shall be accompanied by a cashier's or
certified check payable to the Dare County Register of Deeds in the amount of
the recording fee for the final plat and related documents.
   (C)   Certification. The following signed and acknowledged certificates or
required portions thereof shall appear on all copies of the final plat:
      (1)   I hereby certify that I am the owner of the property shown and
described hereon, which is located in the subdivision jurisdiction of the Town
of Kill Devil Hills and that I hereby adopt this plan of subdivision with my
free consent, establish minimum building setback lines, and dedicate all
streets, alleys, walks, parks, and other sites and easements to public or
private use as noted. Furthermore, I hereby dedicate all sanitary sewer, storm
sewer and water lines to the Town of Kill Devil Hills.
                                                                                                                
Date                           Owner
      (2)   I,
                                                                                        ,
hereby certify that
                                                                                              
personally appeared before me this day and acknowledged the due execution of
this certificate. Witness my hand and official seal this the
                                        day of,                                
AD.                           
                                                                            
   Signature of Notary Public
      (3)   State of North Carolina, Town of Kill Devil Hills. I,
                                                                                                            ,
certify that this map was (drawn by me) (drawn under my supervision) from (an
actual survey made by me) (an actual survey made under my supervision) (deed
description record in Book                          , Page
                            ; Book                         , Page
                                 , etc.) (other); that the ratio of precision
as calculated by latitudes and departure is 1:                         ; that
the boundaries not shown as broken lines plotted from information found in Book
                                      , Page
                                  ; that this map was prepared in accordance
with G.S. § 47-30, as amended; and that the prescribed reference points have
been properly placed. Witness my hand and seal this
                                              day of
                                             , A.D.
                                   .
Registration Number   Registered Land Surveyor/Professional Engineer
Official Seal
I,
                                                                                                   ,
hereby certify that
                                                                                      
personally appeared before me this day and acknowledged the due execution of
this certificate. Witness my hand and official seal this the
                                                         day of
                                        , A.D.
                                 .
                                                                               
   Signature of Notary Public
Official Seal
   (D)   Review by the Planning Board. The Planning Board shall review the
final plat at or before its next regularly scheduled meeting which follows at
least 15 days after it receives the final plat and shall approve the final plat
if it is in compliance with this chapter or disapprove it if it is not within
75 days of receiving the plat.
      (1)   During its review of the final plat, the Planning Board may, with
the consent of the Board of Commissioners, appoint a Registered Land Surveyor
to confirm the accuracy of the final plat and/or installation of improvements.
If substantial errors are found, the costs shall be charged to the subdivider
and shall be paid before the plat will be considered further; the plat shall
not be recommended for approval until such errors have been corrected.
      (2)   Adoption and notification for subdivision shall follow the
procedures outlined in §
153.363.
      (3)   If the Planning Board approves the final plat, such approval shall
be shown on each copy of the plat by the following signed certificate:
         (a)   Certificate of Approval for Recording.  
      I hereby certify that the subdivision plat shown hereon has been found to
comply with the subdivision code of the Town of Kill Devil Hills Planning Board
for recording in the Officer of the Register of Deeds of Dare County.
                                                                                                                           
   Date   Chairman of the Town of Kill Devil Hills
   Planning Board
         (b)   If the final plat is approved by the Planning Board, one
reproducible and one print of the plat shall be returned to the subdivider; one
reproducible and one print shall be filed with the County Tax Supervisor's
Office; and one print shall be retained by the Planning Board for its files;
and one reproducible shall be filed by the Planning Department with the
Register of Deeds.
      (4)   If the final plat is disapproved by the Planning Board, the reasons
for such disapproval shall be stated in writing, specifying the provisions of
this chapter with which the final plat does not comply: One copy of such
reasons and one print of the plat shall be retained by the Planning Board as
part of its proceedings; one copy of the reasons and one copy of the plat shall
be transmitted to the subdivider. If the final plat is disapproved, the
subdivider may make such changes as will bring the final plat into compliance
and resubmit the same for reconsideration by the Planning Board as if it were
an original submission of a final plat.
      (5)   Appeals of decision for subdivision shall be in accordance with
G.S. § 160D-1403 (Appeals of decisions on subdivision plats).
(Am. Ord. 18-3, passed 6-14-21)
STANDARDS
§ 152.35 DESIGN AND IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of good subdivision and site design is to create
a function and attractive development, to minimize adverse impacts, and to
ensure a project will be an asset to a community. To promote this purpose, the
subdivision shall conform to the following standards which are designed to
result in a well-planned community without adding unnecessarily to development
costs.
   (B)   Site design standards. Design of the development shall take into
consideration all existing local and regional plans for the surrounding
community.
   (C)   Development of the site shall be based on the site analysis. To the
maximum extent practicable, development shall be located to preserve the
natural features of the site, to avoid areas of environmental sensitivity, and
to minimize negative impacts and alteration of natural features.
   (D)   Open space. The following specific areas shall be preserved as
undeveloped open space, to the extent consistent with the reasonable
utilization of land, and in accordance with applicable state or local
regulations:
      (1)   Unique and/or fragile areas, including wetlands as defined in
Section 404, Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, and
delineated on wetlands maps prepared by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service,
field verified by on-site inspections;
      (2)   Significant trees or stands of trees, defined as the largest known
individual trees of each species in the state, large trees approaching the
diameter of the known largest tree, or species or clumps of trees that are rare
to the area or of particular horticultural or landscape value;
      (3)   Steep slopes in excess of 20% as measured over a 10-foot interval
unless appropriate engineering measures concerning slope stability, erosion and
resident safety are taken;
      (4)   Habitats of endangered wildlife, as identified on federal or state
lists;
      (5)   Historically significant structures and sites, as listed on federal
or state lists of historic places;
      (6)   The development shall be laid out to avoid adversely affecting
ground water and aquifer recharge.
(Am. Ord. 18-3, passed 6-14-21)
§ 152.36 REFERENCE POINTS.
   Prior to the approval of the final plat, the subdivider shall have in place
the following permanent reference points:
   (A)   Subdivision corner tie. At least one corner of the subdivision shall
be designated by course and distance (tie) from a readily discernible reference
marker.
   (B)   Monuments.  
      (1)   Within each block or a subdivision at least two monuments designed
as control corners shall be installed. The surveyor shall employ additional
monuments when necessary. Monuments shall be constructed of concrete with steel
reinforcing rods running their entire length and shall be at least four inches
in diameter or square and not less than three feet in length. Each monument
shall have imbedded in its top or attached by suitable means a metal plate of
non-corrosive material and marked plainly with the point, the surveyor's
registration number and the words “monument” or “control corner.”
      (2)   A monument shall be set at least 30 inches in the ground with at
least six inches exposed above ground, unless this requirement is impractical
because of vehicular traffic or other factors. Elevation above sea level shall
be shown on the metal plate on at least one of the monuments.
   (C)   Stakes. Each lot shall be adequately staked to show the boundaries of
the lot with stakes not less than three feet long and driven into the ground
not less than two feet. A stake should be placed on every corner and where the
lot lines intersect public rights-of-way.
(Am. Ord. 18-3, passed 6-14-21)
§ 152.37 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   Natural terrain to be preserved. The design and development of
subdivisions shall preserve the natural terrain, natural drainage, existing
topsoil, trees and natural vegetation to the maximum extent possible.
   (B)   Flood precautions. All subdivisions shall be designed to be consistent
with the need to minimize flood damage.
   (C)   Utilities. All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and
constructed to minimize flood damage.
   (D)   AEC compliance. All lots, improvements, structures, and utilities
shall comply with the applicable Areas of Environmental Concern (AEC) Standards
and any other rules promulgated pursuant to the Coastal Area Management Act of
1974.
   (E)   Blocks. The lengths, widths, and shapes of blocks shall be determined
with due regard to: provision of adequate building sites suitable to the
special needs of the type of use contemplated, requirements of the zoning code,
needs for vehicular and pedestrian circulation, control and safety of street
traffic, limitations and opportunities of topography, and convenient access to
water area. Length shall not be greater than 1,400 nor less than 400 feet.
Blocks shall have sufficient width to allow two tiers of lots of minimum depth
except where single-tier lots are required to separate residential development
from through vehicular traffic or another type of use, in nonresidential
subdivisions, or where abutting a water area. If there are more than four lots
abutting on a highway, a frontage road may be required. Where deemed necessary
by the Planning Board, a pedestrian walk may be required to provide convenient
access to a public area such as a park or school, to a water area, or to areas
such as shopping centers, religious or transportation facilities.
   (F)   Non-residential and multi-family lots. The size, shape and orientation
of lots for purposes other than single-family and duplex residential uses shall
be such as the Planning Board deems appropriate for the type of development and
use contemplated.
   (G)   Single-family and Duplex Residential lots. Residential lots shall
comply with the following requirements:
      (1)   Lots shaped and filled. Any lot shaped or filled must be approved
as to quality and content by the Dare County Health Department.
      (2)   Orientation of lot lines. Side lot lines shall be substantially at
right angles or radial to street lines.
      (3)   Minimum lot width. Lots within the Ocean Impact Residential Zone
(OIR) shall have a minimum lot width not less than 50 feet measured at the
front building setback line. Lots in all other zoning districts shall have a
minimum width of not less than 75 feet measured at the front building setback
line.
   (H)   Lot size.  
      (1)   All lots in new subdivisions shall conform to the requirements of
the zoning code for the zoning district in which the subdivision is located.
Conformance means, among other things, that the smallest lot in the subdivision
must meet all dimensional requirements of the zoning code. It is not sufficient
merely for the average lot to meet such requirements.
      (2)   No land area shall be omitted from a plat when to do so would have
the effect of creating a residual parcel of inadequate size.
         (a)   Area. All lots served by an approved central water supply system
shall have an area of not less than 15,000 square feet. Additional lot size may
be required by the zoning code or when soil conditions in the area to be
subdivided are classified as provisionally suitable as currently defined by the
North Carolina Department of Human Resources, Division of Health Services,
Environmental Health Section (codified as 10 NCAC 10A.1934-1968).
         (b)   Building setback lines. The minimum setback from property lines
shall be recorded on the final plat.
      (3)   Residential subdivisions in the Residential Low Zoning District on
parcels greater than five acres shall comply with the following:
         (a)   Lot size shall be a minimum of 7,500 square feet;
         (b)   Lot width shall be a minimum of 50 feet;
         (c)   Right-of-ways shall be dedicated to the town and must have a
sidewalk or multi-use path on at least one side;
         (d)   Five percent open space shall be provided; and
         (e)   Twenty-five percent of the lots shall exceed the minimum lot
size requirements.
   (I)   Buffer strips. The Planning Board may recommend the use of a buffer
strip adjacent to major roads and commercial or industrial development which
would be part of the platted lots but have the following restriction on the
fact of the plat: "This strip reserved for the planting of trees or shrubs by
the owner; the building of structures is prohibited."
   (J)   Utilities franchise services. Telephone, electric, and cable
television service within subdivisions shall be installed underground.
(Am. Ord. 04-20, passed 10-27-04; Am. Ord. 08-01, passed 1-2-08; Am. Ord. 10-
02, passed 1-27-10; Am. Ord. 16-5, passed 9-11-17; Am. Ord. 18-3, passed 6-14-
21)
§ 152.38 SUITABILITY OF LAND.
   (A)   If, based on an inventory and evaluation of the soil and water
resources of the tract under consideration, the Planning Board determines that
a portion of that tract is not suited for the use proposed, that area shall not
be platted for that use unless 1) the subdivider has permanently remedied the
conditions which made the land unsuitable or 2) all requirements of the chapter
are met by each lot without including the unsuitable land in the land area
calculation.
   (B)   Areas that have been used for disposal of solid waste shall not be
subdivided unless tests by the Dare County Health Department, a structural
engineer, and a soils expert determine that the land is suitable for the
purpose proposed.
   (C)   Land which the Planning Board finds to be unsuited for development due
to improper drainage, topography, soil characteristics, ground water elevation,
susceptibility to flooding or failure to meet the criteria of G.S. Ch. 130,
Art. 13C shall not be subdivided unless adequate methods are utilized to
correct the unsuitable conditions. Any land disturbing activity, as defined in
G.S. § 113A-52, shall be accomplished in accordance with the requirements of
G.S. Ch. 113A, Art. 4. Any required land preparation must be completed prior to
submission of the final plat for approval.
(Am. Ord. 18-3, passed 6-14-21)
§ 152.39 STORM WATER DRAINAGE SYSTEM.
   (A)   The subdivider shall provide a surface water drainage system
constructed to the standards of the town Storm Water Management Plan, the North
Carolina Department of Transportation, and subject to the approval of the
Planning Board.
   (B)   No surface water shall be channeled or directed into a sanitary sewer.
   (C)   Where feasible, the subdivider shall connect to an existing storm
drainage system.
   (D)   Where an existing storm drainage system cannot feasibly be extended to
the subdivision, a surface drainage system shall be designed to protect the
proposed development from water damage.
   (E)   Surface drainage courses shall have side slopes of at least three feet
of horizontal distance for each one foot of vertical distance, and courses
shall be of sufficient size to accommodate the drainage area without flooding,
and designed to comply with the standards and specifications for erosion
control of the North Carolina Sedimentation Pollution Control Act.
   (F)   The minimum grade along the bottom of a surface drainage course shall
be a vertical fall of at least one foot in each 200 feet of horizontal
distance, or as directed by the Public Works Department.
   (G)   Streambanks and channels downstream from any land disturbing activity
shall be protected from increased degradation by accelerated erosion caused by
increased velocity of runoff from the land disturbing activity. (As specified
by the North Carolina Sedimentation Pollution Control Act.)
   (H)   Anyone constructing a dam or impoundment within the subdivision must
comply with the North Carolina Dam Safety Law.
   (I)   In areas of special flood hazards, all subdivision proposals shall
have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood damage.
(Am. Ord. 18-3, passed 6-14-21)
Cross-reference:
   Standards for subdivision proposals, see §
151.27
§ 152.40 SUBDIVISION NAME.
   The name of the subdivision shall not duplicate nor closely approximate the
name of an existing subdivision within Dare County.
(Am. Ord. 18-3, passed 6-14-21)
Cross-reference:
   Compliance with subdivision regulations, see §
150.49
§ 152.41 STREET/ROAD NAME SIGNS.
   Streets and roads shall be named and the street names shall be indicated on
signs designed, constructed, and placed in accordance with the existing policy
of the town. New street names shall not duplicate existing street names in Dare
County.
(Am. Ord. 18-3, passed 6-14-21)
Cross-reference:
   Uniform street address system, see §§
150.40 et seq.
§ 152.42 UTILITY AND OTHER EASEMENTS.
   Easements shall be provided as follows:
   (A)   Easements for underground or above ground utilities shall be provided,
across lot or centered on rear or side lot lines and shall be at least ten feet
wide for water and sanitary sewer lines and have the widths required by the
utility companies involved for telephone, gas, and power lines.
   (B)   Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainage way,
channel or stream, there shall be provided a storm water easement or drainage
right-of-way conforming substantially with the lines of such watercourse and
such finished width as will be adequate for the purpose.
   (C)   Where a subdivision of five or more lots that have one or more
proposed lots adjacent to the Atlantic Ocean or estuarine shoreline, the
subdivider shall provide a dedicated ten-foot wide access easement to remain
unobstructed which can be improved by the town for use by the general public to
access the ocean or estuarine shoreline. This requirement shall not apply if an
improved public access, as classified in the current Shoreline Access Plan
Update, is located within 500 feet of all waterfront lots within the proposed
subdivision.
   (D)   Lakes, ponds, creeks and similar areas within the town will be
accepted for maintenance only if such is recommended by the Planning Board and
approved by the Board of Commissioners.
(Am. Ord. 04-22, passed 12-13-04; Am. Ord. 18-3, passed 6-14-21)
§ 152.43 WATER AND SANITARY SEWER SYSTEMS.
   Each lot in all subdivisions within the town's jurisdiction shall be
provided with an extension of the town water system at the subdivider's expense
if in the judgement of the Board of Commissioners there is adequate unused
capacity in the system to serve the subdivision and if the Planning Board
determines that the existing system is sufficiently close to the subdivision to
make such an extension feasible. All lots in subdivisions must have a suitable
source of water supply and sanitary disposal which complies with the
regulations of the town, the Dare County Health Department, and with applicable
laws of the state.
(Am. Ord. 18-3, passed 6-14-21)
§ 152.44 STREETS.
   (A)   Public streets. All subdivision lots shall abut on a public street.
All public streets shall be built to the standards of the town code and all
other applicable standards of the town and/or state.
   (B)   Conformity. Conformity of proposed streets to existing maps or plans.
The location and width of all proposed streets shall be in conformity with
official plan or maps of the town and with existing or amended plans of the
Planning Board.
   (C)   Continuation of existing streets. The proposed street layout shall be
coordinated with the existing road system of the surrounding area and where
possible, existing principal streets shall be extended at the same or at a
greater width or in compliance with town standards.
   (D)   Access to adjacent properties. Where in the opinion of the Planning
Board it is desirable to provide access to an adjoining property, proposed
streets shall be extended to the boundary of such property, and a temporary
turnaround shall be provided.
   (E)   Large tracts or parcels. Where land is subdivided into larger parcels
than ordinary building lots, such parcels shall be arranged so as to allow for
the opening of future roads and logical future subdivisions.
   (F)   Nonresidential streets. The subdivider of a nonresidential subdivision
must provide streets in accordance with the appropriate town standards and the
standards of this chapter, whichever are stricter in regard to each particular
item.
   (G)   Design standards. The design of all streets and roads within the
jurisdiction of this chapter shall be in accordance with the accepted policies
of the town.
   (H)   Access to parks, schools, and the like. Streets shall be designed or
walkway and bikeway easements provided to assure convenient access to parks,
playgrounds, schools and other places of public assembly. Walkway and bikeway
easements shall be consistent with town standards.
   (I)   Discourage through traffic. Minor residential access streets shall be
laid out so as to discourage through traffic.
   (J)   Access streets and the like. Where a tract of land to be subdivided
adjoins an arterial street, the subdivider may be required to provide a
marginal access street parallel to the arterial street or reverse frontage on
an interior street for the lots to be developed adjacent to the arterial
streets. Where reverse frontage is established, deed restrictions or other
means shall be provided to prevent private driveways from having direct access
the arterial street.
   (K)   Relation to topography. In sloping terrain, streets shall parallel the
contours of the land, in so far as practicable, to avoid steep grades and the
concentration of storm surface runoff.
   (L)   Conformity. All proposed subdivisions shall be planned so as to
facilitate the most advantageous development of an entire neighborhood area.
(Am. Ord. 18-3, passed 6-14-21)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 152.55 RECORDS, MINUTES, BUDGETARY REQUIREMENTS.
   The Board of Commissioners and the Planning Board shall provide for the
appropriate keeping of records, minutes, and other proceedings held to fulfill
the Planning Board's responsibilities under the terms of this chapter. The
Board of Commissioners may provide for such budgetary requirements as may be
necessary in the administration of this chapter.
(Am. Ord. 18-3, passed 6-14-21)
§ 152.56 AMENDMENTS.
   This chapter may be amended from time to time by the Board of Commissioners
in accordance with the provisions of G.S. § 153A-323.
(Am. Ord. 18-3, passed 6-14-21)
§ 152.57 CONFLICTS WITH THE TOWN CODE.
   Should the requirements of this chapter conflict with any portion of the
town code, the more stringent requirements shall prevail.
(Am. Ord. 18-3, passed 6-14-21)
§ 152.58 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person who, being the owner, or agent of the owner of any land located
within the jurisdiction of this chapter, transfers or sells such land by
reference to, exhibition of, or any other use of a plat showing a subdivision
of such land, before such plat has been properly approved in accordance with
this chapter and recorded in the Office of the Register of Deeds, shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor. The description of metes and bounds in the instrument
of transfer or other document used in the process of selling or transferring
shall not exempt the transaction from the penalties provided therefore. The
town may also seek injunctive relief for the illegal subdivision, transfer,
conveyance or sale of land.
(G.S. § 160D-807) (Am. Ord. 18-3, passed 6-14-21)
§ 152.59 RECORDING OF EXEMPT PLATS.
   (A)   Any plat required to be recorded in the office of the Dare County
Register of Deeds of land situated in the town, which complies with G.S. §
160D-802 as an exempt plat, may be signed and certified by the Town Planner to
be in compliance with such exemption statute.
   (B)   The combination or recombination of portions of previously subdivided
and recorded lots, if the total number of lots is not increased, the
combination will not create or increase any nonconformities of the town code,
and the resultant lots are equal to or exceed the standards of the town as
established by this chapter, or the resultant lot(s) will be equal to or less
nonconforming by area.
   (C)   The division of land into parcels greater than ten acres, if no street
right-of-way dedication is involved.
   (D)   The public acquisition by purchase of strips of land for the widening
or opening of streets.
   (E)   The division of a tract of land in single ownership, the entire area
of which is no greater than two acres, into not more than three lots, where no
street right-of-way dedication.
(Am. Ord. 15-2, passed 6-24-15; Am. Ord. 18-3, passed 6-14-21)
CHAPTER 153: ZONING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Authority and purpose
   
153.002   Definitions
   
153.003   Interpretation
   
153.004   Compliance with district regulations
Establishment of Zoning Districts
   
153.020   Zones created; enumerated
   
153.021   Zoning map adoption
   
153.022   Adoption of boundaries
   
153.023   Interpretation of boundaries
Application of Regulations
   
153.035   Compliance with zone regulations required
   
153.036   Yards, open spaces, intensity of use and the like
   
153.037   Conversion of existing structure to condominium ownership
   
153.038   Amendments
   
153.039   Zoning amendment application fee
Nonconformities
   
153.050   Intent
   
153.051   Nonconforming lots of record
   
153.052   Nonconforming uses
   
153.053   Zoning nonconformity
   
153.054   (Reserved)
   
153.055   Nonconforming signs
   
153.056   Change of tenancy or ownership
   
153.057   (Reserved)
   
153.058   Permitted special uses not nonconforming
   
153.059   Creation of nonconformities
General Regulations
   
153.070   Stormwater management
   
153.071   Soil erosion and sedimentation control
   
153.072   Sewage disposal
   
153.073   Landscaping requirements
   
153.074   Lighting
   
153.075   Telecommunications towers
   
153.076   Off-street parking and loading
   
153.077   Signs
   
153.078   Access to US 158/Croatan Highway and NC 12/Virginia Dare Trail
   
153.079   Dune protection
   
153.080   Electrical and communication service
   
153.081   Trailers
   
153.082   Exceptions
   
153.083   Outdoor storage and display
Ocean Impact Residential Zone  (OIR)
   
153.095   Intent
   
153.096   Permitted uses
   
153.097   Conditional uses
   
153.098   Nonconformities
   
153.099   Building height limits
   
153.100   Site requirements
   
153.101   Setbacks
   
153.102   Signs
   
153.103   Off-street parking, driveways, curbs
   
153.104   Buffers and screening
Low Density Residential Zones (RL)
   
153.115   Intent
   
153.116   Permitted uses
   
153.117   Special uses
   
153.118   Nonconformities
   
153.119   Building height limits
   
153.120   Site requirements
   
153.121   Setbacks
   
153.122   Signs
   
153.123   Off-street parking, driveways, curbs
   
153.124   Buffers and screening
Maritime Forest Environmental District (MFED)
   
153.135   Intent and basis
   
153.136   Permitted uses
   
153.137   Special uses
   
153.138   Nonconformities
   
153.139   Building height limits
   
153.140   Site requirements
   
153.141   Setbacks
   
153.142   Signs
   
153.143   Off-street parking, driveways, curbs
   
153.144   Buffers and screening
High Density Residential Zone (RH)
   
153.155   Intent
   
153.156   Permitted uses
   
153.157   Special uses
   
153.158   Nonconformities
   
153.159   Building height limits
   
153.160   Site requirements
   
153.161   Setbacks
   
153.162   Signs
   
153.163   Off-street parking, driveways, curbs
   
153.164   Buffers and screenings
Commercial Zone (C)
   
153.175   Intent
   
153.176   Permitted uses
   
153.177   Special uses
   
153.178   Nonconformities
   
153.179   Building height limits
   
153.180   Site requirement
   
153.181   Setbacks
   
153.182   Signs
   
153.183   Off-street parking, driveways, curbs
   
153.184   Buffers and screening
   
153.185   Noise limits
   
153.186   Commercial building exterior
Light Industrial Two Zone (LI-2)
   
153.205   Intent
   
153.206   Permitted uses
   
153.207   Special uses
   
153.208   Nonconformities
   
153.209   Building height limits
   
153.210   Site requirements
   
153.211   Setbacks
   
153.212   Signs
   
153.213   Off-street parking, driveways, curbs
   
153.214   Buffers and screening
   
153.215   Noise limits
Light Industrial One Zone (LI-1)
   
153.225   Intent
   
153.226   Permitted uses
   
153.227   Special uses
   
153.228   Nonconformities
   
153.229   Building height limits
   
153.230   Site requirements
   
153.231   Setbacks
   
153.232   Signs
   
153.233   Off-street parking, driveways, curbs
   
153.234   Buffers and screening
   
153.235   Noise limits
Government and Institutional Zone (G&I); Public Ownership
   
153.245   Intent
   
153.246   Permitted uses
   
153.247   Special uses
   
153.248   Nonconformities
   
153.249   Building height limits
   
153.250   Site requirements
   
153.251   Setbacks
   
153.252   Signs
   
153.253   Off-street parking, driveways, curbs
   
153.254   Buffers and screening
Government and Institutional Zone (G&I); Private Ownership
   
153.265   Intent
   
153.266   Permitted uses
   
153.267   Special uses
   
153.268   Nonconformities
   
153.269   Building height limits
   
153.270   Site requirements
   
153.271   Setbacks
   
153.272   Signs
   
153.273   Off-street parking, driveway, curbs
   
153.274   Buffers and screening
Overhead Transmission System
   
153.280   Intent
   
153.281   Application
   
153.282   Approval as a special use required
   
153.283   Procedure
   
153.284   No use of overhead transmission system until requirements fulfilled
   
153.285   Applications to be complete
   
153.286   TS special use permits
   
153.287   Recommendations on TS special use permits
   
153.288   Board of Commissioners action on TS special use permits
 
Special Regulations
   
153.310   Cottage courts
   
153.311   Cluster homes
   
153.312   Bed and breakfasts
   
153.313   Planned Unit Development
   
153.314   Internet and/or electronic gaming accessory business use
Board of Adjustment
   
153.320   Intent
   
153.321   Duties and responsibilities of the Board of Adjustment
   
153.322   Appeals
   
153.323   Variances
   
153.324   Action by the Board of Adjustment
   
153.325   Effect of granting of variance or reversal or modification of
administrative decision
   
153.326   Fees
Administration and Enforcement
   
153.350   Zoning Administrator
   
153.351   Building permit
   
153.352   Necessary governmental approval
   
153.353   Certificate of occupancy
   
153.354   Fees
   
153.355   Site plan requirements
   
153.356   Dimensional requirements and development standards
   
153.357   Site plan review process for commercial, multi-family and special use
applications
   
153.358   Action by Planning Board and Board of Commissioners
   
153.359   Changes in plan by owner or developer
   
153.360   Vesting of rights and permit choice
   
153.361   Permit applications for permitted uses
   
153.362   Permit applications for conditional uses
   153.363   Decision and notification procedures
   153.364   Conflicts of interest   
   153.365   Enforcement
   
Appendix A:   Landscaping guide
   
Appendix B:   Financial responsibility/ownership form for soil erosion and
sedimentation control
   
Appendix C:   Sign illustrations
   
Appendix D:   Zoning amendment application
   
Appendix E:   Forms
   
Appendix F:   Nonconformities worksheet
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001 AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   In accordance with the provisions of G.S. § 160D-301, the Board of
Commissioners, having designated the Planning Board as the planning agency to
prepare a zoning plan showing proposed district boundaries and recommending a
method of procedure by which the zoning regulations and restrictions and the
boundaries of the zoning districts shall be determined, established and
enforced, and from time to time amended, supplemented or changed, and having
received from the Planning Board a certified plan taking into consideration the
character of each district and its peculiar suitability for particular uses and
with a view of conserving the value of buildings and encouraging the most
appropriate use of land throughout the town, adopts this chapter.
   (B)   This chapter has been prepared in accordance with a comprehensive plan
for the development of Kill Devil Hills and is designed to lessen congestion in
the streets; to secure safety from fire, panic and other dangers; to promote
health and the general welfare; to provide adequate light and air; to prevent
the overcrowding of land; to avoid undue concentration of population; and to
facilitate the adequate provision of transportation, water, sewerage, schools,
parks and other public requirements. (Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 01-
02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words
used in the present tense include the future tense. Words used in the singular
number shall include the plural, and words used in the plural include the
singular. The word PERSON includes a firm, co-partnership, company,
organization, trust, association, corporation or other entity as well as an
individual. The word LOT includes the words “plot,” “parcel,” or “tract.” The
word BUILDING includes the word “structure.” The word USED or OCCUPIED as
applied to any land or building shall be construed to include the words
“intended, arranged or designed to be used or occupied.” The word SHALL is
always mandatory. The word MAY is permissive.
   ACCELERATED EROSION. Any increase over the rate of natural erosion as a
result of land- disturbing activity.
   ACCELERATION LANE. An added roadway lane which permits integration and
merging of slower moving vehicles into the main vehicular traffic flow.
   ACT. The North Carolina Sedimentation Pollution Control Act of 1973, G.S. §§
113A-50 et seq., and all rules and orders adopted pursuant to it.
   ACTIVITY. The quality or state of causing action or change as applied to
site development, whether a portion of a site or its entirety, as will be
determined by the Board of Commissioners on an individual basis depending on
the action under consideration.
   ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT (ADU). A secondary dwelling unit established on one
parcel in conjunction with a principal single-family dwelling unit. Accessory
dwelling units shall be subordinate in floor area, bulk, and height to
principal single-family dwelling unit. An accessory dwelling unit may be
included as part of the principal single-family dwelling unit, attached to the
principal single-family dwelling unit by an enclosed walkway, or entirely
detached from the principal single-family dwelling unit. The use of
manufactured or mobile homes, travel trailers, motorhomes, campers or similar
vehicles as an accessory dwelling unit is prohibited.
   ADDITION. Any construction that increases the size of a building or site
features in terms of site coverage (parking, walkways, structures, etc.),
height, length, width, or gross floor area.
   ADEQUATE EROSION CONTROL MEASURE, STRUCTURE OR DEVICE. One which controls
the soil material within the land area under responsible control of the person
conducting the land-disturbing activity.
   ADJOINING PROPERTY. Any lot within town boundaries having a border that
touches at any point the border of the property that is the subject of a
proposed permit, appeal, variance or rezoning, as well as any tract that would
have such a common border point with the subject property if one were to
disregard:
      (1)   Any intervening street or other public or utility right-of-way; and
      (2)   Any intervening property that is under the same ownership as the
subject property.
   AERIAL ADVERTISING DISPLAY. An outdoor advertising display affixed to a
balloon, kite, airplane, vehicle or other apparatus in such a manner as to be
displayed in air space.
   AESTHETIC. The perception of artistic elements or elements in the natural or
man-made environment which are pleasing to the eye.
   AFFILIATE. A person that directly, or indirectly through one or more
intermediaries, controls, is controlled by, or is under common control of
another person.
   AIRCRAFT. Any contrivance used or designed for navigation of or flight in
the air by one or more persons.
   AIRPORT. An area of land or water other than an airstrip that is designed or
used on a recurring basis for the landing and take-off of aircraft.
   AIRSTRIP. An area of land or water, located on private property, which the
owner of such land uses (or authorizes the use of) for the landing and take-off
of:
      (1)   Not more than two aircraft owned or leased by the owner of such
property; or
      (2)   Aircraft engaged in crop dusting of land owned or leased.
   ALLEY. Any access or thoroughfare 20 feet or less in width which has been
dedicated or deeded for public or private use.
   ALTERATION, STRUCTURAL. Any change in the supporting members of a building,
such as bearing walls, columns, beams, girders, rafters, or changes in roof or
exterior building lines except for repair and replacement.
   ALTERNATIVE TOWER STRUCTURE. Clock towers, sculptures, bell steeples, light
poles and similar alternative-design mounting structures that conceal the
presence of antennas or towers.
   ANTENNA. Equipment used for transmitting or receiving radio frequency
signals which is attached to a tower, building or other structure usually
consisting of a series of directional panels, microwave or satellite dishes or
omnidirectional “whip” antennas.
   ANTENNA, STEALTH. Wireless telecommunications antenna and related equipment
designed to blend into the surrounding environment or integrated into the
physical structure to which it is attached.
   APARTMENT. A single unit providing complete independent living facilities
for one or more persons, including permanent provisions for living, sleeping,
eating, cooking and sanitation intended and designed to be used as a permanent
residence. For the purposes of this chapter, apartment will also be referred to
as multi-family dwelling.
   APARTMENT HOUSE. See the definition for DWELLING, MULTIPLE.
   APPRAISED VALUE. The cost of a structure as estimated by an appraiser
certified by the State of North Carolina or designated and specified by the
American Institute of Real Estate Appraisers.
   AS-BUILT SITE PLAN. See the definition for SITE PLAN, AS-BUILT.
   ASSISTED LIVING FACILITY. Residences designed, constructed and occupied
exclusively for persons with disabilities and/or elderly that provide rooms,
meals, personal care, supervision of self-administered medication and a range
of health-care services on-site. An assisted living facility may provide other
services, such as recreational activities, financial services, transportation,
and housing for older persons as defined in the Fair Housing Act, Section 807
(b)(2), or as may be amended.
   AUTOMATED ICE VENDING STRUCTURE. Enclosed, free standing, unmanned structure
with minimum gross floor area of 75 square feet, that produces and vends bagged
and bulk ice.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR AND MAINTENANCE. A retail or wholesale establishment
designed and operated to repair or maintain passenger vehicles and sell related
automotive supplies and fluids.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year. Also known as the 100-year flood.
   BASE TRANSCEIVER STATION. Equipment that provides the link between wireless
communications and land-based public telephone switching networks, including
radio frequency transceivers, back-up power sources, power amplifiers and
signal processing hardware, typically contained in a small building or cabinet.
   BED AND BREAKFAST. A single-family detached dwelling that consists of a
single dwelling unit, together with the rental of one or more dwelling rooms on
a daily or weekly basis to tourists, vacationers or other transients; where the
provision of meals, if provided at all, is limited to the breakfast meal; and
where the bed and breakfast operation is conducted by persons who own and
reside within the dwelling unit, with the assistance of not more than the
equivalent of one full-time employee.
   BEING CONDUCTED. A land-disturbing activity has been initiated and permanent
stabilization of the site has not been completed.
   BERM. A ledge or deposit of material, especially sand or small rocks, on a
horizontal surface for the purpose of separating two surfaces such as a space
between the edge of pavement and a roadway ditch.
   BLOCK, DECORATIVE. Concrete masonry units which are split faced or rock
faced on exterior exposures.
   BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT. The Board of Adjustment of the town.
   BOARDING HOUSE. A residential unit that consists of at least one dwelling
unit together with more than two rooms that are rented out or are designed or
intended to be rented but which rooms, individually or collectively, do not
constitute separate dwelling units; where the rooms are occupied by longer term
residents (at least month-to-month tenants) as opposed to overnight or weekly
guests; and where the dwelling unit is occupied by the owners or operators of
the boarding house.
   BORROW. Fill material which is required for construction and is obtained
from locations other than the construction site.
   BREWERY. A building or establishment or portion thereof for brewing beer and
other malt beverages.
   BUFFER STRIP. A device of material and/or space used to provide sight and
sound screening from adjoining properties. The required height and width of the
buffer strip and the materials used vary according to use.
   BUFFER ZONE. The strip of land adjacent to a lake or natural watercourse.
   BUILDABLE AREA. The portion of a lot remaining after required setbacks have
been accommodated.
   BUILDING. Any structure built for the support, shelter or enclosure of
persons, animals, chattels or property of any kind which has enclosing walls
for 50% of its perimeter. The term BUILDING shall be construed as if followed
by the words “or part thereof.” (For the purposes of this chapter, each portion
of a building separated from other portions by a fire wall shall be considered
as a separate unit.) For the purpose of area and height limitations this
definition shall be applicable to sheds and open sheds.
   BUILDING FRONTAGE. The side where the main building entrance is located and
in the general direction in which the principal building faces.
   BUILDING, HEIGHT OF. The distance between the average elevation of the
finished grade, such point to be computed at the corners of the proposed
building foundation and the highest point of the structure, excluding chimneys,
cupolas, cooling towers, elevators, bulkheads, scenery lots, monuments, domes,
spires and parapet walls.
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A building in which is conducted the principal use of
the lot on which it is located.
   BUILDING SITE. Area of disturbed land and vegetation required for placement
of a structure, its accessways and utilities, including area disturbed for
parking lots, power lines, driveways, septic tank nitrification fields,
cemeteries and hiking trails.
   BULKHEAD. A wall that retains and stabilizes earth slopes.
   CAMPER. A self-propelled vehicle or structure or a structure which is or may
be situated upon or hauled by the body of a self-propelled vehicle, which
contains sleeping or kitchen quarters or both sleeping and kitchen quarters.
   CANDLEPOWER. Luminous intensity expressed in candelas.
   CANOPY. Roof-like cover, including an awning, that projects from a wall of a
building over a door, entrance or window; or a free-standing or projecting
cover above an outdoor service area, such as at a gasoline service station.
   CHANGE OF USE. A change to the essential character or nature of the activity
conducted on a lot.
   CLUSTER HOMES. Buildings containing separate bathing, kitchen, sanitary, and
sleeping facilities designed to be occupied by not more than one family, with
the buildings located in such a manner that all sides of any building and any
appurtenant thereto are directly on a lot line.
   COASTAL AREA. That territory adjacent to, adjoining, intersected by or
bounded by the Atlantic Ocean or estuarine water.
   CO-LOCATION. The location of wireless telecommunications equipment from more
than one provider on one common tower, building or structure.
   COMMERCIAL ACTIVITY. Any activity done for compensation (or as a result of
compensation paid to another in order to engage in such activity) where the
activity undertaken is conducted outside or inside of the perimeter walls of
the structure.
   COMMISSION. The North Carolina Sedimentation Control Commission.
   COMMUNICATION BROADCAST STUDIOS AND SALES OFFICES. Studios including sales
offices where communication and broadcast activities for radio and television
are conducted.
   COMMUNITY RECREATIONAL FACILITIES. A recreational facility which is
constructed for, open to and available for public recreation.
   COMPLETION OF CONSTRUCTION OR DEVELOPMENT. No further land-disturbing
activity is required on a phase of a project except that which is necessary for
establishing a permanent ground cover.
   CONDOMINIUM. A form of property ownership providing for individual ownership
of space in a structure together with an individual interest in the land or
other parts of the structure in common with other owners. (See G.S. Ch. 47C, or
as amended.)
   CONVENIENCE STORE. A retail store containing less than 3,000 square feet of
gross floor area that is designed and stocked to sell small amounts of food,
beverages and other household supplies and may sell gasoline, oil and other
automotive fluids and accessories.
   COTTAGE COURT. A group of three or more detached, single-family dwelling
units, each with one or more bedrooms, located on a single lot, being under
single ownership and used primarily for rental purposes.
   DAY CARE CENTER. A child day care facility as defined in G.S. § 110-86(3).
An adult day care facility as defined in G.S. § 131D-6(b).
   DEALERSHIP, MARINE. A retail business for marketing new or used boats or the
repair and service of same primarily housed in a structure and characterized by
a mixture of uses upon a commercial site.
   DEALERSHIP, MOTOR VEHICLE. A retail business for marketing new or used motor
vehicles or the repair and service of same primarily housed in a structure and
characterized by a mixture of uses upon a commercial site.
   DECELERATION LANE. An added roadway lane that permits cars to slow down and
leave the main vehicle traffic flow.
   DECK/PATIO, COVERED. An unheated, open-air structure that may be partially
enclosed with a roof and railing or walls not exceeding 42 inches in height
from the deck/patio floor on at least one side. The area between the roof and
the railings or wall may be covered with screening materials only, and can not
be enclosed with windows or other materials.
   DENSITY. The number of dwelling units or hotel units which may be
constructed upon a parcel of land, as allowed by the various zoning districts.
   DEPARTMENT. The North Carolina Department of Environment and Natural
Resources.
   DEVELOPER. A person who is responsible for any undertaking that requires a
zoning permit, special use permit, conditional use permit or building permit.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations which adds to or
changes the amount of impervious or partially impervious cover on a land area,
thereby decreasing the infiltration of precipitation into the soil and altering
the hydrologic characteristics of the area. The subdivision of land and/or the
initiation or substantial change in the use of the land or the intensity of the
use of the land.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of the Division of Land Resources of the Department
of Environment and Natural Resources.
   DISCHARGE POINT. That point at which runoff leaves a tract of land.
   DISTRICT. The Dare County Soil and Water Conservation District created
pursuant to G.S. Ch. 139.
   DOG DAY CARE FACILITY. A facility providing such services as canine day care
for all or part of a day, obedience classes, training, grooming, or behavioral
counseling, provided that overnight boarding is not permitted.
   DRAINAGE AREA OR WATERSHED. That area contributing water runoff to a given
area measured in a horizontal plane which is enclosed by a ridge line.
   DRIVEWAY. An area of land used for vehicular ingress and egress which may be
improved in accordance with the specifications of this chapter.
   DRIVEWAY, RESIDENTIAL. A driveway providing vehicular ingress and egress to
and from property used for residential purposes.
   DUNES, OCEAN. Mound(s) of sand located landward of the ocean beaches that
have stable and natural vegetation present, have an elevation equal to the mean
flood level for the area plus six feet, and extends landward through a dune
system of a frontal, primary, and secondary dunes to a landward toe, which is
the location of the landward maximum slope change and lowest elevation behind
the dune system.
   DUNE(S), INLAND. Mound(s) of sand other than ocean dunes having an elevation
of 15 feet or more above mean sea level.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE FAMILY (MULTI-FAMILY). A structure under one roof or
portion thereof used or designed as a residence for three or more families
living independently of each other in individual dwelling units including
apartments and townhouses.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A detached building other than a mobile home
designed for or occupied exclusively by one family.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY (DUPLEX). A detached building, divided horizontally or
vertically, and designed for or occupied by two single-family housekeeping
units contained entirely under one roof and having one dividing partition
common to each unit or having the ceiling structure of the lower unit and the
floor structure of the unit above.
   DWELLING UNIT. One room, or rooms connected together, constituting a
separate, independent housekeeping unit for owner occupancy or rental or lease
and physically separated from any other units which may be in the same
structure and containing independent cooking, sleeping facilities and
sanitation for a single family. Hotel, motel or other accommodation for
transient public are not included in this definition.
   ELIGIBLE HOUSEHOLD. A family who occupies one housing unit on a year-round
basis with a total combined adjusted gross annual income at or below 125% of
Median Family Income for Dare County. For purposes of this section, the income
of all individuals age 18 or older residing in the housing unit shall be
counted toward the total adjusted gross annual income for the eligible
household, excluding income earned by any member of the household who is
enrolled in good standing and pursing a degree program at an accredited college
or university.
   ENERGY DISSIPATOR. A structure or a shaped channel section with mechanical
armoring placed at the outlet of pipes or conduits to receive and break down
energy from high velocity flow.
   EROSION. The wearing away of land surface by the action of wind, water,
gravity or any combination thereof.
   EVENT GARDEN(S). An outdoor, landscaped area with facilities designed for
events such as weddings, birthday parties, family reunions, and similar
functions.
   FAMILY. Individuals living together as a single housekeeping unit.
   FISHING PIER. A structure extending into the ocean, sound or other waters
for the specific purpose of providing a platform for fishing or other related
activities.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. The general and temporary condition of partial or
complete inundation of normally dry land areas from precipitation or the
overflow of ocean, sounds, creeks, watercourses or lakes or abnormally high
tidal water or rising coastal water resulting from severe storms, hurricanes,
tidal waves or flash flooding.
   FLOOD, HUNDRED-YEAR. The highest level of flooding that, on the average, is
likely to occur once in every 100 years, for example, that has a 1% chance of
occurring each year.
   FLOODPLAIN AREAS. See
Ch. 151, Flood Damage Prevention.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including but not limited to
emergency preparedness plans, floodproofing, flood control work and land use
and control measures.
   FLOODPROOFING. See
Ch. 151, Flood Damage Prevention.
   FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION, REGULATORY. The highest water surface elevation
likely to be reached during a 100-year flood.
   FLOOR AREA RATIO (FAR). On any developed parcel of land the gross floor area
of a building or buildings divided by the usable land area.
   FLOOR AREA, GROSS. The sum of the horizontal areas of several stories of a
building measured from the exterior walls. GROSS FLOOR AREA shall include: (a)
heated areas, (b) enclosed porches, (c) enclosed stairwells, (d) elevator
shafts, and (e) outdoor restaurants and customer seating areas covered or
uncovered. In atriums, the projected area of each floor, where the resulting
space would be of habitable height, shall be included in GROSS FLOOR AREA.
GROSS FLOOR AREA shall not include: (a) interior or partially enclosed parking
spaces, (b) attic or storage areas where the floor to ceiling height is less
than six feet, (c) covered or open decks not part of restaurant seating, or (d)
outdoor pools or pool decks.
   FOOTPRINT. The outline of a building, including decks, roof eaves,
overhangs, porches and steps, when extended to the ground.
   FOREST CANOPY. Collective term for the light-intercepting layer formed by
all of the tree tops and ultimate leaf-bearing branches in a forest; the
uppermost layer of vegetation in a forest; tightly woven network of
interlocking tree branches that function as the roof of a forest.
   FOREST SUBCANOPY. A light-intercepting understory layer formed by shade-
tolerant saplings, shrubs and small trees such as dogwood, muscle wood, hop
hornbeam and holly beneath the canopy of a forest.
   FOUNDATION. The base upon which a building stands or is supported.
   FRONTAGE. That boundary of a parcel of land that adjoins a street’s right-
of-way.
   FURNITURE STORE. A retail business with a minimum of 75% of the floor area
dedicated to display and sale of sofas, chairs, dressers, beds, rugs and
mattresses.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. An enclosed space used as an accessory to or a part of the
main building permitted in any residence district and providing for the storage
of motor vehicles and in which no business, occupation or service for profit is
in any way conducted.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC. Any building or premises, except those described as a
private or storage garage, used for the storage or care of motor vehicles or
where any such vehicles are equipped for operation, repaired or kept for hire
or sale or for remuneration.
   GARAGE, STORAGE. Any building or premises, other than a private or public
garage, used exclusively for the parking or storage of motor vehicles.
   GENERAL USE DISTRICT. A zoning district with designated permitted uses and
designated special uses.
   GLARE. Light for a particular use or area that is reflected or directed off
of an object or site onto adjacent streets or property. The effect produced by
brightness sufficient to cause annoyance, discomfort or loss in visual
performance and visibility.
   GLAZING. Furnished or fit with glass.
   GOLF COURSE. A tract of land used for playing golf, improved with fairways
having a minimum length of 50 yards and having tees, greens and hazards and the
tract of land may include clubhouses and shelters.
   GOLF COURSE, MINIATURE. A tract of land used for playing golf, improved with
fairways having a maximum length of 50 yards and having tees, greens and
hazards and the tract of land may include clubhouses and shelters.
   GOLF COURSE, NATURAL GRASS PUTTING. A grassed tract of land used for playing
golf, improved with fairways, tees, greens and hazards and such tract of land
may include clubhouses and shelters. A NATURAL GRASS PUTTING COURSE has no
aboveground man-made structures or impervious areas on the playing area.
   GROUND COVER. Any natural vegetative growth or other material which renders
the soil surface stable against accelerated erosion.
   GROUND STABILIZATION PLAN. A plan which details the stabilization and
subsequent re- vegetation of all disturbed areas in accordance with town
regulations.
   GUEST HOUSE (TOURIST HOME). Any dwelling occupied by the owner or operator
in which rooms are rented for guests and for lodging of transients and
travelers for compensation where not more than three rooms are used for such
purpose and no other accommodations are provided for such guests.
   HABITABLE FLOORS AND LEVELS. Enclosed areas, within a building, which are
located below the top of the top plate and above the bottom of the sill girder
or, where there is no sill girder, above the bottom plate of each such floor or
level. These enclosed areas contain rooms or areas which have been designed,
constructed, wired, plumbed, equipped with cooking appliances and furnished to
provide for three or more of the following functions:
      (1)   Preparation, cooking and consumption of food;
      (2)   Sleeping;
      (3)   Human waste disposal;
      (4)   Bathing and showering;
      (5)   Heating and air conditioning.
   HAUNTED HOUSE. An indoor entertainment facility utilizing sets, props and
displays for a family-oriented environment with guided tours limited to ten
participants per tour with an on-site retail area.
   HIGH QUALITY WATERS. Those classified as such in 15A NCAC 2B.0101(e)(5)
General Procedures, which is incorporated herein by reference to include
further amendments pursuant to G.S. § 150B-14(c), now repealed, or any
applicable successor regulations adopted pursuant to G.S. §§ 150B-18 et seq.
   HIGH QUALITY WATER (HQW) ZONES. Areas in the coastal counties that are
within 575 feet of high quality waters and for the remainder of the state,
areas that are within one mile and drain to HQW’s.
   HOME CENTER. A retail outlet carrying products for home improvement,
remodeling, maintenance, decorating, home care, recreational/leisure and
related needs, including hardware, appliances, lumber and other building
materials but only in such amounts as will meet the needs for self-pickup of
the individual, do-it-yourself customer and not amounting to a lumber yard or
building materials storage yard from which deliveries are made to commercial
customers.
   HOME OCCUPATION. Any activity that is designed to produce income in which no
person other than a member of the family residing on the premises is engaged,
no visible evidence (for example, signs of any size, material or equipment) in
the outside appearance of the premises of the conduct of such occupation is
displayed, no additional parking is required over and above that of residential
use and activities are confined to the principal dwelling unit. Uses that do
not meet this definition constitute business or commercial activities and must
be conducted in an appropriate zone with prior approval.
   HOTEL. Any building containing three or more guest rooms which are used,
rented, or hired for sleeping purposes by transient guests and with access to
units primarily from interior lobbies, courts or halls. Hotels shall include a
lobby/check-in area, maid’s room, vending area, 24-hour on-site staffing/
management and shall provide daily housekeeping services to all guests.
   HOTEL/MOTEL UNIT. A one-story room, which may contain a kitchen or
kitchenette and not more than one bathroom. Units shall be determined by the
following formulas:
      (1)   Private guest areas up to 650 square feet: one unit.
      (2)   Private guest areas greater than 650 square feet: each 650 square
foot area of floor space shall be considered one unit.
   HYDROLOGIC SOIL GROUPS. Refers to soils grouped according to their runoff-
producing characteristics.
   IMPROVEMENT. Any change in physical property which requires a permit to be
issued by the town, county or state.
   IMPROVEMENT, SUBSTANTIAL. Any repair, reconstruction or improvement of a
structure having a cost which equals or exceeds 50% of the current appraised
value of the structure or such value immediately preceding any loss, whichever
is the greater.
   INDOOR PUBLIC ASSEMBLY. The use of a public building or structure, or any
portion thereof, for the gathering together of persons for purposes such as
civic, social or religious functions, recreation, food and/or drink consumption
or awaiting transportation.
   INFILTRATION RATE. The rate at which water penetrates the surface of the
soil, at any given interval, usually expressed in inches per hour.
   INFILTRATION SYSTEMS. Stormwater treatment systems designed to allow runoff
to pass or move (infiltrate) into the soil surface.
   INTENT. That which states goal, purpose, aim or design.
   INTERNET OR ELECTRONIC GAMING OPERATIONS. Any for-profit business
enterprise, whether principal or accessory, where persons utilize electronic
machines or devices, including but not limited to, computers and gaming
terminals, to conduct games of odds or chance, including sweepstakes, and where
cash, merchandise, or other items of value are redeemed or otherwise
distributed, whether or not the value of such distribution is determined by
electronic games played or by predetermined odds. Such business or enterprises
have as a part of its operation the running of one or more games or processes
with any of the following characteristics: (1) payment, directly or as an
intended addition to the purchase of a product, whereby the customer receives
one or more electronic sweepstakes tickets, cards, tokens or similar items
entitling or empowering the customer to enter a sweepstakes, and without which
time the customer would be unable to enter the sweepstakes; or (2) payment,
directly or as an intended addition to the purchase of a product, whereby the
customer can request a “no purchase necessary” free entry of one or more
sweepstakes tickets or other item entitling the customer to enter a
sweepstakes. The term ELECTRONIC GAMING OPERATIONS includes, but is not limited
to cyber-gaming establishments, internet cafes, internet sweepstakes, beach
sweepstakes, video sweepstakes or cybercafes, which have a finite pool of
winners. This definition does not include any lottery permitted by the State of
North Carolina.
   INTERNET OR ELECTRONIC MACHINE OR DEVICE. A mechanically, electrically- or
electronically-operated machine or device, that is owned, leased, or otherwise
possessed by a sweepstakes sponsor or promoter, or any of the sweepstakes
sponsor's or promoter's partners, affiliates, subsidiaries or contractors, that
is intended to be used by a sweepstakes entrant, that uses energy, and that is
capable of displaying information on a screen or other mechanism. This section
is applicable to an electronic machine or device whether or not:
      (1)   It is server-based.
      (2)   It uses a simulated game terminal as a representation of the prizes
associated with the results of the sweepstakes entries.
      (3)   It utilizes software such that the simulated game influences or
determines the winning or value of the prize.
      (4)   It selects prizes from a predetermined finite pool of entries.
      (5)   It utilizes a mechanism that reveals the content of a predetermined
sweepstakes entry.
      (6)   It predetermines the prize results and stores those results for
delivery at the time the sweepstakes entry results are revealed.
      (7)   It utilizes software to create a game result.
      (8)   It requires a deposit of any money, coin, or token of the use of
any credit card, debit card, prepaid card, or any other method of payment to
activate the electronic machine or device.
      (9)   It requires direct payment into the electronic machine or device,
or remote activation of the electronic machine or device.
      (10)   It requires purchase of a related product.
      (11)   The related product, if any, has legitimate value.
      (12)   It reveals the prize incrementally, even though it may not
influence if a prize is awarded or the value of any prize awarded.
      (13)   It determines and associates the prize with an entry or entries at
the time the sweepstakes is entered.
      (14)   It is a slot machine or other form of electrical, mechanical, or
computer game.
   JUNK. Any material or item, such as but not limited to old or scrap copper,
brass, rope, rags, batteries, paper, trash, rubber or debris; junked,
dismantled or wrecked motor vehicles, or parts thereof; iron, steel and other
old or scrap ferrous or nonferrous material; old or salvaged building
materials, appliances, dismantled or wrecked boats, machinery and machinery
parts or parts thereof; and any item which is either in a wholly or partially
rusted, wrecked, dismantled or inoperative condition.
   JUNKYARD. Any lot, land or structure or part thereof used for storing,
keeping, buying, processing or selling junk.
   KENNEL, BOARDING. Any kennel where pets or animals owned by another person
are temporarily boarded (overnight) for pay, trade, barter, commission, or
remuneration of any sort; however, this definition shall not apply to a
veterinary hospital as defined in this chapter.
   LAKE or NATURAL WATERCOURSE. Any stream, river, brook, swamp, sound, bay,
creek, run, branch, canal, waterway, estuary and any reservoir, lake or pond,
natural or impounded, in which sediment may be moved or carried in suspension
and which could be damaged by accumulation of sediment.
   LAND-DISTURBING ACTIVITY. Any use of the land by any person in residential,
industrial, educational, institutional or commercial development or highway and
road construction and maintenance that results in a change in the natural cover
or topography and that may cause or contribute to sedimentation or erosion.
   LAND USE AND CONTROL MEASURES. Zoning ordinances, subdivision regulations,
building codes, health regulations and other applications and extensions of the
normal police power to provide standards and effective enforcement provisions
for the prudent use and occupancy in the various zoned areas of the town.
   LIGHTING FIXTURE. Any part of a lighting unit, including bulb or lamp,
housing, mounting bracket, pole and pole base or foundation.
   LIGHT SOURCE. That element which provides uninterrupted light and
illuminates a particular object or area.
   LOADING SPACE, OFF-STREET. Space conveniently located for bulk pickups and
deliveries, scaled to delivery vehicles expected to be used and accessible to
such vehicles when required off-street parking spaces are filled.
   LOCAL GOVERNMENT. Any county, incorporated village, town or city, or any
combination of counties, incorporated villages, towns and cities, acting
through a joint program pursuant to the provisions of the Act.
   LOCAL PERMIT OFFICER. The designated CAMA official who administers and
enforces the minor development permit program in areas of environmental concern
(AEC) as established by the Coastal Area Management Act.
   LONG-TERM OCCUPANCY. A residential dwelling that is occupied and used for
residency and housekeeping purposes for a period of 31 days or more and has a
use agreement recorded with the Register of Deeds that requires 31 or more
consecutive days' minimum occupancy by single tenant(s) in perpetuity.
   LOT. A plot, tract or parcel of land or any number of contiguous plots,
tracts or parcels of land or plots, tracts, or parcels that would be contiguous
if not separated by a public right-of-way in single ownership with or without
improvements.
   LOT AREA. The total horizontal area included within lot lines.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot of which at least two adjoining sides abut for their full
lengths on a street, provided that the interior angle at the intersection of
two such sides is less than 135 degrees.
   LOT COVERAGE. That portion of the lot area, expressed as a percentage, that
is occupied and obstructed by any structure above the ground, including but not
limited to building(s), decks, parking areas, accessways, sidewalks, roadways,
pools and structures requiring location on or above the ground. Wastewater
drainfield and repair area, any area occupied or used by the town or any
underground use for utilities with no paved surface are not considered lot
coverage.
   LOT DEPTH. The average distance from the street line of the lot to its rear
line measured in the general direction of the side lines of the lot.
   LOT, FLAG. A lot fronting on or abutting a public road and where access to
the public road is by a narrow strip of land.
   LOT LINES. The lines bounding a lot as defined herein:
      (1)   LOT LINE, FRONT. Boundary of a parcel that adjoins a street or
public right-of-way. Where a rectangular lot has two such boundaries, that with
the least length shall be the front.
      (2)   LOT LINE, REAR. The lot boundary opposite and most distant from the
front lot line. In the case of a pointed or irregular lot, it shall be an
imaginary line parallel to and farthest from the front lot line, not less than
30 feet long and wholly within the lot.
      (3)   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any lot boundary line not a front lot line or rear
lot line.
   LOT OF RECORD. A parcel of land whose description has been recorded with the
Register of Deeds of Dare County.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. An interior lot having frontage on two streets.
   LOT WIDTH. The width of a lot at the required building setback line measured
at right angles to its depth.
   MARINAS. Any publicly or privately owned dock, basin or wet boat storage
facility constructed to accommodate more than ten boats and providing permanent
or transient docking spaces, dry storage, fueling facilities, haul-out
facilities and/or repair service but excluding boat ramp facilities allowing
access only temporary docking and none of the preceding services.
   MARKET RATE UNIT. The price of a housing unit determined by the value at
which a unit would change hands between a willing buyer and a willing seller,
neither being under any compulsion to buy or to sell and both having reasonable
knowledge of relevant facts.
   MARQUEE. A canopy or covered structure projecting from and supported by a
building.
   MEDIAN FAMILY INCOME (MFI). The median family income for Dare County as
determined annually by the US Department of Housing and Urban Development.
   MEDICAL CLINIC. A building or structure or portion thereof where medical
services are provided for out-patients only and where instruction may be
provided for medical students.
   MOBILE HOME (INCLUDES DOUBLE-WIDE and TRIPLE-WIDE UNIT). A habitable unit
with integrated chassis and integrated device to receive a trailer hitch; body
width exceeding eight feet or body length exceeding 32 feet; and designed to be
used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the
required utilities.
   MOBILE HOME LOT. A parcel of land for the placement of a mobile home for the
exclusive use of its occupant as may be allowed by zoning.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. A parcel, tract or contiguous parcels of land which has
been designated and improved for the placement of mobile homes for dwelling
purposes.
   MODULAR UNIT. A factory-fabricated building, designed to be transported to
the site by separate conveyance, to be used by itself or to be joined at a
building site with other similar units to form a unified structure. The term
does not apply to prefabricated sub-elements such as trusses which are to be
incorporated into a structure at the building site.
   MOTEL. Any building containing three or more guest rooms which are used,
rented, or hired for sleeping purposes by transient guests which is
distinguished from a hotel primarily by reason of providing exterior ingress
and egress to each unit. Motels shall include a lobby/check-in area, maid’s
room, vending area, 24-hour on-site staffing/management and shall provide daily
housekeeping services to all guests.
   NATURAL EROSION. The wearing away of the earth’s surface by water, wind or
other natural agents under natural environmental conditions undisturbed by man.
   NEON.  Includes lighting and/or signage that contain gas discharge tubing
and/or fiber optic tubing of various colors and intensity where the tubing is
visible.
   NONPROFIT SERVICE ORGANIZATION. Organization or group that exists for
community service benefit and which has nonprofit status as defined by the U.S.
Internal Revenue Service.
   OBSTRUCTION. Any dam, wall, wharf, embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment,
projection, excavation, channel, rectification, bridge, conduit, culvert,
building, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuge,  fill, structure or matter in,
along, across or projecting into any channel, water course or floodplain area
which may impede, retard or change the direction of the flow of water, either
by itself or by catching or collecting material carried by such water; or any
such structure that is placed where the flow of water might carry the same
downstream to the damage of life or property.
   OCEAN DUNE PLATFORM. A platform constructed on the frontal dune.
   OPEN SPACE. An unimproved space open to the sky.
   OPEN SPACE, COMMON. Land within or related to a development, not
individually owned or dedicated for public use, that is designed and intended
for the common use or enjoyment of the residents and their guests of the
development and may include such complementary improvements as are necessary
and appropriate.
   OUTDOOR DINING ACTIVITY AREA. Unenclosed seasonally-utilized area outside
the primary structure, including elevated decks, excluding covered entrances
not to exceed 200 square feet used as a dining and recreation area for patrons
of the restaurant where food and drink service and courts for outdoor games
and/or live music are provided. Game components must be temporary and moveable
like those for cornhole, horseshoes, croquet, bocce, etc.
   OUTDOOR DISPLAY. Merchandise located outdoors, visible from public rights-
of-way.
   OUTDOOR STORAGE. Merchandise located outdoors, not visible from public
rights-of-way by screening or location within an enclosure.
   OUTDOOR WAITING ACTIVITY AREA. Unenclosed seasonally-utilized area outside
the primary structure, including elevated decks, excluding covered entrances
not to exceed 200 square feet, used as a waiting area for patrons of the
restaurant where no food or drink service is provided but where courts for
outdoor games and/or live music are provided. Game components must be temporary
and moveable like those for cornhole, horseshoes, croquet, bocce, etc.
   PARENT. An affiliate that directly, or indirectly through one or more
intermediaries, controls another person.
   PARKING CIRCULATION AREA. That portion of the vehicle accommodation area,
other than dead-end access lanes, used for access to parking or loading areas
or other facilities on the lot. Essentially, driveways and other maneuvering
areas (other than parking aisles) comprise the circulation area.
   PARKING LOT. An area or plot of land used for the temporary placement of
motor vehicles.
   PARKING SPACE. A vehicular storage space plus the necessary access space
located outside any dedicated right-of-way.
   PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE. Any security that may be accepted by a municipality
as a guarantee that improvements required as part of an application for
development will be satisfactorily completed.
   PERMEABILITY. The quality of the soil that enables water to move downward
through the strata which is measured as the number of inches per hour that
water moves downward through the saturated soil.
   PERMIT. An official document or certificate issued by the authority having
jurisdiction to authorize performance of a specified activity.
   PERSON. An individual, trustee, executor, other fiduciary, corporation,
firm, partnership, association, organization or other entity acting as a unit.
   PERSON CONDUCTING LAND-DISTURBING ACTIVITY. Any person who may be held
responsible for a violation unless expressly provided otherwise by this
chapter, the Act or any order adopted pursuant to this chapter or the Act.
   PERSON RESPONSIBLE FOR THE VIOLATION. As used in this chapter and G.S. §
113A-64 means:
      (1)   The developer or other person who has or holds himself out as
having financial or operational control over the land-disturbing activity; and/
or
      (2)   The landowner or person in possession or control of the land when
he has directly or indirectly allowed the land-disturbing activity or has
benefitted from it or he has failed to comply with any provision of this
chapter, the Act or any order adopted pursuant to this chapter or the Act as
imposes a duty upon him.
   PHASE OF GRADING. One of the two types of grading, rough or fine.
   PLACES OF WORSHIP. Churches, synagogues, temples and the like.
   PLAN. An erosion and sedimentation control plan.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD). An area of minimum contiguous size, as
specified by ordinance, to be planned, developed, operated and maintained as a
single entity and containing one or more residential clusters or planned
residential developments and one or more public, quasi-public, or commercial
areas in such ranges or ratios of nonresidential uses to residential uses as
specified in the zoning regulations.
   PLANNING BOARD. The Planning Board of the town.
   PLAYGROUND. A place, public or private, especially designed and equipped for
children’s games and recreation.
   POND. Small body of standing water.
   PORCH, ENCLOSED. A deck or porch fully enclosed by materials other than
screening, which may or may not be conditioned space.
   PRE-EXISTING TOWERS AND ANTENNAS. Any tower or antenna on which a permit has
been properly issued prior to the effective date of this chapter.
   PRIVATE CLUB. A noncommercial club owned and operated by a nonprofit legal
entity composed of and with restricted membership.
   PROPERTY OWNERS. Those listed as having title to property as recorded in the
Dare County Register of Deeds.
   PUBLIC SERVICES DEPARTMENT. The Kill Devil Hills Public Services Department.
   RECONSTRUCTION/REPAIR. The rebuilding of a structure in such a manner and to
such an extent as to replace all or some portion of the existing structure,
within the same dimensions, appearance and similar materials of the existing
structure. Reconstruction/repair is not considered an addition by this chapter.
   REFRESHMENT STAND. See the definition for RESTAURANT, DRIVE-IN.
   RELATED IMPROVEMENTS. Equipment and improvements used or necessary to
transmit electrical power through the use of above-ground transmission lines.
   REMODEL. Any improvement to the exterior or interior of a building that
requires a building permit and that is not a structural alteration,
reconstruction or addition.
   RESTAURANT. An establishment where meals are served to seated patrons. The
word RESTAURANT shall not include drive-in facilities, carry-out facilities,
snack bars, refreshment stands or any establishment where food is prepared
primarily for consumption off premises.
   RESTAURANT, DRIVE-IN. Any place or premises used for the sale, dispensing or
serving of food, refreshments or beverages in automobiles, including those
establishments where customers may serve themselves and may eat or drink the
food, refreshments or beverages on the premises.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A parcel of land, typically recorded in the public records of
Dare County, over which a road may be built or which provides a legal right of
passage.
   ROAD. All ways used to provide vehicular access to:
      (1)   Two or more lots; or
      (2)   Two or more distinct areas or buildings in unsubdivided
developments.
   ROOF. The outside top covering of a building.
   SAIL SHADE. A flexible fabric membrane tensioned between several anchor
points designed to provide shade from the sun's rays. intended for temporary
seasonal use at outdoor dining activity area(s).
   SALT MARSH. A flat bed of salt-resistant grasses, sedges and/or rushes that
is periodically flooded by salt or brackish water.
   SEASONAL USE. A periodic use characterized by its major activity being
associated with the holiday, vacation or recreation industry.
   SEDIMENT. Solid particulate material, both mineral and organic, that has
been or is being transported by water, air, gravity, or ice from its site of
origin.
   SEDIMENTATION. The process by which sediment resulting from erosion has been
or is being transported off the site of a land-disturbing activity or into a
lake or other natural or man-made watercourse.
   SETBACK. The minimum distance by which any portion of a building or
structure must be separated from a street right-of-way or lot line. For the
purpose of this chapter, setbacks shall be measured from the furthest
projection of the structure and shall be open and unobstructed from the lowest
level skyward except as outlined in §
153.082.
   SETBACK, OCEANFRONT. A portion of oceanfront land whose improvement is
limited and regulated by the North Carolina Coastal Resources Commission.
   SEWERAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS. Any system designed for waste disposal which may
be used by an owner for disposition of sewage and waste material as required
either by the North Carolina Department of Health or the Department of Air and
Water Resources or such other regulatory agency as may have jurisdiction
thereof.
   SHEAR ZONE. The seaward edge of the forest where effects of salt spray are
most severe.
   SHOPPING CENTER/OFFICE COMPLEX. A group of retail, office, and other
commercial establishments that is planned and managed as a single property.
   SHORT-TERM VACATION OCCUPANCY. A residential dwelling that is used and/or
advertised through online media or any other means of advertising for occupancy
by guest(s) for a period of 30 consecutive days or less.
   SIGN. Any device used for displaying advertising which is designed to be
visible from the right-of-way to inform or to attract attention or any letter,
figure, character, mask, plane, point, marquee sign, design, poster, pictorial,
picture, stroke, strip, line, trademark, reading matter, aerial display, kite,
balloon or illuminated service which shall be constructed, placed, attached,
painted, erected, fastened, established or manufactured in any manner
whatsoever so that the same will be used for the attraction of the public to
any place, subject, person, firm, corporation, public performance, article,
machine or merchandise whatsoever and which is displayed in any manner
whatsoever out-of- doors. Every such device shall be classified and shall
conform to the requirements of the classifications in accordance with this
chapter.
   SIGN, ANIMATED OR MOVING. Any sign or part of a sign which changes physical
position by any movement or rotation or which gives the visual impression of
such movement or rotation.
   SIGN AREA. The surface area of signs, composed in whole or in part of
freestanding letters, devices or sculptured matter not mounted on a measurable
surface. The area of said freestanding letters, devices or sculptured matter
not mounted on a measurable surface shall be construed to be the least area
that will enclose the letters, devices, sculptured matter or logo.
   SIGN, BULLETIN BOARD. A sign used to announce meetings or programs to be
held on the premises of a place of worship, school, auditorium, library,
museum, community recreational facility or similar noncommercial places of
public assembly.
   SIGN, BUSINESS. An on-premises sign which directs attention to a business,
profession or industry as to the type of products sold, manufactured or
assembled and/or to service or entertainment offered but not a sign pertaining
to the preceding if such activity is only minor and incidental to the principal
use of the premises.
   SIGN, DIRECTIONAL. Signs which contain only the name of the establishment
and directional information.
   SIGN, ELECTRONIC MESSAGE BOARDS. A sign or portion of a sign that displays
electronically generated text, images, graphics, video, whereby the message is
formed using a panel or matrix consisting of fiber optics, light bulbs, LED
bulbs or other illumination devices within the display area. Electronic message
boards signs include but are not limited to, signs also known as Electronic
Reader Boards, Electronic Message Centers Signs, Tri-Panel Message Systems, and
Commercial Electronic-Variable Message Signs (CEVMS).
   SIGN, FREESTANDING, OFF PREMISES, DIRECTIONAL. Any outdoor advertising
display sign which is supported by uprights or braces in or upon the ground
which contains only the name of the establishment and directional information.
   SIGN, FREESTANDING, ON PREMISES. Any outdoor advertising display sign which
is supported by uprights or braces in or upon the ground.
   SIGN, IDENTIFICATION. A sign used solely to identify the name of an
individual, family, organization or enterprise occupying the premises, the
profession of the occupant or the name of the building on which the sign is
displayed.
   SIGN, LED/LCD. Signs that have alphabetical, pictographic, or symbolic
content that can be changed or altered on a display screen using light emitting
diodes technology, liquid crystal display technology, or other technology that
produces an electronic image on a display screen.
   SIGN, MANUAL MESSAGE BOARD. A sign or portion of a sign in which message
copy is changed or rearranged manually in the field, through the utilization of
attached letters, numbers, symbols and other similar characters or changeable
pictorial panels, without altering the face or surface of the sign.
   SIGN, MARQUEE. A projecting sign attached to or hung from a marquee.
   SIGN, NONCOMMERCIAL. A sign structure designed and intended to promote,
support, call attention to or give notice to a cause, nonprofit and
noncommercial service or political message of an individual, charitable
organization, political group or other entity.
   SIGN, OUTDOOR ADVERTISING, WITH STRUCTURE. A sign and structure which
directs attention to a business, commodity, service or entertainment conducted,
sold or offered either off premises or as a minor or incidental activity upon
the premises where the sign is displayed.
   SIGN PERMIT. A permit issued by the town that authorizes the recipient to
erect, move, enlarge or substantially alter a sign.
   SIGN, PORTABLE. An outdoor advertising display sign on wheels or otherwise
not affixed to a permanent foundation.
   SIGN, PROJECTION. An outdoor advertising display sign which is affixed to
any building wall or structure and extends beyond the building wall, structure
or building line more than 12 inches.
   SIGN, ROOF. An outdoor advertising display sign erected, constructed or
maintained above or on the roof of any building.
   SIGN, SHINGLE. A projection or wall sign not over six feet in area,
constructed of metal or other noncombustible material, attached securely to a
building.
   SIGN, TEMPORARY. A sign or advertising display constructed of cloth, canvas,
fabric, plywood or other light material and designed or intended to be
displayed for a period not to exceed 30 days.
   SIGN, VEHICULAR. Any message, symbol or design painted or constructed upon
any vehicle, including a trailer, which is parked in the public right-of-way or
parked in a manner where an advertising message is understandable from the road
or street and which does not have a current license, current inspection sticker
or current registration and which such vehicle is not used in normal day-to-day
operation of the business for the purpose of delivering goods or services. A
VEHICULAR SIGN shall include any vehicle or a trailer that is used primarily
for the purpose of displaying advertisement.
   SIGN, WALL. An outdoor advertising display sign painted or affixed to the
wall of any building that projects not more than 12 inches from the building.
   SIGN, WINDOW. A sign that is placed, painted or attached to or within 24
inches of glazing and is visible from the exterior of the building.
   SIGNS, TOURIST ORIENTED DIRECTIONAL-GUIDE.  Signs that display the business
identification of and directional information for tourist oriented businesses
and tourist oriented facilities (as defined by G.S. § 136-140.15) or for a
class of business or facility that are tourist oriented.
   SILL GIRDER. The lowermost structural beam of a building which rests on the
foundation wall or pilings and which supports the floor and exterior structure
walls.
   SILTATION. Sediment resulting from accelerated erosion which is settleable
or removable by properly designed, constructed and maintained control measures
which has been transported from its point of origin within the site of a land-
disturbing activity and which has been deposited into or is in suspension in
water.
   SITE. The area or parcel of land on which any improvement has been or is
about to be located and operated and comprising one or more subdivided lots,
unsubdivided parcels, tracts or areas of land which join and are being
developed under a common scheme of development.
   SITE PLAN. The development plan for one or more lots on which is shown the
existing and proposed conditions of the lot including: topography, vegetation,
drainage, floodplains, marshes and waterways, open spaces, walkways, means of
ingress and egress, utility services, landscaping, structures and signs,
lighting and screening devices and any other information that reasonably may be
required in order that an informed decision can be made by the approving
authority. A site plan and the site plan procedures for approval contained in
this chapter shall confer upon the applicant the rights which are provided in
Chapter 996 of the 1989 Session Laws, being G.S.§ 160D-108, or amendments
thereto relating to vested rights for a site specific development plan.
   SITE PLAN, AS-BUILT. The development plan for one or more lots on which is
shown the changes made during construction of the lot or lots, including
topography, vegetation, drainage, floodplains, marshes and waterways, open
spaces, walkways, means of ingress and egress, utility services, landscaping,
structures and signs, lighting and screening devices and any other information
that reasonably may be required so that a determination can be made on whether
or not the site was developed in accordance with the approved site plan.
   SITE PLAN, NATURAL FEATURES. A site plan and accompanying report detailing
existing vegetation, watercourses and topography.
   SITE SPECIFIC DEVELOPMENT PLAN. A preliminary subdivision plat or commercial
site plan approved by the Board of Commissioners.
   SKIRTING AREA. That area beneath a mobile home from the underside of the
floor area to the ground.
   SPECIAL USE PERMIT. A permit issued by the Board of Commissioners that
authorizes the recipient to make use of property in accordance with the
requirements of this chapter as well as any additional requirements imposed by
the Board.
   STORAGE. The safekeeping of goods.
   STORAGE, OPEN. An unroofed storage area, whether fenced or not.
   STORM DRAINAGE FACILITIES. The system of inlets, conduits, channels, ditches
and appurtenances which serve to collect and convey stormwater through and from
a given drainage area.
   STORM, TEN-YEAR. The surface runoff resulting from a rainfall of an
intensity expected to be equaled or exceeded, on the average once in ten years
and of a duration which will produce the maximum peak rate of runoff, for the
watershed of interest under average antecedent wetness conditions (usually two
hours). Volume of runoff for the design storm will equal 4.3 inches of rainfall
as determined by the U.S. Weather Bureau.
   STORMWATER COLLECTION SYSTEM. Any pipe, channel, curb or gutter for the
primary purpose of transporting (not treating) stormwater runoff.
   STORMWATER RUNOFF. The direct runoff of water resulting from precipitation
in any form.
   STORMWATER SYSTEMS, OFF-SITE. The systems necessary to control stormwater
from more than one development. Such systems may be owned and operated as a
duly licensed utility or by a local government.
   STORMWATER SYSTEMS, ON-SITE. The systems necessary to control stormwater
within an individual development project.
   STORY, BUILDING. That portion of a building included between the upper
surface of a floor and the upper surface of the floor or roof above. The
basement of a building shall be considered a story if it is used for purposes
other than storage or heating.
   STREET. Any improved and permanently dedicated public right-of-way which has
been accepted for maintenance by the North Carolina Department of
Transportation or the town.
   STREET LINE. That line common to a street and abutting land.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
location on the ground or attachment to something having location on the
ground.
   STRUCTURE, ACCESSORY. A building or other structure, the use of which is
clearly incidental to and customarily found in conjunction with the principal
structure or use located on the same lot. All setbacks shall be measured from
the furthest projection, from the ground upward, of the accessory structure.
   STRUCTURE, ACCESSORY EQUIPMENT. A building or cabinet-like structure located
adjacent to, or in the immediate vicinity of, a wireless telecommunications
tower or antenna to house equipment customarily incidental to the receiving or
transmitting of wireless broadcasts, cellular telephone calls, voice messaging
and paging services.
   STRUCTURE, COMMERCIAL.  Includes all development with the exception of
single-family dwellings and two-family dwellings as defined in this section.
   STRUCTURE, PRINCIPAL.  A structure in which the primary use of the lot on
which the building is located is conducted. PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE includes all
structures greater than six inches above finished grade and less than two feet
from the main building. Fencing, poles, post and other ornamental features
shall not be considered part of the PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE. All setbacks shall be
measured from the furthest projection, from the ground upward, of the PRINCIPAL
STRUCTURE.
   STRUCTURE VALUATION. The valuation of the structure appearing on the Dare
County January 1 tax assessment of the property for the current tax year or an
appraisal certified and submitted by a qualified appraiser. Value shall be only
on the structure not including any land or other associated site value.
   SUBSIDIARY. An affiliate that is directly, or indirectly through one or more
intermediaries, controlled by another person.
   SUNROOM. A room or a portion of a structure where more than 75% of the roof
and walls are composed of glass, plexiglass or other transparent material.
   SWALE. A natural or constructed waterway, typically broad and shallow,
seeded to grass as protection against erosion, which conducts surface water
away from development sites or provides an area for stormwater percolation.
   SWEEPSTAKES. Any game, advertising scheme or plan, or other promotion,
which, with or without payment of any consideration, a person may enter to win
or become eligible to receive any prize, the determination of which is based
upon chance.
   TOP PLATE. The structural member of a building located at the point where
the structural wall framing and the structural roof framing join together at
the top of the uppermost habitable floor. If the building is designed having
top plates at more than one horizontal level, the uppermost one shall be
considered the top plate in so far as usage in this chapter is concerned.
   TOURIST HOME. See the definition for GUEST HOUSE.
   TOWER, GUY. A tower design that features supporting cables and wires
anchored to the ground surrounding the tower.
   TOWER, LATTICE. Three- or four-legged steel girdered structures typically
supporting multiple communications users and services generally ranging from 60
to 200 feet in height.
   TOWER, MONOPOLE. Single pole design, approximately three feet in diameter at
the base narrowing to approximately 1½ feet at the top, generally ranging from
25 to 150 feet in height.
   TOWER, TELECOMMUNICATIONS. Any structure that is designed and constructed
primarily for the purpose of supporting one or more antennas, including self-
supporting lattice towers, guy towers or monopole towers. The term includes
radio and television transmission towers, personal communications service (PCS)
towers, microwave towers, common-carrier towers, cellular telephone towers,
alternative tower structures and the like. This definition does not include any
structure erected solely for a residential, noncommercial individual use, such
as television antennas, satellite dishes or amateur radio antennas.
   TOWNHOUSE. A single structure consisting of three or more dwelling units,
each with no other dwelling or portion of dwelling directly above or below,
each dwelling unit of which having direct ground level access to the outdoors
and connecting to the other units by at least one common wall with no openings.
For the purposes of this chapter, TOWNHOUSE will be referred to as multi-
family dwelling.
   TRACT. All contiguous land and bodies of water being disturbed or to be
disturbed as a unit, regardless of ownership.
   TRAILER. A house car, camper, camp car, house trailer, trailer home, mobile
home or other similar vehicle which may or may not be mounted on wheels, skids
or rollers, either self-propelled or located by other means, including any such
dismounted vehicle or unit, whether prefabricated, prebuilt or otherwise or
placed upon a masonry or other stationary foundation which is used or designed
to be used for permanent or semipermanent living or sleeping quarters,
including bedrooms or kitchens or both. This definition shall not include
vehicles designed primarily for the transportation of goods and merchandise,
luggage and the like. This definition shall include a single unit or
combination of units so defined as trailers.
   TRAILER PARK. A parcel or tract of land under single ownership which has
been planned and improved for the temporary placement of campers or trailers as
a service to the traveling public.
   TRAILER, TRAVEL. Any vehicle equipped with an axle which may have been used
for sleeping quarters and being either self-propelled or designed to be towed
by a motor vehicle.
   TRANSMISSION LINE. Above-ground electric transmission lines, connected to a
common system of linear towers and other appurtenant structures (collectively,
an OVERHEAD TRANSMISSION SYSTEM).
   TREE. Any woody plant of single or multiple trunks with a diameter of four
inches or more at one foot above the ground.
   TREE REMOVAL. Any act which causes a tree to die or cease to exist within a
period of two years of that act, including but not limited to felling,
girdling, logging, poisoning, burning.
   TWENTY-FIVE YEAR STORM. The storm water runoff resulting from precipitation
of an intensity expected to be equaled or exceeded on the average, once in 25
years, and of a duration which will produce the maximum peak rate of runoff for
the watershed of interest under average antecedent wetness conditions.
   UNCOVERING. The removal of ground cover from, on or above the soil surface.
   UNDERTAKING. The initiating of any activity, or phase of activity, which
results or will result in a change in the ground cover or topography of a tract
of land.
   UNIT. Each apartment within a multi-family structure.
   USE. Any purpose for which a building or other structure or a tract of land
is or may be designed, arranged, intended, maintained or occupied or any
activity, occupation, business or operation carried on or intended to be
carried on in a building or other structure or on a tract of land.
   USE, ACCESSORY. A use which is clearly subordinate to, incidental to and
customarily found in connection with the principal use and located on the same
lot with such principal use.
   USE, CHANGE OF. The replacement of an existing use by a new use that is a
change in the category of permitted use, but not including change of ownership,
tenancy, or management where the previous use, line of business, or other
function is substantially unchanged.
   USE, COMMERCIAL.  Includes all uses with the exception of single-family
dwellings and two-family dwellings as defined in this section.
   USE, NONCONFORMING. A use of building or land which does not conform to the
regulations of the district in which such building or land is situated but
which is lawful since it existed before adoption or amendments of this chapter.
   USE, PRINCIPAL. The business activity which comprises the primary or
majority of the commercial activity that occurs on a site as permitted by the
Town of Kill Devil Hills.
   USE, SPECIAL. A use described in a list of such special uses in this chapter
for specific zoned districts and as may be allowed by the Board of
Commissioners.
   UTILITY POLE. Pole used to support essential services such as power,
telephone or cable TV lines or used to support street or pedestrian way
lighting, typically located in public rights-of-way.
   VARIANCE. A relaxation of the terms of the zoning code where such variance
will not be contrary to the public interest.
   VEGETATION. A collection of natural growth species.
   VEGETATION LINE. The first line of stable natural vegetation representing
the boundary between the normal dry-sand beach and the more stable upland areas
being generally located at or immediately oceanward of the seaward toe of the
frontal dune and/or erosion escarpment, and where there is no stable natural
vegetation present, this line shall be established by connecting or extending
the lines from the nearest adjacent vegetation on either side of the site and
by extrapolating (by either on-ground observation or by aerial photographic
interpretation) to establish the line. The VEGETATION LINE shall be established
by the local CAMA permit officer on a case-by-case basis.
   VEGETATIVE FILTER. An area of natural or planted vegetation through which
stormwater runoff flows in a diffuse manner so that runoff does not become
channelized and which provides for infiltration of runoff and filtering of
pollutants. The direction of stormwater flow defines the width of the filter.
   VELOCITY. The average velocity of flow through the cross section of the main
channel at the peak flow of the storm of interest. The cross section of the
main channel shall be that area defined by the geometry of the channel plus the
area of flow below the flood height defined by vertical lines at the main
channel banks. Overload flows are not to be included for the purpose of
computing velocity of flow.
   VETERINARY HOSPITAL/CLINIC. An establishment for the care and treatment of
the diseases and injuries of domestic animals and where the animals may be
boarded during their convalescence.
   WAREHOUSE. Any structure, store, depot or supply dump used for storage of
merchandise, commodities, materials for business, stock for the production of
any articles and/or any items requiring temporary or permanent shelter where
there is no public access and no retail sales.
   WAREHOUSE, INDUSTRIAL COMPLEX. A single development site having combined
enclosed gross floor area exceeding 50,000 square feet. A WAREHOUSE, INDUSTRIAL
COMPLEX must have at least 60% of its enclosed gross floor area used as
warehouse, large warehouse and/or industrial warehouse, including office space
required for warehouse operation. Warehouse office space shall not exceed 100
square feet or 15% of the gross floor area of the associated business's
warehouse space whichever is larger to be included as part of the area of the
warehouse industrial complex. The remainder of the gross floor area may be used
for additional office space for associated businesses or any other permitted
use within the zoning district.
   WAREHOUSE, LIGHT INDUSTRIAL.  A business use or activity involving
manufacturing, fabrication, assembly, warehousing and/or storage including boat
manufacturing, cabinet work, stone  or concrete works, machine or blacksmith
shops, motor or freight terminals, and similar uses where there is no public
access and no retail sales.
   WAREHOUSE, RETAIL. A wholesale retail/warehouse establishment offering
merchandise to the public and office areas.
   WASTE. Surplus materials resulting from on-site construction and disposed of
at other locations.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height in relation to mean sea level expected
to be reached by floods of various magnitudes and frequencies at pertinent
points in the floodplain.
   WET RETENTION POND. A structure that provides for the storage and/or
treatment of runoff and includes a permanent pool of water.
   WETLAND SWALE. Seasonally flooded or water saturated ground depressions.
   WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (WTS). Licensed or unlicensed wireless
telecommunications services, including cellular, digital cellular, personal
communications services (PCS), specialized mobile radio (SMR), enhanced
specialized mobile radio (ESMR), commercial or private paging services or
similar services marketed or provided to the general public. This definition
does not include services by noncommercial entities in the Amateur Radio
Service, Public Safety Radio Service or licenses assigned to nonprofit
organizations, such as the Red Cross, Civil Air Patrol and Military Affiliated
Radio Service (MARS), that are licensed by the Federal Communications
Commission (FCC).
   WORKFORCE MULTI-FAMILY HOUSING. Multi-family development for an eligible
household which: rents for a total annual amount at or below 30% of 125% of
Median Family Income for Dare County; or, sells at a price no more than three
times 125% of Median Family Income for Dare County.
   WORKING DAYS. Days exclusive of Saturday and Sunday during which weather
conditions or soil conditions permit land-disturbing activity to be undertaken.
   YARD. A required open space, other than a court, unoccupied and unobstructed
by any structure or portion of a structure from 30 inches above the ground
level of the graded lot upward, provided, however, that fences, walls, poles,
posts and other customary yard accessories, ornaments and furniture may be
permitted in any yard subject to height limitations and requirements limiting
obstruction of visibility or any other requirement of this chapter.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard area where the width is measured the entire length of
the property line between the side property lines; and its depth is measured as
the distance between the street right-of-way line and the required front
setback line.
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the rear of the lot between side lot
lines. Depth of a required rear yard shall be measured in such a manner that
the yard established is a strip of the minimum width required by district
regulations with its inner edge parallel with the rear lot line.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard extending from the rear line of the required front yard
to the rear yard. Width of a required side yard shall be measured in such a
manner that the yard established is a strip of the minimum width required by
district regulations with its inner edge parallel with the side lot line.
   ZONING NONCONFORMITY. Any use, facility, building, lot, sign, structure,
outdoor lighting, fence, landscaping, impervious surface, off-street parking
lot, or other element of this chapter, which lawfully existed at the time it
was created and because of revisions to this chapter currently fails to comply
with one or more applicable regulations, restrictions or standards of this
chapter.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 93-06, passed 6-14-93; Am. Ord. 94-01,
passed 1-26-94; Am. Ord. 94-06, passed 4-11-94; Am. Ord. 96-12, passed 6-10-96;
Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 01-05, passed 6-27-01; Am. Ord. 01-10,
passed 8-13-01; Am. Ord. 01-12, passed 11-14-01; Am. Ord. 02-02, passed 1-14-
02; Am. Ord. 02-05, passed 2-27-02; Am. Ord. 02-14, passed 7-24-02; Am. Ord.
03-05, passed 4-14-03; Am. Ord. 03-07, passed 6-25-03; Am. Ord. 03-11, passed
6-25-03; Am. Ord. 03-16, passed 10-15-03; Am. Ord. 04-01, passed 2-25-04; Am.
Ord. 04-02, passed 4-24-04; Am. Ord. 04-06, passed 4-28-04; Am. Ord. 04-08,
passed 5-26-04; Am. Ord. 04-18, passed 10-11-04; Am. Ord. 05-12, passed 8-8-05;
Am. Ord. 05-19, passed 10-4-05; Am. Ord. 05-20, passed 11-14-05; Am. Ord. 06-
05, passed 4-10-06; Am. Ord. 06-08, passed 5-8-06; Am. Ord. 06-20, passed 8-14-
06; Am. Ord. 07-07, passed 5-23-07; Am. Ord. 07-17, passed 10-24-07; Am. Ord.
07-18, passed 10-24-07; Am. Ord. 08-03, passed 1-14-08; Am. Ord. 08-11, passed
3-26-08; Am. Ord. 08-13, passed 4-14-08; Am. Ord. 08-22, passed 8-11-08; Am.
Ord. 08-35, passed 12-8-08; Am. Ord. 09-19, passed 10-28-09; Am. Ord. 10-03,
passed 4-12-10; Am. Ord. 11-04, passed 4-11-11; Am. Ord. 11-08, passed 5-25-11;
Am. Ord. 11-21, passed 10-10-11; Am. Ord. 12-01, passed 1-25-12; Am. Ord. 12-
13, passed 5-23-12; Am. Ord. 12-22, passed 11-14-12; Am. Ord. 13-01, passed 1-
14-13; Am. Ord. 13-3, passed 3-20-13; Am. Ord. 13-4, passed 4-24-13; Am. Ord.
13-16, passed 10-14-13; Am. Ord. 14-07, passed 6-17-14; Am. Ord. 14-25, passed
2-9-15; Am. Ord. 15-6, passed 9-21-15; Am. Ord. 16-6, passed 11-15-17; Am. Ord.
16-19, passed 6-27-18; Am. Ord. 16-21, passed 7-19-18; Am. Ord. 16-23, passed
1-14-19; Am. Ord. 17-28, passed 3-8-21; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21; Am. Ord.
19-8, passed 3-7-22; Am. Ord. 19-12, passed 7-11-22; Am. Ord. 19-22, passed 8-
14-23)
§ 153.003 INTERPRETATION.
   The interpretations and application of the provisions of this chapter shall
be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public safety,
health, convenience, prosperity and general welfare. It is not intended by this
chapter to interfere with or abrogate or annul any easements, covenants or
other agreements between parties, provided that where this chapter imposes a
greater restriction upon the use of buildings or premises or upon the height of
buildings or premises or requires larger open spaces than are imposed or
required by other provisions of this code, ordinances, rules, regulations or by
easements, covenants or agreements, the provisions of this chapter shall
govern. Where duplications/conflicts occur within this chapter or with state or
federal regulations, the more restrictive provisions apply.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 18-4,
passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.004 COMPLIANCE WITH DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No building, structure or land shall be used or occupied, and no
structure or part thereof shall have to be constructed, except in conformity
with all regulations herein specified for the district in which it is located.
Permitted and special uses are listed by districts within a schedule of
district regulations. Any use not specifically designated a permitted or
special use shall be deemed to be prohibited.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (A) of this section or any
other provisions of this chapter, street improvement projects initiated by the
town shall not be subject to the provisions of this chapter. For the purpose of
this section, the term STREET IMPROVEMENT PROJECT shall mean all improvements
undertaken by the town within public streets rights-of-way (whether such
rights-of-way are acquired by dedication, purchase, gift or otherwise),
including, without limitation, paving or repaving, the installation of
utilities or landscaping or the construction of curbs and gutters, construction
parking places or facilities or sidewalks.
   (C)   All activities related to the construction of public streets, parking,
landscaping, curbs and gutters, sidewalks or facilities within town rights-of-
way (whether acquired by purchase, gift or dedication or otherwise) shall be a
permitted use in all zoning districts.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 96-10, passed 6-10-96; Am. Ord. 01-02,
passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICT
§ 153.020 ZONES CREATED; ENUMERATED.
   In order to regulate and limit the height and size of buildings and
determine the areas of open spaces and surrounding buildings and to classify,
regulate and restrict the location of trades and businesses and the location of
buildings designed for specified business, residential and other uses, the town
is divided into zones which shall be known as follows:
   (A)   Ocean Impact Residential (OIR) Zone;
   (B)   Low Density Residential (RL) Zone;
   (C)   High Density Residential (RH) Zone;
   (D)   Commercial (C) Zone;
   (E)   Light Industrial Two (LI-2) Zone;
   (F)   Light Industrial One (LI-1) Zone;
   (G)   Government and Institutional Public Ownership (G&I - Public) Zone;
   (H)   Government and Institutional Zone - Private Ownership (G&I - Private)
Zone;
   (I)   Maritime Forest Environmental District (MFED).
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 18-4,
passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.021 ZONING MAP ADOPTION.
   The boundaries of the zones are shown upon a map titled “Zoning Map, Town of
Kill Devil Hills, North Carolina.” The zoning map and all notations, references
and amendments thereto and other information shown thereon is made a part of
this chapter the same as if such information set forth on the map were fully
described and set out in this chapter. The zoning map, properly attested, shall
be kept on file in the office of the Town Clerk and shall be available for
inspection by the public. Maps may be in paper or a digital format approved by
local government.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 08-21,
passed 8-11-08; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.022 ADOPTION OF BOUNDARIES.
   The boundaries of the various zones as shown on the Zoning Map are adopted
and the provisions of this chapter governing the use of land and buildings, the
height of buildings, building site areas, the sizes of yards about buildings
and other matters as hereinafter set forth are established and declared to be
in effect upon land included within the boundaries of each and every zone shown
upon the Zoning Map.
(Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.023 INTERPRETATION OF BOUNDARIES.
   Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of any zone shown on the
Zoning Map, the following rules shall apply:
   (A)   Where such boundaries are indicated as approximately the following
street lines, alley lines and lot lines, such lines shall be construed as
boundaries.
   (B)   In unsubdivided property or where a zone boundary divides a lot, the
location of such boundary, unless such boundary is indicated by dimensions,
shall be determined by use of the scale appearing on the map.
   (C)   In case any further uncertainty exists, the Board of Adjustments shall
interpret the intent of the map as to location of such boundaries.
   (D)   Where any street or alley is, after November 30, 1953, officially
vacated or abandoned, the regulations applicable to each parcel of abutting
property shall apply to the resulting parcel of land which has had added to its
original boundaries the area within the abandoned street or alley.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 18-4,
passed 6-14-21)
APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS
§ 153.035 COMPLIANCE WITH ZONE REGULATIONS REQUIRED.
   Except as provided in this chapter, no building or structure shall be
erected, reconstructed or structurally altered, nor shall any building or land
be used which does not comply with all the zone regulations established by this
chapter for the zone in which the building or land is located.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 18-4,
passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.036 YARDS, OPEN SPACES, INTENSITY OF USE AND THE LIKE.
   The minimum yards and other open spaces including the intensity of use
provisions contained in this chapter for each and every building erected or
structurally altered after November 30, 1953 shall not be encroached upon or
considered as yard or open space requirement or intensity of use requirement
for any other building.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 18-4,
passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.037 CONVERSION OF EXISTING STRUCTURE TO CONDOMINIUM OWNERSHIP.
   Existing structures not in condominium ownership under the Unit Ownership
Act of the State of North Carolina may be converted to unit ownership, provided
the owner or developer shall comply with all applicable state codes, including
but not limited to fire codes and building codes.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 18-4,
passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.038 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners, from time to time, on its own motion or
upon petition, after public notice and hearing provided by law may amend,
supplement, change, modify or repeal the boundaries or regulations in this
chapter or subsequently established after submitting the same to the Town
Planning Board for its recommendation.
      (1)   Before adopting, amending or repealing any ordinance or development
regulations, the governing board shall hold a legislative hearing in accordance
with §
153.363 of this chapter.
      (2)   Before adopting or amending a zoning map change, the governing
board shall hold a legislative hearing in accordance with §
153.363 of this chapter.
      (3)   When adopting or rejecting any zoning text or map amendment, the
governing board shall also approve a brief statement describing whether its
action is consistent or inconsistent with an adopted comprehensive plan and
reasonableness of the amendment (G.S. § 160D-605).
   (B)   The Planning Board shall review and comment on all amendments to any
zoning ordinance or redevelopment regulations prior to the governing board
consideration. The Planning Board may hold legislative hearings as it deems
necessary. The Planning Board shall review each proposed amendment to
consistency with any comprehensive plan that has been adopted and any other
official adopted plan that is applicable. A written recommendation to the
governing board that addresses plan consistency as well as a recommendation on
the proposed amendment. A recommendation by the planning board that a proposed
amendment is inconsistent with the comprehensive plan shall not preclude
consideration or approval of the proposed amendment by the Board of
Commissioners.
   (C)   A petition for the reclassification of property or amendments to the
text of these regulations or Zoning Map that has been denied in whole or in
part, or approved to a classification other than the one originally requested,
shall not be resubmitted within two years of the date of the Board of
Commissioners’ action on the original petition, except as permitted in this
subsection. However, nothing in this division can be deemed to preclude seeking
a lower classification in the hierarchy of zoning districts.
   (D)   The Board of Commissioners may allow resubmission of the petition
within the two- year time frame if it determines that, since the date of action
on the prior petition, one or more of the following guidelines have been met:
      (1)   There has been a similar or more intensive change in the zoning
district classification of an adjacent property;
      (2)   The Board of Commissioners has adopted a public policy plan,
including area plan, district plan or transportation plan that changes public
policy regarding how the property affected by the amendment should be
developed;
      (3)   Construction or expansion of a road, waterline, sewer line or other
infrastructure has occurred to serve the property and which infrastructure can
accommodate the intensity of development allowed under the proposed
classification; or
      (4)   There has been some other substantial change in conditions or
circumstances which justifies waiver of the two-year restriction on a new
petition; this shall not include a change in the ownership of the subject
property or, in the case of a petition for reclassification to a conditional
use or parallel conditional use district, a change in the scale or features of
the development proposed in the prior petition.
   (E)   The Board of Commissioners shall receive a report from the Planning
Board containing its recommendations on resubmission of the petition.
   (F)   Any petition allowed by the Board of Commissioners under division (C)
of this section must be reviewed and approved in accordance with the procedures
and standards required under this chapter for the review of proposed
amendments.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 92-05, passed 5-1-92; Am. Ord. 01-02,
passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.039 ZONING AMENDMENT APPLICATION FEE.
   (A)   A fee as set from time to time by the Board, plus associated
procedural costs, shall be paid to the town for each application for amendment
to the Zoning Map or text. Legal advertisement shall be the responsibility of
the planning staff, including notification by the planning staff to adjoining
property owners which is paid for by the applicant and evidenced at the
required public hearing.
   (B)   A copy of the zoning amendment application is included in Appendix D,
following this chapter.
(Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
NONCONFORMITIES
§ 153.050 INTENT.
   This chapter establishes standards and guidelines on the use and development
of land by establishing minimum standards as guidelines for managing growth in
a direction that will result in an environment satisfactory to the residents
and visitors of the town. In many instances, land and improvements were
developed or proposals for such were initiated prior to the adoption of this
chapter. These situations may not meet the minimum standards contained in this
chapter because they were developed under no specific standards or under
standards which were less restrictive. The Board recognizes that the strict
application of these standards to such situations may create certain hardships
for the property owner. Therefore, it is the intent of this subchapter to
permit, under certain circumstances, these nonconformities to continue and be
brought into greater compliance.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 93-11, passed 9-13-93; Am. Ord. 01-02,
passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 07-18, passed 10-24-07; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.051 NONCONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD.
   (A)   In any district, other than Maritime Forest Environmental District, in
which single- family dwellings are permitted, a single-family dwelling and
accessory structures may be erected on any single lot of record in the Dare
County Registry of Deeds as of the effective date of this chapter
notwithstanding limitations imposed by other provisions of this chapter. These
provisions shall apply even though such lot fails to meet the requirements for
lot area or lot dimension that are applicable in the district, provided that
requirements other than those applying to lot area or lot dimension shall
conform to the regulations for the district in which such lot is located.
   (B)   Any expansion of any building occupying a nonconforming lot, as of the
effective date of this chapter, must comply with the minimum requirements of
the ordinance, other than lot area and lot dimension, for the district in which
the lot is located.
   (C)   Combined lots shall not be subdivided or exempt from the subdivision
requirements if such division will create any nonconformity.
   (D)   No such lot with a width of less than 45 feet shall be occupied by any
structure without first obtaining a variance from the Zoning Board of
Adjustment. Such lots having a width of 45 feet or greater shall not be
required to seek a variance from the Zoning Board of Adjustments regarding the
width of the lot.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 93-11, passed 9-13-93; Am. Ord. 01-02,
passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 11-01, passed 1-10-11; Am. Ord. 12-17, passed 8-13-12;
Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.052 NONCONFORMING USES.
   Where, at the effective date of this chapter, existing uses of land are no
longer permissible under the terms of this chapter, such use may be continued
provided that:
   (A)   No such nonconforming use shall be enlarged or increased, nor extended
to occupy a greater area than was occupied at the effective date of this
chapter;
   (B)   No such nonconforming use shall be moved in whole or in part to any
other portion of the lot or parcel occupied by such use at the effective date
of this chapter;
   (C)   If such nonconforming use of land ceases for any reason for a period
of more than 60 days, any subsequent use of such land shall conform to the
requirements specified by this chapter for the district in which such land is
located unless good faith attempts are made to rent or lease the land for the
same nonconforming use. In no event will the period exceed 180 days. Land
occupied by seasonal uses shall be exempt from this provision.
   (D)   No additional structures not conforming to the requirements of this
chapter shall be erected in connection with such nonconforming use of land;
   (E)   A conforming or nonconforming use of land may not be changed to any
other nonconforming use.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 93-11, passed 9-13-93; Am. Ord. 01-02,
passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 07-18, passed 10-24-07; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.053 ZONING NONCONFORMITY.
   Where, on the effective date of this chapter, there is a zoning
nonconformity, such nonconformity may be continued so long as it remains
lawful, subject to the following provisions:
   (A)   Single-family and duplex nonconforming structures shall be subject to
the following provisions:
      (1)   Any zoning nonconformity where the cost of the addition, structural
alteration, reconstruction/repair or remodel exceeds 50% of the structural
valuation the site shall be brought into compliance with the regulations of
this chapter. Multiple projects/approvals cannot cumulatively exceed 50% of the
structural valuation within 365 days.
      (2)   Any zoning nonconformity may be modified by an addition, structural
alteration, reconstruction/repair or remodel in a manner which does not
increase its nonconformity where the cost of that addition, structural
alteration, reconstruction/repair or remodel is less than 50% of structural
valuation and subject to the following provisions.
         (a)   Increases to the gross floor area of the principal structure
and/or addition of a bedroom(s), with the exception of unheated storage areas,
shall require all parking and driveways be brought into compliance with this
chapter.
   (B)   Commercial, industrial and institutional zoning nonconformities shall
be subject to the following provisions:
      (1)   Any zoning nonconformity where the addition to the gross floor area
exceeds 50% of the gross floor area, the site shall be brought into compliance
with the regulations of this chapter. Multiple projects/approvals cannot
cumulatively exceed 50% of the gross floor area within 365 days.
      (2)   Any zoning nonconformity may be modified by an addition, structural
alteration, reconstruction/repair, remodel or change of use subject to the
following provisions:
         (a)   Any repair/reconstruction or change of use shall be permitted
provided that the repair/reconstruction or change of use does not increase any
nonconformity.
         (b)   Remodels interior and/or exterior and structural alteration
shall be permitted provided that the remodel does not increase any
nonconformity and conforms to all applicable regulations of the Town Code.
         (c)   Additions less than 20% of the gross floor area or 1,500 square
feet, whichever is less, and site feature additions less than 50% of the
footprint of existing site features shall be permitted provided that the
addition does not increase any nonconformity and conforms to all applicable
regulations of the Town Code.
         (d)   Using the nonconformity worksheet (hereby "the worksheet") and
associated rules located in Appendix F, the following improvements will be
required to be within the proposed corresponding points from total ordinance
required points for the site and have a minimum 2 point differential between
existing and proposed points as follows:
            1.   Additions:
               A.   Principal building:
                  i.   Additions of 20%–35% of the gross floor area or greater
than 1,500 square feet, shall have a proposed point value within 10 points from
total ordinance required points as calculated on the worksheet;
                  ii.   Additions of 36%–50% of the gross floor area or greater
than 1,500 square feet, shall have a proposed point value within 5 points from
total ordinance required points as calculated on the worksheet.
                  iii.   Additions greater than 50% of the gross floor area or
greater than 1,500 square feet, shall comply with the zoning ordinance.
               B.   Site features greater than 50% shall have a proposed point
value within 20 points from total ordinance required points as calculated on
the worksheet.
      (3)   Nonconforming sunrooms constructed prior to November 18, 1991 may
be reconstructed/repaired with another type of construction provided that the
resultant footprint is equal to or less than the footprint of the existing
sunroom.
   (C)   Historic structures.
      (1)   Commercial structures designated Local Historic Landmarks in
accordance with §
31.42 and commercial structures built prior to the adoption of zoning
ordinance, November 30, 1953 shall comply with the provisions:
         (a)   Any historic structure zoning nonconformity where the cost of
the addition, structural alteration, reconstruction/repair or remodel exceeds
50% of the structural valuation the site shall be brought into compliance with
the regulations of this chapter. Multiple projects/approvals cannot
cumulatively exceed 50% of the structural valuation within 365 days.
         (b)   Any historic structure zoning nonconformity may be modified by
an addition, structural alteration, reconstruction/repair or remodel in a
manner which does not increase its nonconformity where the cost of that
addition, structural alteration, reconstruction/repair or remodel is less than
50% of structural valuation and subject to the following provision:
            1.   All applicable regulations of the Town Code shall be met for
the addition to the structure.
   (D)   In the event a natural disaster, casualty loss or accidental
occurrence leads to extensive damage to a structure that is nonconforming in
any respect or a structure that is used in a nonconforming manner, that
structure or use may be repaired or reconstructed to 100% of its status as of
the date of enactment of this chapter. In a State of Emergency declared by the
Mayor, see §
153.359(C). The following conditions shall apply:
      (1)   The total amount of space devoted to a nonconforming use may not be
restricted;
      (2)   The reconstructed building may not be more nonconforming with
respect to dimensional restrictions, such as yard requirements, height
limitations, lot coverage or density requirements, and such dimensional
nonconformities must be less nonconforming;
      (3)   Reconstruction work may be done only after issuance of a permit by
the Board of Commissioners. The Board of Commissioners shall issue the permit
if it finds that the work will be done in accordance with this section and that
all reasonable efforts have been made to reduce nonconforming items using the
nonconformity worksheet as a guide (Appendix F of this chapter).
   (E)   Any such nonconforming structure located on a lot adjacent to the
Atlantic Ocean or sound waters may be moved on the same lot, provided that such
movement does not increase the nonconformity.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 93-11, passed 9-13-93; Am. Ord. 01-02,
passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 04-15, passed 9-13-04; Am. Ord. 05-15, passed 9-12-05;
Am. Ord. 07-18, passed 10-24-07; Am. Ord. 08-03, passed 1-14-08; Am. Ord. 08-
06, passed 2-11-08; Am. Ord. 08-08, passed 2-27-08; Am. Ord. 09-01, passed 1-
28-09; Am. Ord. 10-20, passed 11-10-10; Am. Ord. 11-06, passed 4-11-11; Am.
Ord. 14-07, passed 6-17-14; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.054 (RESERVED)
§ 153.055 NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   A sign which existed legally prior to the adoption of this chapter but which
could not be erected or displayed under the terms of this chapter may be
allowed to continue subject to the following provisions:
   (A)   Minor repairs and maintenance of nonconforming signs, including but
not limited to repainting, electrical repairs or neon tubing repairs will be
allowed. No structural repairs or changes in size, shape or message of a sign
will be permitted except to make the sign comply with the requirements of this
chapter.
   (B)   New signs related to legally established nonconforming uses may be
erected, provided they comply with the sign regulations which apply to the use
in the most restricted district in which the use is permitted.
   (C)   Nonconforming signs will be removed if the activity, business or use
to which it relates has been discontinued for a period of more than 180
consecutive days.
   (D)   When it becomes necessary to reconstruct any sign for a particular
business, every associated sign related to this business, including
directional, must also be brought into compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 93-11, passed 9-13-93; Am. Ord. 01-02,
passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.056 CHANGE OF TENANCY OR OWNERSHIP.
   A change of tenancy, ownership or management of any existing nonconformities
is allowed, provided there is no change in the nature or character of such
nonconformities.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 93-11, passed 9-13-93; Am. Ord. 01-02,
passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.057 (RESERVED)
§ 153.058 PERMITTED SPECIAL USES NOT NONCONFORMING.
   Any use which is permitted as a special use in a district under the terms of
this chapter shall not be deemed a nonconforming use in such district but
shall, without further action, be considered a conforming use.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 93-11, passed 9-13-93; Am. Ord. 01-02,
passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.059 CREATION OF NONCONFORMITIES.
   Boundary lines of lots or parcels shall not be altered if the resulting
parcels create a nonconformity.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 93-11, passed 9-13-93; Am. Ord. 01-02,
passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 153.070 STORMWATER MANAGEMENT.
   (A) The purpose of this chapter is to:
      (1)   Mitigate damage to property caused by flooding;
      (2)   Reduce pollutants and ecological hazards;
      (3)   Reduce existing and future maintenance of, and capital expenditures
for, stormwater drainage systems;
      (4)   Cooperate in the coordination of related goals expressed by state
and federal regulations and that require certain actions with regard to but not
limited to stormwater management, soil erosion and sedimentation control and
floodplain management;
      (5)   Guide growth in an orderly manner consistent with the Kill Devil
Hills Land Use Plan; and
      (6)   Encourage nonconforming sites to comply as much as practicable when
a change of use or alteration occurs.
   (B)   All commercial development (new or substantial improvements) and one
or two-family dwellings greater than 6,000 square feet lot coverage (new or
substantial improvements) shall provide a comprehensive plan for the proper
drainage of all surface water to systems on and off the property in question.
The design criteria as stated in the following divisions or that as may be
specified by state or federal agencies, whichever is the most restrictive, will
be used. Every reasonable effort will be made to retain a maximum of the runoff
on site to the extent feasible and practical. The Stormwater Management Plan
shall be certified by a North Carolina registered design professional for
compliance to requirements of this section.
   (C)   All surface water drainage into the site being developed or generated
on said site must be accommodated in accordance with these guidelines. All
surface water drainage leaving the site shall be channeled to points of
approved discharge, including but not limited to, a natural or man-made
watercourse, a lake, pond, ditch, stormwater drainage system, or other
appropriate and approved points of discharge. Filling of a natural or man-made
watercourse, lake, pond, ditch, stormwater drainage system is hereby permitted
if it meets the following requirement: A plan must be submitted to the town
sealed by North Carolina Licensed Engineer demonstrating that such project will
not diminish the town's ability to manage stormwater.
   (D)   No surface water shall be channeled or directed into a sanitary sewer
or septic tank system. Distances between open ditches and septic tank systems
must be specified on the plans and approved by the Dare County Sanitarian. This
approval must be obtained by the developer prior to approval of the drainage
system by the town.
   (E)   For management and control of stormwater runoff, techniques such as
but not limited to retention, detention and infiltration systems will be used.
   (F)   The drainage design criteria for open and closed drainage systems
shall conform to generally accepted stormwater engineering practices.
   (G)   Development plans shall show the flow direction of stormwater on and
off the property; size, slope, invert and rim elevations of system components;
and ditch cross sections in the vicinity of the development and/or to a
distance as is necessary to evaluate the impact of runoff to existing surface
water drainage systems.
   (H)   Drainage calculation, drainage area maps, flood routing calculations,
infiltration calculations, storm sewer back water curve calculations and other
information that may be required from time to time shall accompany or be a part
of site plans submitted.
   (I)   Estimated runoff calculations may be computed by the Rational Method
(Q=CIA) (see below) or other approved methodologies. Sizing of structures will
be based on the Manning Equation. Culverts shall be evaluated for inlet and
outlet control as necessary.
      (1)   Q means flow in cubic feet per second.
      (2)   C means runoff coefficient.
      (3)   I means rainfall intensity in inches per hour.
      (4)   A means drainage area in acres.
   (J)   Systems shall be designed to retain, as a minimum, runoff expected
from a ten-year, two-hour storm (4.3 inches of rainfall). There may be some
situations which would warrant a different requirement due to the size of the
system. The design engineer will contact the town planning staff in the
preliminary design stages to determine if a change is warranted.
   (K)   A modified rational method hydrograph procedure may be used in sizing
retention and detention systems for sites up to one acre in size. For sites
greater than one acre, a runoff hydrograph shall be computed using the tabular
method as defined in the most recent edition of SCS TR-55 or other accepted
engineering analysis.
   (L)   All underground storm sewers, open drainage ways and related
structures shall be constructed to the applicable provisions of the most recent
edition of Roadway Standard Drawings and Standard Specifications for Road and
Structures produced by the North Carolina Department of Transportation.
   (M)   During the construction, preparation, arrangement and installation of
improvements and facilities in developments, the developer shall maintain each
stream, creek, ditch or channel contiguous to or located within the subdivision
in an unobstructed state and shall remove from such watercourses and the banks
of the watercourses all debris, logs, timber and other accumulations that
would, in time of flood, clog or dam the passage of waters in their downstream
course. Installation of appropriately sized conduits, culverts, bridges or
other required structures shall not be constructed in a way which will obstruct
the flow of drainage.
   (N)   During the development of a site, the person conducting the land-
disturbing activity shall install and maintain all temporary and permanent
erosion and sedimentation control measures as required by the approved plan or
any provision of this chapter, the Act or any order adopted pursuant to this
chapter or the Act. After site development, the landowner or person in
possession or control of the land shall install and/or maintain all necessary
permanent erosion and sedimentation control measures, except those measures
installed within a road or street right-of-way or easement accepted for
maintenance by a governmental agency.
   (O)   Whenever the town determines that significant sedimentation is
occurring as a result of land-disturbing activity, despite application and
maintenance of protective practices, the person conducting the land-disturbing
activity will be required to and shall take additional protective action.
   (P)   In all cases, including one- and two-family dwellings, the developer
shall be required to provide culvert pipes, swales, any improvements in the
adjoining right-of-way and other related drainage improvements as required by
the Public Services Department. Such improvements must be in place and
inspected for compliance and completion by the Public Services Department
before a Certificate of Occupancy is issued.
   (Q)   Stormwater management maintenance. To ensure the proper operation, the
owner shall be responsible for the operation and maintenance of all required
stormwater management features:
      (1)   All features of the approved stormwater management plan must be
regularly maintained and repaired as necessary in order for the system to
function as originally designed and shall comply with the criteria of the North
Carolina Division of Water Quality Stormwater Design Manual (current edition).
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 02-08,
passed 6-10-02; Am. Ord. 14-09, passed 5-12-14; Am. Ord. 17-9, passed 9-11-19;
Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.071 SOIL EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   Regulate certain land-disturbing activity to control accelerated
erosion and sedimentation in order to prevent the pollution of water and other
damage to lakes, watercourses and other public and private property by
sedimentation.
      (2)   Reduce damage to storm drainage facilities.
      (3)   Cooperate in the coordination of the related goals expressed by
state and federal regulations and that require certain actions with regard to
stormwater management, soil erosion and sedimentation control, floodplain
management and the like.
      (4)   Establish procedures through which this regulation can be
fulfilled.
   (B)   Scope and exclusions.
      (1)   Geographical scope of regulated land-disturbing activity. This
section shall apply to land-disturbing activity within the territorial
jurisdiction of the town and to the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the town
as allowed by agreement between local governments, the extent of annexation or
other appropriate legal instrument or law.
      (2)   Exclusions from regulated land-disturbing activity. Notwithstanding
the general applicability of this section to all land-disturbing activity, this
section shall not apply to the following types of land-disturbing activity:
         (a)   An activity, including breeding and grazing of livestock,
undertaken on agricultural land for the production of plants and animals useful
to man, including, but not limited to:
            1.   Forage and sod crops, grain and feed crops, tobacco, cotton,
and peanuts;
            2.   Dairy animals and dairy products;
            3.   Poultry and poultry products;
            4.   Livestock, including beef cattle, sheep, swine, horses,
ponies, mules, and goats;
            5.   Bees and apiary products;
            6.   Fur producing animals.
         (b)   An activity undertaken on forestland for the production and
harvesting of timber and timber products and conducted in accordance with best
management practices set out in Forest Practice Guidelines Related to Water
Quality, as adopted by the Department. If land-disturbing activity undertaken
on forestland for the production and harvesting of timber and timber products
is not conducted in accordance with Forest Practice Guidelines Related to Water
Quality, the provisions of this section shall apply to such activity and any
related land-disturbing activity on the tract;
         (c)   An activity for which a permit is required under the Mining Act
of 1971, G.S. Ch. 75, Art. 7;
         (d)   A land-disturbing activity over which the state has exclusive
regulatory jurisdiction as provided in G.S. § 113A-56(a);
         (e)   An activity which is essential to protect human life during an
emergency;
         (f)   Activities undertaken to restore the wetland functions of
converted wetlands to provide compensatory mitigation to offset impacts
permitted under Section 404 of the Clean Water Act;
         (g)   Activities undertaken pursuant to Natural Resources Conservation
Service standards to restore the wetlands functions of converted wetlands as
defined in 7 C.F.R. § 12.2.
      (3)   Plan approval exceptions. Notwithstanding the general requirement
to obtain a plan approval prior to undertaking land-disturbing activity, a plan
approval shall not be required for land-disturbing activity that does not
exceed 1/2 acre in surface area. In determining the area, lands under one or
diverse ownership being developed as a unit will be aggregated.
   (C)   General requirements.
      (1)   No person shall initiate any land-disturbing activity which
uncovers more than 1/2 acre without having an erosion control plan approved by
the town.
      (2)   Persons conducting land-disturbing activity shall take all
reasonable measures to protect all public and private property from damage
caused by such activity.
      (3)   Whenever conflicts exist between federal, state or local laws,
ordinances or rules, the more restrictive provision shall apply.
   (D)   Mandatory standards for land-disturbing activity. No land-disturbing
activity subject to the control of this section shall be undertaken except in
accordance with the following mandatory standards:
      (1)   No land-disturbing activity shall be permitted in proximity to a
lake or natural watercourse unless a buffer zone is provided along the margin
of the watercourse of sufficient width to confine visible siltation within the
25% of the buffer zone nearer the land-disturbing activity, provided that this
division shall not apply to a land-disturbing activity in connection with the
construction of facilities to be located on, over or under a lake or natural
watercourse.
      (2)   The angle for graded slopes and fills shall be no greater than the
angle which can be retained by vegetative cover or other adequate erosion
control devices or structures. In any event, slopes left exposed will, within
21 days of any phase of grading, be planted or otherwise provided with ground
cover, devices or structures sufficient to restrain erosion. The angle for the
graded slopes and gills must be demonstrated to be stable. Stable is the
condition where the soil remains in its original configuration, with or without
mechanical constraints.
      (3)   Unless a permit from the Department's Division of Waste Management
to operate a landfill is on file for the official site, acceptable fill
material shall be free of organic or other degradable materials, masonry,
concrete and brick in sizes exceeding 12 inches, and any materials which would
cause the site to be regulated as a landfill by the State of North Carolina.
      (4)   Whenever land-disturbing activity is undertaken on a tract
comprising more than 1/2 acre, the person conducting the land-disturbing
activity shall install such sedimentation and erosion control devices and
practices as are sufficient to retain the sediment generated by the land-
disturbing activity within the boundaries of the tract during construction upon
and development of said tract and shall plant or otherwise provide a permanent
ground cover sufficient to restrain erosion after completion of construction or
development within 15 working days or 90 calendar days, whichever is shorter.
      (5)   No person shall initiate any land-disturbing activity if more than
1/2 acre is to be uncovered, unless 30 or more days prior to initiating the
activity an erosion and sedimentation control plan for such activity is filed
with and approved by the town.
      (6)   Buffer measurement. Unless otherwise provided, the width of a
buffer zone is measured horizontally from the edge of the water to the nearest
edge of the disturbed area, with the 25% of the strip nearer the land-
disturbing activity containing natural or artificial means of confining visible
siltation.
      (7)   The land disturbing activity shall be conducted in accordance with
the approved erosion and sedimentation control plan.
   (E)   Erosion and sedimentation control plans.
      (1)   An erosion control plan shall be prepared for all land-disturbing
activities subject to this section whenever the proposed activity is to be
undertaken on a tract comprising more than 1/2 acre, if more than 1/2 acre is
to be uncovered. The plan shall be filed with the town and the Dare County Soil
and Water Conservation District 30 days prior to the commencement of the
proposed activity.
      (2)   The town shall forward to the Director of the Division of Water
Quality a copy of each erosion and sedimentation control plan for a land-
disturbing activity that involves the utilization of ditches for the purpose of
de-watering to lowering the water table of the tract.
      (3)   Prior plan approval. No persons shall initiate land-disturbing
activity if more than 1/2 acre is to be uncovered unless, 30 or more days prior
to initiating the activity, a plan for such activity is filed with and approved
by the town. The town shall forward to the Director of the Division of Water
Quality a copy of each plan for a land-disturbing activity that involves
utilization of ditches for the purpose of de-watering or lowering the water
table of the tract.
      (4)   Financial responsibility and ownership. Plans shall be disapproved
unless accompanied by an authorized statement of financial responsibility and
ownership. This statement shall be signed by the person financially responsible
for the land-disturbing activity or his attorney in fact. The statement shall
include the mailing and street addresses of the principal place of business of
the person financially responsible, the owner of the land, and any registered
agents. If the person financially responsible is not a resident of North
Carolina, a North Carolina agent must be designated in the statement for the
purpose of receiving notice of compliance or noncompliance with the plan, the
Act, this section, or rules or orders issued pursuant to this section. If the
applicant is not the owner of the land to be disturbed, the draft erosion and
sedimentation control plan must include the owner's written consent for the
applicant to submit a draft erosion and sedimentation control plan and to
conduct the anticipated land-disturbing activity.
      (5)   Environmental Policy Act document. Any plan submitted for a land-
disturbing activity for which an environmental document is required by the
North Carolina Environment Policy Act (G.S. § 113A-1 et seq.) shall be deemed
incomplete until a complete environmental document is available for review. The
town shall promptly notify the person submitting the plan that the 30-day time
limit for review of the plan pursuant to this section shall not begin until a
complete environmental document is available for review.
      (6)   Soil and Water Conservation District comments. The district shall
review the plan and submit any comments and the district and the town may agree
upon recommendations to the town within 20 days after the district received the
plan, or within any shorter period of time. Failure of the district to submit
its comments within 20 days or within any agreed upon shorter period of time
shall not delay final action on the plan.
      (7)    The Town Department of Planning and Inspections will review each
plan submitted to them and within 30 days of receipt thereof will notify the
person submitting the plan that it has been approved, approved with
modifications, approved with performance reservations or disapproved. Failure
to approve or disapprove a complete erosion and sedimentation control plan
within 30 days of receipt shall be deemed approval. Denial of a plan will
specifically state in writing the reasons for denial. The town will approve or
deny a revised plan within 15 days of receipt or it is deemed to be approved.
If, following commencement of a land-disturbing activity pursuant to an
approved plan, the town determines that the plan is inadequate to meet the
requirements of this section, it require such revisions as are necessary to
comply with this section.
      (8)   The town shall only approve a plan upon determining that it
complies with all applicable state and local regulations for erosion and
sedimentation control. The town shall condition approval of plans upon the
applicant's compliance with federal and state water quality laws, regulations
and rules. The town shall establish an expiration date, not to exceed three
years, for plans approved under this section.
      (9)   The town may disapprove a plan or draft plan based on its content.
A disapproval based upon a plan's content must specifically state in writing
the reasons for disapproval.
      (10)   Other disapprovals.
         (a)   The town shall disapprove a plan or draft plans if
implementation of the plan would result in a violation of the rules adopted by
the Environmental Management Commission to protect riparian buffers along
surface waters. A local government shall disapprove a plan upon finding that an
applicant, or a parent, subsidiary, or other affiliate of the applicant:
            1.   Is conducting or has conducted land-disturbing activity
without an approved plan, or has received notice of violation of a plan
previously approved by the Commission or a local government pursuant to the Act
and has not complied with the notice within the time specified in the notice;
            2.   Has failed to pay a civil penalty assessed pursuant to the Act
or a local ordinance adopted pursuant to the Act by the time the payment is
due;
            3.   Has been convicted of a misdemeanor pursuant to G.S. § 113A-64
(b) or any criminal provision of a local ordinance adopted pursuant to the Act
or;
            4.   Has failed to substantially comply with state rules or local
ordinances and regulations adopted pursuant to the Act.
         (b)   For purposes of this division (10), an applicant's record shall
be considered for only the two years prior to the application date.
         (c)   In the event that a plan is disapproved pursuant to this
division, the town shall notify the Director of such disapproval within ten
days. The town shall advise the applicant and the Director in writing as to the
specific reasons that the plan was disapproved.
      (11)   Notice of activity initiation. No person may initiate a land-
disturbing activity before notifying the agency that issued the plan approval
of the date that land-disturbing activity will begin.
      (12)   The plan required by this section shall contain architectural and
engineering drawings, maps, assumptions, calculations and narrative statements
as needed to adequately describe the proposed development of the tract and the
measures planned to comply with the requirements of this section. Plan content
may vary to meet the needs of specific site requirements. Detailed guidelines
for plan preparation will be provided on request.
      (13)   Pre-construction conference. When deemed necessary by the
approving authority, a pre-construction conference may be required.
      (14)   Display of plan approval. A plan approval issued under this
section shall be prominently displayed until all construction is complete, all
permanent sedimentation and erosion control measures are installed and the site
has been stabilized. A copy of the approved plan shall be kept on file at the
job site.
      (15)   Required revisions. After approving a plan, if the town either
upon review of such plan or on inspection of the job site, determines that a
significant risk of accelerated erosion or off-site sedimentation exists, the
town shall require a revised plan. Pending the preparation of the revised plan,
work shall cease or shall continue under conditions outlined by the appropriate
authority. If following commencement of a land-disturbing activity pursuant to
an approved plan, the town determines that the plan is inadequate to meet the
requirements of this section, the town shall require any revision of the plan
that is necessary to comply with this section.
      (16)   Applications for amendment of an erosion control plan in written
and/or graphic form may be made at any time under the same conditions as the
original application. Until such time as an amendment is approved, the land-
disturbing activity shall not proceed except in accordance with the erosion
control plan as originally approved.
      (17)   Any person engaged in land-disturbing activity who fails to file a
plan in accordance with this section or who conducts a land-disturbing
activity, except in accordance with provisions of an approved plan, shall be
deemed in violation of this section.
      (18)   The landowner, the financially responsible party, or the
landowner's or the financially responsible party's agent shall perform an
inspection of the area covered by the plan after each phase of the plan has
been completed and after establishment of temporary ground cover in accordance
with G.S. § 113A-57(2). The person who performs the inspection shall maintain
and make available a record of the inspection at the site of the land-
disturbing activity. The record shall set out any significant deviation from
the approved erosion control plan, identify any measures that may be required
to correct the deviation, and document the completion of those measures. The
record shall be maintained until permanent ground cover has been established as
required by the approved erosion and sedimentation control plan. The
inspections required by this division shall be in addition to inspections
required by G.S. § 113A-61.1.
   (F)   Basic control objectives. An erosion and sedimentation control plan
shall be disapproved if the plan fails to address the following objectives:
      (1)   Identify critical areas. On-site areas which are subject to severe
erosion and off-site areas which are especially vulnerable to damage from
erosion and/or sedimentation are to be identified and receive special
attention.
      (2)   Limit time of exposure. All land-disturbing activity is to be
planned and conducted to limit exposure to the shortest feasible time.
      (3)   Limit exposed areas. All land-disturbing activity is to be planned
and conducted to minimize the size of the area to be exposed at any one time.
      (4)   Control surface water. Surface water runoff originating upgrade of
exposed areas should be controlled to reduce erosion and sediment loss during
the period of exposure.
      (5)   Control sedimentation. All land-disturbing activity is to be
planned and conducted so as to prevent off-site sedimentation damage.
      (6)   Manage stormwater runoff. When the increase in the velocity of
stormwater runoff resulting from a land-disturbing activity is sufficient to
cause accelerated erosion of the receiving watercourse, plans are to include
the measures to control the velocity at the point of discharge so as to
minimize accelerated erosion of the site and increased sedimentation of the
stream.
   (G)   Design and performance standards.
      (1)   Except as provided in this section, erosion and sedimentation
control measures, structures, and devices shall be planned, designed, and
constructed to provide protection from the calculated maximum peak rate of
runoff from the ten-year storm. Runoff rates shall be calculated using the
procedures in the USDA Soil Conservation Service's National Engineering Field
Manual for Conservation Practices, or other acceptable procedures.
      (2)   HQW zones. In High Quality Water (HQW) zones the following design
standards shall apply:
         (a)   Limit on uncovered area. Uncovered areas in HQW zones shall be
limited at any time to a maximum total area of 20 acres within the boundaries
of the tract. Only the portion of the land-disturbing activity within a HQW
zone shall be governed by this section. Larger areas may be uncovered within
the boundaries of the tract with the written approval of the Director.
         (b)   Maximum peak rate of runoff protection. Erosion and
sedimentation control measures, structures, and devices within HQW zones shall
be planned, designed and constructed to provide protection from the runoff of
the 25-year storm which produces the maximum peak rate of runoff as calculated
according to procedures in the USDA Soil Conservation Service's National
Engineering Field Manual for Conservation Practices or according to procedures
adopted by any other agency of this state or the United States or any generally
recognized organization or association.
         (c)   Settling efficiency. Sediment basins within HQW zones shall be
designed and constructed such that the basin will have a settling efficiency of
at least 70% for the 40 micron (0.04 millimeter) size soil particle transported
into the basin by the runoff of that two-year storm which produces the maximum
peak rate of runoff as calculated according to procedures in the USDA, Soil
Conservation Service's National Engineering Field Manual for Conservation
Practices or according to procedures adopted by any other agency of this state
or the United States or any generally recognized organization or association.
         (d)   Grade. Newly constructed open channels in HQW zones shall be
designed and constructed with side slopes no steeper than two horizontal to one
vertical if a vegetative cover is used for stabilization unless soil conditions
permit a steeper slope or where the slopes are stabilized by using mechanical
devices, structural devices or other acceptable ditch liners. In any event, the
angle for side slopes shall be sufficient to restrain accelerated erosion.
         (e)   Ground cover. Ground cover sufficient to restrain erosion must
be provided for any portion of a land-disturbing activity in a HQW zone within
15 working days or 60 calendar days following completion of construction or
development, whichever period is shorter.
   (H)   Stormwater outlet protection.
      (1)   Intent. Stream banks and channels downstream from any land-
disturbing activity shall be protected from increased degradation by
accelerated erosion caused by increased velocity of runoff from the land-
disturbing activity.
      (2)   Persons shall conduct land-disturbing activity such that the post-
construction velocity of the ten-year storm runoff in the receiving watercourse
to the point of discharge shall not exceed the greater of:
         (a)   The velocity established by the Maximum Permissible Velocities
Table set out within this division; or
         (b)   The velocity of the ten-year storm runoff in the receiving
watercourse prior to development. If conditions (a) and (b) of this division
(2) cannot be met, then the receiving watercourse to and including the
discharge point shall be designed and constructed to withstand the expected
velocity anywhere the velocity exceeds the "prior to development" velocity by
10%.
   Maximum Permissible Velocities Table
   The following is a table for maximum permissible velocity for stormwater
discharges in feet per second (F.P.S.) and meters per second (M.P.S,):
 
MATERIAL                  F.P.S. M.P.S.
Fine sand (noncolloidal)  2.5    .8
Sandy loam (noncolloidal) 2.5    .8
Silt loam (noncolloidal)  3.0    .9
Ordinary firm loam        3.5    1.1
Fine gravel               5.0    1.5
 
MATERIAL F.P.S. M.P.S.
MATERIAL                               F.P.S. M.P.S.
Stiff clay (very colloidal)            5.0    1.5
Graded, loam to cobbles (noncolloidal) 5.0    1.5
Graded, silt to cobbles (colloidal)    5.5    1.7
Alluvial silts (noncolloidal)          3.5    1.1
Alluvial silts (colloidal)             5.0    1.5
Coarse gravel (noncolloidal)           6.0    1.8
Cobbles and shingles                   5.5    1.7
Shales and hard pans                   6.0    1.8
 
Source - Adapted from recommendations by Special Committee on Irrigation
Research, American Society of Civil Engineers, 1926, for channels with straight
alignment. For sinuous channels, multiply allowable velocity by 0.95 for
slightly sinuous, by 0.9 for moderately sinuous channels, and by 0.8 for highly
sinuous channels.
      (3)   Measures applied alone or in combination to satisfy the intent of
this section are acceptable if there are no objectionable secondary
consequences. It is recognized that the management of stormwater runoff to
minimize or control downstream channel and bank erosion is a developing
technology. Innovative techniques and ideas will be considered and may be used
when shown to have the potential to produce successful results. Some
alternatives are to:
         (a)   Avoid increases in surface runoff volume and velocity by
including measures to promote infiltration to compensate for increased runoff
from areas rendered impervious;
         (b)   Avoid increases in stormwater discharge velocities by using
vegetated or roughened swales and waterways in lieu of closed drains and high
velocity paved sections;
         (c)   Provide energy dissipaters at outlets of storm drainage
facilities to reduce flow velocities at the point of discharge. These may range
from simple rip-rapped sections to complex structures;
         (d)   Protect watercourses subject to accelerated erosion by improving
cross section and/or providing erosion-resistant lining; and
         (e)   Upgrade or replace the receiving device structure, or
watercourse such that it will receive and conduct the flow to a point where it
is no longer subject to degradation from the increased rate of flow or
increased velocity.
      (4)   This rule shall not apply where it can be demonstrated that
stormwater discharge velocities will not create an erosion problem in the
receiving watercourse.
   (I)   Borrow and waste areas. When the person conducting the land-disturbing
activity is also the person conducting the borrow or waste disposal activity,
areas from which borrow is obtained and which are not regulated by the
provisions of the Mining Act of 1971, and any waste areas for surplus materials
other than landfills regulated by the Department of Human Resources, Division
of Health Services, shall be considered as part of the land-disturbing activity
where the borrow material is being used or from which the waste material
originated. When the person conducting the land-disturbing activity is not the
person obtaining the borrow and/or disposing of the waste, these areas shall be
considered a separate land-disturbing activity.
   (J)   Access and haul roads. Temporary access and haul roads, other than
public roads, constructed or used in connection with any land-disturbing
activity shall be considered a part of such activity.
   (K)   Operations in lakes or natural watercourses. Land-disturbing activity
in connection with construction in, on, over or under a lake or natural
watercourse shall be planned and conducted in such a manner as to minimize the
extent and duration of disturbance of the stream channel. The relocation of a
stream, where relocation is an essential part of the proposed activity, shall
be planned and executed so as to minimize changes in the stream flow of
characteristics, except when justification for significant alteration to flow
characteristic is provided.
   (L)   Responsibility for maintenance. During the development of a site, the
person conducting the land-disturbing activity shall install and maintain all
temporary and permanent erosion and sedimentation control measures as required
by the approved plan or any provision of this section, the North Carolina
Sedimentation Pollution Control Act of 1973 or any order adopted pursuant
thereto. After site development, the landowner or person in possession or
control of the land shall install and/or maintain all necessary permanent
erosion and sedimentation control measures, except those measures installed
within a road or street right-of-way or easement accepted for maintenance by a
governmental agency.
   (M)   Additional measures. Whenever the town determines that significant
sedimentation is occurring as a result of land-disturbing activity, despite
application and maintenance of protective practices, the person conducting the
land-disturbing activity will be required to and shall take additional
protective action or cease the activity.
   (N)   Existing uncovered areas.
      (1)   All uncovered areas existing on the effective date of this section
which resulted from land-disturbing activity, exceed 1/2 contiguous acre, are
subject to continued accelerated erosion and are causing off-site damage from
sedimentation shall be provided with a ground cover or other protective
measures, structures or devices sufficient to restrain accelerated erosion and
control off-site sedimentation.
      (2)   The town shall serve upon the landowner or other person in
possession or control of the land a written notice to comply with the Act, this
section, a rule or order adopted or issued pursuant to the Act by the
Commission or by the town. The notice to comply shall be sent by registered or
certified mail, return receipt requested or other means provided in G.S. § 1 A-
l, Rule 4. The notice will set forth the measures needed to comply and will
state the time within which such measures must be completed. In determining the
measures required and the time allowed for compliance, the authority serving
notice shall take into consideration the economic feasibility, technology and
quantity of work required and shall set reasonable and attainable time limits
of compliance.
      (3)   The town reserves the right to require preparation and approval of
an erosion control plan in any instance where extensive control measures are
required.
      (4)   This rule shall not require ground cover on cleared land forming
the future basin of a planned reservoir.
   (O)   Permits.
      (1)   No person shall undertake any land-disturbing activity subject to
this section without first obtaining a permit from the town, except that no
permit shall be required for any land-disturbing activity that does not exceed
5,500 square feet in surface area. In determining the area, lands under one or
diverse ownership being developed as a unit will be aggregated.
      (2)   The town shall establish a fee on a general or individual basis as
may be considered necessary.
   (P)   Appeals.
      (1)   The disapproval or modification of any proposed erosion control
plan by the Director of Planning and Inspections shall entitle the person
submitting the plan to a public hearing if such person submits written demand
for a hearing within 15 days after receipt of a written notice of disapproval
or modifications.
      (2)   Hearings held pursuant to this section shall be conducted by the
Board of Commissioners within 20 days after the date of the appeal or request
for a hearing.
      (3)   The Board of Commissioners shall render its final decision within
ten days after the date of the hearing.
      (4)   If the town upholds the disapproval or modification of a proposed
soil erosion and sedimentation control plan following the hearing, the
applicant shall then be entitled to appeal that decision to the North Carolina
Sedimentation Control Commission as provided in G.S. § 113A-61(c) and Title 15
NCAC 4B.0018(b).
   (Q)   Inspections and investigations.
      (1)   Agents and officials of the town will periodically inspect the
sites of land-disturbing activity for which permits have been issued to
determine whether the activity is being conducted in accordance with the plan
and to determine whether the measures required in the plan are effective in
controlling erosion and sediment resulting from land-disturbing activity.
      (2)   Willful resistance, delay, or obstruction. No person shall
willfully resist, delay, or obstruct an authorized representative, employee, or
agent of the town while that person is inspecting or attempting to inspect a
land-disturbing activity under this section.
      (3)   Notice of violation. If the town determines that a person engaged
in land-disturbing activity has failed to comply with the Act, this section, or
rules, or orders adopted or issued pursuant to this section, a notice of
violation shall be served upon that person. The notice shall be served by any
means authorized under G.S. § 1 A-l, Rule 4. The notice shall specify a date by
which the person must comply with the Act, this section, or rules or orders
adopted pursuant to this section, and inform the person of the actions that
need to be taken to comply with the Act, this section, or rules or orders
adopted pursuant to this section. Any person who fails to comply within the
time specified is subject to additional civil and criminal penalties for a
continuing violation as provided in G.S. § 113A-64 and this section.
      (4)   The town shall have the power to conduct such investigation as it
deems necessary to carry out its duties as prescribed in this section and for
this purpose to enter at reasonable times upon any property, public or private,
for the purpose of investigating and inspecting the sites of any land-
disturbing activity. No person shall refuse entry or access to any authorized
representative or agent of the town who requests entry for purposes of
inspection, nor shall any person obstruct, hamper or interfere with any such
representative while in the process of carrying out his official duties.
      (5)   The town shall also have the power to require written statements,
or the filing of reports under oath, with respect to pertinent questions
relating to land-disturbing activity.
      (6)   The landowner, the financially responsible party, or the
landowner's or the financially responsible party's agent shall perform an
inspection of the area covered by the plan after each phase of the plan has
been completed and after establishment of temporary ground cover in accordance
with G.S. § 113A-57(2). The person who performs the inspection shall maintain
and make available a record of the inspection at the site of the land-
disturbing activity. The record shall set out any significant deviation from
the approved erosion control plan, identify any measures that will be required
to correct the deviation, and document the completion of those matters. The
record shall be maintained until permanent ground cover has been established as
required by the approved erosion and sedimentation control plan. The
inspections required by this subsection shall be in addition to inspections
required by G.S. § 113A-61.1.
   (R)   Penalties.
      (1)   Civil penalties.
         (a)   Civil penalty for a violation. Any person who violates any of
the provisions of this section, or rule or order adopted or issued pursuant to
this section, or who initiates or continues a land-disturbing activity for
which a plan is required except in accordance with the terms, conditions and
provisions of an approved plan, is subject to a civil penalty. The maximum
civil penalty that the town may assess is $5,000. A civil penalty may be
assessed from the date the violation. Each day of a continuing violation shall
constitute a separate violation.
         (b)   Civil penalty assessment factors. The governing body of the town
shall determine the amount of the civil penalty based on the following factors:
            1.   The degree and extent of harm caused by the violation;
            2.   The cost of rectifying the damage;
            3.   The amount of money the violator saved by noncompliance;
            4.   Whether the violation was committed willfully, and the prior
record of the violator in failing to comply with this section.
         (c)   Any person who fails to submit an erosion control plan for
approval as required by this section shall be subject to a single, non-
continuing civil penalty of not more than $5,000. Any person who is subject to
a civil penalty under this division may be subject to additional civil
penalties for violation of any other provision of this section or rules or
orders adopted or issued pursuant to this section.
         (d)   Hearing. A hearing on a civil penalty shall be conducted by the
town within 15 days after the date of the written demand for the hearing. The
agency conducting the hearing shall make its recommendation to the governing
body of the town within 21 days after the date of the hearing.
         (e)   Final decision. The governing body shall render its final
decision on the civil penalty within ten days of the receipt of the
recommendation from the agency,
         (f)   Appeal of final decision. Appeal from the final decision of the
governing body shall be to the Superior Court of the county where the violation
occurred, or the location of the violator's residence or principal place of
business.
         (g)   Credit of civil penalties. Civil penalties collected pursuant to
this section shall be credited to the Civil Penalty and Forfeiture Fund. [Note:
Case law on an air quality delegated program determined that civil penalties
assessed by local governments pursuant to a state delegation had to be remitted
to the Civil Penalty and Forfeiture Fund for the benefit of the local school
boards pursuant to the State Constitution's provision on state penalties, fines
and forfeitures.]
      (2)   Criminal penalties. Any person who knowingly or willfully violates
any provision of this section, or rule or order adopted or issued pursuant to
this section, or who knowingly or willfully initiates or continues a land-
disturbing activity for which an erosion control plan is required, except in
accordance with the terms, conditions and provisions of an approved plan, shall
be guilty of a Class 2 misdemeanor which may include a fine not to exceed
$5,000 as provided in G.S. § 113A-64.
   (S)   Injunctive relief.
      (1)   Whenever the governing body has reasonable cause to believe that
any person is violating or threatening to violate this section or any rule or
order adopted or issued pursuant to this section, or any term, condition or
provision of an approved erosion control plan, it may, either before or after
the institution of any other action or proceeding authorized by this section,
institute a civil action in the name of the town for injunctive relief to
restrain the violation or threatened violation. The action shall be brought in
the Superior Court of Dare County.
      (2)   Upon determination by a court that an alleged violation is
occurring or is threatened, it shall enter such orders or judgments as are
necessary to abate the violation or to prevent the threatened violation. The
institution of an action for injunctive relief under this section shall not
relieve any party to such proceedings from any civil or criminal penalty
prescribed for violation of this section.
   (T)   Restoration after noncompliance. The town shall require a person who
engaged in a land-disturbing activity and failed to retain sediment generated
by the activity, as required by G.S. § 113A-57(3), to restore the waters and
land affected by the failure so as to minimize the detrimental effects of the
resulting pollution by sedimentation. This authority is in addition to any
other civil or criminal penalty or injunctive relief authorized under this
section.
   (U)   Severability. If any section or sections of this section is/are held
to be invalid or unenforceable, all other sections shall nevertheless continue
in full force and effect.
   (V)   Effective date. This section shall take effect on the date of adoption
by the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 95-11, passed 11-15-95; Am. Ord. 00-01,
passed 1-10-00; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 08-11, passed 3-26-08;
Am. Ord. 17-15, passed 2-12-20; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.072 SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Each application for site plan review shall be accompanied by plans of
the proposed methods of sewage disposal with an approval or tentative approval
by the appropriate county or state agencies having jurisdiction of such
facilities over the land being developed. The plans submitted shall be of
sufficient detail to demonstrate compliance with applicable sewage disposal
regulations and to show the exact location of all subsurface facilities,
including but not limited to treatment facilities, tanks, piping, laterals and
disposal areas.
   (B)   Any such application shall specify the method or methods to be used
and shall describe any special conditions to be met. Such methods, and the
approvals required, include but are not limited to the following:
      (1)   Connection to public sewer operated by a municipality, sanitary
district or other governmental agency: connection approval by an authorized
officer of such system;
      (2)   Connection to community sewer operated by a responsible person,
firm or corporation other than a governmental agency: connection approval by an
authorized officer of such system;
      (3)   Installation of other than public or community sewer systems:
design approval by the appropriate county or state agencies and the town.
   (C)   The sewer system to which connections are to be made shall be
authorized as follows:
      (1)   For on-site sewer disposal systems regulated by the Dare County
Health Department, approval from the Dare County Health Department is required.
      (2)   For sewage systems regulated by the North Carolina Department of
Environmental Quality (NCDEQ), approval from NCDEQ and/or appropriate
applications with engineering certifications satisfactory for NCDEQ permitting
is required.
   (D)   Privately owned facilities treating, processing or transmitting sewage
or wastewater are permitted in all zoning districts, subject to the following
conditions:
      (1)   Any new private utility or privately owned facility must be a part
of and located within the boundaries of a subdivision or property immediately
within or adjacent to the facility or homes being serviced. The person, firm or
corporation operating a sewer system for which a rate is charged shall hold a
certificate of public convenience and necessity from the State Utilities
Commission, and there shall be recorded with a plat of the property the written
affidavit of a registered engineer, engaged in the independent practice of
civil engineering, that sewer mains and laterals comply with pertinent
standards of the North Carolina Department of Environmental Quality and a bond
or bonds, or trust instruments, or other form of written assurance,
satisfactory to the Board, assuring the continuous proper maintenance and
operation of such sewer systems. Where a community sewerage system furnishing
services for two or more customers within a multi-family or group development
project is assessed a periodic fee by a property owners' association and a
portion of that fee is used for the purpose of paying the cost and expense of
operating, maintaining and repairing the community sewerage system, then all
requirements of this subsection must be satisfied;
      (2)   This facility shall be used and serve only the occupants of the
subdivision, multi- family development project or commercial development for
which it was constructed and approved by the town;
      (3)   This section shall not be applicable to individual septic tanks.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord.17-8,
passed 9-11-19; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.073 LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Intent and objectives.
      (1)   The intent of this section is to improve the appearance of parking
areas and properties abutting public rights-of-way; to provide buffering
between noncompatible land uses; to provide spatial separation of land uses; to
protect, preserve and promote the aesthetic and visual character of lands
particularly adjacent to major thoroughfares; and to promote public health and
safety through the reduction of noise pollution, air pollution, visual
pollution, air temperature and artificial light glare within the town.
      (2)   Landscaping includes not only trees, shrubbery, grass and ground
cover but open paving stones, benches, fountains and exterior lighting fixtures
as well. Buildings, vehicles, boats, equipment, parking areas or storage areas
shall not be included in required landscaped areas. No more than 20% of a
required perimeter landscaped area may be utilized for sidewalks, walkways or
private roads. Landscaping standards may be satisfied within required setbacks.
      (3)   Any existing natural landscape shall be preserved whenever
possible. Preservation of trees and further landscaping is the goal rather than
destruction of existing trees or plant life. The planting of drought-tolerant
vegetation common to the immediate natural coastal environment is encouraged to
ensure proper plant life development and maturation.
      (4)   While the above objectives are general in form, proper design and
location of trees, shrubbery and other landscape amenities will be subject to
the town's plan review procedure.
      (5)   Landscaped areas may be used for nitrification fields.
   (B)   Jurisdiction. The requirements of this section shall apply to all
zones.
   (C)   Applicability.  All new development and redevelopment shall comply
with the requirements of this section, except single-family detached residences
and duplexes with less than 6,000 square feet of lot coverage, which shall meet
the requirements of division (M) below.
   (D)   Plan review and approval.
      (1)   A landscape plan shall be submitted at the time application is made
for site plan approval covering new development or redevelopment.
      (2)   The plan shall include the location and size of all proposed
structures or improvements, landscape materials, including botanical and common
names, and all existing vegetation by their common names as specified by the
following:
         (a)   A tree survey: show all existing trees which have a diameter of
six inches or greater, measured three feet from the base and also all major
vegetation with an index of those trees and vegetation;
         (b)   Total site area;
         (c)   Parking area;
         (d)   Landscape area required and provided for in the project;
         (e)   Number of trees which are provided for the project;
         (f)   Irrigation plan, if any;
         (g)   Total amount of interior landscaped area.
   (E)   Parking lot landscape requirements.
      (1)   If more than 40 parking spaces are provided, landscaping of 10% of
the total parking areas, including aisles, shall be required. This landscaping
shall be established within the interior of the parking lot.
      (2)   The interior landscaped areas shall be located in a manner that:
         (a)   Assists and helps to control the movement of vehicular and
pedestrian traffic;
         (b)   Provides visual relief from a large expanse of paving;
         (c)   Preserves existing trees, where possible; and
         (d)   Screens loading and service areas.
      (3)   A landscaped aisle shall be provided at the end of each parking row
adjacent to the travel lane serving the parking aisle.
      (4)   In order to encourage the required landscaped areas to be properly
dispersed, no required landscape area shall be larger than 350 square feet
unless a larger area is necessary to save or protect existing vegetation.
      (5)   Interior landscaped areas shall contain a minimum of 75 square
feet. Within these landscaped areas there shall be a minimum of one small tree
per ten parking spaces in addition to other plant materials and ground cover.
See division (L) of this section and Appendix A of this chapter.
      (6)   Required perimeter landscape areas shall not be used in the
calculation of required interior landscape areas.
   (F)   Perimeter landscaped areas.
      (1)   General. A perimeter landscaped area, with a minimum depth of five
feet, shall be required along property lines. Along property lines abutting any
street, the minimum depth shall be ten feet. Driveways, sidewalks and similar
facilities may traverse perimeter landscaped areas.
      (2)   Screening requirements.
         (a)   Buffer between incompatible uses. Restaurants, retail sales,
shopping centers, automotive sales or repair, taverns, amusement or
entertainment establishments, industrial uses, warehouses, wholesale businesses
or trucking facilities, business or professional offices, places of worship,
schools, daycare centers, parking lots, townhouse or multi-family developments,
and single-family and duplex dwellings with greater than 6,000 square feet of
lot coverage must provide screening on their property for certain adjacent
uses. Where abutting single-family dwellings or duplexes with less than 6,000
square feet of lot coverage to the rear or to the side, such property line
shall have a wall constructed of wood, masonry wall, vinyl or composite
materials or a vegetative buffer six feet in height along the property line.
Along property lines abutting single-family or duplex dwellings with less than
6,000 square feet of lot coverage a fence or dense vegetative screen shall be
provided. Fences shall be constructed of wood, masonry, vinyl or composite
materials and be a minimum of six feet in height. In addition, ornamental
landscaping shall be provided if a fence is utilized as a buffer. Dense
vegetative screens shall contain shrubs at least 30 inches high at the time of
installation planted two-and-one-half feet on center. The type of shrub used
needs to be capable of attaining a height of at least six feet at maturity. A
dense vegetative screen utilized as a buffer will also satisfy the ornamental
landscaping requirements below. In all cases where a fence is constructed, the
required landscaped area shall be located between the fence and property line.
         (b)   Ornamental landscaping. Along property lines not abutting
single-family or duplex dwellings with less than 6,000 square feet of lot
coverage, the landscape plan shall indicate at least one tree for each 30
linear feet of landscape area and one shrub for each ten feet of landscape
area. For new construction or substantial improvements in the Commercial Zone,
the landscape plan shall indicate at least one tree and one shrub for each ten
linear feet of landscape area along the front property line. Ornamental
landscaping need not be evenly spaced, but rather dispersed throughout the
landscape area to create a natural appearance. In all cases where a fence is
constructed, the required landscaped area shall be located between the fence
and property line.
         (c)   No vehicles, motor or otherwise, shall be parked on landscaped
areas. In all cases where a fence is constructed, the required landscaped area
shall be located between the fence and property line. No temporary signs or
other structures shall be placed on any landscaped area without issuance of a
permit by the Building Inspector or Zoning Administrator.
   (G)   Grass and ground cover. Ground cover shall be placed or planted on all
disturbed portions of exposed ground or earth not occupied by natural or other
landscape material.
   (H)   Screening of refuse containers.
      (1)   All dumpsters shall be screened on three sides by a fence. The
screening shall exceed the height of the intended container by 12 inches.
      (2)   The opening for the removal of trash pickup shall allow for a
clearance of 12 inches on each side of the container and 24 inches at the rear
of the container. Design shall be approved by the Department of Public
Services, Public Works Division.
   (I)   Landscaping at driveways and intersections.
      (1)   A minimum sight triangle shall be maintained at all driveways and
street intersections. Within the sight triangle, no plant material, signage or
any other obstruction shall interfere with an individual's vehicle sight line.
No plant material shall exceed 30 inches in height at maturity; trees shall be
trimmed so that branches are at least seven feet above curb level.
      (2)   The minimum sight triangle for driveways shall be 10 feet by 20
feet on each side of the driveway and shall be measured as follows:
         (a)   Begin at the point where the edge of the driveway intersects
with the street right-of- way line;
         (b)   From this point, measure 20 feet along the street right-of-way
line, away from the driveway edge;
         (c)   From the same point, measure ten feet toward the interior of the
property, along the driveway edge;
         (d)   Connect the two points established by the above method to form
the required sight triangle.
      (3)   The minimum sight triangle required at street intersections, other
than those that intersect state-maintained roads, shall be 20 feet by 20 feet
and shall be measured as follows:
         (a)   Begin at the property corner point where the right-of-way lines
of both streets intersect;
         (b)   From this point, measure 20 feet along the right-of-way line in
each direction;
         (c)   Connect the two points established by the method above to form
the required sight triangle.
   (J)   Irrigation.
      (1)   All required landscape areas shall be irrigated or utilize plants
which are drought tolerant.
      (2)   Irrigation plans shall be submitted for review. This is in addition
to the landscaping plan. Irrigation plans shall show location, size and type of
sprinkler heads and whether the system is automatic or manual.
      (3)   Irrigation systems shall minimize spray onto any pedestrian or
vehicular access or abutting property.
      (4)   Water preservation should be considered in the design of all
irrigation systems.
   (K)   Landscape maintenance. To encourage the continued maintenance of
landscaped areas, the owner shall be responsible for:
      (1)   Landscape areas shall be properly maintained. The owner shall be
notified in writing by the zoning official of the town of any areas which are
not being properly maintained, and the owner shall, within 15 calendar days of
receipt of the notice, restore the landscaped area to a satisfactory condition,
meet the requirements of this code.
      (2)   Replacement of plant material shall occur only after approval of a
landscaping plan by the zoning official of the town.
      (3)   A vegetative buffer which has been in place for three years or
more, as set out in division (F)(2)(a) of this section, shall be replaced with
plant material that meets the minimum maturity requirements set out in this
chapter. An exception will be made when vegetation is damaged or destroyed by
fire, flood, hurricane or other acts of God when the damage or removal was not
caused by or contributed to by the owner, occupant or user, and shall be
replaced with plants that meet minimum requirements of this code after approval
of a landscaping plan by a zoning official.
   (L)   Plant material.
      (1)   No artificial plant life or other facsimile shall be permitted
except by prior approval. Suggested plant lists are provided in Appendix A,
Table A and Table B, which give numerous choices as to the type of plants
native to the area which best suit the climatic conditions. These choices are
recommended suggestions.
      (2)   Plants shall be sufficiently sized to ensure screening within three
years. Where a vegetative screen is required, plant materials shall be
sufficiently sized as practicable to ensure obscurity within three years.
Seedling plants may be used where berms or structures are required or where the
proposed use is contiguous to a street or vacant land that does not have
proposed development in the review process. (See
Appendix A).
      (3)   On a corner lot which abuts a state maintained right-of-way in any
district, no planting, structure, sign, fence, wall or other obstruction to
vision more than three feet in height shall be placed or maintained within the
triangular area formed by the intersecting street right-of-way lines and a
straight line connecting a point ten feet from the intersection along the
intersecting street with a point 70 feet from the intersection along the state
maintained right-of-way.
   (M)   Tree preservation within town rights-of-way.
      (1)   The town may remove existing trees within town rights-of-way.
      (2)   Property owners or their agents may also remove trees within town-
owned rights-of-way as follows:
         (a)   The installation of a driveway(s) shown on an approved site plan
with the prior written permission of the town.
         (b)   With an approved restoration plan showing the replacement of
removed trees at a one to one ratio or in compliance with division (F)(2)(b)
and Appendix A.
         (c)   With an approved plan for tree thinning or removal of dead or
deceased trees.
      (3)   An on-site meeting with the owner or their agent shall be held with
a member of town staff to identify all trees to be removed. Trees marked for
removal shall be noted on the site plan and flagged on site. The Planning and
Inspections Department shall issue a tree removal permit after approval of the
site plan. The permit will expire 180 days from the date of issuance. (Brush,
vines and trees with less than a two-inch diameter measured at four and a half
feet existing grade may be removed without restriction.)
   (N)   Regulation of above-ground appurtenances, facilities and/or structures
associated with a gas utilities system. Any above ground appurtenances,
facilities or structures (except buildings which are occupied and are governed
by other provisions of the Kill Devil Hills Town Code), the meter and valve
attached to an individual customer’s structure and any required markers
indicating or designating that a natural gas pipeline is buried below,
constructed as a part of a gas utilities system within the town for the
production, transmission, distribution and sale of gas, shall be screened with
vegetative buffers as follows:
      (1)   All appurtenances, facilities or structures shall not be visible
from ground level to a point eight feet above ground level.
      (2)   Buffers shall consist of trees or shrubs permitted in
Appendix A of this chapter.
      (3)   Plants shall be of a size and planted at such intervals that they
will reach full maturity and/or provide the full screening required herein
within three years from the date of the completion of construction of such
appurtenance, facility or structure.
      (4)   The franchisee for such gas utility system shall keep, replace and
maintain the vegetative buffer required herein such that at all times the
vegetation is alive and, after the first three years, that the full eight foot
buffer is at all times in place.
      (5)   Failure to comply with the terms of this section, in addition to
any other remedies available under the provisions of the town code, the town
may plant or replace such vegetative buffer to comply with the terms of this
section and all costs thereof shall be charged to franchisee.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 97-14, passed 1-12-98; Am. Ord. 01-02,
passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 05-04, passed 4-11-05; Am. Ord. 05-05, passed 5-25-05;
Am. Ord. 13-6, passed 5-13-13; Am. Ord. 14-08, passed 5-12-14; Am. Ord. 14-15,
passed 7-14-14; Am. Ord. 17-20, passed 5-27-20; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.074 LIGHTING.
   (A)   Intent. Lighting standards are established to provide for safe
lighting levels with minimum glare onto streets and neighboring property. All
outdoor lighting shall be planned, erected, altered and maintained in
accordance with the following provisions except for single-family dwellings and
duplex dwellings.
   (B)   Lighting plan. The town shall require an outdoor lighting plan
produced by an engineer or architect licensed to practice in the State of North
Carolina. The plans must include the stamp/seal, license number and signature
of the engineer or architect responsible for the plan and shall be required as
part of the site plan review process.
   (C)   Inspection required. All outdoor lighting fixtures may be subject to
annual inspection by the Planning and Inspections Department to assure that the
fixtures are in compliance with these provisions. When a fixture fails to
comply, the Planning and Inspections Department shall give written notice to
the owner of the site on which the fixtures are located stating that the
fixture shall be brought into compliance or removed at the owner's expense
within 30 days of receipt of the notice.
   (D)   Lighting prohibited.
      (1)   No fixture shall be erected which is an imitation of an official
highway or traffic-control light or sign.
      (2)   No fixture shall be in a direct line of vision with any traffic-
control sign or light.
      (3)   No fixture shall have a flashing or intermittent pattern of
illumination.
      (4)   No fixture shall be located within a public right-of-way unless
approved by the Department of Public Services, Public Works Division.
      (5)   No fixture shall be erected, either indoors or outdoors, which
because of the design of light source, orientation or intensity causes glare
onto adjacent property or streets.
      (6)   Search lights are prohibited except when used by federal, state or
local authority.
      (7)   No fixture shall violate any law of the State of North Carolina
relative to outdoor lighting.
      (8)   All neon lighting is prohibited except as allowed in §
153.077;
      (9)   Light fixtures shall not exceed building height limits for the zone
in which they are constructed except that accredited school athletic facilities
may not exceed a height of 90 feet.
   (E)   General provisions.
      (1)   All lighting new and existing shall be brought into compliance
within three years of February 28, 2001.
      (2)   When placed in a cluster the combined wattage shall not exceed the
permitted footcandle level for the object or area they are designed to
illuminate.
      (3)   All light produced on-site shall be contained within the perimeter
of the site by design, orientation or shielding of the light source.
      (4)   All wiring for outdoor lighting shall be placed underground.
      (5)   Principal buildings in commercial or industrial use shall be
lighted on all sides for security at the permitted intensity shown in the table
below.
      (6)   Lighting fixtures shall be designed to withstand a maximum wind
velocity of 110 miles per hour and in no case shall exceed the allowable
building height limit.
      (7)   The following average footcandles or lighting intensity levels
shall be maintained: (Changes to the intensity levels may be effected by the
Board of Commissioners for good cause shown.)
Type of Outdoor Area or Use Permitted Range of Average Footcandles Minimum -
                            Maximum
Parking Areas
Type of Outdoor Area or Use           Permitted Range of Average Footcandles
                                      Minimum - Maximum
Parking Areas
Drive-in restaurants                  7-10
Sexually oriented businesses          7-10
Retail uses not otherwise listed      4-7
Commercial parking lots               4-7
Industrial and warehouses             0.5-1
Residential (other than single-family 0.5-1
and duplex)
Hotels and motels                     4-7
Places of worship                     0.5-7
Event gardens                         1.0-4.0
Building Exteriors
Loading platforms                     10
Commercial entrances                  5
Inactive storage                      1
Architectural                         1
Security
Commercial                            1
Industrial                            1
Walkways/roads                        1
Recreational
Accredited school athletic facilities 40-50
Baseball/football/soccer              20
Tennis/handball/volleyball            20
Basketball                            10
Archery/badminton                     10
Golf (miniature)/swimming pool        10
Fishing pier                          10
Playground                            5
Roller hockey/skateboard park         40-50
Marina                                2
 
      (8)   With any 1,000 square foot area, lighting intensity levels cannot
exceed twice the maximum footcandle allowed for the respective use.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 99-04, passed 2-8-99; Am. Ord. 01-02,
passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 02-10, passed 6-26-02; Am. Ord. 06-19, passed 8-14-06;
Am. Ord. 13-3, passed 3-20-13; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.075 TELECOMMUNICATIONS TOWERS.
   (A)   Intent. The purpose of this section is to establish general guidelines
for the siting of telecommunications towers and antennas. The goals of this
section are to:
      (1)   Encourage the location of towers in nonresidential/nonhistorical
areas and minimize the total number of towers throughout the community;
      (2)   Enhance the ability of the providers of telecommunications services
to provide such services to the community quickly, effectively and efficiently;
      (3)   Strongly encourage the joint use of new and existing tower sites;
      (4)   Encourage the location of telecommunications towers and antennas,
to the extent possible, in areas where the adverse impact on the community is
minimal;
      (5)   Encourage the location of telecommunications towers and antennas in
configurations that minimize the adverse visual impact of the towers and
antennas; and
      (6)   Whenever possible, prioritize space on towers for public purpose
use.
   (B)   Application procedures and site plan requirements.
      (1)   Communication companies are encouraged to locate telecommunications
antennas on or in structures other than a tower. The structures may include
church steeples, transmission line towers, utility/light poles, water towers
and the like hidden in such a manner so as to not be readily visible (stealth).
Where such facilities are not available, co-location of facilities is
encouraged.
      (2)   When a new tower is proposed to be sited, a determination of
whether the location will provide a minimal level of coverage vs. optimal
coverage shall be taken into consideration. The following standards shall be
used in the approval of the siting of new towers:
         (a)   Each applicant for approval of an antenna and or a tower shall
provide to the Planning Department an inventory of its existing antennas and
towers that are within 1,000 feet of the proposed site, including specific
information about the location, height and design of each tower or antenna. The
applicant should also include potential future tower sites in this inventory.
         (b)   Evidence that the applicant has investigated the possibilities
for locating the proposed facilities on an existing tower, the use of stealth
technology or location in another zoning district where the tower would be
permitted as an administratively approved use. Such evidence shall consist of
copies of letters sent to owners of all existing towers within a radius of one
mile of the proposed site, requesting the following information:
            1.   Tower height;
            2.   Existing and planned tower users;
            3.   Statement as to whether the existing tower could accommodate
the proposed antenna without causing instability or radio frequency
interference and if the proposed antenna cannot be accommodated on the existing
tower;
            4.   Statement as to whether the existing tower could be
structurally strengthened to accommodate the antenna; and
            5.   Related equipment which could be protected from
electromagnetic interference and a general description of the means and
projected cost of shared use of the existing tower.
         (c)   A copy of all responses within 30 days from the mailing date of
the letter required by subsection (2)(b) of this section.
         (d)   A summary explanation of why the applicant believes that the
proposed facility cannot be located on an existing tower.
         (e)   A summary explanation of why the applicant believes that the use
of an alternative tower structure is not possible.
         (f)   A blue line survey prepared by a licensed North Carolina
surveyor showing the location of all existing property lines and improvements
within a radius equal to the height of the proposed tower and all proposed
improvements, including the tower, antennas, accessory structures and
equipment. In addition, the survey must detail all proposed vegetation removal
activities, including an inventory of existing trees to be removed.
         (g)   Drawings of all proposed towers, antennas and accessory
structures and equipment indicating elevations, height, colors and design.
         (h)   Documentation provided by the applicant that the proposed tower
and all antennas and equipment comply with all applicable Federal
Communications Commission (FCC) regulations. In order to protect the public
from unnecessary exposure to electromagnetic radiation, the tower owner shall
provide documentation indicating that the power density levels do not exceed
levels permitted by the FCC.
         (i)   Documentation provided by the applicant that the proposed tower,
antennas and equipment meet Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) aviation and
navigation requirements. No proposed improvements shall restrict or interfere
with air traffic or air travel from or to any existing or proposed airport. No
lighting shall project onto any surrounding residential property. To the extent
required by the FAA, strobes shall be used for nighttime lighting. Whenever
strobes are not required by the FAA, flashing beacons are the preferred type of
lighting.
         (j)   A copy of the approved National Environmental Policy Act of 1969
(NEPA) compliance report for all towers, antennas, accessory structures or
equipment proposed for the site.
         (k)   Documentation signed and sealed from a North Carolina licensed
engineer that the proposed tower and antennas meets the structural requirements
of the North Carolina Building Code and the co-location requirements of this
section.
         (l)   Written indemnification of the town and proof of liability
insurance or financial ability to respond to claims up to $1,000,000 in the
aggregate which may arise from operation of the facility during its life at no
cost to the town on a form approved by the Town Attorney.
         (m)   Provision of sound engineering evidence demonstrating that
location in the proposed district is necessary in the interest of public safety
or is a practical necessity.
         (n)   Evidence that the telecommunications tower is structurally
designed to support at least one additional telecommunications services
provider and an affidavit that the owner of the tower is willing to permit
other user to attach communication facilities, on a commercially reasonable
basis, which do not interfere with the primary purpose of the tower. The tower
owner may require that such other users agree to negotiate regarding reasonable
compensation to the owner from any liability that may result from such
attachment. The site plan shall indicate a location for at least one equipment
building in addition to that proposed for use by the applicant. Priority for
co-location on the proposed tower shall be given to antennas that will serve a
public safety need for the community.
         (o)   Approval for the proposed tower within a radius of 1,000 feet of
an existing tower or other suitable structure (measured in a straight line
distance) shall not be issued unless the applicant certifies that the existing
tower or structure does not meet the applicant's structural specifications or
technical design requirements or that a co-location agreement could not be
obtained at a reasonable market rate and in a timely manner.
         (p)   The proposed tower shall be designed to accommodate additional
antennas equal in number to the applicant's present and future requirements.
         (q)   In addition to the other considerations of this section, the
approving body, in determining whether a tower is in harmony with the area or
the effects and general compatibility of a tower with adjacent properties, may
consider the aesthetic effects of the tower as well as mitigating factors
concerning aesthetics and may disapprove the tower on the grounds that such
aesthetic effects are unacceptable. Factors relevant to the aesthetic effects
include: the protection of the view in sensitive or particularly scenic areas
and areas specifically designated in adopted plans such as unique natural
features, scenic roadways and historic sites; the concentration of towers in
the proposed area; and whether the height, design, placement or other
characteristics of the proposed tower could be modified to have a less
intrusive visual impact.
         (r)   The approving body may request the applicant to conduct a
balloon height test or similar tests on the proposed tower site to demonstrate
the proposed height of the tower.
   (C)   Use guidelines and dimensional requirements.
      (1)   Antennas and towers may be considered either principal or accessory
uses. A different existing use or an existing structure on the same lot shall
not preclude the installation of an antenna or tower on such lot. For purposes
of determining whether the installation of a tower or antenna complies with
district development regulations, including but not limited to setback
requirements, lot size and coverage requirements and other such requirements,
the dimensions of the entire lot shall control, even though the antennas or
towers may be located on leased parcels within such lots. Towers that are
constructed, and antennas that are installed, in accordance with the provisions
of this section shall not be deemed to constitute the expansion of a
nonconforming use or structure.
      (2)   In order to provide spatial separation and create visual block from
adjacent properties and streets, a buffer shall be installed around the outside
of all improvements on the site, including the tower and guy anchors, any
ground buildings or equipment and security fencing. Ground buildings located in
a residential district may be located outside the buffered area if they are
constructed so the exterior appearance of the building has the appearance of a
residential dwelling, including pitched roof and frame or brick veneer
construction. The tower's guy anchors may be screened or fenced separately in
order to comply with the requirements of this subsection.
      (3)   The base of the tower and each guy anchor shall be surrounded by a
security fence or wall at least eight feet in height, unless the tower and all
guy anchors are mounted entirely on a building over eight feet in height. The
tower's guy anchors may be screened or fenced separately in order to comply
with the requirements of this subsection.
      (4)   No outside storage shall be allowed on any telecommunications
facility site.
      (5)   Accessory equipment structures shall not be used as an employment
center for any worker. This provision does not prohibit the periodic
maintenance or periodic monitoring of equipment and instruments.
      (6)   The proposed tower, antenna or accessory structure and equipment
shall be placed in a location and in a manner that will minimize the visual
impact on the surrounding area.
      (7)   No commercial advertising, company logo or signage shall be allowed
on the tower or its related facilities. However, signs shall be posted that
list a telephone number for the owner of the proposed tower and "No
Trespassing" information. This sign shall be located on the accessory equipment
structure, building or fencing and shall not exceed four square feet in area.
      (8)   The proposed tower shall be set back from all publicly owned roads
or rights-of-way a distance equal to the tower height divided by three. If
visible from any public road or right-of-way, a landscape plan is required
indicating how the applicant proposes to screen any accessory structure or
equipment from view.
      (9)   Setbacks of the base of the tower from all adjacent property lines
shall be one foot for each foot of tower height. To encourage shared use of
towers, applications for towers which will operate with more than one user
immediately upon completion may have a 15% reduction in the required setbacks,
but in no case shall the setback be less than those required for the underlying
zoning district. Also, to encourage the construction of monopole structures,
monopole towers may have a 25% reduction in the required setbacks. Monopole
towers which will immediately operate with more than one user may have a 40%
reduction in the required setbacks. To encourage location of towers in forested
areas with a minimum depth of 65 feet, the tower may have a 20% reduction in
the required setbacks. In no case shall the setback be less than those required
for the underlying zoning district. The setback reductions shall only be
allowed upon a certification by a North Carolina licensed design professional
which states that the structure's design and construction are such that, in the
event of structural loadings in excess of design and resulting failure or
collapse, all portions of the tower will fall within an identified area (the
fall zone), and that no buildings or structures on adjacent zoning lots lie
within said fall zone. Such certification shall consider potential future
structures which may be constructed on such adjacent lots, subject to the
limitations of existing setbacks and permanent easements on such lots.
      (10)   Except where setback reductions are allowed under the previous
division, the proposed tower shall be set back from all property lines a
distance equal to the proposed tower’s radius or extent of the fall zone as
certified by a North Carolina licensed design professional.
      (11)   The proposed tower shall be set back a distance equal to the
tower's height plus 50 feet from any residential structure.
      (12)   Notice shall be provided to the Planning Department when the tower
is placed out of service. Towers that are not used for a period of six months
or more shall be removed by the owner within 120 days of owner's receipt of
notification to that effect. Any tower, antenna, accessory structure or
equipment that is not used for communication purposes for more than 120 days
shall be considered abandoned and shall be removed by the owner within 60 days
of owner's receipt of notification. The Building Inspector may establish a
shorter period of time for removal of a tower that is structurally unsound.
   (D)   Nonconforming towers. Continuation, relocation and reconstruction of
and enlargements and modifications to towers and associated equipment that do
not meet current requirements of this section (towers constructed prior to the
effective date of this chapter) are subject to the following requirements:
      (1)   A site plan shall be submitted for any relocation or reconstruction
of a nonconforming tower;
      (2)   Increases in height shall not exceed 10% of the height of the tower
as it existed in 1999 and shall not equal or exceed a height that would either
require a special use permit or would require the tower, if unlit, to add
lights;
      (3)   Any relocation or structural change must be on the tower's current
site; must eliminate the need for an additional tower or provide both
additional co-location opportunities and additional antenna space beyond what
is provided by the current tower; and may not change the style of the tower, if
the tower is currently a monopole;
      (4)   Any relocation must comply with current setback requirements, if
physically possible, or if compliance is not possible, the relocation must not
increase the amount by which setbacks are nonconforming, other than increases
necessitated solely by changes in size of the base to support the new tower. If
the foregoing setback requirements cannot be met, then setbacks may only be
decreased by up to 10% of the originally constructed tower height;
      (5)   If a nonconforming tower is damaged beyond 50% of its replacement
value, a replacement tower constructed on the same site or lot may not exceed
the height of the previous tower and must comply with all requirements of the
current provisions, except the requirement for a use permit.
(Ord. 99-09, passed 5-10-99; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 17-2,
passed 5-13-19; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.076 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.
   (A)    Detailed specifications. Required off-street parking spaces are
permanent areas and shall not be used for any other ground purpose; and shall
be constructed in accordance with generally accepted engineering practices.
      (1) Dimensions: standard parking spaces. In all zones, parking space
dimensions will be 200 square feet, ten feet by 20 feet. However, for
commercial and multi-family residential, only 18 feet of the length need to be
paved or constructed of turfstone, permeable pavements, including porous
concrete, porous asphalt, concrete grid pavers, permeable interlocking concrete
pavers, and plastic reinforcing grids. The remaining two feet of length shall
remain pervious, and a concrete curb stop shall be placed at the front end of
each space to accommodate vehicle overhang on the remaining two feet of length.
      (2)   Design. Every parking space shall be designed so that vehicles
cannot extend beyond the perimeter of such area onto adjacent properties or
public rights-of-way. Such areas shall also be designed so that vehicles do not
extend over sidewalks or tend to bump against or damage any wall, vegetation,
or other obstruction. Parking is not a permitted use within buffer or
landscaped areas.
      (3)   Submission of plans. Before the construction of any building in any
of the various zones, in addition to the building plan to be submitted to the
building inspector for approval, there shall also be submitted a detailed plan
of the off-street parking arrangements to be utilized for such structure,
including the number of spaces, size and type of construction of the off-street
parking area. Submission of a satisfactory parking plan shall be a condition
precedent to the issuance of any building permit.
      (4)   Remote parking space. Remote parking space shall be a special use,
if the off-street parking space required by this chapter cannot be reasonably
provided on the same lot on which the principal structure is located. Such
space may be provided on any land entirely within 1,000 feet of the main
entrance to such principal structure. Remote parking areas shall comply with
all aspects of the zoning code. In no case shall remote parking spaces be
separated from the principal structure by US 158. Remote parking areas shall
not be used for any transfer of development rights. The following minimum
conditions shall be required:
         (a)   Adequate pedestrian facilities from the primary structure to the
remote parking area shall be provided.
         (b)   Safety lighting shall be provided within the public right-of-way
from the primary structure to the remote parking area.
      (5)   Width of commercial and multi-family driveways. The width of
commercial and multi-family driveways shall be no less than 12 feet in a one-
way traffic flow and 24 feet in a two-way traffic flow.
      (6)   Width and length of driveway serving a one- or two-family dwelling.
The width of a residential driveway shall be no less than ten feet; if used as
part of the parking area, shall be of sufficient length to keep the number of
parked cars provided for in division (A)(1) off the street right-of-way.
      (7)   Materials for driveways and parking lots.
         (a)   Commercial driveways, parking areas and turn around areas shall
be made of asphalt, concrete or permeable blocks, pavements, including porous
concrete, porous asphalt, concrete grid pavers, permeable interlocking concrete
pavers, and plastic reinforcing grids as defined in §
153.180(E)(3)(b). No types of temporary materials, such as landing mats and
boards, shall be used for the construction of driveways.
         (b)   Overflow parking areas for commercial sites, in excess of
required parking, may utilize grassed or unimproved areas of the site for
parking. Parking shall not be allowed in required stormwater, landscaped or
wastewater areas. If improvements are made to overflow parking areas standards
and materials for required parking areas shall be utilized.
         (c)   Single-family and duplex residential driveway and parking areas
can utilize approved commercial materials as in division (7)(a) above or a
minimum of four inches of compacted Aggregate Base Course (ABC) with one inch
of pea gravel as an approved surface. When ABC pea gravel option is utilized,
the following conditions shall apply:
            1.   All improvements in the right-of-way shall meet one of the
commercial specifications listed in division (7)(a).
            2.   Loose stone surface shall be bordered by concrete or salt-
treated timbers in a manner which retains the stone in the driveway or parking
area.
         (d)   Gravel driveways and parking areas shall be allowed in the G&I
Public and MFED Zoning Districts for recreational facilities that will be
unoccupied.
      (8)   Curbs. In any commercial zone and for all hotels, motels and
auditoriums in a high-density residential zone (RH), a curb of at least six
inches in height shall be constructed along the entire width of the building
lot on all highway or street sides of the lot. The curbing shall be constructed
of concrete. Curbing may also be required to aid in stormwater management.
      (9)   Parking requirement for multifamily and commercial establishments.
         (a) Yards. Commercial and multi-family. No parking lot shall be
located closer than ten feet to a public right-of-way. The area between the
parking lot and street right-of-way shall be planted and maintained in lawn or
other appropriate planting, or shall be improved otherwise as approved in site
plan review.
         (b)   Lighting. Any lighting shall be arranged so as to direct the
light and glare away from streets and adjacent property. (See §
153.074, Outdoor lighting.)
         (c)   Drainage.  Parking lots shall not drain onto or across public
rights-of-way, or into adjacent property except into a natural watercourse or a
drainage easement;
         (d)   Markings. For multi-family and commercial establishments, each
parking space shall be clearly marked and maintained.
         (e)   Entrances for multi-family and commercial establishments. On all
corner lots, no vehicular openings shall be located at closer than 36 feet from
the point of intersection of the established street right-of-way lines. No
entrances or exits, whether or not on a corner lot, shall exceed 30 feet in
width at the property line. The outside radius (R) an entrance/exit connection
shall be a minimum of five feet, not to exceed a maximum of 15 feet except
where required for ingress/egress by fire apparatus as determined by the Fire
Code Official, and then not to exceed 25 feet. There shall be a minimum
distance between one-way driveways of 25 feet measured along the curb line.
         (f)   Special commercial and multi-family entrance requirements - US
158/Croatan Highway. Where a lot abuts U.S. 158/Croatan Highway and does not
abut any other dedicated public right-of-way, one entrance shall be allowed
consistent with the following dimensional requirements: the width of a
commercial driveway shall not exceed 36 feet measured at the property line. The
outside radius (R) of an entrance/exit connection shall be a minimum of five
feet, not to exceed a maximum of 25 feet.
         (g)   Special entrance requirements – Government and Institutional
Zone (G&I); public ownership. Entrance(s) for lots located in the G&I Public
Zoning District used for storage of publicly-owned vehicles and equipment shall
be allowed consistent with the following dimensional requirements: the width of
a driveway shall not exceed 36 feet measured at the point of tangency; and the
outside radius of an entrance/exit connection shall be a minimum of five feet,
not to exceed a maximum of 45 feet.
         (h)   Special entrance requirements - emergency services. Where a lot
abuts U.S. 158/Croatan Highway and does not abut any other dedicated public
right-of-way, one entrance shall be allowed consistent with the following
dimensional requirements: the width of a commercial driveway shall not exceed
115 feet measured at the property line. The outside radius (R) of an entrance/
exit connection shall be a minimum of five feet, not to exceed a maximum of 45
feet.
      (10)   Parking requirements for single-family and duplex structures.  
         (a)   Yards.
            1.   Dwellings with four bedrooms or less:
               a.   Driveways and parking areas shall not exceed a single or
combined width of 80% of the total lot width, not to exceed 40 feet, whichever
is less; and
               b.   Driveways and parking areas shall maintain a minimum of a
two-foot side yard setback and must maintain a five-foot setback in rear yards.
            2.   Dwellings with five to ten bedrooms:
               a.   A minimum of one but no more than two paved driveways of at
least ten feet in width and not exceeding a single or combined width of 20 feet
shall be permitted in this area. Driveway width shall be maintained from the
point on entry at the property line for five linear feet. Parking setback shall
be equal to the total width of the driveway(s) measured from the property line.
Driveways in the required parking setback area cannot be used for calculation
of required parking.
               b.   Parking setbacks shall be a minimum of five feet from the
property line for both driveways and parking areas.
               c.   Turn around area for properties abutting highways,
thoroughfares and/or collector streets shall be within the designated parking
area outlined in this section. Driveways with a minimum width of 20 feet may
utilize the driveway area within the required setback as the turn around area.
            3.   Dwellings with 11 bedrooms or more:
               a.   A minimum of one but no more than two paved driveways of at
least ten feet in width and not exceeding a single or combined width of 20 feet
shall be permitted in this area. Driveway width shall be maintained from the
point on entry at the property line for five linear feet. Parking setback shall
be equal to the total width of the driveway(s) measured from the property line.
Driveways in the required parking setback area cannot be used for calculation
of required parking.
               b.   Parking setbacks shall be a minimum of seven feet from the
property line for both driveways and parking areas.
               c.   Exception: Parking setbacks shall be a minimum of five feet
from the property line for driveways, access aisles, and parking areas provided
with a clearly marked access aisle including "no parking" with the following
design requirements. There shall be a minimum of one access aisle designed open
and unobstructed within 20 feet of primary dwelling. Minimum access aisle width
shall be ten feet.
               d.   Turn around area for properties abutting highways,
thoroughfares and/or collector streets shall be within the designated parking
area outlined in this section. Driveways with a minimum width of 20 feet may
utilize the driveway area within the required setback as the turn around area.
      (11)   Solid waste requirements.  Sufficient space shall be provided on
the premises for the location of solid waste containers as required by §
50.15 of this code, regulating the collection and disposal of trash and
garbage. Such solid waste container location may be in a required parking lot;
provided that such location does not occupy a required parking space or
maneuvering space; and provided further that such solid waste container
location shall provide convenient and safe access to the servicing vehicle.
      (12)   Vehicle circulation and movement.
         (a)   Vehicle accommodation areas, specifically turn around areas,
shall be designed so that, without resorting to extraordinary movements,
vehicles may exit such areas without backing onto a public street.
         (b)   Vehicle accommodation areas of all development shall be designed
so that sanitation, emergency, and other public service vehicles can serve such
developments without the necessity of backing unreasonable distances or making
other dangerous or hazardous turning movements.
         (c)   Circulation areas shall be designed so that vehicles can proceed
safely without posing a danger to pedestrians or other vehicles and without
interfering with parking areas.
         (d)   Spaces for restaurant employee parking may be arranged in a
stacked configuration (spaces one in front of another) not to exceed 15% of the
total required spaces. Stacking may not be deeper than two spaces, both of
which shall be considered stacked. Signs shall indicate the location of
employee parking spaces.
      (13)   Sidewalk requirements for commercial and multi-family development
abutting US 158 in the Commercial Zoning District. Sidewalk improvements shall
be installed along the entire length of properties fronting US 158. The
sidewalk improvements shall be a minimum width of five feet and meet all NCDOT
standards.
   (B)   Minimum parking requirements and specific use standards.
      (1)   All developments in all zoning districts shall provide the number
of parking spaces, as specified in the Table of Parking Requirements, to
accommodate the number of vehicles that are likely to be attracted to the
development in question.
      (2)   When determination of the number of parking spaces required by this
table results in a requirement of a fractional space, any fraction of one-half
or less may be disregarded, while a fraction in excess of one-half shall be
counted as one parking space.
      (3)   All space requirements which are based upon employment shall be
computed on the basis of the greatest number of persons on duty at any one
period during the day or night.
      (4)   The required parking space for any number of separate uses may be
combined in one lot but the required space assigned to one use may not be
assigned to another use, except that one- half of the parking space required
for places of worship, theaters or assembly halls whose peak attendance will be
at night or on Sundays may be assigned to a use which will be closed at night
and on Sundays.
      (5)   It is recognized that the table cannot and does not cover every
possible situation that may arise. Therefore, in cases not specifically or
reasonably covered, the Board of Commissioners will determine the parking
requirements using this table as a guide.
   (C)   Parking reduction schedule. A reserve area shall be created when using
any reduction in parking. Each reserve area shall be clearly indicated on the
site plan including layout and the number of parking spaces utilized in the
reduction. All reserve area shall be calculated as impervious area for purposes
of lot coverage and stormwater management.
 
If the required parking facilities Required parking for the proposed use can
total:                             be reduced by:
100 to 150 parking spaces          10%
151 to 250 parking spaces          20%
251 or more parking spaces         30%
 
   (D)   Table of parking requirements.
Residential and related uses Required parking
Residential and related uses                                                  Required parking
                                                                              1 parking space per 200 square feet
                                                                              of gross floor area with a minimum
Automated ice vending structure                                               of 4 spaces and reserved lane
                                                                              capacity equal to 3 spaces per
                                                                              window for any drive-through or
                                                                              drive-up dispensing.
                                                                              2 parking spaces per dwelling, plus
                                                                              one parking space for each bedroom
                                                                              over 2. With the exception of
                                                                              stacked or assigned parking the
Dwellings – multi-family (Commercial and Ocean Impact Residential Districts number of spaces may then be reduced
only)                                                                         as follows: For 15-19 units a 10%
                                                                              reduction, for 20-24 units a 15%
                                                                              reduction, and for 25 units or more
                                                                              a 20% reduction. This may not be
                                                                              combined with the reductions
                                                                              permitted by § 153.076(C).
                                                                              2 parking spaces per dwelling unit,
Dwellings – single-family, duplex and multi- family (including mobile homes)plus 1 parking space for each
                                                                              bedroom over 2
                                                                              1 parking space per accessory
Dwellings – accessory dwelling unit (ADU)                                   dwelling unit plus 1 space for each
                                                                              bedroom over 1
                                                                              1.2 parking spaces for each unit,
Hotel and motel                                                               plus 1 parking space for each
                                                                              employee
                                                                              1.2 parking spaces for each unit,
Hotel/motel with restaurant                                                   plus 1 parking space for each
                                                                              employee, plus 1 parking space per
                                                                              200 square feet of gross floor area
                                                                              1.2 parking spaces for each unit,
                                                                              plus 1 parking space for each
Hotel/motel with retail, office, meetings                                     employee plus 1 parking space per
                                                                              200 square feet of gross floor area
                                                                              for secondary uses
                                                                              1 parking space for every 3 persons
Hotel/motel event gardens                                                     the event garden is designed to
                                                                              accommodate when fully utilized
                                                                              1 parking space per 200 square feet
                                                                              of gross floor area
                                                                              Exceptions to retail, office and
                                                                              related use:
                                                                              Medical
                                                                              offices (not   1 space per 250
                                                                              urgent care),  square feet of gross
                                                                              dentist,       floor area provided
                                                                              hairstylist,   the area that would
                                                                              barber, bank   be required for
                                                                              and financial  parking at the ratio
                                                                              institutions   above remain open
                                                                              and business/  area used for
                                                                              professional   landscaping,
                                                                              offices with   stormwater or other
                                                                              5,000-square-  use that does not
                                                                              foot gross     create impervious
                                                                              floor area or  areas
                                                                              less
                                                                                             1 space per 250
                                                                                             square feet of gross
                                                                                             floor area provided
                                                                                             the area that would
                                                                                             be required for
Retail, office and related uses                                               5,001-10,000   parking at the ratio
                                                                              gross square   above remain open
                                                                              feet or less   area used for
                                                                                             landscaping,
                                                                                             stormwater or other
                                                                                             use that does not
                                                                                             create impervious
                                                                                             areas
                                                                                             1 space per 300
                                                                                             square feet of gross
                                                                                             floor area provided
                                                                                             the area that would
                                                                                             be required for
                                                                              10,001 gross   parking at the ratio
                                                                              square feet    above remain open
                                                                              and over       area used for
                                                                                             landscaping,
                                                                                             stormwater or other
                                                                                             use that does not
                                                                                             create impervious
                                                                                             areas
                                                                              Furniture
                                                                              stores with a  One parking space per
                                                                              minimum of     400 square feet of
                                                                              4,000 square   gross floor area
                                                                              feet
                                                                              Required parking: 1 parking space
                                                                              per 200 square feet of gross floor
                                                                              area for the following uses:
                                                                              Antique shops  Hammocks
                                                                              Appliance      Hardware stores
                                                                              stores
                                                                                             Home care systems
                                                                              Art galleries  (wheelchairs and the
                                                                                             like)
                                                                              Arts and       Jewelry stores
                                                                              crafts
                                                                              Astrology and
                                                                              tarot card     Laundromats
                                                                              reading office
                                                                                             Medical offices less
                                                                              Auto supplies  than 4,000 square
                                                                                             feet with a minimum
                                                                                             of 5 spaces
                                                                              Automobile
                                                                              sales,         Motorcycle sales and
                                                                              rentals, and   service
                                                                              repair
                                                                              Bait and       Music stores
                                                                              tackle shops
                                                                              Bank           Paint and wall
                                                                                             treatment stores
                                                                              Beauty parlors/barber shops/nail
                                                                              salonsPersonal spas
                                                                              Blueprint
                                                                              business       Pet stores
                                                                              (reproductions
                                                                              and the like)
                                                                              Boat sales,
                                                                              rentals, and   Pharmacies/drug store
                                                                              repair
                                                                                             Photo shops (film
                                                                              Body piercing  processing, sales and
                                                                                             the like)
                                                                              Books          Pools and spas
                                                                              Broadcast      Post office
                                                                              studios
                                                                              Business/      Produce markets
                                                                              professional
                                                                              Carpet and     Rental shops
Retail, office and related uses:                                              flooring
                                                                              Clothing       Safety equipment
                                                                              Clothing       Shoe repair
                                                                              (tailor)
                                                                              Convenience    Sign business
                                                                              stores
                                                                              Cycle and      Tanning salons
                                                                              skate shops
                                                                              Dry cleaners   Taxicab operations
                                                                              Electronic
                                                                              equipment,     Thrift stores/
                                                                              sales and      consignment shop
                                                                              repair
                                                                              Embroidering/
                                                                              screen         Toy stores
                                                                              printing shops
                                                                              Financial      Trophy and engraving
                                                                              institutions   shop
                                                                              Florists       Surfboard manufacture
                                                                                             shop
                                                                              Food/produce/  Video, audio, and
                                                                              grocery store  lighting
                                                                              Frames
                                                                              (picture       Water care products
                                                                              frames,        and supplies
                                                                              matting and
                                                                              the like)
                                                                              Furniture      Window and door
                                                                                             stores
                                                                              Gift shops     Wood crafts and
                                                                                             hobbies
                                                                              Government     Dental offices
                                                                              offices
                                                                              Medical
                                                                              offices less    
                                                                              than 3,000
                                                                              square feet
                                                                              One parking space per 400 square
                                                                              feet of gross floor area for the
                                                                              following uses:
                                                                              Furniture
                                                                              stores with a
                                                                              minimum of      
                                                                              4,000 square
                                                                              feet
                                                                              Reserved lane capacity equal to 5
                                                                              spaces per window and 3 spaces of
Drive-in and drive-through windows                                            reserve lane capacity for drive-
                                                                              through automated teller machines,
                                                                              plus required parking for the
                                                                              enclosed structure/use
                                                                              1 space for every 3 employees, plus
Car wash, conveyor type                                                       reservoir capacity equal to 5 times
                                                                              the capacity of the washing
                                                                              operation
                                                                              2 spaces for drying and cleaning
Car wash, self-service type                                                   purposes per stall, plus 2 reservoir
                                                                              spaces in front of each stall
 
Restaurant uses                         Required parking
                                        1 parking space per 200 square feet of
Brewery with secondary use(s) (bar,     gross floor area for the brewery, plus
restaurant, retail and the like)        parking for secondary uses as required
                                        in this chapter
Restaurants, bars, nightclubs (no
substantial carry-out or delivery       1 parking space per 100 square feet of
service, no drive-in service, no        gross floor area
service or consumption outside fully
enclosed building)
Restaurants, bars, nightclubs (carry-   1 parking space per 100 square feet of
out and delivery service, drive-in      gross floor area, including outside
service, service outside fully enclosed dining areas and a reservoir lane
structure)                              capacity equal to 5 spaces per drive-in
                                        window
                                        1 parking space per 100 square feet of
Restaurants with secondary use(s)       gross floor area for the restaurant
(brewery, retail, amusement arcade and  use, plus 1 parking space per 200
the like)                               square feet of gross floor area for the
                                        secondary use(s)
Carry-out facilities, snack bars,
refreshment stands, bakeries, limited
food establishments with no indoor or   1 parking space per 200 square feet of
outdoor seating or any establishment    gross floor area
where food is prepared for consumption
off premises
 
 
Wholesale, warehouse or industrial uses      Required parking
                                             1 parking space per 1,000 square
                                             feet of gross floor area, 1
Warehouse as defined in §                   parking space per 200 square feet
153.002                                      of gross floor area for office
                                             areas, but not less than 6 parking
                                             spaces
                                             1 parking space per 400 square
                                             feet of gross floor area, 1
Light Industrial Warehouse as defined in §  parking space per 200 square feet
153.002                                      of gross floor area for office
                                             areas, but not less than 5 parking
                                             spaces
                                             1 parking space per 200 square
                                             feet of gross floor area for
Retail Warehouse as defined in §            retail and office areas and 1
153.002                                      parking space per 400 square feet
                                             of gross floor area for storage
                                             area with no public access
                                             1 parking space per 600 square
                                             feet of gross floor area for
                                             industrial complex and office as
Warehouse, industrial complex                defined. 1 parking space per 400
                                             square feet of gross floor area
                                             for additional office space and/or
                                             all other uses
 
 
Recreational uses                      Required parking
Skating rinks, tennis, billiards and
pool halls, indoor athletic and
exercise facilities, fishing piers,    1 parking space for every 3 persons that
miniature golf, driving range,         the facilities are designed to
amusement arcade, batting cages, ball  accommodate when fully utilized, plus 1
fields, water rides, skateboard ramps, space per 200 square feet of gross floor
swimming pools, haunted houses,        area used in a manner not susceptible to
trampoline with harness and tether,    such calculation
small amusement rides with maximum
capacity of 24 persons
Auditorium or convention centers       1 parking space for each 2 spectator
                                       seats
Assembly halls, libraries, museums,
nonprofit organizations, art centers,  1 parking space per 300 square feet of
social and fraternal area clubs, union gross floor
halls and similar uses
Theaters                               1 parking space for each 4 seats
 
Institutional uses Required parking
Institutional uses                     Required parking
Medical clinics or health clinics      1 parking space per 150 square feet of
                                       gross floor area
Hospitals and other medical facilities 2 spaces per bed or 1 parking space per
in excess of 10,000 square feet of     150 square feet of gross floor area,
gross floor area                       whichever is greater
Nursing homes/Assisted living          3 parking spaces for each 5 beds
                                       intended for patient use
                                       1 parking space for every 4 seats in the
                                       portion of the religious complex to be
                                       used for services, plus spaces for any
                                       residential use as determined in
Places of worship                      accordance with the parking requirements
                                       set forth for residential use, plus 1
                                       space for every 200 square feet of gross
                                       floor area designed to be used neither
                                       for services nor residential purposes
                                       1 parking space per 200 square feet of
Nursery schools and day care centers   gross floor area, plus 1 space per
                                       employee
Services and enterprises related to    1 parking space per 200 square feet of
animals                                gross floor area, plus 1 space per
                                       employee
Elementary and secondary schools       25 parking spaces, plus 1.75 spaces for
                                       each classroom and administrative office
                                       25 parking spaces, plus 1 space for each
High schools                           5 students for which the building was
                                       designed, plus 1 space for each
                                       classroom and administrative office
Trade or vocational schools, colleges, 1 parking space per 150 square feet of
community colleges and universities    gross floor area
                                       1 parking space per employee on duty and
Emergency Services Facility (Police,   1 parking space per 200 square feet of
Fire, EMS)                             training facility and customer service
                                       areas
 
Shopping Centers/Office Complex Required parking
Shopping Centers/Office Complex     Required parking
Shopping center/office complex -    1 space per 200 square feet of gross floor
5,000 gross square feet or less (no area
restaurant uses)
Shopping center/office complex -    1 space per 200 square feet of gross floor
5,000 gross square feet or less w/  area for retail and office uses   
restaurant uses                  1 space per 100 square feet of gross floor
                                    area for restaurant use
Shopping center/office complex -    1 space per 250 square feet of gross floor
5,000 to 10,000 gross square feet   area
(no restaurant uses)
Shopping center/office complex -    1 space per 250 square feet of gross floor
5,000 to 10,000 gross square feet   area for retail and office uses
w/restaurant uses                   1 space per 100 square feet of gross floor
                                    area for restaurant use
Shopping center/office complex -    1 space per 250 square feet of gross floor
greater than 10,000 gross square    area
feet
 
   (E)   Off-street loading. One or more loading berths or other spaces shall
be provided for standing, loading and unloading operations either inside or
outside a building or structure erected in accordance with the requirements of
the following table. A loading berth shall have minimum plan dimensions of 12
feet by 60 feet and an overhead clearance of 14 feet. A loading space need not
be necessarily a full berth but shall be sufficient to allow normal loading and
unloading operations of a kind and magnitude appropriate to the property served
thereby. The Board of Commissioners shall determine the sufficiency of loading
space but in no case shall the use of such space hinder the free movement of
vehicles and pedestrians over a street, sidewalk or alley.
Use Classification Space Requirements
Use Classification                        Space Requirements
Retail operations, including restaurant
and dining facilities within hotels and   One loading berth every 10,000 square
office buildings, with a total useable    feet of floor area
floor area of 20,000 square feet or more
devoted to such purpose
Retail operations and all first floor
nonresidential uses with a gross floor
area of less than 20,000 square feet and  One loading berth every 10,000 square
all wholesale and light industrial        feet of floor area
operations with a gross floor area of
less than 10,000 square feet
Office buildings and hotels with a total  One loading berth for every 100,000
useable floor area of 100,000 square feet square feet of floor area
or more devoted to such purposes
Industrial and wholesale operations with a gross floor area of:
10,000 to 40,000 square feet              One loading berth
40,001 to 100,000 square feet             Two loading berths
100,001 to 160,000 square feet            Three loading berths
160,001 to 240,000 square feet            Four loading berths
240,001 to 320,000 square feet            Five loading berths
320,001 to 400,000 square feet            Six loading berths
Each 90,000 square feet above 400,000     One additional berth
square feet
 
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 97-02, passed 2-26-97; Am. Ord. 01-02,
passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 02-06, passed 3-13-02; Am. Ord. 02-09, passed 6-10-02;
Am. Ord. 03-01, passed 2-10-03; Am. Ord. 03-09, passed 6-25-03; Am. Ord. 03-16,
passed 10-15-03; Am. Ord. 04-08, passed 5-26-04; Am. Ord. 04-11, passed 5-26-
04; Am. Ord. 04-12, passed 7-12-04; Am. Ord. 04-18, passed 10-11-04; Am. Ord.
05-01, passed 1-10-05; Am. Ord. 05-12, passed 8-8-05; Am. Ord. 05-13, passed 8-
8-05; Am. Ord. 05-19, passed 10-4-05; Am. Ord. 06-23, passed 10-9-06; Am. Ord.
06-24, passed 11-15-06; Am. Ord. 07-17, passed 10-24-07; Am. Ord. 08-17, passed
7-14-08; Am. Ord. 09-03, passed 1-28-09; Am. Ord. 10-03, passed 4-12-10; Am.
Ord. 10-06, passed 5-26-10; Am. Ord. 10-15, passed 9-13-10; Am. Ord. 11-05,
passed 4-11-11; Am. Ord. 11-09, passed 5-25-11; Am. Ord. 12-02, passed 2-13-12;
Am. Ord. 12-04, passed 3-28-12; Am. Ord. 13-01, passed 1-14-13; Am. Ord. 13-3,
passed 3-20-13; Am. Ord. 13-4, passed 4-24-13; Am. Ord. 13-15, passed 10-14-13;
Am. Ord. 13-16, passed 10-14-13; Am. Ord. 14-05, passed 3-10-14; Am. Ord. 14-
25, passed 2-9-15; Am. Ord. 15-15, passed 5-16-16; Am. Ord. 16-21, passed 7-19-
18; Am. Ord. 16-25, passed 4-24-19; Am. Ord. 17-18, passed 5-27-20; Am. Ord.
17-27, passed 3-12-21; Am. Ord. 17-28, passed 3-8-21; Am. Ord. 18-1, passed 4-
12-21; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21; Am. Ord. 19-7, passed 1-10-22; Am. Ord.
19-15, passed 12-12-22)
§ 153.077 SIGNS.
   In an effort to ensure public health and welfare and a pleasing aesthetic
environment and to promote traffic safety, the town has adopted the regulations
and standards contained in this section.
   (A)   Permit required.
      (1)   No sign shall be erected, constructed, altered or maintained,
except as provided in this section, until a permit for the same has been issued
by the Zoning Administrator and the fee paid. A minimum fee for any sign permit
shall be determined from time to time by the Board.
      (2)   Any freestanding or wall sign which will require a permit will also
require inspection by the Building Inspector.
   (B)   Exempt signs. The following signs shall be exempt:
      (1)   Signs bearing only property numbers, names of occupants or premises
or other identification of premises not having commercial connotations;
      (2)   Flags.
         (a)   Legal governmental flags displayed in a manner compliant with
all laws.
         (b)   Decorative flags no more than 24 square feet located within the
property lines and in no case shall any part of the flag be closer than ten
feet from the edge of pavement within any right-of-way.
         (c)   Two decorative flags per single business site or one flag per
business if located within a shopping center or office complex with multiple
businesses per site (to be effective as of January 1, 2015).
      (3)   Legal notices or identifications, information or directional signs
erected or required by governmental bodies or public utilities;
      (4)   Integral decorative or architectural features of buildings, except
letters, trademarks, moving parts or moving lights;
      (5)   Electronic message boards displaying time, temperature and wind
direction and velocity signs;
      (6)   "For Sale" or "For Rent" signs that meet the limitations on square
footage as defined in subsection (C)(1)(b) of this section shall be exempt from
the permit requirements of division (A) of this section;
      (7)   During the construction, repair or alteration of a structure, a
temporary construction sign which denotes the architect, engineer, contractor
or builder or which denotes the name of the structure and its use or occupants-
to-be may be placed on the site as a ground or wall sign. Such sign shall not
exceed 64 square feet and shall not exceed 20 feet in height above street
grade. All construction site signs shall be removed when the building has been
approved for occupancy by the Building Inspector or within 60 days of
termination of work on the site, whichever shall occur first;
      (8)   Signs on county, municipal or school ballfield fences, provided the
signs do not exceed 24 square feet in area, have been given prior approval by
the Board of Commissioners, and are valid for a period of four consecutive
months;
      (9)   Advertising messages or symbols painted or constructed on a
business vehicle that is used in day-to-day business operations with valid
registration, license and inspection. These shall be reviewed by the Zoning
Administrator;
      (10)   Neon or LED signs, provided they are no larger than two square
feet and indicate "Open," "Closed" or "No Vacancy." These signs may not suggest
movement, be animated in any way or blink on and off.
      (11)   Strings of electric light bulbs on commercial sites that are not
flashing or intermittently illuminated or appear to be flashing or glittering
or moving shall be permitted on the following dates and at no other time:
         (a)   November 22 through January 7; and
         (b)    July 2 through July 6.
      (12)   One "Open House" sign that does not exceed 36 square feet and is
set back a minimum of seven feet from any property line or one "Open House"
banner attached to the primary structure that does not exceed 75 square feet
shall be exempt from the permit requirements of division (A) of this section.
At no time shall the sign be illuminated.
      (13)   Signage and/or electronic screens not exceeding two square feet on
order pedestals at food service establishments.
   (C)   Generally allowed.
      (1)   The following signs shall be allowed in all zones:
         (a)   Directional and informational signs may be erected and
maintained by public agencies and governmental bodies;
         (b)   One lease or rent sign and one for sale sign may be used per
lot, each of which shall not exceed 6 square feet plus frame. These signs shall
be located at least seven feet from the street line and side property lines and
shall be removed 14 days after the property has been sold, rented or leased.
Sale or lease signs for commercial property shall be limited to 36 square feet
and shall be removed 14 days after the property has been sold, rented or
leased.
         (c)   Places of worship, schools, community centers and other public
and institutional uses may erect one sign or bulletin board not exceeding 12
square feet in area for the purpose of displaying the name of the institution
and related information. The signs shall be used as wall signs or shall be
located at least 7½ feet from property lines. Any sign over 12 square feet will
require a permit.
         (d)   Subdivision signs advertising the sale of lots or buildings
within new subdivisions on which they are located are permitted, provided that:
            1.   They are nonilluminated or indirectly illuminated;
            2.   They do not exceed 64 square feet;
            3.   Not more than one such sign shall be located at each major
approach to the subdivision;
            4.   They meet all requirements applying to principal structures
with regard to yard, setback and height requirements;
            5.   Display of such signs shall be limited to a period of two
years;
            6.   A permit is required.
      (2)   Prior to the expiration date of the permit for subdivision signs,
the applicant may request one extension of two years. Signs shall be removed
prior to the expiration of the two-year period or extension thereof. If the
sign has not been removed, the town may enter the premises upon which the sign
is located and remove such sign at no liability to the town and at the expense
of the owner.
      (3)   Permanent subdivision signs without advertising may remain as long
as they are adequately maintained. Subdivisions remote from a main thoroughfare
may locate one off-premises sign, provided the sign meets the specifications
for subdivision signs detailed below:
         (a)   They are nonilluminated or indirectly illuminated;
         (b)   They do not exceed 64 square feet;
         (c)   Not more than one such sign shall be located at each major
approach to the subdivision;
         (d)   They meet all requirements applying to principal structures with
regard to yard, setback and height requirements;
         (e)   They are landscaped and well-maintained in the best interest of
the developer and the community;
         (f)   A permit is required.
      (4)   In the event a freestanding sign is destroyed by fire, flood or
storm and such damage was not caused nor contributed to by the owner, occupant
or user, one temporary message board may be permitted, subject to the following
conditions:
         (a)   It shall be displayed only during daylight hours (sunup to
sundown);
         (b)   It shall not exceed six square feet in area;
         (c)   It shall not be displayed within any highway or local road
right-of-way and shall be on the property of the advertising business;
         (d)   It shall not be displayed when conditions could cause public
injury or property damage;
         (e)   It shall not be displayed longer than 60 days;
         (f)   No fees or permits are necessary.
      (5)   Roof signs will be permitted on gambrel and A-frame roofs subject
to the following conditions:
         (a)   Gambrel roofs and A-frame roofs have a minimum pitch of 29/12;
         (b)   Signs only be allowed on the steepest portion of the roof;
         (c)   Maximum height of any sign shall be 20 feet from the average
finished grade.
         (d)   Signs shall not be located on the ridge of the roof.
   (D)   Detailed specifications for commercial zone and light industrial zones
signs.
      (1)   For each lot, tract or parcel, the maximum square footage of
signage that may be displayed shall be based on the following formula. (For
shopping centers see subsection (D)(11).)
         (a)   On lots with 100 feet or less of road or highway frontage, 36
square feet of signage, including any combination of freestanding and manual
message board, may be displayed on one freestanding sign, such sign not to
exceed 20 feet in elevation above street grade, measured from ground elevation
to the top of the sign structure. An additional two square feet of wall sign
may be displayed on the building for each lineal foot of building frontage.
However, no single wall sign shall exceed 100 square feet.
         (b)   On lots with 101 feet to 150 feet of road or highway frontage,
50 square feet of signage, including any combination of freestanding and manual
message board, may be displayed on one freestanding sign, such sign not to
exceed 20 feet in elevation above street grade, measured from ground elevation
to the top of the sign structure. An additional two square feet of wall sign
may be displayed on the building for each lineal foot of building frontage.
However, no single wall sign shall exceed 100 square feet.
         (c)   On lots with 151 feet or more of road frontage, 64 square feet
of signage, including any combination of freestanding and manual message board,
may be displayed on one freestanding sign, such sign not to exceed 20 feet in
elevation above street grade measured from ground elevation to the top of the
sign structure. An additional two square feet of wall sign may be displayed on
the building for each lineal foot of building frontage. However, no single wall
sign shall exceed 100 square feet.
         (d)   On any lot with 151 feet or more of road frontage, greater than
five acres, where the principal building is a minimum of 150 feet from the
right-of-way, 64 square feet of signage, including any combination of
freestanding and manual message board, may be displayed on one freestanding
sign, such sign not to exceed 20 feet in elevation above street grade measured
from ground elevation to the top of the sign structure. An additional two
square feet of wall sign may be displayed on the building for each lineal foot
of building frontage. However, no single wall sign shall exceed 250 square
feet. In no case shall total area of wall signs exceed 600 square feet per
building frontage.
         (e)   One flag per business shall be allowed (effective date January
1, 2015).
      (2)   Measurements of sign size for computation of compliance with this
chapter is based on the size of the letters and then the total area of the
letters. This total shall be the total signage permitted based upon the
business building frontage measurement. (See illustration in Appendix C.) In no
case shall the solid surface of base and frame exceed double the permitted sign
area.
      (3)   Lighting shall be shielded so as to prevent a direct view of the
light from a residence or a street in a residential district.
      (4)   Temporary signs, banners, placards, decorations or the like,
constructed of light materials, for the promotion of noncommercial enterprises
or events taking place in the town, may be displayed in any commercial zone. No
such signs may be erected on or affixed to public property nor exceed 100
square feet and must not encroach on the right-of-way. These temporary signs
must be removed within five days after the event has taken place. The sign
shall be attached to a building.
      (5)   Temporary signs, banners, placards, decorations or the like,
constructed of light materials, for the promotion of commercial enterprises,
grand openings or similar uses taking place in the town, may be displayed for a
period not to exceed 90 days, upon the responsible party having secured a
permit for such from the Zoning Administrator. No such sign shall exceed 100
square feet. The sign shall be attached to a building.
      (6)   A general informational sign located on site, such as “no parking,”
“entrance,” “loading only,” “telephone” or other similar directives shall not
exceed three square feet, and total square footage of all informational signs
shall not exceed 33 square feet.
      (7)   For each food service business, menu boards and preview boards for
each drive- through may be permitted, provided that the sum of all menu boards
and preview boards does not exceed 60 square feet in total display area and
does not exceed eight feet in height above street or driveway elevation.
      (8)   For the purpose of determining the number of signs, a sign shall be
considered to be a single display surface or display device containing elements
organized, related or composed to form a unit. Where matter is displayed in a
random manner without organized relationship of elements, each element shall be
considered to be a single sign.
      (9)   The surface area of a sign shall be computed as including the
entire area within a regular geometric form comprising all of the informational
display area of the sign and all of the elements of the matter displayed. The
area of a double-faced sign shall be the area of one face of the sign, provided
that the two faces are of the same size and are parallel to one another with no
more than 24 inches between each sign face.
      (10)   Window signs shall be allowed on the inside or the outside of
glazing provided that they do not comprise more than 25% of the gross glazing
area of the building and are not separately illuminated or backlit by lighting
installed for that purpose. Miscellaneous business signs, such as credit card
signs, open and closed signs, hours of operation, etc., are not included in
this calculation, provided that each group/set of miscellaneous business signs
do not exceed two square feet in area and only one group/set of such signs are
allowed per entrance. Signs placed on the outside of the window must be made of
weatherproof materials and shall be maintained in good order. Window signs
shall not contain luminous or fluorescent colors or materials that glow when
illuminated by any light source. The signs may not suggest movement, be
animated in any way, blink or change when viewed from different angles. All
window signs shall be brought into compliance by June 1, 2010.
      (11)   Neon signs for internal illumination visible from the right-of-way
cannot exceed a total area of 20 square feet. These signs may not suggest
movement, be animated in any way or blink on and off.
      (12)   Shopping center/office complex signs.
         (a)   Areas within a shopping center/office complex shall be
identified as primary or secondary areas. Primary areas are those composed of
20,000 square feet or more of retail or office space. Secondary areas are those
composed of less than 20,000 square feet of retail or office space.
            1.   For primary uses within a shopping center/office complex, two
square feet of business sign area may be displayed for each lineal foot of
store/office frontage. However, no sign shall exceed 150 square feet. Multiple
signs on the store/office frontage may be displayed, so long as the total area
for each individual sign does not exceed 150 square feet and the total area of
all combined signs on the face of the store/office does not exceed two square
feet for each lineal foot of store/office frontage. Stores/offices which are
located on a corner with a wall facing a different street or road from the
front of the building shall be permitted to display a sign with an area no
larger than 36 square feet on the sidewall.
         (b)   1.   Secondary uses may display 36 square feet of sign area on
the front of the building; however, if the store/office frontage exceeds 30
linear feet, permitted sign area shall be calculated at 1¼ square feet of sign
area for each linear foot of store frontage, up to a maximum of 50 square feet.
            2.   Store/office located on a corner with a wall facing a
different road or street from the front of the building shall be permitted to
display a sign with an area no larger than 36 square feet on the side wall.
Total sign area on secondary use corner stores/offices, with a wall facing a
different road or street from the front of the building, shall not exceed 72
square feet of signage.
         (c)   One freestanding sign, including any combination of freestanding
and manual message board, not to exceed a total sign area of 64 square feet,
will be authorized for a shopping center/office complex. A freestanding sign
must identify the name of the shopping center/office complex and may also
identify the names of the individual stores/offices, but may not exceed the
square footage set forth above. A freestanding sign may not exceed 20 feet in
elevation above street grade, measured from ground elevation to the top of the
sign structure.
         (d)   1.   For the purpose of determining the number of signs, a sign
shall be considered to be a single display surface or display device containing
elements organized, related or composed to form a unit. Where matter is
displayed in a random manner without organized relationship of elements, each
element shall be considered to be a single sign.
            2.   The surface area of a sign shall be computed as including the
entire area within a regular geometric form comprising all of the display area
of the sign and including frames and all of the elements of the matter
displayed. The area of a double-faced sign shall be the area of one face of the
sign, provided that the two faces are of the same size and are parallel to one
another with no more than 24 inches between each sign face.
      (13)   Remote parking identification signs shall be located on the remote
parking lot and no more than 30 square feet and no greater than ten feet in
elevation above street grade, measured from ground to the top of the sign
structure.
      (14)   For event gardens as an accessory use to hotels or motels, the
wall sign size allowance for the principal use may be shared between the hotel/
motel and the accessory use with no greater than 36 square feet allocated to
the accessory use. Wall signage may be placed on permanent entrances ways only,
such as an entrance trellis or arch. Signage shall not be placed on fencing.
      (15)   LED STRING ACCENT LIGHTING is defined as lines of LED lighting no
greater than two inches in diameter that are continuous. For purposes of this
chapter, LED accent lighting shall be permitted in the Commercial Zoning
District with the following conditions:
         (a)   LED string accent lights shall be straight continuous colored
lined.
         (b)   LED string accent lights shall be parallel to the ground (no
shaped or other outlining permitted).
         (c)   LED string accent lights shall only be allowed on one structure
per commercial site. No more than two lines of LED string accent lights shall
be permitted and lines cannot be separated by more than four feet on the
structure.
         (d)   LED string accent lights shall be limited to one color per
commercial site.
         (e)   LED string accent lights may not suggest movement, flashing, be
intermittently illuminated or appear to be flashing or glittering.
         (f)   LED string accent lights shall be located no higher than 15 feet
from finished grade on the site.
         (g)   LED string accent lights shall be permanently affixed to the
structure, not hanging or temporary attached to the structure (temporary
attachment includes adhesive).
         (h)   LED string accent lights must be maintained and proper working
order. Strings that are partially lit or not functioning properly will be
required to be turned off until removed or repaired.
      (16)   Strings of electric light bulbs greater than two inches (café
style lighting) for the purpose of supplementary site lighting in approved
outdoor dining/outdoor waiting activity areas for patrons on commercial sites
and permanently attached to the structure that are not flashing or
intermittently illuminated or appear to be flashing, fading, glittering,
moving, or deemed a traffic distraction shall be permitted in the commercial
zone with the following conditions:
         (a)   Shall be parallel to the ground (no shaped or other outlining
permitted).
         (b)   Shall be limited to one continuous string.
         (c)   Shall be limited to one color per commercial site.
         (d)   Shall be located no higher than 15 feet from finished grade on
the site.
         (e)   Shall be permanently attached to the primary structure,
accessory structure and permanent piling/poles. Attachment to any freestanding
or building signage is prohibited.
         (f)   Shall be maintained and in proper working order. Strings that
are partially lit or not functioning properly or deemed a traffic distraction
will be required to be turned off until removed or repaired.
         (g)   Shall not be located within required parking, drive aisle, or
landscaping buffer.
   (E)   Prohibited signs.
      (1)   Signs which are flashing or intermittently illuminated or appear to
be flashing or glittering or moving and strings of lights are prohibited in
commercial and light industrial sites except as exempt in §
153.077(B)(11). No strings of flags shall be permitted in any zone.
      (2)   Billboards.
      (3)   Portable signs, except those allowed in division (C)(4).
      (4)   Roof signs except as permitted in division (C)(5).
      (5)   No sign shall make use of the words "Stop," "Slow," "Caution,"
"Danger" or any other word, phrase, symbol or character in such manner as is
reasonably likely to be confused with traffic directional and regulatory signs.
      (6)   Signs that impair vision clearance at intersection.
      (7)   Vehicular signs.
      (8)   Signs which advertise an activity, business, product or service no
longer produced or conducted on the premises upon which the sign is located.
The signs may remain in place for not more than 90 days.
      (9)   Signs which are attached to utility poles, trees, fences, publicly-
owned signs or in an unauthorized manner to walls or other signs.
      (10)   Off-premises accessory use directional signs are prohibited.
Existing off-premises accessory use directional signs and support structures
shall be removed by June 25, 2002.
      (11)   Tourist Oriented Directional Signs (TODS).
      (12)   Projection signs.
      (13)   Exposed neon, argon, krypton or similar gas lighting except as
outlined in (B)(10) above.
      (14)   LCD and electronic message boards except as outlined in (B)(5)
above.
      (15)   LED signs, string accent lights, or lighting unless used as a
light source to internally or directly illuminate wall or freestanding signage
or as provided in (D)(15) above.
      (16)   Flags that are torn greater than two inches or that are frayed
(threadbare, worn, tattered, unraveled, etc.) in excess of one inch and flags
not hanging in the manner it was designed or not hanging in a legal manner.
   (F)   Unsafe signs. Should any sign become insecure or in danger of falling
or otherwise be unsafe, in the opinion of the Building Inspector, then the
owner thereof, or the person maintaining the same, shall, upon written notice
from the Building Inspector, forthwith in the case of immediate danger or in
any case within ten days, secure the same in a manner to be approved by the
Building Inspector in conformity with the provisions of this section or remove
the sign. If such order is not complied with within ten days, the Building
Inspector shall remove such sign at the expense of the owner or lessee thereof.
   (G)   Maintenance. All signs, together with all their supports, braces,
guides and anchors, shall be kept in repair and, unless of galvanized or
noncorroding metal, shall be thoroughly painted at least once every two years.
   (H)   Design standards. All signs shall be constructed and designed
according to generally accepted engineering practices to withstand wind
pressures and load distribution as specified in the State Building Code.
   (I)   Obstruction of fire escapes, windows, doors and the like. No outdoor
advertising sign shall be installed, erected or constructed so as to obstruct
any fire escapes or any window or door opening used as a means of egress or so
as to prevent free passage from one part of a roof to any other part thereof.
No sign shall be attached in any manner to a fire escape or be placed in such
manner as to interfere with any opening required by law for ventilation.
   (J)   Alteration or removal of unlawful signs.
      (1)   If any sign shall be installed, erected or constructed in violation
of any of the terms of this section, the Zoning Administrator shall notify by
registered mail or written notice, served personally, the owner or lessee
thereof to alter such sign so as to comply with those zoning regulations and to
secure the necessary permit therefor or to remove the sign immediately.
      (2)   Any sign located within a town right-of-way shall be subject to
immediate removal by the Zoning Administrator.
      (3)   The failure to remove such sign as provided in this section shall
be a misdemeanor. Each day the violation exists shall constitute a separate
offense.
      (4)   The Zoning Administrator shall have the authority to remove and
discard any sign in violation of the sign regulations or which is located upon
public property.
      (5)   All signs shall be brought into compliance within three years of
February 28, 2001.
   (K)   General penalty; enforcement of ordinance; continuing violations. See
§
10.99.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 92-12, passed 7-22-92; Am. Ord. 94-02,
passed 2-14-94; Am. Ord. 94-05, passed 4-11-94; Am. Ord. 94-06, passed 4-11-94;
Am. Ord. 97-04, passed 6-25-97; Am. Ord. 99-13, passed 7-12-99; Am. Ord. 00-07,
passed 5-24-00; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 01-03, passed 4-25-01;
Am. Ord. 01-09, passed 7-25-01; Am. Ord. 02-04, passed 2-11-02; Am. Ord. 03-07,
passed 6-25-03; Am. Ord. 04-09, passed 5-26-04; Am. Ord. 04-17, passed 10-11-
04; Am. Ord. 06-16, passed 8-14-06; Am. Ord. 08-02, passed 1-14-08; Am. Ord.
09-19, passed 10-28-09; Am. Ord. 10-14, passed 7-12-10; Am. Ord. 11-05, passed
4-11-11; Am. Ord. 11-10, passed 6-13-11; Am. Ord. 11-18, passed 8-8-11; Am.
Ord. 12-01, passed 1-25-12; Am. Ord. 12-13, passed 5-23-12; Am. Ord. 13-3,
passed 3-20-13; Am. Ord. 14-10, passed 6-9-14; Am. Ord. 17-24, passed 9-14-20;
Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21; Am. Ord. 18-16, passed 10-11-21; Am. Res. passed
1-26-22)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 153.078 ACCESS TO US 158/CROATAN HIGHWAY AND NC 12/VIRGINIA DARE TRAIL.
   (A)   Due to the heavy traffic volume on the major thoroughfares in the town
and the attendant traffic hazard involved in frequent entrances and exits from
and to a major thoroughfare, it is the intent of this section to keep driveways
and street intersections along US 158/Croatan Highway and the west side of NC
12/Virginia Dare Trail to the minimum possible. In any district established by
this chapter where a corner lot abutting either US 158/Croatan Highway or the
west side of NC 12/Virginia Dare Trail also abuts any other dedicated public
right-of-way, such right-of-way shall be used for access rather than the
highway.
   (B)   For properties not abutting any other dedicated public right-of-way
(only abutting US 158/Croatan Highway) egress direction onto US 158/Croatan
Highway shall be determined on a case-by-case basis and approved by the Board
of Commissioners.
   (C)   With regard to the east side of NC 12/Virginia Dare Trail, see §
91.17 of this code.
(Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 13-5, passed 5-13-13; Am. Ord. 15-12,
passed 3-14-16; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.079 DUNE PROTECTION.
   (A)   Purpose. The dunes along the oceanfront and in inland areas of the
town are a feature unique to coastal areas. Dunes serve as important protective
barriers against the dangers of wind, flood and erosion. Some dunes are also
important tourist attractions and all make a vital contribution to the
character and appearance of the area. The practice of destroying or altering
the existing contours of dunes and removing vegetation can constitute a serious
threat to adjacent properties that depend on the dunes as protection against
wind, flood and erosion. Accordingly, the town declares that the dunes should
be preserved and development on the dunes controlled in a manner compatible
with the preservation of the dunes.
   (B)   Intent. This section is adopted to permit development that is
compatible with the environmentally-sensitive nature of sand dunes and to
preserve the dunes in their existing state where such dunes are considered a
vital protective barrier against wind, flood and erosion or where such dunes
are considered an important existing topographic feature of the town. More
specifically this chapter is adopted to:
      (1)   Preserve and protect the heritage of the town by maintaining the
existence of natural and constructed dunes both along the oceanfront and in
inland sections of the town;
      (2)   Protect the health, safety and welfare of persons living, visiting
or sojourning to and in the town and for the protection of public and private
property;
      (3)   Protect the interest of persons whose property would be
detrimentally affected by the destruction or removal of oceanfront or inland
dunes;
      (4)   Permit development and encourage the preservation of natural
conditions;
      (5)   Prohibit commercial and industrial excavation/mining on sand dunes.
   (C)   Applicability. These standards apply additional town regulations to
those ocean and inland dune(s) that are also regulated by the NC Coastal Area
Management Act and subject to those state regulations.
   (D)   Regulatory standards.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any development activities without a valid
building permit, health department approval, and CAMA authorization.
      (2)   Development at any site in areas of the town that contain
oceanfront or inland dunes require the submission of a site plan including
topographic information with proposed improvements for review and approval by a
town zoning official.
      (3)   A horizontal/vertical slope not to exceed four feet to one foot
shall be maintained unless the dune-disturbing activity is intended to provide
elevations that are consistent with abutting properties. Graded slopes must be
vegetated or otherwise stabilized within 30 working days of completion of the
work;
      (4)   Mitigation plans prepared by a North Carolina Design Professional
shall be required for any unauthorized dune disturbance. Unauthorized dune-
disturbance shall be considered a violation and shall be subject to penalties:
         (a)   In accordance with G.S. § 160A-175, and unless this code of
ordinances provides otherwise, violation of any provision hereof shall be a
Class 3 misdemeanor as provided in G.S. § 14-4, punishable upon conviction by a
fine not exceeding $50 or by imprisonment not exceeding 30 days. An ordinance
may provide by express statement that the maximum fine or term of imprisonment
to be imposed for its violation shall be some figure or number of days less
than the maximum penalties prescribed by G.S. § 14-4.
         (b)   Penalties.
            1.   As authorized by G.S. § 160A-175, the violation of any of the
provisions of this code shall subject the person or entity violating such
provisions to a civil penalty of $50 per day for each of the first 15 days such
violation continues after notice of the violation from the town, $100 per day
for the sixteenth through the thirtieth day such violation continues after the
initial notice from the town, and $500 or the maximum amount authorized under
the provisions of the North Carolina General Statutes, whichever is greater,
for each day after 30 days that such violation continues after the initial
notice from the town.
            2.   The imposition and collection of the foregoing civil penalties
shall be in addition to all other remedies available to the town at law or in
equity, authorized under the provisions of the North Carolina General Statutes,
including but not limited to the suspensions of licenses and permits and
actions to abate, enjoin or otherwise remedy violations of this code and all
such remedies shall be cumulative. The imposition of civil penalties or the use
of any other civil remedy available to the town shall be in addition to and not
exclusive of any criminal proceeding and/or penalties available and/or imposed
for the violation of this code.
         (c)   An ordinance may provide, when appropriate, that each day's
continuing violation shall be a separate and distinct offense.
         (d)   Notice of violation procedure.
            1.   For any and all violations of this Code of Ordinances, the
authorized staff shall give written notice to the landowner of the subject
property and tenant, if applicable. The written notice shall be delivered by
personal delivery, electronic mail or by first-class mail. The notice shall be
to provide to the last address listed for the owner on the Dare County tax
records and/or to the physical property address. For the purposes of this
notice, delivery by first-class mail shall be deemed received on the third
business day following deposit of the notice in the mail with the United States
Postal Service and delivery by electronic mail shall be deemed received on the
date sent.
            2.   Posted notice. Notice of violations may also be posted on the
property at the discretion of the authorized staff.
      (5)   It shall be a violation of this chapter to fail to repair or
restore dunes or vegetation damaged by development activity not specifically
allowed by exceptions in this section.
      (6)   Maintenance and repair is allowed for sand to be redistributed into
the dune system from accumulation of storm over wash or wind driven
sedimentation by removing sand up to six feet around buildings, driveways, and
associated structures.
      (7)   Prohibition of damage to ocean and inland dunes.
         (a)   Ocean dune(s):
            1.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation in
any manner to damage, destroy, remove or change the existing contour of any
sand dune or part of any dune thereof or to kill, destroy or remove any trees,
shrubs or other vegetation growing on the dunes, except in:
               a.   Elevated structures: All elevated structures shall be
elevated a minimum of 18 inches and maximum of 30 inches from the underside.
               b.   Approved matted walkways for accessibility.
         (b)   Inland dune(s):
            1.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation in
any manner to damage, destroy, remove or change the existing contour of any
sand dune or part of any dune thereof or to kill, destroy or remove any trees,
shrubs or other vegetation growing on the dunes, except in:
               a.   The area within the foundation perimeter of any existing
building or any building to be constructed as shown on a site plan reviewed and
approved by a town zoning official;
               b.   The area around the perimeter of an existing building or
proposed principal building not to exceed a width of ten feet from the building
foundation perimeter in accordance with a site plan approved by a town zoning
official;
               c.   The area within the boundaries of existing driveways and
parking areas or within the boundaries of driveways and parking areas to be
constructed in accordance with a site plan approved by the Planning Board or
town zoning official;
               d.   Landscaped areas and garden plots, provided the dune
contour is not altered;
               e.   The area required for the construction and installation of
water, sewage or wastewater disposal systems, drainfields, and stormwater
control systems, provided that every reasonable effort is made not to alter the
contour of the dune and the site is stabilized with plantings of vegetation
approved by a town zoning official.
(Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 03-18, passed 12-8-03; Am. Ord. 18-4,
passed 6-14-21; Am. Ord. 19-22, passed 8-14-23) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.080 ELECTRICAL AND COMMUNICATION SERVICE.
   All new electrical, communication services and TV distribution lines and all
conduits used for the distribution of such signals located within the town
shall be placed underground from the point of separation from the distribution
line to the structure of the ultimate user. Existing distribution lines that
are in place overhead on the effective date of this regulation may be extended
only if such extensions are placed underground. Transformers and enclosures
containing switches, meters, capacitors and the like may be pad mounted as an
exception to the above.
(Ord. 99-07, passed 4-12-99; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 06-20,
passed 8-14-06; Am. Ord. 06-26, passed 12-11-06; Am. Ord. 17-1, passed 5-13-19;
Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.081 TRAILERS.
   (A)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   No person shall build, erect, construct, locate or place in use
within the town a trailer of the type used as a house trailer, except as
provided in division (B) of this section.
      (2)   No person shall use a trailer of the type known and described as a
house trailer for living purposes within the town, except as provided in
division (B) of this section.
      (3)   No storage trailers will be allowed in any zone, except those
permitted in division (B) of this section.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following uses of trailers of the type used as
house trailers shall be permitted:
      (1)   Unless otherwise prohibited in this chapter;
      (2)   When in transit through the town, campers may be parked on property
within the town with the permission of the owner of such property or the lessee
or tenant thereof, provided that such vehicle, camper or self-contained unit is
not used during such period for living or sleeping purposes;
      (3)   The owner of a residence, or tenant with owner's permission, in the
town shall be permitted to park a travel trailer belonging to him, provided it
does not encroach on the front yard setback and shall not be located on the
side street setback of a corner lot on which his residence is located, while
the occupant is occupying the residence, provided that:
         (a)   The trailer is the registered property of the owner or tenant of
the residence;
         (b)   Permission shall be limited to one trailer per residence;
         (c)   The trailer shall not be over 31 feet in length;
         (d)   Such trailer is not to be used for living or sleeping purposes
while parked on the owner's or tenant's premises.
      (4)   At the time construction commences in a commercial zone, storage
trailers may be permitted. All trailers must be removed before occupancy of
structures. Required setbacks shall not be less than ten feet from property
lines.
      (5)   At the time construction commences in a commercial zone, one
trailer may be located on property to be used as an office. Trailer must be
removed before occupancy of structures. Required setbacks shall not be less
than ten feet from property lines.
      (6)   At the time construction commences in the Ocean Impact Residential
Zone or in the Commercial Zone, one real estate sales information trailer may
be located on the project property subject to the following conditions:
         (a)   The trailer must be removed before the occupancy of the
principal structure;
         (b)   The real estate sales information trailer site must be separated
from the construction site by a six-foot tall fence. The trailer shall be set
back an additional 20 feet from the fence;
         (c)   Vehicular ingress and egress access to the real estate sales
information trailer site must not conflict with the construction vehicular
access;
         (d)   There shall be a minimum of five parking spaces including one
handicapped space;
         (e)   Parking areas and drive aisles shall meet the dimensional
requirements location in §
153.076(A)(1) and (A)(5). Surface material of the parking area and drive isle
shall be specified;
         (f)   The real estate sales information trailer shall meet all
applicable North Carolina Building Code regulations;
         (g)   Required setbacks of the real estate sales information trailer
shall not be less than ten feet from all property lines;
         (h)   Site plans shall be approved by the Dare County Health
Department prior to issuance of a permit;
         (i)   The structure must comply with
Chapter 151, Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance of this Code;
         (j)   A standard size, town-issued, roll-out refuse container shall be
provided on-site;
         (k)   There shall be an administrative site plan review and approval
of the real estate sales information trailer site to ensure compliance with all
codes; and
         (l)   The temporary sales trailer shall be for the sole purpose of
sales of real estate on the site at which the trailer is located.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 07-19,
passed 11-14-07; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.082 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Height. The height regulations of this chapter shall be subject to the
following exceptions and regulations: chimneys, cupolas, cooling towers,
elevators, bulkheads, scenery lots, monuments, domes, spires, parapet walls and
necessary mechanical appurtenances may be erected to a height which may exceed
the prescribed height limit subject to Planning Board approval. The additional
heights may not be more than 15% of the prescribed building height limit.
   (B)   Area. The area regulations of this chapter shall be subject to the
following exceptions and regulations:
      (1)   Every part of a required yard shall be open and unobstructed from
its lowest level to the sky and no other portion of the structure shall project
into the yard setbacks, except for ordinary projections as follows:
         (a)   Sills, belt courses, buttresses, deck rails, lattice, sheathing,
siding and corner boards provided that none of these shall project into a
minimum yard setback more than three inches;
         (b)   Chimney flues, ornamental features and eaves provided that none
of these shall project into a minimum yard setback more than 24 inches.
         (c)   Mechanical equipment, including HVAC and LP Gas equipment,
provided that none of the equipment or associated structures project into a
minimum yard setback more than four feet.
         (d)   Stairs and handicap ramps may project into the front yard no
more than 50% of the depth of the setback not to exceed ten feet. Stairs shall
have no more than two landings not to exceed a maximum of four feet by eight
feet each. Handicap ramp landing shall comply with the North Carolina Building
Code.
         (e)   An outdoor waiting activity area and outdoor dining activity
area may extend into street side and front yard setbacks up to 33% of the depth
of the setback. Improvement to this area is limited to raked earth, gravel,
mulch, lawn or other plantings.
      (2)   Accessory structures may be built subject to the following
requirements:
         (a)   Accessory structures not exceeding six inches in height above
finished grade shall be located in the side and/or rear yard and maintain a
distance of not less than five feet from side, street side and rear lot lines;
         (b)   A single walkway not exceeding six inches in height above
finished grade and no more than five feet in width may be located in the front
yard of single family and duplex dwellings.
         (c)   Accessory structures that are greater than six inches in height
above finished grade shall be located in the rear yard and maintain a distance
of not less than eight feet from the primary structure to the accessory
structure and maintain a distance of not less than five feet from side and rear
lot lines. Street side yard shall comply with principal structure setbacks;
         (d)   In the Ocean Impact Residential Zone, elevated open decks as
permitted by the North Carolina Division of Coastal Management may be located
seaward of the rear yard setback abutting the primary structure while
maintaining a minimum of five feet from all property lines.
         (e)   In the Ocean Impact Residential Zone, lots with a rear yard
abutting the Atlantic Ocean shall locate accessory structures seaward of the
primary structure while maintaining a minimum of five feet from all property
lines.
         (f)   Accessory structures to a commercial establishment that are
greater than six inches in height above finished grade shall be limited to a
total of three not exceeding a combined size of 20% of the gross floor area of
the primary structure and maintain a distance of not less than five feet from
rear or side property lines, not less than eight feet from the primary
structure, not less than ten feet from any street right-of-way except US 158
and NC 12 where they shall comply with the principal building setbacks along US
158 and NC 12.
         (g)   Fences and vegetative landscaping shall be exempted from
setbacks. Split rail or rope fencing not exceeding four feet in height shall be
permitted on lots without a primary structure.
      (3)   Underground utilities may be run through the side yards required in
this chapter and attachments of a pad may be made to the building and extended
into the side yard not more than an area of six feet by six feet at the
entrance of such underground utilities to the building. Such permissive use of
the land shall be made only where underground utilities are installed and
replace overhead poles and wires. Such pad is to be installed a minimum of one-
third of the distance from the front or highway side of the building.
      (4)   Open or lattice-enclosed fire escapes, fireproof outside stairways
and balconies opening upon fire towers projecting into a yard not more than
five feet shall be permitted where so placed as not to obstruct light and
ventilation.
   (C)   Lot coverage: rules for reconstruction of structures, projects or
uses, resulting from damage by casualty.
      (1)   The lot coverage sections of this chapter are not intended to
render nonconforming any use or structure in existence at the time of adoption.
It is not intended to prohibit the repair or rebuilding of a structure or use
solely upon the lot coverage requirements imposed where such reconstruction is
necessary by damage from fire, flood, hurricane, acts of God and such damage
that was not caused nor contributed to by the owner, occupant or user.
      (2)   The requirements of the lot coverage sections of this chapter shall
not be applicable to a project begun through the planning and development
process established by this chapter.
      (3)   The requirements of this section are applicable to lot coverage
matters relating to repair and reconstruction.
      (4)   Reconstruction may occur by the issuance of a permit no later than
two years from the date of such damage, subject, however, to the provisions of
the chapter with respect to nuisances, uninhabitable buildings and the like.
The coverage requirements shall not apply upon the applicant meeting the
following conditions:
         (a)   A building permit for restoration is applied for and secured
within two years from the date of the damage;
         (b)   Applicant shall furnish a "footprint" plat of the structure or
project or use that shows adjoining property lines, streets or other
topographical features from which the location of the structure, use or project
may be physically identified upon the land. Photographs of the structure,
project or use will be useful but cannot be the sole evidence of the damaged
use, structure or project;
         (c)   Restoration and reconstruction shall be substantially in
compliance with the original "footprint;"
         (d)   Applicant complies with guidelines established by the Board of
Commissioners designed to minimize stormwater runoff for structure, use or
projects similar in nature which may be constructed after the adoption of this
chapter. (Such guidelines shall not, however, prohibit the quantity or quality
of the destroyed structure or project;)
         (e)   Any change in the outside dimensions of the structure, or the
enclosed area, must conform to the lot coverage ordinance adopted March 13,
1989.
   (D)   Lot coverage - driveways. Internal driveway connections between
commercial establishments meeting all of the following requirements shall not
be calculated as lot coverage:
      (1)   No more than 24 feet in width for each connection shall be exempt
from lot coverage calculations.
      (2)   The connections shall be measured from the abutting property line
to the end of the parking bay or 20 linear feet; whichever is less.
      (3)   The area exempt from lot coverage shall be clearly shown on a site
plan.
      (4)   Driveway connections shall be open and clear of obstruction at all
times.
      (5)   Internal driveway connections shall meet all other requirements of
the Town Code.
   (E)   Lot coverage — town easements. Lot coverage created by the town within
an easement granted to the town shall not be calculated as lot coverage on the
property on which the easement is located.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 03-10,
passed 6-25-03; Am. Ord. 06-09, passed 5-24-06; Am. Ord. 07-14, passed 8-13-07;
Am. Ord. 08-04, passed 1-14-08; Am. Ord. 08-13, passed 4-14-08; Am. Ord. 08-27,
passed 9-24-08; Am. Ord. 09-06, passed 5-27-09; Am. Ord. 10-05, passed 5-26-10;
Am. Ord. 12-18, passed 9-10-12; Am. Ord. 12-21, passed 11-14-12; Am. Ord. 13-4,
passed 4-24-13; Am. Ord. 13-9, passed 6-10-13; Am. Ord. 13-12a, passed 9-9-13;
Am. Ord. 13-16, passed 10-14-13; Am. Ord. 14-27, passed 2-9-15; Am. Ord. 18-4,
passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.083 OUTDOOR STORAGE AND DISPLAY
   (A)   OUTDOOR STORAGE as defined in §
153.002 shall:
      (1)   Be located in the side or rear of the primary structure; and
      (2)   Be screened or located within an enclosure.
   (B)   OUTDOOR DISPLAY as defined in §
153.002 shall be allowed with the following conditions:
      (1)   Merchandise shall not be torn greater than two inches or frayed
(threadbare, worn, tattered, unraveled, etc.) in excess of one inch, broken,
damaged or not functioning in the manner it was designed;
      (2)   Merchandise shall be unpackaged;
      (3)   Maximum of ten of the same general items, i.e. umbrellas, chairs,
bikes, boats, etc., shall be allowed per business;
      (4)   Merchandise shall not be located within required parking areas; and
      (5)   Display shall be within property lines.
   (C)   Exceptions for outdoor display. The following types of merchandise/
business shall be exempt from divisions (B)(1) - (3) of the above regulations:
      (1)   Lumber yards;
      (2)   Garden centers (for plant materials and associated materials);
      (3)   Automobile sales, automobile rentals and automobile repairs
businesses.
(Ord. 15-6, passed 9-21-15; Am. Ord. 18-14, passed 6-14-21)
OCEAN IMPACT RESIDENTIAL ZONE (OIR)
§ 153.095 INTENT.
   (A)   The Ocean Impact Residential (OIR) Zone is established in an effort to
promote health, safety and welfare and to limit the level of peril to the
public welfare associated with dwellings and other structures located in that
part of the town that borders on the Atlantic Ocean and which is subject to
tropical storms, storm surges, hurricanes and shoreline migration.
   (B)   In the OIR Zone, buildings or lands shall be used for one or more of
the following specified permitted uses or special uses and none other.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 99-08, passed 5-10-99; Am. Ord. 01-02,
passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.096 PERMITTED USES.
   In the OIR Zone, building and/or land shall be used for the following
purposes:
   (A)   Single-family dwellings;
   (B)   Duplex dwellings;
   (C)   Multi-family dwellings of three or more units per dwelling;
   (D)   Hotels and motels;
   (E)   On-site accessory uses or buildings to divisions (A), (B), (C), (D) or
(F) of this section;
   (F)   Fishing piers;
   (G)   Swimming pools, tennis courts;
   (H)   Bed and breakfasts (See §
153.312 for requirements);
   (I)   Town-owned and leased facilities, including but not limited to
recreational parks, beach access areas and bathhouses and governmentally
contracted services;
   (J)   Rooming houses, boarding houses;
   (K)   Home occupations;
   (L)   Cottage court. (see §
153.310 for additional regulations); and
   (M)   Cluster homes (see §
153.311 for additional regulations).
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 05-12,
passed 8-8-05; Am. Ord. 14-29, passed 5-13-15; Am. Ord. 16-19, passed 6-27-18;
Am. Ord. 16-23, passed 1-14-19; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.097 SPECIAL USES.
   (A)   Playgrounds. All playgrounds and parks in the OIR Zone shall be
operated by a governmental entity or nonprofit organization (except day care
centers and private schools). The sponsoring agency shall provide in writing a
maintenance schedule and shall designate those parties who shall be responsible
for the periodic policing and maintenance of the grounds and the resolution of
any use conflict.
   (B)   Places of worship.
   (C)   Private lifeguard services.
      (1)   Applications for operation of private lifeguard services as a
conditional use within the OIR Zone shall be submitted in accordance with
requirements of §
153.353 and additionally shall be reviewed by the Zoning Administrator for
purposes of compliance with this chapter and Title XIII of this code, including
rentals and advertising; by the Town Fire Chief for purposes of compliance with
the established policies and procedures of the town's lifeguard service,
including training, emergency incidents, communications and identification; and
by the Town Police Chief for purposes of compliance with Title VII of this
code, including beach driving. Applications for operation of private lifeguard
services as a special use shall be approved by the Board of Commissioners.
      (2)   The following standards shall apply to private lifeguard services
in the OIR Zone:
         (a)   Training. Private lifeguard services shall comply with the same
qualifications and training standards that the town requires of its public
lifeguard service.
         (b)   Communication. Private lifeguard services shall equip their
personnel with radios interoperable with the system utilized by the town
lifeguard service.
         (c)   Emergency incidents. Dispatch and response procedures, missing
persons search procedures and other issues shall conform to policies
established by the town in order to minimize confusion and increase efficiency.
         (d)   Identification. Equipment and stands must be clearly marked with
a sign stating "Private Lifeguard" and include the name, address and telephone
number of the responsible party. Delineated private response areas shall be
clearly written out on the sign and the area of coverage shall be marked along
the ocean front by an approved two-flag system.
         (e)   Beach driving. Except for initial equipment placement and
removal, and in case of severe/threatening weather (hurricane, tropical storm
and the like), no beach driving will be allowed except in accordance with the
provisions of Title VII of this code.
         (f)   Rentals. Rentals shall be limited to umbrellas and beach chairs.
No sale of drinks, food or other refreshments or any other retail sales or
rentals shall be permitted. Rental activities conducted by private lifeguard
services shall be in compliance with the provisions of Title XIII of this code.
         (g)   Advertising. Private lifeguard stands and uniforms shall not be
used for commercial advertising for any other business or product.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 97-05, passed 6-25-97; Am. Ord. 00-05,
passed 2-14-00; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.098 NONCONFORMITIES.
   For nonconformities, see §§
153.050 et seq.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 18-4,
passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.099 BUILDING HEIGHT LIMITS.
   (A)   No structure shall exceed a living space height of 35 feet as measured
from average ground elevation to top plate.
   (B)   No structure shall exceed a total height of 42 feet.
   (C)   Structures complying with all the following shall be exempt from (A)
above:
      (1)   Structure meets requirements set forth in §
153.186;
      (2)   Structure has a minimum of 50% of the required parking located
within the building footprint; and
      (3)   Structure has a minimum of 75% of the building footprint dedicated
to parking and drive aisles.
   (D)   Antennas for personal use, chimneys and elevator towers are exempt
from height restrictions.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 02-16,
passed 9-25-02; Am. Ord. 04-19, passed 10-27-04; Am. Ord. 06-18, passed 8-14-
06; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.100 SITE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Useable land. All minimum lot size requirements and site requirements
shall be based on the amount of useable land. USEABLE LAND is defined as the
entire amount of land extending to each property line on the north, south, west
and on the east to the rear lot line, which is the first line of stable
vegetation west of the high water mark.
   (B)   Lot dimensions. All parcels shall have a minimum width of 50 feet
except as outlined in §
153.051(D).
   (C)   Lot area.
      (1)   The minimum building site shall be 15,000 square feet.
      (2)   The minimum building site for a duplex shall be 20,000 square feet.
   (D)   Density. For any multi-family, cottage courts, cluster homes, or hotel
development, the maximum Floor Area Ratio (FAR) shall be up to 0.40 with the
following exceptions.
      (1)   Increase the minimum required side yard setbacks by two feet on
each side, the FAR shall be up to 0.45; and
      (2)   Provide a dedicated/recorded five-foot public easement along a side
property line for public access to the Atlantic Ocean, the FAR shall be up to
0.50.
   (E)   Exceptions. Where a lot or parcel of land has an area of less than the
above required minimum area and was of record on June 14, 1983, such lot may be
occupied by one single-family dwelling, provided the minimum side, front and
rear requirements are complied with as set forth in §
153.101.
   (F)   Lot coverage.
      (1)   Maximum allowable lot coverage by principal use, all accessory
structures, vehicular circulation areas and parking - 55% west of the
vegetation line. (For exceptions see §
153.082.)
      (2)   In no case shall there be more than two main buildings and
permitted accessory structures on a lot.
      (3)   Soils classified as wetlands shall be factored into lot coverage
calculation based on the following schedule:
         (a)   If the lot is composed of less than 25% of its total area in
wetland soils, then 75% of that area classified as wetlands may be used in
calculating lot coverage;
         (b)   If the lot has between 25% to 50% of its total area in wetland
soils, then 50% of that area classified as wetlands may be used in calculating
lot coverage;
         (c)   If the lot has between 50% to 75% of its total area in soils
classified as wetlands, then 25% of that area classified as wetlands may be
used in calculating lot coverage;
         (d)   If the lot has 75% or more of its total area classified as
wetlands, none of that area classified as wetlands may be used in calculating
lot coverage.
      (4)   Permeable pavement lot coverage calculations.
         (a)   The use of permeable paving systems, including porous concrete,
porous asphalt, concrete grid pavers, permeable interlocking concrete pavers,
and plastic reinforcing grids for parking spaces, drive aisles and vehicular
circulation areas, shall allow for a reduction in the calculated lot coverage.
Plastic reinforcing grids shall be limited to low-density applications with low
traffic speeds. Examples include, but are not limited to, parking stalls in
commercial parking lots, overflow parking areas, utility access, emergency
vehicle and fire access lanes, and loading areas. Material to fill the open
cells of the pavement system types shall consist of open graded fine aggregate,
open graded washed aggregate, sod turf grasses native to the southeast coastal
environment and exhibit medium to high permeability rates. All permeable paving
systems shall comply with the criteria of the North Carolina Division of Water
Quality Stormwater Best Management Practices Manual (current edition). The
following calculated reductions are allowed:
            1.   Porous concrete without washed stone base - 40% reduction.
            2.   Porous concrete with at least six inches of washed stone base
- 60% reduction.
            3.   Porous asphalt, concrete grid pavers, permeable interlocking
concrete pavers, and plastic reinforcing grids with at least four inches of
washed stone base - 40% reduction.
            4.   Porous asphalt concrete grid pavers, permeable interlocking
concrete pavers, and plastic reinforcing grids with at least seven inches of
washed stone base - 60% reduction.
            5.   The pavement section shall consist of the surface course or
layer for infiltration, a bedding course (as required), an aggregate storage
layer, and a woven geotextile fabric layer to prevent clogging.
            6.   Edge restraints shall be provided on all concrete grid pavers,
permeable interlocking concrete pavers, and plastic reinforcing grids to
confine the pavement installation. The pavement surface course structural
properties shall be designed to withstand the applied vehicular loading
pursuant to the specified application.
      (b)   In no case shall the total area that is occupied and obstructed by
any structure above the ground, including but not limited to parking and drive
aisles:
            1.   Exceed 65% of the area of the lot for lots of 15,000 square
feet or greater.
            2.   Exceed 60% of the area of the lot for lots less than 15,000
square feet.
   (G)   Drainage/stormwater runoff. All development is required to follow the
provisions in §
153.070.
   (H)   Land disturbance. See §
153.071.
(Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 05-12, passed 8-8-05; Am. Ord. 06-05,
passed 4-10-06; Am. Ord. 12-17, passed 8-13-12; Am. Ord. 14-24, passed 2-9-15;
Am. Ord. 14-28, passed 3-9-15; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21; Am. Ord. 19-6,
passed 1-10-22)
§ 153.101 SETBACKS.
   (A)   Side yard.
      (1)   The minimum side yard setback requirements on a lot less than 75
feet in width shall be 10 feet from each side.
      (2)   For all lots 75 feet to 99 feet in width, the minimum side yard
widths shall be 12 feet.
      (3)   For all lots or aggregate of lots combined for single development
100 feet or greater in width, the minimum side yard setback shall be 12 feet.
      (4)   All multi-family dwellings in excess of a duplex, hotels and motels
shall install and maintain a vegetative buffer of evergreen, salt-tolerant
species along the side yards of useable property in conjunction with
development in this zone and such may be located within the area of the
required setback lines.
      (5)   Single-family and duplex dwellings greater than 6,000 square feet
of total gross floor area shall have an additional two feet of side yard
setback.
      (6)   Single-family and duplex dwellings greater than 6,000 square feet
of total gross floor area equipped with a fire suppression system reviewed,
approved, and inspected annually by the Fire Chief or his or her designee,
shall be exempt from division (A)(5) above.
   (B)   Front yard. All oceanfront lots shall front on NC Highway 12 (Virginia
Dare Trail) and all structures erected on these lots shall be set back from the
front property line a minimum of 30 feet.
   (C)   Rear yard.
      (1)   Lots that border the Atlantic Ocean shall be designated as having a
rear yard on the Atlantic Ocean.
      (2)   The minimum rear yard setback requirements on any lot shall be 20%
of the total depth of the lot but shall not exceed 30 feet from the rear
property line.
      (3)   For each lot developed that has a rear yard on the Atlantic Ocean,
the rear yard shall be determined by the setback multiplier established for
ocean hazard areas of environmental concern (AEC) as administered by the local
permit officer representing the North Carolina Office of Coastal Management as
per the North Carolina Coastal Area Management Act of 1974.
   (D)   Double frontage. Not applicable.
   (E)   Corner lot. For lots 50 feet or less in width, the side street setback
requirements shall be ten feet on those sides that abut a street or beach
access. For lots greater than 50 feet in width, the minimum side street setback
requirements shall be 15 feet on those sides that abut a street or beach
access.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 03-02,
passed 2-10-03; Am. Ord. 03-10, passed 6-25-03; Am. Ord. 07-03, passed 3-28-07;
Am. Ord. 17-19, passed 5-27-20; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.102 SIGNS.
   See §
153.077.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 18-4,
passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.103 OFF-STREET PARKING, DRIVEWAYS, CURBS.
   See §
153.076.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 18-4,
passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.104 BUFFERS AND SCREENING.
   See §
153.073.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 18-4,
passed 6-14-21)
LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL ZONES (RL)
§ 153.115 INTENT.
   (A)   The Low Density Residential (RL) Zone is established as an area in
which the principle use of the land is for single-family residences and is
intended to preserve and enhance low-to-medium density neighborhoods.
   (B)   In the RL Zone, buildings or lands shall be used for one or more of
the following specified permitted uses or special uses and none other.
(Ord. 99-08, passed 5-10-99; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 18-4,
passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.116 PERMITTED USES.
   In the RL Zone, buildings and/or land shall be used for the following
purposes:
   (A)   Single-family dwellings;
   (B)   Duplex dwellings;
   (C)   On-site accessory uses or buildings to divisions (A) or (B) of this
section. Accessory dwelling units (long-term occupancy) to division (A) of this
section;
   (D)   Swimming pools, tennis courts (residential or private);
   (E)   Publicly-owned access areas and supporting facilities; publicly-owned
recreation parks; privately-owned access areas;
   (F)   Home occupations as defined herein;
   (G)   Town-owned and leased facilities; and
   (H)   Places of worship and accessory uses.
(Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 06-02, passed 2-22-06; Am. Ord. 18-4,
passed 6-14-21; Am. Ord. 19-18, passed 4-26-23)
§ 153.117 SPECIAL USES.
   (A)   Playgrounds. All playgrounds and parks in the RL Zone shall be
operated by a governmental entity or nonprofit organization (except daycare
centers and private schools) and the sponsoring agency shall provide in writing
a maintenance schedule and shall designate those parties who shall be
responsible for the periodic maintenance and policing of the grounds and
resolution of any conflicts.
   (B)   Overhead transmission systems in accordance with §§
153.280 -
153.288, local authority granted to the town pursuant to G.S. § 160D-932.
   (C)   Cluster homes (see § 153.311 for additional regulations).
      (1)   Occupancy of dwellings. Any dwelling constructed as part of §
153.117(C) shall be occupied on a long-term basis as defined in §
153.002.
      (2)   Property owners shall be required to execute and record a long-term
use agreement prior to issuance of a building permit declaring that the
dwelling unit shall be used only for long-term occupancy. This agreement shall
be recorded with the Register of Deeds and shall transfer with the property in
perpetuity.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 97-05, passed 6-25-97; Am. Ord. 01-02,
passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 06-20, passed 8-14-06; Am. Ord. 16-18, passed 6-27-18;
Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21; Am. Ord. 19-12, passed 7-11-22)
§ 153.118 NONCONFORMITIES.
   See §§
153.050 et seq.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 18-4,
passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.119 BUILDING HEIGHT LIMITS.
   (A)   No structure shall exceed a living space height of 35 feet, as
measured from average ground elevation to top plate.
   (B)   No structure shall exceed a total height of 42 feet.
   (C)   No structure shall have more than three levels of living space.
   (D)   Antennas for personal use and chimneys are exempt from height
restrictions.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 02-16,
passed 9-25-02; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.120 SITE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Lot dimensions. All parcels shall have a minimum width of 50 feet.
   (B)   Lot area.
      (1)   The minimum building site shall be 15,000 square feet.
      (2)   The minimum building site for a duplex or two single-family
dwellings shall be 20,000 square feet.
      (3)   Exempt recombination plats for lots platted prior to June 14, 1983
shall have a minimum lot size of 7,500 square feet.
   (C)   Density. Cluster homes: twelve units per acre.
   (D)   Exceptions.  
      (1)   Where a lot or parcel of land has an area of less than the above
required minimum area and was of record on June 14, 1983, such lot may be
occupied by one family, provided the minimum side, front and rear requirements
are complied with as set forth in §
153.121.
      (2)   Residential subdivisions are provided for in §
152.37(H)(3), the minimum lot size shall be 7,500 square feet.
   (E)   Lot coverage.
      (1)   A building erected or structurally altered shall be located on a
lot and in no case shall there be more than two principal structures with
associated accessory structures on a lot.
      (2)   Maximum allowable lot coverage by principal use, all accessory
structures, vehicular circulation areas and parking - 40%. (For exceptions, see
§
153.082.)
      (3)   Soils classified as wetlands shall be factored into lot coverage
calculation based on the following schedule:
         (a)   If the lot is composed of less than 25% of its total area in
wetland soils, then 75% of that area classified as wetlands may be used in
calculating lot coverage;
         (b)   If the lot has between 25% to 50% of its total area in wetland
soils, then 50% of that area classified as wetlands may be used in calculating
lot coverage;
         (c)   If the lot has between 50% to 75% of its total area in soils
classified as wetlands, then 25% of that area classified as wetlands may be
used in calculating lot coverage;
         (d)   If the lot has 75% or more of its total area classified as
wetlands, none of that area classified as wetlands may be used in calculating
lot coverage.
      (4)   Permeable pavement lot coverage calculations.
         (a)   For lots 7,500 square feet in area or greater, the use of
permeable paving systems, including porous concrete, porous asphalt, concrete
grid pavers and permeable interlocking concrete pavers for parking spaces,
drive aisles, and vehicular circulation areas, shall allow for a reduction in
the calculated lot coverage. Material to fill the open cells of the pavement
system types shall consist of open graded fine aggregate, open graded washed
aggregate, sod turf grasses native to the southeast coastal environment and
exhibit medium to high permeability rates. All permeable paving systems shall
comply with the criteria of the North Carolina Division of Water Quality
Stormwater Best Management Practices Manual (current edition). The following
calculated reductions are allowed:
            1.   Porous concrete without washed stone base: 40% reduction.
            2.   Porous concrete with at least six inches of washed stone base:
60% reduction.
            3.   Porous asphalt, concrete grid pavers, permeable interlocking
concrete pavers, and plastic reinforcing grids with at least four inches of
washed stone base: 40% reduction.
            4.   Porous asphalt concrete grid pavers, permeable interlocking
concrete pavers, and plastic reinforcing grids with at least seven inches of
washed stone base: 60% reduction.
            5.   The pavement section shall consist of the surface course or
layer for infiltration, a bedding course (as required), an aggregate storage
layer, and a woven geotextile fabric layer to prevent clogging.
            6.   Edge restraints shall be provided on all concrete grid pavers,
permeable interlocking concrete pavers, and plastic reinforcing grids to
confine the pavement installation. The pavement surface course structural
properties shall be designed to withstand the applied vehicular loading
pursuant to the specified application.
         (b)   In no case shall the total area that is occupied and obstructed
by any structure above the ground, including but not limited to parking and
drive aisles exceed 45% of the area of the lot.
         (c)   For additional coverage under the previous pavement reduction,
50% of the required parking shall be outside of the footprint of any structure
or covering.
   (F)   Drainage/stormwater runoff. All development is required to follow the
provisions in §
153.070.
   (G)   Land disturbance. See §
153.071.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 04-10,
passed 5-26-04; Am. Ord. 11-07, passed 4-11-11; Am. Ord. 16-5, passed 9-11-17;
Am. Ord. 16-20, passed 7-19-18; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21; Am. Ord. 19-12,
passed 7-11-22)
§ 153.121 SETBACKS.
   (A)   Side yard.
      (1)   The minimum side yard setback requirements on a lot with an area of
5,000 square feet or less shall be six feet from each side.
      (2)   The minimum side yard setback requirements on a lot with an area of
more than 5,000 square feet but not more than 7,500 square feet shall be eight
feet from each side.
      (3)   The minimum side yard setback requirements on a lot with an area
exceeding 7,500 square feet shall be ten feet from each side.
      (4)   Single-family and duplex dwellings greater than 6,000 square feet
of total gross floor area shall have an additional two feet of side yard
setback.
      (5)   Single-family and duplex dwellings greater than 6,000 square feet
of total gross floor area equipped with a fire suppression system reviewed,
approved, and inspected annually by the Fire Chief or his or her designee,
shall be exempt from division (A)(4) above.
   (B)   Front yard.
      (1)   The minimum front yard setback requirements on a lot with an area
of 5,000 square feet or less shall be 15 feet from the front property line.
      (2)   The minimum front yard setback requirements on a lot with an area
of more than 5,000 square feet but not more than 7,500 square feet shall be 30
feet from the front property line.
      (3)   The minimum front yard setback requirements on a lot with an area
exceeding 7,500 square feet shall be 30 feet from the front property line.
   (C)   Rear yard. The minimum rear yard setback requirements on any lot shall
be 20% of the total depth of the lot but shall not exceed 30 feet from the rear
property line.
   (D)   Double frontage.
      (1)   The minimum rear yard setback requirements on any double-frontage
lot with an area of 5,000 square feet or less shall be 20% of the lot depth.
      (2)   On all lots over 5,000 square feet, the required front yard setback
shall be provided on both front and rear of a double frontage lot.
   (E)   Corner lot.
      (1)   The minimum setback requirements on a corner lot with an area of
5,000 square feet or less shall be as follows:
         (a)   Side yard:   6 feet.
         (b)   Side street:   7½ feet.
      (2)   The minimum setback requirements on a corner lot with an area of
more than 5,000 square feet but not more than 7,500 square feet shall be as
follows:
         (a)   Side yard:   8 feet.
         (b)   Side street:   15 feet.
      (3)   The minimum setback requirements on a corner lot with an area
exceeding 7,500 square feet shall be as follows:
         (a)   Side yard:   10 feet.
         (b)   Side street:   15 feet.
(Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 03-10, passed 6-25-03; Am. Ord. 17-
19, passed 5-27-20; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.122 SIGNS.
   (A)   No illuminated sign shall be permitted in the RL Zone. House numbers
may be illuminated.
   (B)   See §
153.077.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 18-4,
passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.123 OFF-STREET PARKING, DRIVEWAYS, CURBS.
   See §
153.076.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 18-4,
passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.124 BUFFERS AND SCREENING.
   See §
153.073.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 18-4,
passed 6-14-21)
MARITIME FOREST ENVIRONMENTAL DISTRICT (MFED)
§ 153.135 INTENT AND BASIS.
   (A)   Intent. The Maritime Forest Environmental District (MFED) is
established to conserve the natural resources and environment located within
the town collectively known as the Maritime Forest. The MFED is created to
require that any development be compatible with the environmentally-sensitive
setting of Nags Head Woods Maritime Forest. Specifically, the MFED is designed
to:
      (1)   Conserve the integrity of the natural canopy of the area and
protect features, including but not limited to the following:
         (a)   Components of the groundwater storage and recharge system which
are necessary for growth and maintenance of maritime forest vegetation. Such
components include ponds, lowlands, marshes, bay forests and wetlands;
         (b)   Vegetation acting as soil stabilizers or which provides
significant storm or salt protection value, including dune ridge plant
communities and scrub forests;
      (2)   Permit very low density residential development of those portions
of the district suitable for residential use and to encourage open space and
limited recreational use of portions not suitable for residential use.
   (B)   Basis.
      (1)   The Nags Head Woods is an irreplaceable maritime forest. It is one
of the few remaining maritime forests in North Carolina and consists of
ecologically important marshland, pine hammocks, bay forest, ridge forest,
hardwood and pine forests, ponds and dunes.
      (2)   Each part of this natural system is important to the survival of
the whole system. Guidelines must be established to protect the fragile nature
of the ecosystem and prevent the possibility of imbalance. The Maritime Forest
is integral and vital for the groundwater replenishment cycle of the Outer
Banks.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 18-4,
passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.136 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   General. In MFED buildings and/or land shall be used for the following
purposes:
      (1)   Single-family dwellings;
      (2)   Duplex dwellings;
      (3)   On-site accessory structures to subsections (1) or (2) of this
division;
      (4)   Swimming pools, tennis courts;
      (5)   Wildlife and ecological preserves;
      (6)   Watershed conservation areas; and
      (7)   Town-owned and leased facilities.
   (B)   Special use standards. All development shall be undertaken in such a
manner that development and land-clearing activities do not degrade the
function of any wetland, swale or pond and that the sum of associated clearing
shall not exceed 15% of the total lot area. (See §
153.140(D) for exceptions.) All permitted and conditional uses in MFED are
governed by this section and shall abide by the special development standards
as follows:
      (1)   Site alteration shall not occur prior to the issuance of a building
permit unless authorized in writing by the Zoning Administrator. Trees shall
not be removed except as necessary for the construction of the principal
structure, accessory structure, parking area, septic tank, nitrification system
and driveway access area. In no case shall a tree in excess of 12 inches in
diameter be removed. (See §
153.140(D) for exceptions.) Pine trees 12 inches or greater in diameter can be
removed when authorized in writing by the Zoning Administrator. Tree diameter
shall be determined by measuring the tree four feet above the ground surface.
Land-disturbing activities and site alteration shall not exceed the minimum
necessary to provide for the location of the principal use structure, any
accessory use structure, parking area, utility service improvements, septic
tank, nitrification system and driveway access.
      (2)    In addition to normal requirements for a building permit,
development of a building site requires the submission of a natural features
site plan sealed by a registered North Carolina land surveyor or engineer. The
proposed improvements shall be reviewed by the Zoning Administrator and, if
required, the town CAMA officer. The natural features shall be drawn to a scale
of at least one inch equals 50 feet and include at minimum the following
information:
         (a)   Topographical condition of the entire lot;
         (b)   Existing vegetation on the lot, including forest canopy and its
height, subcanopy, scrub forest, ridge line trees, salt marshes, rare plants
and ground cover;
         (c)   Components of the groundwater recharge system, including
streams, ponds, marshes, dunes, lowlands, bay forests and wetland swales.
         (d)   Location and slopes of any dunes;
         (e)   Direction of movement and location of any migrating dunes on or
near the lot;
         (f)   Soil types;
         (g)   Proposed building site;
         (h)   Area to be cleared or disturbed.
(Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.137 SPECIAL USES.
   (A)   Multi-family dwellings. Multi-family dwellings may be developed at a
density of one unit per two acres or 87,120 square feet of land area, provided
that the structures are located on the lot in such a manner that development
and land-clearing activities do not degrade any wetland, swale or pond and that
any associated clearing does not exceed 15% of the total lot area. All multi-
family dwelling sites in MFED governed by this section shall abide by the
special development standards as stipulated in §
153.136(B).
   (B)   Playgrounds and parks. All playgrounds and parks in the MFED Zone
shall be operated by a governmental entity or nonprofit organization. The
sponsoring agency shall provide in writing a maintenance schedule and shall
designate those parties who shall be responsible for the periodic maintenance
and policing of the grounds and resolution of any conflicts.
   (C)   Places of worship.
   (D)   Overhead transmission systems in accordance with §§
153.280 -
153.288.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 06-20,
passed 8-14-06; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.138 NONCONFORMITIES.
   See §§
153.050 et seq.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 18-4,
passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.139 BUILDING HEIGHT LIMITS.
   (A)   No structure shall exceed a living space height of 35 feet as measured
from average ground elevation to top plate.
   (B)   No structure shall exceed a total height of 42 feet.
   (C)   No structure shall have more than three levels of living space.
   (D)   Antennas for personal use and chimneys are exempt from height
restrictions.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 02-16,
passed 9-25-02; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.140 SITE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Lot dimensions. All parcels shall have a minimum width of 150 feet.
   (B)   Lot area.
      (1)   The minimum building site shall be two acres or 87,120 square feet.
      (2)   The minimum building site for a duplex shall be four acres or
174,240 square feet.
   (C)   Density.
      (1)   Single-family: One unit per (each single-family dwelling) two acres
or 87,120 square feet.
      (2)   Duplex (two families): One duplex unit per four acres or 174,240
square feet.
      (3)   Multi-family: One triplex unit per six acres, or 261,360 square
feet.
   (D)   Exceptions. 
      (1)   Where a lot or parcel of land has an area and width of less than
the above requirements and was of record on November 18, 1991, such lot may be
occupied by one family, provided the minimum side, front and rear yard and lot
coverage requirements are complied with as set forth in §
153.121 (RL Zone). Accessory structure setbacks shall be governed by
regulations of the Maritime Forest Environmental District. Tree removal
regulations will follow the regulations set out in this subchapter as much as
practicable; however, tree removal regulations shall not prohibit development
of a single-family dwelling and accessory use structures on a lot that was of
record on November 18, 1991.
      (2)   Where a lot or parcel of land has an area and width of less than
the above requirements and was of record on November 18, 1991, such lot may be
occupied by two dwelling units per 40,000 square feet, provided the minimum
side, front and rear requirements are complied with as set forth in §
153.121 (RL Zone). Accessory structure setbacks shall be governed by
regulations of the Maritime Forest Environmental District. Tree removal
regulations will follow the regulations set out in this subchapter as much as
practicable; however, tree removal regulations shall not prohibit development
of two-dwelling units and accessory use structures on a lot that was of record
on November 18, 1991.
   (E)   Lot coverage. Maximum allowable lot coverage by principal use, all
accessory structures, vehicular circulation areas and parking - 15%. In cases
where a lot was platted prior to November 18, 1991, the maximum allowable lot
coverage shall be 40%.
   (F)   Drainage/stormwater runoff. All development is required to follow the
provisions in §
153.070.
   (G)   Land disturbance. See §
153.071.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 18-4,
passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.141 SETBACKS.
   (A)   Side yard. The minimum side yard setback requirements shall be 20
feet.
      (1)   Single-family and duplex dwellings greater than 6,000 square feet
of total gross floor area shall have an additional two feet of side yard
setback.
      (2)   Single-family and duplex dwellings greater than 6,000 square feet
of total gross floor area equipped with a fire suppression system reviewed,
approved, and inspected annually by the Fire Chief or his or her designee,
shall be exempt from division (A)(1).
   (B)   Front yard. The minimum front yard setback requirements shall be 30
feet from the front property line. For flag lots the front yard setback shall
be measured from the point where the lot width meets the minimum width
requirements.
   (C)   Rear yard. The minimum rear yard setback requirements shall be 20% of
the total depth of the lot but shall not exceed 30 feet from the rear property
line.
   (D)   Double frontage. The minimum rear yard setback requirements on any
double-frontage lot shall be 20% of the lot depth not to exceed 30 feet.
   (E)   Corner lot. The minimum setback requirements on a corner lot shall be
30 feet.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 03-10,
passed 6-25-03; Am. Ord. 03-13, passed 7-14-03; Am. Ord. 17-19, passed 5-17-20
; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21 )
§ 153.142 SIGNS.
   (A)   No illuminated sign shall be permitted in the MFED Zone. House numbers
may be illuminated.
   (B)   See §
153.077.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 18-4,
passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.143 OFF-STREET PARKING, DRIVEWAYS, CURBS.
   See §
153.076.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 18-4,
passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.144 BUFFERS AND SCREENING.
   See §
153.073.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 18-4,
passed 6-14-21)
HIGH DENSITY RESIDENTIAL ZONE (RH)
§ 153.155 INTENT.
   (A)   The High Density Residential (RH) Zone is established as an area to
preserve, enhance and encourage high density neighborhoods.
   (B)   In the RH Zone, buildings or lands shall be used for one or more of
the following specified permitted uses or conditional uses and none other.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 99-08, passed 5-10-99; Am. Ord. 01-02,
passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.156 PERMITTED USES.
   In the RH Zone, buildings and/or land shall be used for the following
purposes:
   (A)   Single-family dwellings;
   (B)   Duplex dwellings;
   (C)   Multi-family dwellings of three or more units per dwelling;
   (D)   Hotels and motels;
   (E)   On-site accessory uses or structures to divisions (A), (B) or (C) of
this section. Accessory dwelling units (long-term occupancy) to division (A) of
this section;
   (F)   Playgrounds;
   (G)   Auditoriums, convention centers, assembly halls;
   (H)   Places of worship, daycare centers, schools (public or private); and
   (I)   Swimming pools, tennis courts.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 05-12,
passed 8-8-05; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21; Am. Ord. 19-18, passed 4-26-23)
§ 153.157 SPECIAL USES.
   None.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 18-4,
passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.158 NONCONFORMITIES.
   See §§
153.050 et seq.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 18-4,
passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.159 BUILDING HEIGHT LIMITS.
   (A)   No structure shall exceed a total height of 50 feet.
   (B)   No structure shall have more than four levels of living space.
   (C)   Antennas for personal use, chimneys and elevator towers are exempt
from height restrictions.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 18-4,
passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.160 SITE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Lot dimensions. All parcels shall have a minimum width of 50 feet.
   (B)   Lot area.
      (1)   The minimum building site shall be 15,000 square feet.
      (2)   The minimum building site for a duplex shall be 15,000 square feet.
      (3)   Exempt recombination plats for lots platted prior to June 14, 1983
shall have a minimum lot size of 7,500 square feet.
   (C)   Density.
      (1)   Multi-family dwelling: 18 units per acre.
      (2)   Hotel and motel: 36 units per acre.
   (D)   Exceptions. Where a lot or parcel of land has an area of less than the
above required minimum area and was of record on June 14, 1983, such lot may be
occupied by one family, provided the minimum side, front and rear requirements
are complied with as set forth in §
153.161.
   (E)   Lot coverage.
      (1)   Maximum allowable lot coverage by principal use, all accessory
structures, vehicular circulation areas and parking - 55%. (For exceptions see
§
153.082.)
      (2)   Soils classified as wetlands shall be factored into lot coverage
calculation based on the following schedule:
         (a)   If the lot is composed of less than 25% of its total area in
wetland soils, then 75% of that area classified as wetlands may be used in
calculating lot coverage;
         (b)   If the lot has between 25% to 50% of its total area in wetland
soils, then 50% of that area classified as wetlands may be used in calculating
lot coverage;
         (c)   If the lot has between 50% to 75% of its total area in soils
classified as wetlands, then 25% of that area classified as wetlands may be
used in calculating lot coverage;
         (d)   If the lot has 75% or more of its total area classified as
wetlands, none of that area classified as wetlands may be used in calculating
lot coverage.
   (F)   Drainage/stormwater runoff. All development is required to follow the
provisions of §
153.070.
   (G)   Land disturbance. See §
153.071.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 04-10,
passed 5-26-04; Am. Ord. 05-12, passed 8-8-05; Am. Ord. 17-29, passed 3-8-21 ;
Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21 )
§ 153.161 SETBACKS.
   (A)   Side yard.
      (1)   The minimum side yard setback requirements on a lot with an area of
5,000 square feet or less shall be six feet from each side.
      (2)   The minimum side yard setback requirements on a lot with an area of
more than 5,000 square feet but not more than 7,500 square feet shall be eight
feet from each side.
      (3)   The minimum side yard setback requirements on a lot with an area
exceeding 7,500 square feet shall be ten feet from each side.
      (4)   Single-family and duplex dwellings greater than 6,000 square feet
of total gross floor area shall have an additional two feet of side yard
setback.
      (5)   Single-family and duplex dwellings greater than 6,000 square feet
of total gross floor area equipped with a fire suppression system reviewed,
approved, and inspected annually by the Fire Chief or his or her designee,
shall be exempt from division (A)(4) above.
   (B)   Front yard.
      (1)   The minimum front yard setback requirements on a lot with an area
of 5,000 square feet or less shall be 15 feet from the front property line.
      (2)   The minimum front yard setback requirements on a lot with an area
of more than 5,000 square feet but not more than 7,500 square feet shall be 30
feet from the front property line.
      (3)   The minimum front yard setback requirements on a lot with an area
exceeding 7,500 square feet shall be 30 feet from the front property line.
   (C)   Rear yard. The minimum rear yard setback requirement on any lot shall
be 20% of the total depth of the lot, but shall not exceed 30 feet from the
rear property line.
   (D)   Double frontage.
      (1)   The minimum rear yard setback requirements on any double-frontage
lot with an area of 5,000 square feet or less shall be 20% of the lot depth.
      (2)   The required front yard setback for all lots over 5,000 square feet
shall be provided on both front and rear of a double frontage lot.
   (E)   Corner lot.
      (1)   The minimum setback requirements on a corner lot with an area of
5,000 square feet or less shall be as follows:
         (a)   Side yard: 6 feet.
         (b)   Side street: 7½ feet.
      (2)   The minimum setback requirements on a corner lot with an area of
more than 5,000 square feet but not more than 7,500 square feet shall be as
follows:
         (a)   Side yard: 8 feet.
         (b)   Side street: 15 feet.
      (3)   The minimum setback requirements on a corner lot exceeding 7,500
square feet shall be as follows:
         (a)   Side yard: 10 feet.
         (b)   Side street: 15 feet.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 03-10,
passed 6-25-03; Am. Ord. 17-19, passed 5-27-20 ; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21
)
§ 153.162 SIGNS.
   See §
153.077.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 18-4,
passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.163 OFF-STREET PARKING, DRIVEWAYS, CURBS.
   See §
153.076.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 18-4,
passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.164 BUFFERS AND SCREENING.
   See §
153.073.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 18-4,
passed 6-14-21)
COMMERCIAL ZONE (C)
§ 153.175 INTENT.
   (A)   The Commercial Zone is established primarily to encourage convenient
and accessible sales, service, entertainment, professional and business
facilities to the general populace of the town in such a manner that will not
infringe upon nor degrade the natural qualities of residential neighborhoods.
   (B)   In the Commercial Zone, buildings or lands shall be used for one or
more of the following specified permitted uses or conditional uses and none
other.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 99-08, passed 5-10-99; Am. Ord. 01-02,
passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 02-09, passed 6-10-02; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.176 PERMITTED USES.
   Within the Commercial Zone, no lot, building or structure shall be used and
no building or structure shall be erected which is intended or designed for any
other than one or more of the following specified purposes:
   (A)   Single-family dwellings;
   (B)   Duplex dwellings;
   (C)   Multi-family dwellings of three or more units per dwelling;
   (D)   Hotels and motels;
   (E)   On-site accessory structures; accessory dwelling units;
   (F)   Clinics, hospitals (with a maximum of 30 beds) and nursing homes;
   (G)   Home occupations as defined herein;
   (H)    Town-owned and leased facilities;
   (I)   Playgrounds;
   (J)   Auditoriums or convention centers, assembly halls, museums;
   (K)   Places of worship, daycare centers, schools (public or private);
   (L)   Banks, financial institutions, business or professional offices, post
office;
   (M)   Theaters;
   (N)   Retail business, including drug or grocery stores, hardware stores,
gift shops, clothing shops, book stores, music stores, bait and tackle shops,
furniture stores, arts and crafts, florists, pet stores, produce markets, cycle
and skate shops, photo shops, rental shops, electronic equipment, automobile
sales, automobile rentals and repairs, hammocks, boat sales, boat rentals and
repairs, automobile supplies, thrift/consignment stores, appliance store, toy
stores, convenience store, taxicabs, car washes and home care systems;
   (O)   Restaurants, bars, night clubs, drive-ins, bakeries, and outdoor
waiting activity area(s);
   (P)   Places of business where service is rendered, including barber shops,
beauty parlors, nail salons, personal spa salons, electronic repair shops, shoe
repair shops, dry cleaner, clothes tailor, laundromat, blue print shop, tanning
salons, and realty and construction office without property management;
   (Q)   Public or private parking lots;
   (R)   Stores or shops for custom work or for producing products to be sold
at retail on the premises, including art galleries, antique stores, jewelry
shops, trophy and engraving shops, wood crafts and hobbies, sign business,
frame shop;
   (S)   Swimming pools, tennis courts;
   (T)   Bed and breakfasts (see §
153.312 for requirements);
   (U)   Communication broadcast studios and sales offices;
   (V)   Motorcycle sales and service subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   All partially dismantled vehicles, cycles or parts shall be stored
indoors;
      (2)   Applicants' operations comply with §
130.02;
   (W)   Rooming houses, boarding houses;
   (X)   Billiard parlors, video and amusement arcades;
   (Y)   Paint/wall treatment stores, carpet and flooring stores, windows and
doors stores, video, audio and lighting stores, and pool and hot tub spa
stores, such that the activity would not constitute warehousing as defined by
this chapter;
   (Z)   Haunted houses; and
   (AA)   Indoor athletic and exercise facilities.
   (BB)   Shopping center/office complex.
   (CC)   Automated ice vending structure.
   (DD)   Astrology and tarot card office.
   (EE)   Internet and/or electronic gaming operations as defined in §
153.002 Definitions and regulated in §
153.314 Internet and/or Electronic Gaming Accessory Business Use.
   (FF)   Cottage court. See §
153.310 for additional regulations.
   (GG)   Cluster homes. See §
153.311 for additional regulations.
   (HH)   Brewery.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 94-01, passed 1-26-94; Am. Ord. 96-1,
passed 2-22-96; Am. Ord. 97-01, passed 1-13-97; Am. Ord. 99-01, passed 1-11-99;
Am. Ord. 99-08, passed 5-10-99; Am. Ord. 00-02, passed 1-10-00; Am. Ord. 01-02,
passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 02-06, passed 3-13-02; Am. Ord. 02-09, passed 6-10-02;
Am. Ord. 04-08, passed 5-26-04; Am. Ord. 04-21, passed 11-17-04; Am. Ord. 05-
12, passed 8-8-05; Am. Ord. 07-17, passed 10-24-07; Am. Ord. 08-04, passed 1-
14-08; Am. Ord. 10-03, passed 4-12-10; Am. Ord. 11-17, passed 8-8-11; Am. Ord.
12-02, passed 2-13-12; Am. Ord. 12-22, passed 11-14-12; Am. Ord. 12-24, passed
12-10-12; Am. Ord. 13-16, passed 10-14-13; Am. Ord. 15-7, passed 9-21-15; Am.
Ord. 16-19, passed 6-27-18; Am. Ord. 16-23, passed 1-14-19; Am. Ord. 16-25,
passed 4-24-19; Am. Ord. 17-28, passed 3-8-21 ; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21 )
§ 153.177 SPECIAL USES.
   (A)   Outdoor recreational activities. Outdoor recreational activities
limited to batting cages, miniature golf, ballfields, bumper boats, driving
ranges, skateboard ramps, go-kart tracks, bumper car facilities, small
amusement rides with maximum capacity of 24 persons, or trampoline with harness
and tether shall be special uses in the commercial zone.
      (1)   The site for such activity must be at least two acres in size.
      (2)   No portion of the principal use, except parking and grassed areas,
including natural grass putting courses, shall be located within 50 feet of the
boundary line. No portion of the principal use, except parking, shall be
located within 100 feet of the boundary line if adjoining a residential area or
abutting a street that adjoins a residential area.
      (3)   The height of the structure or device shall not exceed 40 feet
above the general ground elevation of the site.
      (4)   No loudspeaker devices for music or other broadcasting or
amplification shall be used in connection with such activity so as to create a
noise hazard or nuisance.
      (5)   The principal use must be screened by a fence no less than six feet
in height and buffered with dense vegetation which is no less than ten feet in
height to screen the area from adjoining districts. Where natural vegetation
does not provide sufficient screening, the boundaries of the site must be
planted with dense vegetation which will reach a mature growth of eight to ten
feet within three years. Suitable plant types shall be those recommended by the
U.S. Department of Agriculture for coastal areas. (Appendix A)
      (6)   The principal use shall be located in such a manner so as not to
act as a traffic hazard for passing motorists and shall not have any spotlights
or other lighting devices which shall interfere with either the adjoining uses
or property or automotive traffic on adjoining streets or highways.
      (7)   The Planning Board may recommend to the Board of Commissioners, and
the Board of Commissioners may impose, any additional conditions that they
determine are appropriate to ensure that the off-site effects and any adverse
effects to adjoining districts are kept to a minimum. The following conditions
shall apply to skateboard ramps as special uses in the commercial zone:
         (a)   The skateboard ramp structure shall be approved by a North
Carolina certified engineer;
         (b)   Time of operation shall be limited to 9:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.;
         (c)   Sound mitigation features shall be incorporated into
construction of all skateboard ramps;
         (d)   Installation of skateboard ramp must meet current industry
standards;
         (e)   Each owner of a skateboard ramp facility shall be required to
submit to the town, annually upon renewal of the appropriate privilege license
(s), a certificate of insurance verifying liability insurance coverage
relieving the town of all liability;
         (f)   A provision for security of the skateboard ramp facility during
hours of non-use and non-operation shall be included as a part of any
application for this conditional use.
      (8)   The Planning Board may recommend to the Board of Commissioners, and
the Board of Commissioners may impose, any additional conditions that they
determine are appropriate to ensure that the off-site effects and any adverse
effects to adjoining districts are kept to a minimum. The following conditions
shall apply to go-kart tracks and bumper car facilities as special uses in the
commercial zone:
         (a)   Time of operation shall be limited to 9:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m.
during Daylight Saving Time and 9:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. during Eastern Standard
Time;
         (b)   Sound mitigation features shall be incorporated into
construction of all go-kart tracks and bumper car facilities;
         (c)   Installation of go-kart tracks and bumper car facilities must
meet current industry standards;
         (d)   A provision for security of the go-kart track and bumper car
facilities during hours of non-use and non-operation shall be included as a
part of any application for this special use;
         (e)   Carts and cars shall be powered by electric motors to limit
engine noise of facility;
         (f)   The track and bumper car area shall be fenced or physically
separated from customer observation areas or other features deemed hazardous to
the participants/observers; and
         (g)   Noise limits shall be consistent with §
153.185.
         (h)   The minimum lot size for go-kart track and bumper car facilities
shall not be less than 4.4 acres.
   (B)   Body piercing business. Body piercing establishment that is properly
licensed in accordance with the regulations outlined within
Ch. 114.
   (C)   Overhead transmission systems in accordance with §§
153.280 -
153.288.
   (D)   Wind turbines.
      (1)   The site size for installation of a wind turbine shall be a minimum
of one acre and shall have a separation of a minimum of 100 feet from any other
wind turbine tower.
      (2)   Noise limits shall be consistent with §
153.185.
      (3)   The tower height shall not exceed 80 feet. The rotor size shall not
exceed 23 feet in diameter. The combined height of the tower and rotor shall
not exceed 92 feet above finished grade at the base of the tower.
      (4)   The tower shall be set back from all property lines a minimum
distance equal to the combined height of the tower and rotor. In addition, the
tower shall be set back from US 158 Bypass (Croatan Highway) and NC 12
(Virginia Dare Trail) a minimum distance of 250 feet.
      (5)   The turbine and tower shall be designed to withstand maximum wind
speeds as stipulated in the North Carolina Building Code.
      (6)   The tower shall be self-supporting tubular tower (monopole); self-
supporting lattice tower; or a guyed-lattice type tower with a minimum guy
radius of 50% of tower height, and a maximum guy radius of 90% of tower height.
No portion of the tower or guyed wires will interfere with fire lanes.
      (7)   A North Carolina licensed professional engineer must seal all
structural plans.
      (8)   The base of the tower shall be secured in such a way to prevent
unauthorized climbing.
      (9)   The power processor shall not exceed a rated power of ten
kilowatts, and shall have an output of 240VAC, 60 hz, 1Ph. The processor shall
be UL certified 1741, and in compliance with IEEE 929 & 519.
      (10)   No lighting (unless required by FAA Regulations) or signage of any
kind shall be permitted on the tower or wind turbine.
      (11)   The tower and turbine shall be neutral in color and not create a
visual distraction from the ground level.
      (12)   At such time the turbine is no longer functioning the tower shall
be removed within 120 days.
      (13)   The tower, turbine and guy wires will meet all applicable FAA
Regulations.
      (14)   No type of communications antennae or array, or antennae of any
kind shall be allowed to be installed or connected to the wind turbine
structure.
   (E)   Dog day care facility.
      (1)   Outdoor areas must be enclosed with metal, wood, or masonry
fencing. Screening consistent with §
153.073(F)(2)(c) must be provided directly adjacent to the enclosure. Outdoor
areas must provide an appropriate setback to any incompatible uses or zones.
Vacant parcels shall be screened as if developed as residential.
      (2)   The number of dogs shall be specified and shall be in proportion to
the size of the facility and setting.
      (3)   Hours of operation shall be specified as to preclude overnight
kenneling.
      (4)   A written management plan addressing operations of facility,
specifically to minimize odor and noise must be provided.
      (5)   Parking shall be provided at a ratio of one space per 200 square
feet of indoor area.
      (6)   Dare County Health Department approval is required.
      (7)   The Planning Board may recommend to the Board of Commissioners, and
the Board of Commissioners may impose, any additional conditions that they
determine are appropriate to ensure that the off-site effects and any adverse
effects to adjoining properties are kept to a minimum.
   (F)   Veterinary hospital/clinic.
      (1)   All pens and kennels shall be located in an enclosed, heated and
air conditioned building.
      (2)   Outdoor areas must be enclosed with metal, wood, or masonry
fencing. Screening consistent with §
153.073(F)(2)(c) must be provided directly adjacent to the enclosure. Outdoor
areas must provide an appropriate setback to any incompatible uses or zones.
Vacant parcels shall be screened as if developed as residential.
      (3)   The service of a boarding kennel, as defined in this chapter, shall
not be allowed.
      (4)   A written management plan must be provided addressing operations of
facility, specifically to minimize odor and noise.
      (5)   Parking shall be provided at a ratio of one space per 200 square
feet of indoor area.
      (6)   Dare County Health Department approval is required.
      (7)   The Planning Board may recommend to the Board of Commissioners, and
the Board of Commissioners may impose, any additional conditions that they
determine are appropriate to ensure that the off-site effects and any adverse
effects to adjoining properties are kept to a minimum.
   (G)   Event garden(s).
      (1)   Event gardens shall be an accessory use to a hotel or motel on the
same lot. To meet the definition of “on the same lot”, lots or tracts utilized
with this commercial special use shall be combined by either (a) a
recombination plat prepared by a professional land surveyor for recordation at
the Office of the Dare County Register of Deeds, or (b) a restrictive covenant
tying the lots together for purposes of the special use prepared by an Attorney
for recordation at the Office of the Dare County Register of Deeds. The format
of the restrictive shall be reviewed and approved by the Town Attorney prior to
recordation.
      (2)   The site designated for an event garden shall be a minimum of one
acre in size.
      (3)   The area designated for the event garden shall be buffered on all
sides by either a landscaped, earthen berm and/or decorative fencing
constructed of block and/or wood no less than eight feet in overall, combined
height.
      (4)   Any structures, temporary or permanent, associated with an event
garden shall comply with §
153.181 Commercial Zone Setbacks.
      (5)   Event gardens shall comply with §
153.180(E) Commercial Zone Lot Coverage. Any tent erected for more than 30
consecutive days shall be considered lot coverage.
      (6)   Event gardens shall not begin operation before 7:00 a.m. and must
cease at 11:00 p.m.
      (7)   An event that exceeds the approved capacity of the event garden
shall be required to obtain special event permit in accordance with
Chapter 111 Special Events – Charitable Events.
   (H)   Outdoor dining activity area(s).
      (1)   Outdoor dining activity area(s) shall be accessory to restaurant
use only, not including drive-in restaurants.
      (2)   Outdoor dining activity area(s) shall have no scheduled events or
activities before 7:00 a.m. nor after 11:00 p.m. on any day. There will be no
music or games between 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
      (3)   No cooking or serving utilities including grilles, bars or drink
dispensers shall be permitted. All such cooking and serving utilities shall be
contained within the principal building.
      (4)   Lighting and sound (including music or noise) must comply with the
Town Code. Signage shall comply with the Town Code, including signs on
umbrellas.
      (5)   The area must be kept clean of litter and maintained in a safe and
sanitary condition.
      (6)   Appropriate waste receptacles with affixed lids shall be provided.
      (7)   On sides not adjoining the principal building the area designated
as outdoor waiting activity area(s) shall be bordered by a minimum four foot
high fence, with the exception of elevated, covered decks for which fencing
requirements are already in place, and shall be buffered with landscaping as
set forth in §
153.073(F)(2)(b).
      (8)   Outdoor dining activity area(s) may not be roofed or shaded in any
way other than standard table umbrellas and sail shades. Erection of a tent
subject to a special use or event permit from the town is not prohibited. Sail
shade(s) shall be permitted provided the following conditions are met:
         (a)   Shall be located within setbacks;
         (b)   Shall be calculated for total lot coverage;
         (c)   Height shall not exceed 15 feet;
         (d)   No greater than 40% of the approved outdoor dining activity area
can be covered with sail shade(s);
         (e)   Individual sail shade(s) shall not exceed 400 square feet;
         (f)   Meet all requirements of the NC Building Code; and
         (g)   Sail shade(s) shall be maintained as designed and if frayed
(threadbare, worn, tattered, unraveled, etc.) or unsafe, the sail shade will be
required to be removed, repaired, or replaced.
      (9)   Outdoor dining activity area(s) shall comply with minimum parking
requirements for the primary structure as set forth in §
153.076.
      (10)   Outdoor dining activity area(s) must have Health Department
approval and meet all aspects of the NC Building Code.
      (11)   Application for a special use permit shall include a standard
commercial site plan and a written description of the function of the area
including hours of operation, types of games or activities provided and what
food and beverages if any may be consumed in the area. Means of compliance with
outdoor alcoholic beverage consumption shall be included.
      (12)   The Planning Board may recommend to the Board of Commissioners,
and the Board of Commissioners may impose, any additional conditions that they
determine are appropriate to ensure that the off-site effects and any adverse
effects to adjoining properties are kept to a minimum.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 93-06, passed 6-14-93; Am. Ord. 96-05,
passed 4-24-96; Am. Ord. 97-05, passed 6-25-97; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01;
Am. Ord. 01-08, passed 7-25-01; Am. Ord. 02-09, passed 6-10-02; Am. Ord. 06-20,
passed 8-14-06; Am. Ord. 07-16, passed 10-24-07; Am. Ord. 08-07, passed 2-27-
08; Am. Ord. 10-01, passed 1-11-10; Am. Ord. 11-08, passed 5-25-11; Am. Ord.
11-21, passed 10-10-11; Am. Ord. 12-04, passed 3-28-12; Am. Ord. 13-3, passed
3-20-13; Am. Ord. 13-4, passed 4-24-13; Am. Ord. 13-16, passed 10-14-13; Am.
Ord. 15-15, passed 5-16-16; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21; Am. Ord. 19-8,
passed 3-7-22)
§ 153.178 NONCONFORMITIES.
   See §§
153.050 et seq.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 18-4,
passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.179 BUILDING HEIGHT LIMITS.
   (A)   No structure shall exceed a total height of 50 feet.
   (B)   No structure shall have more than four levels of living space.
   (C)   Antennas for personal use, chimneys and elevator towers are exempt
from height restrictions.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 18-4,
passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.180 SITE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Lot dimensions. All parcels shall have a minimum width of 50 feet.
   (B)   Lot area.
      (1)   The minimum building site shall be 15,000 square feet.
      (2)   The minimum building site for a duplex shall be 15,000 square feet.
      (3)   Exempt recombination plats for lots platted prior to June 14, 1983
shall have a minimum lot size of 7,500 square feet.
   (C)   Density.
      (1)   Multi-family dwelling, cottage courts, cluster homes. The maximum
floor area ratio (FAR) shall be up to 0.50, exceptions described in division
(D) below.
      (2)   Hotel and motel: For any hotel/motel development, the maximum floor
area ratio (FAR) shall be up to 0.50; exceptions described in division (D)
below.
   (D)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Where a lot or parcel of land has an area of less than the above
required minimum area and was of record on June 14, 1983, such lot may be
occupied by one family, provided the minimum side, front and rear requirements
are complied with as set forth in §
153.181;
      (2)   Per division (C) above, increase minimum required side yard
setbacks by two feet on each side, the FAR shall be up to 0.55; and
      (3)   Per division (C) above, increase minimum required side yard buffer
as set forth in §
153.184 by two feet on each side and items in division (C) above the FAR shall
be up to 0.60.
   (E)   Lot coverage.
      (1)   Maximum allowable lot coverage by principal use, all accessory
structures, vehicular circulation areas and parking - 65%. (For exceptions, see
§
153.082(D).)
      (2)   Soils classified as wetlands shall be factored into lot coverage
calculation based on the following schedule:
         (a)   If the lot is composed of less than 25% of its total area in
wetland soils, then 75% of that area classified as wetlands may be used in
calculating lot coverage;
         (b)   If the lot has between 25% to 50% of its total area in wetland
soils, then 50% of that area classified as wetlands may be used in calculating
lot coverage;
         (c)   If the lot has between 50% to 75% of its total area in soils
classified as wetlands, then 25% of that area classified as wetlands may be
used in calculating lot coverage;
         (d)   If the lot has 75% or more of its total area classified as
wetlands, none of that area classified as wetlands may be used in calculating
lot coverage.
      (3)   Permeable pavement lot coverage calculations:
         (a)   For lots greater than five acres, the use of permeable paving
systems, including porous concrete, porous asphalt, concrete grid pavers and
permeable interlocking concrete pavers, for parking spaces, drive aisles and
vehicular circulations areas, a reduction in the calculated lot coverage shall
be allowed. All permeable paving systems shall comply with the criteria of the
North Carolina Division of Water Quality Stormwater Best Management Practices
Manual (current edition). The following calculated reductions are allowed.
            1.   Porous concrete without washed stone base - 40% reduction.
            2.   Porous concrete with at least six inches of washed stone base
- 60% reduction.
            3.   Porous asphalt, concrete grid pavers and permeable
interlocking concrete pavers with at least four inches of washed stone base -
40% reduction.
            4.   Porous asphalt, concrete grid pavers and permeable
interlocking concrete pavers with at least seven inches of washed stone base -
60% reduction.
         (b)   For lots less than five acres, the use of permeable paving
systems, including porous concrete, porous asphalt, concrete grid pavers,
permeable interlocking concrete pavers, and plastic reinforcing grids for
parking spaces, drive aisles and vehicular circulation areas, a reduction in
the calculated lot coverage shall be allowed. Plastic reinforcing grids shall
be limited to low-intensity applications with low traffic speeds. Examples
include, but are not limited to, parking stalls in commercial parking lots,
overflow parking areas, utility access, emergency vehicle and fire access
lanes, and loading areas. Material to fill the open cells of the pavement
system types shall consist of open graded fine aggregate, open graded washed
aggregate, sod turf grasses native to the southeast coastal environment and
exhibit medium to high permeability rates. All permeable paving systems shall
comply with the criteria of the North Carolina Division of Water Quality
Stormwater Best Management Practices Manual (current edition). The following
calculated reductions are allowed:
            1.   Porous concrete without washed stone base - 40% reduction.
            2.   Porous concrete with at least six inches of washed stone base
- 60% reduction.
            3.   Porous asphalt, concrete grid pavers, permeable interlocking
concrete pavers, and plastic reinforcing grids with at least four inches of
washed stone base - 40% reduction.
            4.   Porous asphalt, concrete grid pavers, permeable interlocking
concrete pavers and plastic reinforcing grids with at least seven inches of
washed stone base - 60% reduction.
            5.   The pavement section shall consist of the surface course or
layer for infiltration, a bedding course (as required), a woven geotextile
fabric layer, and aggregate storage layer, and a woven geotextile fabric layer
to prevent clogging.
            6.   Edge restraints shall be provided on all concrete grid pavers,
permeable interlocking concrete pavers, and plastic reinforcing grid
installations to confine the pavement installation. The pavement surface course
structural properties shall be designed to withstand the applied vehicular
loading pursuant to the specified application.
         (c)   In no case shall the total area that is occupied and obstructed
by any structure above the ground, including but not limited to parking and
drive areas, exceed 75% of the area of the lot.
   (F)   Drainage/stormwater runoff. All development is required to follow the
provisions of §
153.070.
   (G)   Land disturbance. See §
153.071.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 04-10,
passed 5-26-04; Am. Ord. 05-12, passed 8-8-05; Am. Ord. 10-13, passed 7-12-10;
Am. Ord. 11-09, passed 5-25-11; Am. Ord. 15-16, passed 5-16-16; Am. Ord. 17-29,
passed 3-8-21; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21; Am. Ord. 19-6, passed 1-10-22;
Am. Ord. 19-19, passed 6-14-23)
§ 153.181 SETBACKS.
   (A)   Buildings erected in the commercial zone for residential purposes,
including single-family dwellings, multi-family dwellings, hotels, motels and
such other like buildings, shall abide by the setback requirements of the High
Density Residential (RH) Zone governing such buildings.
   (B)   Buildings erected for mixed use, namely for both dwelling and business
purposes, shall abide by the setback requirements of the Commercial Zone except
when abutting the RL or RH Zoning District where the setback requirements shall
abide by the requirements of the RH Zone.
   (C)   Buildings erected in the Commercial Zone for commercial purposes
exclusively shall comply with the following setback requirements.
      (1)   Side yard. The minimum side yard shall be ten feet. For any
structure over 35 feet in total building height, there shall be two feet of
side yard setback for each foot of building height over 35 feet in addition to
the minimum side yard setback.
      (2)   Front yard. The minimum size for a front yard shall be 30 feet.
      (3)   Rear yard. The minimum size for a rear yard shall be ten feet.
      (4)   Double frontage.
          (a)   The minimum rear yard setback requirements on any double-
frontage lot with an area of 5,000 square feet or less shall be 20% of the lot
depth.
         (b)   The required front yard setback for all lots over 5,000 square
feet shall be provided on both front and rear of a double frontage lot.
      (5)   Corner lot. The minimum side street setback requirements shall be
15 feet.
(Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 07-06, passed 4-25-07; Am. Ord. 17-
25, passed 10-12-20 ; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21 )
§ 153.182 SIGNS.
   See §
153.077.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 18-4,
passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.183 OFF-STREET PARKING, DRIVEWAYS, CURBS.
   See §
153.076.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 18-4,
passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.184 BUFFERS AND SCREENING.
   See §
153.073.
(Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.185 NOISE LIMITS.
   For uses abutting residential uses, a sound pressure range of less than 60
decibels must be maintained utilizing an "A" weight scale and a slow response
for measurements. For purposes of this section, sounds generated at or on a
site by its employees, agents or operations are included.
(Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.186 COMMERCIAL BUILDING EXTERIOR.
   For new construction or substantial improvements in the Commercial Zone,
building elevations visible from any right-of-way shall meet the following
standards:
   (A)   General facade standards. All building facades shall be covered with
one or more of the following materials:
      (1)   Decorative block;
      (2)   Brick, which shall be standard, utility, closure, modular, oversize
or jumbo;
      (3)   Stucco, cementious or synthetic;
      (4)   Shakes;
      (5)   Clapboard;
      (6)   Vertical board and batten; or
      (7)   Wood, vinyl, aluminum, metal, concrete or other materials which
appear to be shakes, clapboard or vertical board and batten or stucco.
      (8)   Fenced areas shall be metal tube fencing and/or grill with a
minimum of one inch by one inch pickets at five-inch on center minimum. Chain
link may be used on the inside of tube fencing if colors are matching.
   (B)   Front facade standards. The following standards apply to the building
frontage and all elevations facing US 158 or NC 12 for all commercial
buildings.
      (1)   Architectural variation. For structures up to 100,000 square feet
of gross floor area with building frontage of 100 feet or greater,
architectural variations shall be required every 50 feet.
         (a)   Physical changes shall be provided in building design and roof
line, covered sidewalks at least eight feet wide with a four-inch rise for each
12-inch run pitch roof.
         (b)   For structures with building frontage less than 100 feet,
architectural breaks are required but can include or have the appearance of
windows with a minimum width of 18 inches wide and minimum height of four feet.
         (c)   There shall be no neon lighting on the exterior of the structure
or its roof line.
         (d)   Three years from February 28, 2001, all existing neon lighting
as described in subsection (c) shall be removed.
      (2)   Architectural variation. For structures greater than 100,000 square
feet of gross floor area: variations shall be required a minimum of every 75
feet. Of these variations 10% of the elevation shall be roof facade:
         (a)   Physical changes shall be provided in building design and
roofline, covered sidewalks a minimum of eight feet wide with a pitch roof with
four-inch rise for each 12-inch run will apply.
         (b)   Changes in wall plane a minimum of five feet wise and minimum
eight inches deep with changes in materials and/or color at change in wall
plan.
         (c)   Shutters and/or louvered panels.
         (d)   Roof facades meeting all of the following criteria:
            1.   Shall be constructed with one or more of the following roofs:
hip, gable, or mansard; and
            2.    Shall have a minimum pitch of 4 in 12; and maximum pitch of
18 in 12;
            3.   Shall have a minimum overhang of ten inches; and
            4.   Shall have a minimum roof height of six feet measured from the
top plate to the ridge.
      (3)   Glazing and glazing facade.
         (a)   Glazing and glazing facades shall comprise not less than 10% of
the front facade area.
         (b)   Glazing and glazing facades shall comprise not more than 40% of
the front facade area.
         (c)   All glazing and glazing facades shall be designed not to exceed
a total of 15 feet in height.
         (d)   Mullions are encouraged but not required.
   (C)   Roof standards. All commercial buildings shall have a roof design as
defined in subsection (1) and/or provide roof facades as defined in subsections
(2) and (3).
      (1)   Roofs (as defined in §
153.002) shall meet all of the following criteria:
         (a)   Shall be constructed with one or more of the following roofs:
hip, gable or mansard; and
         (b)   Shall have a minimum pitch of 4 in 12; and
         (c)   Shall have a minimum overhang of ten inches; and
         (d)   Shall have a minimum roof height of six feet measured from the
top plate to the ridge.
      (2)   Roof facades on all elevations for commercial buildings up to
100,000 square feet of gross floor area, shall meet all the following criteria:
         (a)   Wall elevations for buildings up to 20 feet in height must be
concealed behind a roof facade for a minimum of 50% of the entire wall
elevation; wall elevations for buildings greater than 20 feet, up to 30 feet in
height must be concealed behind a roof facade for a minimum of 35% of the
entire wall elevation; and wall elevations for buildings greater than 30 feet
in height must be concealed behind a roof facade for a minimum of 25% of the
entire wall elevation; (the percentage concealed by roof facade is calculated
from the soffit to the peak of the roof facade); and
         (b)   Wall elevation shall have no more than 15 horizontal feet
without a roof facade projection; and
         (c)   Minimum pitch of roof facade projections will be no less than 4
in 12 and no more than 18 in 12.
      (3)   Elevations on building frontage and all elevations facing US 158 or
NC 12 for commercial buildings greater than 100,000 square feet in gross floor
area shall meet requirements of (B)(2) above.
      (4)   Roof facades for commercial buildings greater than 100,000 square
feet in gross floor area on elevations other than listed in subsection (3)
shall meet requirements of (B)(2) above with the following exception:
         (a)   Roof facade shall be an average of 10% of all elevation except
the front;
         (b)   Roof facade pitch shall be a minimum of 4 in 12 and a maximum of
36 in 12.
      (5)   Exemptions:
         (a)   Detached canopies greater than ten feet from the primary
structure are exempted from all roof standards defined herein. All canopies
less than ten feet from the primary structure, including attached canopies, are
not exempt from roof standards. If a roof facade is used on attached canopies
it must have a minimum height of three feet.
         (b)   Ground level covered patios up to 1,500 square feet in area
extending no more than 15 feet from the exterior wall of the main building to
which the covered patio is accessory. The roof or roof facade of such patio may
have a pitch less than 4 in 12.
         (c)   Steeples and cupola are exempt from the provisions of this
division.
   (D)   Mechanical equipment standards.
      (1)   Mechanical equipment shall not be visible from any right-of-way.
      (2)    All mechanical equipment and appurtenances shall be screened.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 02-01,
passed 1-14-02; Am. Ord. 02-03, passed 1-14-02; Am. Ord. 02-05, passed 2-27-02;
Am. Ord. 04-02, passed 3-24-04; Am. Ord. 10-21, passed 11-10-10; Am. Ord. 11-
04, passed 4-11-11; Am. Ord. 14-08, passed 5-12-14; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-
21)
LIGHT INDUSTRIAL TWO ZONE (LI-2)
§ 153.205 INTENT.
   (A)   The Light Industrial Two (LI-2) Zone is established to provide
standards for the location of commercial services which are required for the
development of the town. It is the intent of this section to regulate and
buffer such uses so that their location will not be detrimental to adjacent
uses.
   (B)   In the LI-2 Zone, buildings or lands shall be used for one or more of
the following specified permitted uses or special uses and none other.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 99-08, passed 5-10-99; Am. Ord. 01-02,
passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 02-09, passed 6-10-02; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.206 PERMITTED USES.
   Within the Light Industrial Two Zone, the following uses are permitted:
   (A)   Single-family dwellings;
   (B)   Duplex dwellings;
   (C)   Multi-family dwellings of three or more units per dwelling;
   (D)   Hotels and motels;
   (E)   On-site accessory structures; accessory dwelling units;
   (F)   Clinics, hospitals with a maximum of 30 beds;
   (G)   Home occupations as defined herein;
   (H)   Town-owned and leased facilities;
   (I)   Playgrounds;
   (J)   Auditoriums or convention centers, assembly halls;
   (K)   Places of worship, daycare centers, schools (public or private),
libraries and buildings for nonprofit service organizations;
   (L)   Banks, financial institutions, business or professional offices;
   (M)   Theaters;
   (N)   Retail business, including drug or grocery stores, hardware stores,
electronic equipment, gift shops and clothing shops, automobile sales, service
and repair, convenience store, taxicabs;
   (O)   Restaurants, drive-ins and bakeries;
   (P)   Places of business where service is rendered, including barber shops,
beauty parlors, electronic repair shops, shoe repair shops, clothes tailor;
   (Q)   Public or private parking lots;
   (R)   Stores or shops for custom work or for producing products to be sold
at retail on the premises;
   (S)   Storage or bonded warehouses;
   (T)   Storage yards for building materials, wood and stone;
   (U)   Light manufacturing such as boat construction, cabinet work, stone and
concrete works;
   (V)   Machine or blacksmith shops;
   (W)   Motor or freight terminals;
   (X)   Storage of construction equipment;
   (Y)   Swimming pools, tennis courts;
   (Z)   Mobile home parks and trailer parks, mobile homes, trailers and other
portable-type housing.
   (AA)   Billiard parlors, video and amusement arcades;
   (BB)   Bed and breakfasts (See §
153.312 for requirements); and
   (CC)   Telecommunications towers.
   (DD)   Shopping center/office complex.
   (EE)   Internet and/or electronic gaming operations as defined in § 153.002
Definitions and regulated in § 153.314 Internet and/or Electronic Gaming
Accessory Business Use.
(Ord. 99-08, passed 5-10-99; Am. Ord. 99-09, passed 5-10-99; Am. Ord. 01-02,
passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 02-09, passed 6-10-02; Am. Ord. 05-12, passed 8-8-05;
Am. Ord. 07-17, passed 10-24-07; Am. Ord. 08-04, passed 1-14-08; Am. Ord. 12-
22, passed 11-14-12 ; Am. Ord. 17-28, passed 3-8-21 ; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-
14-21 )
§ 153.207 SPECIAL USES.
   (A)   Work force housing.
      (1)   To qualify, a workforce multi-family housing unit shall:
         (a)   Have a sales price of three times 80% or less of median family
income or annual rental of 30% of 80% or less of median family income; and
         (b)   Be used exclusively for year-round occupancy by eligible
households, and the rentals or sales prices restricted according to the
definitions contained in §
153.002.
      (2)   Location of workforce housing units. Workforce housing units shall
not be set apart and should be interspersed among the market rate units
throughout the workforce housing development and the locations shall be
approved by the Board of Commissioners.
      (3)   Ratio. No less than 25% of the units shall be market-rate housing.
      (4)   Exterior appearance. The exterior appearance of the workforce
housing units in any covered development shall be visually compatible with the
market rate units in the development. External building materials and finishes
shall be substantially the same in type and quality for workforce housing units
as for market rate units.
      (5)   Interior appearance and finishes. Workforce housing units may
differ from market rate units with regard to interior finishes and gross floor
area provided that:
         (a)   There shall be no differences between the workforce housing
units and the market rate units related to energy efficiency, including
mechanical equipment and plumbing, insulation, windows, and heating and cooling
systems.
         (b)   The gross floor area for the workforce housing units shall be no
less than 75% of the gross floor area of similar market rate units.
      (6)   Waiver of fees. Projects meeting the eligibility requirements may
request a waiver of town fees, including site plan review fees, building permit
fees, water service fees, and subdivision fees for the workforce housing units.
Approval of a request to waive town fees shall be subject to approval by the
Board of Commissioners. Workforce units must meet the standards of this section
and are subject to the following requirements.
         (a)   The developer shall submit the development plan to the Blessings
Ministries Community Development Corporation’s designee or its successor for
review and certification prior to submission for development concessions.
            1.   Rental development. The owner must submit to the Blessings
Ministries Community Development Corporation’s designee or its successor for
certification annually. If certification is not issued, any concessions will be
rescinded and appropriate fees will be due and payable immediately.
      (7)   Restrictive covenants.
         (a)   Restrictive covenants shall be recorded, prior to the issuance
of any occupancy permit, naming the town as a grantee and party and granting
the town the power to enforce, which contain provisions that:
            1.   Insure that the site shall at all times remain in compliance
with this section and the Housing Placement Eligibility System, as it may be
amended from time to time, of the Blessings Ministries Community Development
Corporation’s designee or its successor;
            2.   Give all subsequent purchasers notice that the site and the
living units on the site are subject to the provisions of this section;
            3.   Prevent the modification of the site or its use or withdrawal
or modification of the covenants without the consent of the town;
            4.   Prohibit the sale or lease of a housing unit without the
receipt by the town of a certification from the Blessings Ministries Community
Development Corporation’s designee or its successor that the purchaser or
tenant qualifies under the Housing Placement Eligibility System, as it may be
amended from time to time, of the Blessings Ministries Community Development
Corporation’s designee or its successor.
         (b)   Such covenants shall be in a form satisfactory to the town.
         (c)   Such covenants shall be superior to any liens or encumbrances
upon the property and prior to the issuance of an occupancy permit; applicant
shall provide the town with a title opinion from a licensed North Carolina
attorney indicating that the covenants required herein are superior to all
other liens or encumbrances upon the property.
      (8)   Deed of trust. The restrictive covenants and the applicant's or its
successor's obligation to comply with the terms of this section shall be
secured by a deed of trust in favor of the town, in a form satisfactory to the
town. Such deed of trust shall be recorded prior to the issuance of an
occupancy permit. The town shall subordinate the deed of trust to the lien of
any lender financing the purchase of any of the housing units, upon proof of
compliance with the terms of this section and upon certification from the
Blessings Ministries Community Development Corporation’s designee, or its
successor, of compliance with the Housing Placement Eligibility System, as it
may be amended from time to time. Violation of the terms of this section or the
terms of the restrictive covenants required above, shall be an event of default
under the terms of such deed of trust and shall authorize the town, in addition
to any other remedy available, to foreclose upon the property as provided in
the deed of trust.
      (9)   Violations. Each sale or rental of a housing unit in violation of
this section shall constitute a separate offense. Each day's continuing
violation of this section shall be a separate offense. In addition to the
remedies provided in this section or in §
10.99 of this Code of Ordinances, the town shall be authorized to recover from
the seller or landlord violating this section, any fees that were waived under
the provisions of this section, together with attorney fees and other costs and
expenses incurred in the collection of such fees. The remedies available to the
town shall be cumulative and may be exercised together or separately in the
discretion of the town. The exercise of one remedy shall not be construed to be
a waiver of any other remedy.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 07-07,
passed 5-23-07; Am. Ord. 08-12, passed 3-26-08; Am. Ord. 16-6, passed 11-15-17;
Am. Ord. 16-13, passed 5-14-18; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.208 NONCONFORMITIES.
   See §§
153.050 et seq.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 18-4,
passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.209 BUILDING HEIGHT LIMITS.
   (A)   No structure shall exceed a total height of 50 feet.
   (B)   No structure shall have more than four levels of living space.
   (C)   Antennas for personal use, chimneys and elevator towers are exempt
from height restrictions.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 18-4,
passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.210 SITE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Lot dimensions. All parcels shall have a minimum width of 50 feet.
   (B)   Lot area.
      (1)   The minimum building site shall be 15,000 square feet.
      (2)   The minimum building site for a duplex shall be 15,000 square feet.
      (3)   Exempt recombination plats for lots platted prior to June 14, 1983
shall have a minimum lot size of 7,500 square feet.
   (C)   Density.
      (1)   Multi-family dwelling:   The maximum floor area ratio (FAR) shall
be up to 0.50 with the following exception described in division (D) below.
      (2)   Hotel and motel:   36 units per acre.
   (D)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Where a lot or parcel of land has an area of less than the above
required minimum area and was of record on June 14, 1983, such lot may be
occupied by one family, provided the minimum side, front and rear requirements
are complied with as set forth in §
153.211.
      (2)   Per division (C)(1) above, increase minimum side yard setbacks by
two feet on each side, the FAR shall be up to 0.55.
      (3)   Per division (C)(1) above, increase minimum side yard buffer as set
forth in §
153.184 by two feet on each side and items in division (C) above the FAR shall
be up to 0.60.
   (E)   Lot coverage.
      (1)   Maximum allowable lot coverage by principal use, all accessory
structures, vehicular circulation areas and parking - 65%. (For exceptions, see
§
153.082.)
      (2)   Soils classified as wetlands shall be factored into lot coverage
calculation based on the following schedule:
         (a)   If the lot is composed of less than 25% of its total area in
wetland soils, then 75% of that area classified as wetlands may be used in
calculating lot coverage;
         (b)   If the lot has between 25% to 50% of its total area in wetland
soils, then 50% of that area classified as wetlands may be used in calculating
lot coverage;
         (c)   If the lot has between 50% to 75% of its total area in soils
classified as wetlands, then 25% of that area classified as wetlands may be
used in calculating lot coverage;
         (d)   If the lot has 75% or more of its total area classified as
wetlands, none of that area classified as wetlands may be used in calculating
lot coverage.
   (F)   Drainage/stormwater runoff. All development is required to follow the
provisions of §
153.070.
   (G)   Land disturbance. See §
153.071.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 04-10,
passed 5-26-04; Am. Ord. 05-12, passed 8-8-05; Am. Ord. 16-13, passed 5-14-18;
Am. Ord. 17-29, passed 3-8-21; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21; Am. Ord. 19-4,
passed 1-10-22)
§ 153.211 SETBACKS.
   (A)   Buildings erected in the Light Industrial Two Zone for residential
purposes, including single- family dwellings, multi-family dwellings, hotels,
motels, mobile home parks and trailer parks, mobile homes, trailers, other
portable-type housing and such other like buildings, shall abide by the setback
requirements of the High Density Residential (RH) Zone governing such
buildings.
   (B)   Buildings erected for mixed use, namely for both dwellings and
business purposes, shall abide by the setback requirements of the Light
Industrial Two Zone except when abutting the RL Zoning District where the
setback requirements shall abide by the setback requirements of the RH Zone
governing such buildings.
   (C)   Buildings erected in the Light Industrial Two Zone for business or
industrial purposes exclusively shall comply with the following setback
requirements:
      (1)   Side yard. The minimum side yard shall be ten feet. For any
structure over 35 feet in total building height, there shall be two feet of
side yard setback for each foot of building height over 35 feet in addition to
the minimum side yard setback.
      (2)   Front yard. The minimum size for a front yard shall be 30 feet.
      (3)   Rear yard. The minimum size for a rear yard shall be five feet.
      (4)   Double frontage. Where lots have double frontage, the required
front yard setbacks shall be required on both streets.
      (5)   Corner lot. The minimum side street setback shall be 15 feet.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 06-01,
passed 2-22-06; Am. Ord. 07-06, passed 4-25-07; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21;
Am. Ord. 19-17, passed 4-26-23)
§ 153.212 SIGNS.
   See §
153.077.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 18-4,
passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.213 OFF-STREET PARKING, DRIVEWAYS, CURBS.
   See §
153.076.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 18-4,
passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.214 BUFFERS AND SCREENING.
   See §
153.073.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 18-4,
passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.215 NOISE LIMITS.
   For uses abutting residential uses, a sound pressure range of less than 60
decibels must be maintained utilizing an "A" weight scale and a slow response
for measurements. For purposes of this section, sounds generated at or on a
site by its employees, agents or operations are included.
(Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
LIGHT INDUSTRIAL ONE ZONE (LI-1)
§ 153.225 INTENT.
   (A)   The Light Industrial One (LI-1) Zone is established to provide
standards for the location of commercial services which are required for the
development of Kill Devil Hills; such facilities as wholesale food and beverage
warehousing, building supply facilities and other similar uses which are
required elements of a self-sufficient community. It is the intent of this
section to regulate and buffer such uses so that their location will not be
detrimental to adjacent uses, the environment and sources of potable water,
such as the fresh pond and groundwater.
   (B)   In the LI-1 Zone, buildings or lands shall be used for one or more of
the following specified permitted uses or special uses and none other.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 99-08, passed 5-10-99; Am. Ord. 01-02,
passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 02-09, passed 6-10-02; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.226 PERMITTED USES.
   In the Light Industrial One Zone, the following uses are permitted:
   (A)   Single-family dwellings;
   (B)   Duplex dwellings;
   (C)   Multi-family dwellings of three or more units per dwelling;
   (D)   Hotels and motels;
   (E)   On-site accessory structures; accessory dwelling units;
   (F)   Clinics;
   (G)   Home occupations as defined herein;
   (H)   Town-owned and leased facilities;
   (I)   Playgrounds;
   (J)   Auditoriums or convention centers, assembly halls, museums;
   (K)   Places of worship, day care centers, schools (public or private),
libraries and buildings for nonprofit service organizations;
   (L)   Banks, financial institutions, business or professional offices;
   (M)   Theaters;
   (N)   Retail business, including drug or grocery stores, hardware stores,
electronic equipment, gift shops and clothing shops, automobile sales, service
and repair, automobile supplies, convenience store, taxicabs, thrift/
consignment shop, furniture stores, art and craft stores, florist, cycle and
skate stores, photo shops, rental shops, appliance store, and home care
systems;
   (O)   Restaurants, drive-ins and bakeries;
   (P)   Places of business where service is rendered, including barber shops,
beauty parlors, electronic repair shops, shoe repair shops, clothes tailor and
laundromat;
   (Q)   Public or private parking lots;
   (R)   Stores or shops for custom work or for producing products to be sold
at retail on the premises, art galleries, antique stores, jewelry shops, trophy
and engraving shops, wood crafts and hobbies, sign business, frame shop,
surfboard manufacture shop, embroidering and screen printing;
   (S)   Storage or bonded warehouses;
   (T)   Storage yards for building materials, wood and stone;
   (U)   Light manufacturing, such as boat construction, cabinet work, stone
and concrete works;
   (V)   Machine or blacksmith shops;
   (W)   Motor or freight terminals;
   (X)   Swimming pools, tennis courts, indoor athletics and exercise
facilities;
   (Y)   Bed and breakfasts (See §
153.312 for requirements);
   (Z)   Telecommunications towers;
   (AA)   Billiard parlors, video and amusement arcades;
   (BB)   Gas appliances and propane sales and service; and
   (CC)   Motorcycle repair, maintenance, fabrications and sales.
   (DD)   Shopping center/office complex.
   (EE)   Internet and/or electronic gaming operations as defined in §
153.002 Definitions and regulated in §
153.314 Internet and/or Electronic Gaming Accessory Business Use.
   (FF)   Warehouse, industrial complex.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 99-08, passed 5-10-99; Am. Ord. 99-09,
passed 5-10-99; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 02-09, passed 6-10-02;
Am. Ord. 03-03, passed 2-26-03; Am. Ord. 05-12, passed 8-8-05; Am. Ord. 06-04,
passed 2-22-06; Am. Ord. 07-17, passed 10-24-07; Am. Ord. 08-04, passed 1-14-
08; Am. Ord. 12-22, passed 11-14-12; Am. Ord. 13-01, passed 1-14-13; Am. Ord.
17-28, passed 3-8-21 ; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21 )
§ 153.227 SPECIAL USES.
   (A)   Outdoor recreational activities. Outdoor recreational activities
limited to batting cages, miniature golf, ballfields, water rides or driving
ranges shall be a conditional use in the Light Industrial One Zone.
      (1)   The site for such activity must be two acres in size.
      (2)   No portion of the principal use, except parking, shall be located
within 50 feet of the boundary line if adjoining a residential use or zone or
abutting a street that services a residential zone.
      (3)   The height of the structure or device shall not exceed 40 feet
above the general ground elevation of the site.
      (4)   No loudspeaker devices for music or other broadcasting or
amplification shall be used in connection with such activity so as to create a
noise hazard or nuisance.
      (5)   The principal use must be screened by a fence no less than six feet
in height and buffered with dense vegetation which is no less than ten feet in
height to screen the area from adjoining districts. Where natural vegetation
does not provide sufficient screening, the boundaries of the site must be
planted with dense vegetation which will reach a mature growth of eight to ten
feet within three years. Suitable plant types shall be those recommended by the
U.S. Department of Agriculture for coastal areas. (Appendix A)
      (6)   The principal use shall be located in such a manner so as not to
act as a traffic hazard for passing motorists and shall not have any spotlight
or other lighting devices which shall interfere with either the adjoining uses
or property or automotive traffic on adjoining streets or highways.
      (7)   The Planning Board may recommend to the Board of Commissioners and
the Board of Commissioners may impose any additional conditions that they
determine are appropriate to insure that the off-site effects and any adverse
effects to adjoining districts are kept to a minimum.
   (B)   Sexually oriented businesses. Only those businesses defined and
provided for in
Ch. 112 and provided the following conditions are met:
      (1)   Sexually oriented businesses shall not be located in a building
that sells or serves alcohol or alcoholic beverages or allows alcohol or
alcoholic beverages to be consumed on the premises;
      (2)   No sexually oriented businesses shall be permitted in any building
which is:
         (a)   Located within 400 feet in any direction from a building used as
a dwelling in the Light Industrial One Zoning District;
         (b)   Located within 400 feet in any direction from a residential
zoning district (Residential Low, Residential High and Ocean Impact
Residential), government and institutional zoning district or commercial zoning
district;
         (c)   Located within 200 feet in any direction from a building in
which a sexually oriented business is located;
         (d)   Located within 1,000 feet in any direction from a building in
which a place of worship is located;
         (e)   Located within 1,000 feet in any direction from a building in
which a library, school or a state licensed child day care center is located;
         (f)   Located within 1,000 feet in any direction from any lot or
parcel on which a public playground, public swimming pool or public park is
located.
      (3)   Measurement shall be made in a straight line, without regard to the
intervening structures or objects, from the nearest portion of the building or
structure used as the part of the premises where a sexually oriented business
is conducted to the nearest portion of a building, structure or zoning district
listed above;
      (4)   Signs are allowed, as permitted in §
153.077, but may not include promotional displays, flashing lights or
photographs, silhouettes, drawings or pictorial representations of any manner
depicting sexual activity, themes or nudity;
      (5)   The applicant(s) shall obtain a license in accordance with
Ch. 112;
      (6)   The applicant(s) shall conform to the guidelines and provisions
outlined in this chapter.
   (C)   Body piercing business. Body piercing establishment that is properly
licensed in accordance with the regulations outlined within
Ch. 114.
   (D)   Large warehouses. Large warehouses provided the following conditions
are met: a document approved by the Town Attorney shall be recorded at the Dare
County Register of Deeds that states the following prior to issuing a building
permit:
      (1)   Limits the use of the structure to Large Warehouse in accordance
with the definition in §
153.002; and
      (2)   The structure shall not be divided into separate warehouse units.
   (E)   Tattoo studio(s).
      (1)   Tattoo studio(s) are an establishment at which the activity of
tattooing occurs.
         TATTOOING. Means the inserting of permanent markings or coloration, or
the production of scars, upon or under human skin through puncturing by use of
a needle or other method. Tattoo studio(s) shall be a special use of the Light
Industrial One Zone.
      (2)   Shall meet the separation requirements listed below for a minimum
distance in a straight line from the property line including a ‘tattoo studio.’
         (a)   Church, school, public park, or libraries: 200 feet.
         (b)   Other tattoo establishments: 400 feet.
      (3)   Health Department or any other applicable agency approval is
required.
      (4)   Hours of operation shall be limited to 8:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.
      (5)   The Planning Board may recommend to the Board of Commissioners, and
the Board of Commissioners may impose, any additional conditions they determine
are appropriate based on surroundings.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 93-02, passed 3-8-93; Am. Ord. 97-05,
passed 6-25-97; Am. Ord. 99-05, passed 2-8-99; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01;
Am. Ord. 01-13, passed 11-14-01; Am. Ord. 02-09, passed 6-10-02; Am. Ord. 05-
19, passed 10-4-05; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21; Am. Ord. 18-14, passed 9-13-
21)
§ 153.228 NONCONFORMITIES.
   See §§
153.050 et seq.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 18-4,
passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.229 BUILDING HEIGHT LIMITS.
   (A)   No structure shall exceed a total height of 50 feet.
   (B)   No structure shall have more than four stories of living space.
   (C)   Antennas for personal use, chimneys and elevator towers are exempt
from height restrictions.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.230 SITE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Lot dimensions. All parcels shall have a minimum width of 50 feet.
   (B)   Lot area.
      (1)   The minimum building site shall be 15,000 square feet.
      (2)   The minimum building site for a duplex shall be 15,000 square feet.
      (3)   Exempt recombination plats for lots platted prior to June 14, 1983
shall have a minimum lot size of 7,500 square feet.
   (C)   Density. 
      (1)   Multi-family dwelling: 12 units per acre.
      (2)   Hotel and motel: 36 units per acre.
   (D)   Exceptions. Where a lot or parcel of land has an area of less than the
above required minimum area and was of record on June 14, 1983, such lot may be
occupied by one family, provided the minimum side, front and rear requirements
are complied with as set forth in §
153.231.
   (E)   Lot coverage.
      (1)   Maximum allowable lot coverage by principal use, all accessory
structures, vehicular circulation areas and parking - 65%. (For exceptions see
§
153.082.)
      (2)   Soils classified as wetlands shall be factored into lot coverage
calculation based on the following schedule:
         (a)   If the lot is composed of less than 25% of its total area in
wetland soils, then 75% of that area classified as wetlands may be used in
calculating lot coverage;
         (b)   If the lot has between 25% to 50% of its total area in wetland
soils, then 50% of that area classified as wetlands may be used in calculating
lot coverage;
         (c)   If the lot has between 50% to 75% of its total area in soils
classified as wetlands, then 25% of that area classified as wetlands may be
used in calculating lot coverage;
         (d)   If the lot has 75% or more of its total area classified as
wetlands, none of that area classified as wetlands may be used in calculating
lot coverage.
      (3)   Permeable pavement lot coverage calculations:
         (a)   The use of permeable paving systems, including porous concrete,
porous asphalt, concrete grid pavers, permeable interlocking concrete pavers,
and plastic reinforcing grids for parking spaces, drive aisles and vehicular
circulation areas, shall allow for a reduction in the calculated lot coverage.
Plastic reinforcing grids shall be limited to low-density applications with low
traffic speeds. Examples include, but are not limited to, parking stalls in
commercial parking lots, overflow parking areas, utility access, emergency
vehicle and fire access lanes, and loading areas. Material to fill the open
cells of the pavement system types shall consist of open graded fine aggregate,
open graded washed aggregate, sod turf grasses native to the southeast coastal
environment and exhibit medium to high permeability rates. All permeable paving
systems shall comply with the criteria of the North Carolina Division of Water
Quality Stormwater Best Management Practices Manual (current edition). The
following calculated reductions are allowed:
            1.   Porous concrete without washed stone base - 40% reduction.
            2.   Porous concrete with at least six inches of washed stone base
- 60% reduction.
            3.   Porous asphalt, concrete grid pavers, permeable interlocking
concrete pavers, and plastic reinforcing grids with at least four inches of
washed stone base - 40% reduction.
            4.   Porous asphalt concrete grid pavers, permeable interlocking
concrete pavers, and plastic reinforcing grids with at least seven inches of
washed stone base - 60% reduction.
            5.   The pavement section shall consist of the surface course or
layer for infiltration, a bedding course (as required), an aggregate storage
layer, and a woven geotextile fabric layer to prevent clogging.
            6.   Edge restraints shall be provided on all concrete grid pavers,
permeable interlocking concrete pavers, and plastic reinforcing grids to
confine the pavement installation. The pavement surface course structural
properties shall be designed to withstand the applied vehicular loading
pursuant to the specified application.
         (b)   In no case shall the total area that is occupied and obstructed
by any structure above the ground, including but not limited to parking and
drive aisles, exceed 75% of the area of the lot.
   (F)   Drainage/stormwater runoff.  All development is required to follow the
provisions of §
153.070.
   (G)   Land disturbance. 
      (1)   General. See §
153.071.
      (2)   LI-1 Fresh Pond Area of Environmental Control (AEC). Developers
shall preserve a maximum amount of vegetation around perimeter of site. Where
site configuration does not prohibit, developers shall dedicate 10% undisturbed
space along the western boundary of site. Regraded and revegetated areas
designed to perform as stormwater retention and management areas shall be
constructed in the vicinity of the eastern boundary of site.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 04-10,
passed 5-26-04; Am. Ord. 05-12, passed 8-8-05; Am. Ord. 13-14, passed 10-14-13;
Am. Ord. 17-29, passed 3-8-21 ; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21 )
§ 153.231 SETBACKS.
   (A)   Buildings erected in the Light Industrial One Zone for residential
purposes, including single-family dwellings, multi-family dwellings, hotels,
motels, and such other like buildings, shall abide by the setback requirements
of the High Density Residential (RH) Zone governing such buildings.
   (B)   Buildings erected for mixed use, namely for both dwellings and
business purposes, shall abide by the setback requirements of the RH Zone
governing such buildings.
   (C)   Buildings erected in the Light Industrial One Zone for business or
industrial purposes exclusively shall comply with the following setback
requirements:
      (1)   Side yard. The minimum side yard shall be ten feet. For any
structure over 35 feet in total building height, there shall be two feet of
side yard setback for each foot of building height over 35 feet in addition to
the minimum side yard setback.
      (2)   Front yard. The minimum size for a front yard shall be 30 feet.
      (3)   Rear yard. The minimum size for a rear yard shall be five feet.
      (4)   Double frontage. Where lots have double frontage, the required
front yard setbacks shall be required on both streets.
      (5)   Corner lot. The minimum setback requirements shall be 15 feet on
those sides that abut a street.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 07-06,
passed 4-25-07; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21; Am. Ord. 19-17, passed 4-26-23)
§ 153.232 SIGNS.
   See §
153.077.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 18-4,
passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.233 OFF-STREET PARKING, DRIVEWAYS, CURBS.
   See §
153.076.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 18-4,
passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.234 BUFFERS AND SCREENING.
   See §
153.073.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 18-4,
passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.235 NOISE LIMITS.
   For uses abutting residential uses, a sound pressure range of less than 60
decibels must be maintained utilizing an "A" weight scale and a slow response
for measurements. For purposes of this section, sounds generated at or on a
site by its employees, agents or operations are included.
(Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
GOVERNMENT AND INSTITUTIONAL ZONE (G&1); PUBLIC OWNERSHIP
§ 153.245 INTENT.
   (A)   In order to establish a zoning district to provide the proper location
and setting for governmental and institutional operation, structures and
equipment necessary for providing public services and the maintenance of public
health and well-being, the Board of Commissioners has established the zoning
district in this division as the Government and Institutional Zone; public
ownership.
   (B)   In the Government and Institutional Zone; public ownership, buildings
or lands shall be used for one or more of the following specified permitted
uses or special uses and none other.
(Ord. 99-08, passed 5-10-99; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 18-4,
passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.246 PERMITTED USES.
   In the Government and Institutional Zone, public ownership, the following
uses are permitted:
   (A)   Governmental offices and office buildings;
   (B)   Hospitals, rescue and emergency medical depots and stations;
   (C)   Fire stations, police stations;
   (D)   Schools, colleges, libraries, museums;
   (E)   Community centers, convention centers, publicly owned parks and
recreation centers;
   (F)   Storage garages and yards for publicly owned vehicles and equipment;
   (G)   Animal shelters;
   (H)   Public utility operations, including water plants, impoundment yards,
solid waste incinerators, communication towers, aircraft tie-down, storage and
maintenance facilities;
   (I)   Fueling depots for publicly owned vehicles and any other similar uses
that may be deemed necessary for the operation of government services by the
Board of Commissioners; and
   (J)   Places of worship.
(Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.247 SPECIAL USES.
   (A)   Overhead transmission systems in accordance with §§
153.280 -
153.288.
   (B)   Daycare centers provided the facilities meet the following conditions:
      (1)   All uses must be nonprofit as define by the U.S. Internal Revenue
Service.
      (2)   A traffic impact analysis may be required to determine and minimize
level of service impacts due to existing governmental and educational uses.
      (3)   Administrative office and classroom areas must clearly be a
secondary use.
   (C)   Cultural arts centers provided the facilities meet the following
conditions:
      (1)   All uses must be nonprofit as defined by the U.S. Internal Revenue
Service.
      (2)   A traffic impact analysis may be required to determine and minimize
level of service impacts due to existing governmental and educational uses.
      (3)   Shall be open to the public to provide cultural enrichment
activities.
      (4)   Administrative office and classroom areas must clearly be a
secondary use.
   (D)   Wind turbines.
      (1)   The site size for installation of a wind turbine shall be a minimum
of one acre and shall have a separation of a minimum of 100 feet from any other
wind turbine tower.
      (2)   Noise limits shall be consistent with §
153.185.
      (3)   The tower height shall not exceed 80 feet. The rotor size shall not
exceed 23 feet in diameter. The combined height of the tower and rotor shall
not exceed 92 feet above finished grade at the base of the tower.
      (4)   The tower shall be set back from all property lines a minimum
distance equal to the combined height of the tower and rotor. In addition, the
tower shall be set back from US 158 Bypass (Croatan Highway) and NC 12
(Virginia Dare Trail) a minimum distance of 250 feet.
      (5)   The turbine and tower shall be designed to withstand maximum wind
speeds as stipulated in the North Carolina Building Code.
      (6)   The tower shall be self-supporting tubular tower (monopole); self-
supporting lattice tower: or a guyed-lattice type tower with a minimum guy
radius of 50% of tower height and a maximum guy radius of 90% of tower height.
No portion of the tower or guyed wires will interfere with fire lanes.
      (7)   A North Carolina licensed professional engineer must seal all
structural plans.
      (8)   The base of the tower shall be secured in such a way to prevent
unauthorized climbing.
      (9)   The power processor shall not exceed a rated power of ten
kilowatts, and shall have an output of 240VAC, 60 hz, 1Ph. The processor shall
be UL certified 1741, and in compliance with IEEE 929 & 519.
      (10)   No lighting (unless required by FAA Regulations) or signage of any
kind shall be permitted on the tower or wind turbine.
      (11)   The tower and turbine shall be neutral in color and not create a
visual distraction from the ground level.
      (12)   At such time the turbine is no longer functioning the tower shall
be removed within 120 days. The tower, turbine and guy wires will meet all
applicable FAA Regulations.
      (13)   No type of communications antennae or array, or antennae of any
kind shall be allowed to be installed or connected to the wind turbine
structure.
   (E)   Meteorological towers.
      (1)   The site size for installation of a meteorological tower shall be a
minimum of one acre and have a minimum separation from any other tower on the
site of 100 feet.
      (2)   The tower height shall not exceed 100 feet.
      (3)   The tower shall be set back from all property lines a minimum
distance equal to the height of the tower. In addition, the tower shall be set
back from US 158 Bypass (Croatan Hwy) and NC12 (Virginia Dare Trail) a minimum
distance of 250 feet.
      (4)   The tower shall be designed to withstand maximum wind speeds as
stipulated in the North Carolina Building Code.
      (5)   The tower shall be self-supporting or guyed tubular (monopole), or
self-supporting or guyed lattice tower. Tower guy radius shall be a minimum of
50% of tower height and a maximum of 100% of tower height. No portion of the
tower or guy wires shall interfere with fire lanes.
      (6)   All foundation and/or structural plans shall be sealed by a North
Carolina licensed professional engineer.
      (7)   The base of the tower shall be secured to prevent unauthorized
climbing.
      (8)   The tower and all appurtenances shall meet applicable FAA
regulations.
      (9)   No lighting (unless required by FAA Regulations) or signage of any
kind shall be permitted on the tower.
      (10)   The tower shall be neutral in color and not create a visual
distraction from ground level.
      (11)   At such time as the tower is no longer providing for active data
collection, it shall be removed within 120 days.
      (12)   No type of communications antennae or array (other than that
required to transmit data over line-of-sight) shall be allowed to be installed
or connected to the tower.
(Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 06-20, passed 8-14-06; Am. Ord. 09-
02, passed 1-28-09; Am. Ord. 11-22, passed 10-10-11; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-
14-21)
§ 153.248 NONCONFORMITIES.
   See §§
153.050 et seq.
(Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.249 BUILDING HEIGHT LIMITS.
   The general height limitation in the Government and Institutional Zone;
public ownership, shall be 35 feet. However, a structure exceeding 35 and in no
event greater than 60 feet may be permitted as a special use, after review of
the site plan, elevation plans and appropriate setbacks by the Planning Board
and final approval by the Board of Commissioners.
(Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.250 SITE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Lot dimensions. None.
   (B)   Lot area. None.
   (C)   Density. None.
   (D)   Exceptions. None.
   (E)   Lot coverage.
      (1)   Maximum allowable lot coverage by principal use, all accessory
structures, vehicular circulation areas and parking - 65%. (For exceptions, see
§
153.082.)
      (2)   Soils classified as wetlands shall be factored into lot coverage
calculation based on the following schedule:
         (a)   If the lot is composed of less than 25% of its total area in
wetland soils, then 75% of that area classified as wetlands may be used in
calculating lot coverage;
         (b)   If the lot has between 25% to 50% of its total area in wetland
soils, then 50% of that area classified as wetlands may be used in calculating
lot coverage;
         (c)   If the lot has between 50% to 75% of its total area in soils
classified as wetlands, then 25% of that area classified as wetlands may be
used in calculating lot coverage;
         (d)   If the lot has 75% or more of its total area classified as
wetlands, none of that area classified as wetlands may be used in calculating
lot coverage.
   (F)   Drainage/stormwater runoff. All development is required to follow the
provisions of §
153.070.
   (G)   Land disturbance. See §
153.071.
(Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.251 SETBACKS.
   (A)   Side yard. The minimum side yard shall be ten feet. For any structure
over 35 feet in total building height, there shall be two feet of side yard
setback for each foot of building height over 35 feet in addition to the
minimum side yard setback.
   (B)   Front yard. The minimum size for a front yard shall be 30 feet.
   (C)   Rear yard. The minimum size for a rear yard shall be 30 feet.
   (D)   Double frontage. Where lots have double frontage, the required front
yard setback shall be provided on both front and rear of a double frontage lot.
   (E)   Corner lot. The minimum side street setback shall be 15 feet.
(Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 07-04, passed 3-28-07; Am. Ord. 07-
06, passed 4-25-07; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.252 SIGNS.
   See §
153.077.
(Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.253 OFF-STREET PARKING, DRIVEWAYS, CURBS.
   See §
153.076.
(Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.254 BUFFERS AND SCREENING.
   See §
153.073.
(Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
GOVERNMENT AND INSTITUTIONAL ZONE (G&1); PRIVATE OWNERSHIP
§ 153.265 INTENT.
   (A)   This zoning district is established to provide proper location for
privately owned wastewater treatment facilities and multi-family planned unit
developments.
   (B)   In the Government and Institutional Zone; private ownership, buildings
or lands shall be used for one or more of the following specified permitted
uses or special uses and none other.
(Ord. 99-08, passed 5-10-99; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 01-13,
passed 11-14-01; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.266 PERMITTED USES.
   In the Government and Institutional Zone (G&I); private ownership, the
following uses are permitted:
   (A)   Single-family dwellings;
   (B)   Duplex structures;
   (C)   Office buildings;
   (D)   Hospitals;
   (E)   Medical depots and stations;
   (F)   Colleges;
   (G)   Libraries;
   (H)   Museums;
   (I)   Convention centers;
   (J)   Town-owned and leased facilities.
(Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 01-13, passed 11-14-01; Am. Ord. 18-
4, passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.267 SPECIAL USES.
   (A)   Privately-owned wastewater treatment facilities. Privately-owned
wastewater treatment facilities may be permitted in the Government and
Institutional Zone following a review by the Planning Board and approved as a
special use by the Board of Commissioners, provided such facilities meet the
following conditions:
      (1)   The owner of any proposed privately-owned wastewater treatment
facility shall submit to the Public Services Department a master plan of all
proposed transmission lines and customers to be served by the facility; such
plan shall indicate the location and relationship of these transmission lines
to the town's streets and rights-of-way, and this plan shall be prepared by,
and bear the seal of, a North Carolina registered engineer.
      (2)   The owner or operator of any privately-owned wastewater treatment
facility shall submit all operational and management reports required by the
Division of Environmental Management to the Town Manager in the same manner
such reports are submitted to the North Carolina Department of Environment and
Natural Resources, Division of Environmental Management.
      (3)   The owner of any proposed privately-owned wastewater treatment
facility shall cause to be prepared and submit to the Town Manager emergency
operation plans detailing procedures that will ensure health and safety in the
event of a prolonged power failure or other occurrence that may have a negative
impact on the operational status of the facility.
      (4)   All transmission lines associated with any proposed privately-owned
wastewater treatment facility shall conform with the town's specifications for
wastewater facilities and their associated line and fixtures.
   (5)   The owner of any proposed privately-owned wastewater treatment
facility shall execute an easement agreement approved by the Town Attorney that
indicates all private sector parties associated with the proposed facility
jointly and severally assume obligation for the maintenance of the proposed
facility and all transmission lines associated with its operation.
   (B)   Planned unit developments. Planned unit developments located within
this zoning district shall meet the following conditions:
      (1)   Assisted living. A minimum number of units shall be dedicated as
assisted living, as defined by §
153.002, as follows:
         (a)   Density of ten units per acre shall have 20% of the total number
of units designed and used as assisted living facilities;
         (b)   Density of 12 units per acre shall have 25% of the total number
of units designed and used as assisted living facilities;
         (c)   Density of 14 units per acre shall have 30% of the total number
of units designed and used as assisted living facilities.
      (2)   Ocean/sound access. All PUD shall make provisions for ocean or
sound access by residents and guests. Provisions shall be made at a rate of one
parking space per five units with a minimum of five spaces. Other provisions
such as shuttle services or shared parking may be approved on a case-by-case
basis if deemed appropriate by the Board of Commissioners.
   (C)   Overhead transmission systems in accordance with §§
153.280 -
153.288.
(Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 01-13, passed 11-14-01; Am. Ord. 06-
20, passed 8-14-06; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.268 NONCONFORMITIES.
   See §§
153.050 et seq.
(Am. Ord 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 01-13, passed 11-14-01; Am. Ord. 18-4,
passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.269 BUILDING HEIGHT LIMITS.
   The general height limitation in the Government and Institutional Zone;
public ownership shall be 35 feet. However, a structure exceeding 35 and in no
event greater than 50 feet may be permitted as a conditional use, after review
of the site plan, elevation plans and appropriate setbacks by the Planning
Board and final approval by the Board of Commissioners.
(Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 01-13, passed 11-14-01; Am. Ord. 18-
4, passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.270 SITE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Lot dimensions. All parcels shall have a minimum width of 75 feet.
   (B)   Lot area.
      (1)   The minimum building site shall be 15,000 square feet.
      (2)   The minimum building site for a duplex shall be 20,000 square feet.
   (C)   Reserved.
   (D)   Lot coverage.
      (1)   Maximum allowable lot coverage by principal use, all accessory
structures, vehicular area and parking - 50%.
      (2)   Formula for lot coverage calculation when wetland soils are a
portion of any lot. Soils classified as wetlands shall be factored into lot
coverage calculations based on the following schedule:
         (a)   If the lot is composed of less than 25% of its total area in
wetland soils, then 75% of that area classified as wetlands may be used in
calculating lot coverage;
         (b)   If the lot has between 25% to 50% of its total area in soils
classified as wetlands, then 50% of that area classified as wetlands may be
used in calculating lot coverage;
         (c)   If the lot has between 50% and 75% of its total area in soils
classified as wetlands, then 25% of that area classified as wetlands may be
used in calculating lot coverage;
         (d)   If the lot has 75% or more of its total area classified as
wetlands, none of that area classified as wetlands can be used in calculating
lot coverage.
      (3)   Lot coverage within an estuarine area of environmental concern
(AEC), as defined by the Coastal Area Management Act (CAMA), shall be limited
to 20% and a minimum setback from the estuarine waters shall be 50 feet.
(Exceptions: boardwalks, gazebos and other pedestrian access structures shall
be permitted within the 50-foot setback but must be in accordance with CAMA
regulations.)
   (E)   Drainage and stormwater runoff. All sites are required to follow the
provisions of §
153.070.
   (F)   Land disturbance. See §
153.071.
(Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 01-13, passed 11-14-01; Am. Ord. 04-
10, passed 5-26-04; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.271 SETBACKS.
   (A)   Side yard. The minimum size for a side yard shall be ten feet. For any
structure over 35 feet in total building height, there shall be two feet of
side yard setback for each foot of building height over 35 feet in addition to
the minimum side yard setback.
      (1)   Single-family and duplex dwellings greater than 6,000 square feet
of total gross floor area shall have an additional two feet of side yard
setback.
      (2)   Single-family and duplex dwellings greater than 6,000 square feet
of total gross floor area equipped with a fire suppression system reviewed,
approved, and inspected annually by the Fire Chief or his or her designee,
shall be exempt from division (A)(1) above.
   (B)   Front yard. The minimum front yard setback shall be 30 feet from the
property line. For flag lots, the front yard setback shall be measured from the
point where the lot width meets the minimum width requirements.
   (C)   Rear yard. The minimum rear yard setback requirements on any lot shall
be 20% of the total depth of the lot but shall not exceed 30 feet from the rear
property line.
   (D)   Double frontage. The required front yard setback for all lots shall be
provided on both front and rear of a double frontage lot.
   (E)   Corner lot. The minimum side yard setback requirements on a corner lot
shall be 15 feet.
(Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 01-13, passed 11-14-01; Am. Ord. 03-
10, passed 6-25-03; Am. Ord. 06-17, passed 8-14-06; Am. Ord. 07-06, passed 4-
25-07; Am. Ord. 17-19, passed 5-27-20 ; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21 )
§ 153.272 SIGNS.
   See §
153.077.
(Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 01-13, passed 11-14-01; Am. Ord. 18-
4, passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.273 OFF-STREET PARKING, DRIVEWAY, CURBS.
   See §
153.076.
(Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 01-13, passed 11-14-01; Am. Ord. 18-
4, passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.274 BUFFERS AND SCREENING.
   Screening and buffers shall be in accordance with §
153.073.
(Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 01-13, passed 11-14-01; Am. Ord. 18-
4, passed 6-14-21)
OVERHEAD TRANSMISSION SYSTEM
§ 153.280 INTENT.
   The Town of Kill Devil Hills is blessed with natural features and a rich
history that is treasured by residents and visitors alike. The town's
boundaries largely follow two of these natural features: the Atlantic Ocean on
the east, and Albemarle Sound on the west. Positioned on the flat, narrow
thread of land between these two waterways, the town confronts peculiar
challenges with respect to the use of land. One such challenge is balancing the
need to transmit electricity along the entire length of the town against the
recreational, historical and esthetic values of this barrier island community.
The Kill Devil Hills Board of Commissioners find that establishing a single
corridor for all above-ground electrical transmission lines within the town
accommodates these competing factors. In addition to the foregoing, the Kill
Devil Hills Board of Commissioners declares the purposes and intent of this
subchapter to be as follows:
   (A)   To preserve and enhance scenic views of the Ocean, the Sound, the
Wright Brothers' National Park and other natural and historical venues;
   (B)   To prevent the proliferation of unsightly overhead transmission lines,
towers and related structures;
   (C)   To encourage the co-location of overhead transmission lines;
   (D)   To protect the environment;
   (E)   To safeguard and enhance property values and to protect public and
private investments;
   (F)   To preserve and protect the unique identity of the town and the
economic base attracted to the town by such factors: and
   (G)   To ensure that utility providers desiring to transmit electrical power
through the use of above-ground transmission lines, towers and related
improvements have a clearly-defined procedure for locating and relocating such
improvements.
(Ord. 06-20, passed 8-14-06; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.281 APPLICATION.
   The requirements of this subchapter shall apply to all land public and
private located within the boundaries of the town. This subchapter does not
apply to underground electric transmission lines.
(Ord. 06-20, passed 8-14-06; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.282 APPROVAL AS A SPECIAL USE REQUIRED.
   Above-ground electric transmission lines, connected to a common system of
linear towers and other appurtenant structures (collectively, an overhead
transmission system) may not be constructed, erected, moved, substantially
altered or otherwise used except in accordance with this subchapter.
(Ord. 06-20, passed 8-14-06; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.283 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The applicant shall apply for a special use permit as outlined in §
153.362.
   (B)   Construction of an overhead transmission system requires approval of a
single application of a transmission system (TS) special use permit
application, which shall be reviewed by the Board of Commissioners through a
quasi-judicial process.
   (C)   Construction of an overhead transmission system also shall require the
approval of an application for a TS special use permit. The application for the
TS conditional use permit shall specify the nature of the proposed overhead
transmission system and shall propose:
      (1)   Conditions to ensure compatibility between the overhead
transmission system and the surrounding area, and
      (2)   Satisfy the requirements of §
153.287.
(Ord. 06-20, passed 8-14-06; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.284 NO USE OF OVERHEAD TRANSMISSION SYSTEM UNTIL REQUIREMENTS FULFILLED.
   Issuance of a TS special use permit authorizes the applicant to commence the
activity resulting in a change in use of land and commence work on the
construction, erection, moving, or substantially altering an overhead
transmission system. No overhead transmission system shall be constructed or
used until all of the requirements of this subchapter and all additional
requirements imposed pursuant to the issuance of a TS special use permit have
been complied with.
(Ord. 06-20, passed 8-14-06; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.285 APPLICATIONS TO BE COMPLETE.
   (A)   All applications for TS special use permit must be complete before the
Board of Commissioners is required to consider the application.
   (B)   Subject to division (C) below, an application is complete when it
contains all the information necessary for the Board of Commissioners to decide
whether or not the overhead transmission system, if completed as proposed, will
comply with all of the requirements of this subchapter.
   (C)   It is not necessary that detailed or technical design drawings be
provided to determine compliance, so long as information contained in the plans
and other written materials will allow the Board of Commissioners to evaluate
the application for compliance with the requirements set forth in this
subchapter.
(Ord. 06-20, passed 8-14-06; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.286 TS SPECIAL USE PERMITS.
   (A)   An application for a TS special use permit shall be submitted to the
Board of Commissioners by filing a copy of the application in accordance with §
153.362.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners shall not approve a TS special use permit
unless it first conducts a public hearing in the manner provided in §
153.362 and shall only authorize issuance of the permit if it concludes, based
upon the information submitted at the hearing, that if completed as proposed,
the overhead transmission system:
      (1)   Will not materially endanger the public health, safety, or welfare;
      (2)   Will not injure the value of property in the vicinity of the
proposed overhead transmission system;
      (3)   Will be in harmony with the area in which it is to be located;
      (4)   Will be in general conformity with the comprehensive plan; and
      (5)   Will not result in the existence of more than one overhead
transmission system through the town for a period of greater than one year.
(Ord. 06-20, passed 8-14-06; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.287 RECOMMENDATIONS ON TS SPECIAL USE PERMITS.
   (A)   Before the Board of Commissioners issues or denies a request for a TS
special use permit, the application shall be referred to the Planning Board for
action in accordance with §§
153.357 and
153.358. At the request of the Planning Board, the Board of Commissioners may
continue the public hearing to allow the Planning Board more time to consider
or reconsider the application.
   (B)   When presented to the Planning Board, the application shall be
accompanied by a report setting the planning staff's proposed findings
concerning the applications' compliance with all the requirements of this
subchapter. If the planning staff report proposes a finding or conclusion that
the application fails to comply with any requirement of this subchapter, it
shall identify the requirement in question and specifically state supporting
reasons for the proposed findings or conclusions.
(Ord. 06-20, passed 8-14-06; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.288 BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS ACTION ON TS SPECIAL USE PERMITS.
   After observing the applicable procedures for consideration of application
for a TS special use permit, the Board of Commissioners may, by a simple
majority, act on a motion in accordance with §
153.362(E) and (F).
(Ord. 06-20, passed 8-14-06; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
SPECIAL REGULATIONS
§ 153.310 COTTAGE COURT(S).
   Cottage court(s). In addition to the below specific standards, cottage court
(s) shall also abide by regulations associated with the zoning district where
the development is located.
   (A)   Lot dimensions. All parcels shall have a minimum width of 75 feet in
the Ocean Impact Residential and Commercial Zone.
   (B)   Lot area. The minimum building site shall be 20,000 square feet.
   (C)   Size and arrangement. Each detached single-family dwelling unit shall
be designed and arranged for occupancy by one family operating as a
housekeeping unit and shall contain at least 500 square feet, but no more than
2,500 square feet of gross floor area. One structure may be up to 5,000 square
feet if it includes two or more separate but complementary accessory or
principal uses, e.g. a dwelling unit and an on-site management office. Each
detached single-family dwelling unit shall be an independent dwelling unit.
   (D)   Building separation. Within a cottage court, detached single-family
dwelling units shall be separated from one another by a minimum of ten feet.
   (E)   Driveway access. Each detached single-family dwelling unit shall have
access to a shared driveway. The shared driveway must be designed to a minimum
width of 20 feet to allow fire- fighting apparatus to locate within 150 feet of
all sides of all structures on the property. The shared driveway may be reduced
to a minimum width of 12 feet where it is closer than 150 feet to all sides of
all structures on the property. A shared driveway width less than 20 feet may
be reviewed and approved by the Fire Marshal in conjunction with an approved
alternative life safety plan or an approved fire suppression system. The shared
driveway material shall support the weight of fire apparatus as determined by
the Fire Marshal.
(Ord. 16-19, passed 6-27-18; Am. Ord. 17-21, passed 5-27-20; Am. Ord. 18-4,
passed 6-14-21; Am. Ord. 19-5, passed 1-10-22)
§ 153.311 CLUSTER HOMES.
   Cluster homes. In addition to the below specific standards, shall also abide
by the regulations associated with the zoning district where the development is
located.
   (A)   Lot dimensions. All parcels shall have a minimum width of 75 feet in
the Ocean Impact Residential and Commercial Zone. All parcels shall have a
minimum width of 100 feet in the Low Density Residential Zone.
   (B)   Lot area. The minimum building site shall be 20,000 square feet in the
Ocean Impact Residential and Commercial Zone. The minimum building site shall
be a minimum of one acre in the Low Density Residential Zone.
   (C)   Size and arrangement. In the Ocean Impact Residential and Commercial
Zone, each detached single-family dwelling unit shall be designed and arranged
for occupancy by one family operating as a housekeeping unit and shall contain
at least 500 square feet, but no more than 2,500 square feet of gross floor
area. One structure may be up to 5,000 square feet if it is combined with on-
site management or another complementary accessory or principal use. Each
detached single-family dwelling unit shall be an independent dwelling unit. In
the Low Density Residential Zone, each detached single-family dwelling unit
shall be designed and arranged for long-term occupancy and shall contain at
least 500 square feet but no more than 1,500 square feet of gross floor area.
Each detached single-family dwelling unit shall be an independent dwelling
unit.
   (D)   Building separation. Within a cluster home development, detached
single-family dwelling units shall be separated from one another by a minimum
of ten feet.
   (E)   Driveway access. Each detached single-family dwelling unit shall have
access to a shared driveway. The shared driveway must be designed to a minimum
width of 20 feet to allow fire- fighting apparatus to locate within 150 feet of
all sides of all structures on the property. The shared driveway may be reduced
to a minimum width of 12 feet where it is closer than 150 feet to all sides of
all structures on the property. A shared driveway of less than 20 feet may be
reviewed and approved by the Fire Marshal in conjunction with an approved
alternative life safety plan or an approved fire suppression system. The shared
driveway material shall support the weight of fire apparatus as determined by
the Fire Marshal.
(Ord. 16-23, passed 1-14-19; Am. Ord. 17-21, passed 5-27-20; Am. Ord. 18-4,
passed 6-14-21; Am. Ord. 19-5, passed 1-10-22; Am. Ord. 19-12, passed 7-11-22)
§ 153.312 BED AND BREAKFASTS.
   (A)   All bed and breakfasts shall be subject to the following requirements:
      (1)   The rental of a dwelling room in the bed and breakfast shall be on
a daily or weekly basis to tourists, vacationers or similar transients;
      (2)   The rental period for such tourists, transients or vacationers
shall not exceed seven consecutive days;
      (3)   If meals are provided, such meals shall be limited to breakfast
only and such meals shall not be provided except to registered guests of the
bed and breakfast;
      (4)   There shall be no in-room kitchen facilities or other kitchen-type
appliances in the rented dwelling room;
      (5)   The total rented dwelling rooms in the bed and breakfast shall not
exceed three rooms and the total occupancy, including the owner and/or
employee, shall not exceed eight persons;
      (6)   The bed and breakfast operation shall be conducted by persons who
own and reside within the dwelling unit with the assistance of not more than
the equivalent of one full-time employee. The employee or resident who operates
the bed and breakfast shall be on-site at all times when there are guests upon
the premises;
      (7)   Prior to the issuance of such permit, all adjoining property owners
shall be notified of the property owner’s intent to use the dwelling as a bed
and breakfast and such adjoining property owners shall be given the opportunity
to be heard at the Planning Board meeting where the property owner’s request to
use the dwelling as a bed and breakfast is reviewed;
      (8)   No dwelling may be used as a bed and breakfast without the issuance
of a permit from the Dare County Health Department and in no event shall a bed
and breakfast be operated on a lot which is smaller than 7,500 square feet;
      (9)   Parking shall be provided at the rate of one parking place for each
dwelling room rented, plus one additional space;
      (10)   No signs shall be allowed upon the premises;
      (11)   The principal use of such dwelling is residential and any
substantial modifications to the exterior appearance of the dwelling shall be
subject to architectural review by the Planning Board in order to determine and
to ensure that the exterior architecture of the dwelling shall remain in
harmony with the architecture of the surrounding property. No expansion of
existing dwellings to accommodate bed and breakfasts is permitted;
      (12)   The use of the dwelling as a bed and breakfast shall comply with
all applicable health, sanitation and fire regulations;
      (13)   Prior to the use of a dwelling as a bed and breakfast, the owner
shall obtain a permit from the town to operate the dwelling as a bed and
breakfast. The Planning Board shall review the application and site plan and
make a recommendation to the Board of Commissioners concerning its approval;
      (14)   The town shall issue a permit if all of the requirements of this
chapter and other applicable provisions of the town code have been met. The
permit shall remain in effect for a period of one year and may be revoked if a
violation of this chapter is found or if the bed and breakfast is operated in
such a manner as to constitute a public nuisance. The town’s Building Inspector
shall renew the permit each year upon request, unless it is determined that the
use of the dwelling is not in compliance with this chapter;
   (B)   Home occupations, as defined herein;
   (C)   Town-owned and leased facilities; and
   (D)   Rooming houses, boarding houses.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 05-12,
passed 8-8-05; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.313 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Intent. A planned unit development (herein after “PUD”) is defined in
§
153.002 of this chapter. It is the intent of the town to encourage the
development of larger parcels of land with greater density and greater degree
of consideration of physical features and natural constraints, by enhancing
community benefits while fostering the most economically productive land use in
the process. It is further the intent of the PUD to promote greater flexibility
of design so as to provide a higher level of amenities and more creative design
than would be possible by development of the land with traditional district
regulations and design standards.
   (B)   Uses.
      (1)   Multi-family developments.
         (a)   Multi-family development may be authorized as allowed in this
chapter following review by the Planning Board and approval as a special use by
the Board of Commissioners.
         (b)   Multi-family development dwellings of five or more units per
building may include the following accessory uses designed for residents and
guests of the PUD:
            1.   Retail shops, restaurants, clinics, nursing care and daycare
facilities. These accessory uses will offer goods and services designed
exclusively to meet requirements of occupants and guests for which such
establishment is located. There shall be no signs or evidence of such
establishment outside the limits of the development. The aggregate maximum
square footage of the accessory commercial use structures listed above shall be
limited to 5% of the total site area. Occupancy of the commercial use
structures shall be in conjunction with completion of the first 50 units or as
otherwise approved by the Board of Commissioners.
            2.   On-site accessory uses or buildings to multi-family
development dwellings;
            3.   Playgrounds;
            4.   Club houses with assembly areas;
            5.   Swimming pools and tennis courts;
            6.   Town-owned and leased facilities.
   (C)   Special uses. None.
   (D)   Nonconformities. See §§
153.050 et seq.
   (E)   Building height limits - PUD developments.
      (1)   One-third of the structures may have four levels of living space
with an aggregate living space height not to exceed 43 feet measured to the top
plate, and a total building height not to exceed 55 feet, to accommodate
various architectural roof designs, with no additional living space. In
addition, no more than 50% of the number of units may be located in these four-
story buildings.
      (2)   The remaining structures shall have no more than three levels of
living space, with an aggregate living space not to exceed 35 feet, and a total
building height not to exceed 50 feet, to accommodate various architectural
roof designs, with no additional living space.
   (F)   Site requirements.
      (1)   Lot dimensions. All parcels shall have a minimum width of 75 feet.
      (2)   Lot area. The minimum building site for a PUD shall be five acres.
      (3)   Density.
         (a)   Generally. Ten units per acre.
         (b)   Density bonus.
            1.   Twelve units per acre may be permitted provided 30% of the
total site is maintained as open space. The following conditions shall apply to
the required 30% open space:
               a.   Ten percent upland natural vegetation shall be maintained
(natural vegetation is encouraged between uses);
               b.   Minimum of 15% common public spaces including walking and
jogging trails and other passive recreational activities;
               c.   The remaining 5% can include wetlands calculated into total
site area.
            2.   Fourteen units per acre may be permitted provided 40% of the
total site is maintained as open space. The following conditions shall apply to
the required 40% open space:
               a.   Fifteen percent upland natural vegetation shall be
maintained (encouraged between uses);
               b.   Minimum of 20% common public spaces including walking and
jogging trails and other passive recreational activities;
               c.   The remaining 5% can include wetlands calculated into total
site area.
         (c)   Calculation. Formula for density calculation when wetland soils
are a portion of any lot. Soils classified as wetlands shall be factored into
density calculation based on the following schedule:
            1.   If the lot is composed of less than 25% of its total area in
wetland soils, then 75% of that area classified as wetlands may be used in
calculating density.
            2.   If the lot has between 25% to 50% of its total area in soils
classified as wetlands, then 50% of that area classified as wetlands may be
used in calculating density.
            3.   If the lot has between 50% and 75% of its total area in soils
classified as wetlands, then 25% of that area classified as wetlands may be
used in calculating density.
            4.   If the lot has 75% or more of its total area classified as
wetlands, none of that area classified as wetlands can be used in calculating
density.
      (4)   Building separation. Single-family detached structures in a PUD
shall have a minimum separation of ten feet, provided the structures are
protected by an approved fire suppression sprinkler system. All other
structures in a PUD shall have a minimum separation of 24 feet. Patios
constructed of noncombustible material and privacy fences shall be exempt from
the building separation requirements. Every part of a required 24-foot
separation shall be open and unobstructed from its lowest level to the sky.
      (5)   Lot coverage.  
         (a)   Maximum allowable lot coverage by principal use, all accessory
structures, vehicular area and parking–50%.
         (b)   Formula for lot coverage calculation when wetland soils are a
portion of any lot. Soils classified as wetlands shall be factored into lot
coverage calculations based on the following schedule:
            1.   If the lot is composed of less than 25% of its total area in
wetland soils, then 75% of that area classified as wetlands may be used in
calculating lot coverage.
            2.   If the lot has between 25% to 50% of its total area in soils
classified as wetlands, then 50% of that area classified as wetlands may be
used in calculating lot coverage.
            3.   If the lot has between 50% and 75% of its total area in soils
classified as wetlands, then 25% of that area classified as wetlands may be
used in calculating lot coverage.
            4.   If the lot has 75% or more of its total area classified as
wetlands, none of that area classified as wetlands can be used in calculating
lot coverage.
         (c)   Lot coverage within an estuarine area of environmental concern
(AEC), as defined by the Coastal Area Management Act (CAMA), shall be limited
to 20% and a minimum setback from the estuarine waters shall be 50 feet.
(Exceptions: boardwalks, gazebos, and other pedestrian access structures shall
be permitted within the 50-foot setback but must be in accordance with CAMA
regulations.)
      (6)   Drainage/stormwater runoff. All sites are required to follow the
provisions of §
153.070, Stormwater Management.
      (7)   Land disturbance. See §
153.071, Soil Erosion and Sedimentation Control.
   (G)   Setbacks.
      (1)   Side yard.
         (a)   The minimum side yard shall be ten feet. For any structure over
35 feet in total building height, there shall be two feet of side yard setback
for each foot of building height over 35 feet in addition to the minimum side
yard setback.
      (2)   Front yard. The minimum front yard setback shall be 30 feet from
the property line.
      (3)   Rear yard.
         (a)   The minimum rear yard setback requirements on any lot shall be
20% of the total depth of the lot, but shall not exceed 30 feet from the rear
property line.
         (b)   Detached garages and accessory buildings may be built in rear
yards; however, any such building shall be erected so as to provide a distance
of not less than eight feet from the main building to the garage or accessory
building and be not less than five feet from any lot line.
      (4)   Double frontage. The required front yard setback for all lots shall
be provided on both front and rear of a double frontage lot.
      (5)   Corner lot. The minimum side yard setback requirements on a corner
lot shall be 15 feet.
      (6)   Setback for PUD development abutting residential uses, zones or
rights-of-way.  
         (a)   The minimum required setback for a PUD which abuts any
residential use, zone or right-of-way shall be 30 feet or required side yard
setback whichever is greater.
         (b)   The following exception will be allowed: Accessory uses for
single- family detached dwellings shall maintain a minimum setback of 15 feet
from a residential use, zone or right-of-way. Accessory uses shall provide a
privacy fence no less than six feet in height in addition to buffering
requirements.
   (H)   Signs.
      (1)   Generally allowed. The following signs shall be allowed in a PUD:
         (a)   Project master sign. One master project sign shall be allowed in
a PUD in accordance with the following provisions:
            1.   Sign overall dimensions including architectural features shall
not exceed 99 square feet with overall dimensional rectangle not to exceed nine
feet in height by 11 feet in width.
            2.   Sign shall include architectural features consistent with the
general "theme" architecture of the project. Architectural features shall be
included in overall dimensions.
            3.   Sign shall be located at or near the PUD entrance at a
location which will not interfere with site distance triangles.
            4.   Actual lettering surface of the sign shall not exceed 40
square feet per side and shall be contained within a geometric rectangle not to
exceed eight feet in width by five feet in height.
         (b)   Project village signage. Each named village or section within a
PUD shall have one sign with the following provisions:
            1.   Sign overall dimensions including architectural features shall
not exceed 45 square feet with overall dimensional rectangle not to exceed nine
feet in height by five feet in width.
            2.   Sign shall include architectural feature consistent with the
project master sign and consistent with the general theme architecture of the
individual villages or sections. Architectural features shall be included in
overall dimensions.
            3.   Signs shall be located at or near the PUD village or section
entrances at a location which will not interfere with the site distance
triangles.
            4.   Actual lettering surface of the sign shall not exceed 24
square feet per side and shall be contained within a geometric rectangle not to
exceed six feet in width by four feet in height.
      (2)   Special provisions for signs located within the public right-of-
way. One project master sign may be located within the right-of-way of Ocean
Bay Boulevard in accordance with the following provisions:
         (a)   Signs located within a town right-of-way shall be placed within
the divided roadway, curbed landscape island or grass median.
         (b)   Signs must be owned and maintained by the PUD homeowners
association.
         (c)   The town reserves the right to remove the signage at the owner's
expense if the sign or surrounding landscaped area becomes a public nuisance or
creates an unsafe condition.
         (d)   Signs within a town right-of-way must be located within 100 feet
of the property line of the PUD with prior approval by town staff.
      (3)   Lighting provisions for project master and project village signage
within a PUD. Signage within a PUD may be illuminated in accordance with the
following provisions:
         (a)   A project master sign shall be illuminated with no more than
three low-wattage (75 watt or less) external spotlights, directed towards the
sign face, on each side of the sign.
         (b)   A project village sign shall be illuminated with no more than
two low-wattage (75 or less) external spotlights, directed towards the sign
face, on each side of the sign.
         (c)   Lighting shall be shielded so as to prevent a direct view of the
light from a residence or street.
      (4)   Unsafe signs. Should any sign become insecure or in danger of
falling or otherwise be unsafe in the opinion of the Building Inspector, then
the owner thereof, or the person maintaining the same, shall, upon written
notice from the Building Inspector, forthwith in the case of immediate danger
or in any case within ten days, secure the same in a manner to be approved by
the Building Inspector in conformity with the provisions of this section or
remove the sign. If such order is not complied with within ten days, the
Building Inspector shall remove such sign at the expense of the owner.
   (I)   Off-street parking, driveway and curbs. See §
153.076, Off-Street Parking and Loading.
   (J)   Buffers and screening. All PUDs developed under this subchapter shall
provide and maintain along the side and rear lot lines a continuous visual
buffer. The buffer shall be compact evergreen hedge or other type of evergreen
foliage screen, or shall be a combination fence and shrubbery screen. The
preservation of existing vegetation is encouraged and may be utilized to meet
this provision. The visual buffer shall be subject to periodic inspection by
the Building Inspector. The minimum height shall be no less than six feet with
a minimum width of 15 feet. Buffers shall not be aligned so as to block vision
at or along the right-of-way. All other screening and buffer requirements shall
be in accordance with §
153.073, Landscaping Requirements.
   (K)   Studies of impacts. Site plans submitted for this subchapter shall
include, for information to the town, comprehensive studies based on project
completion of projected impacts to the environment, traffic and governmental
services.
   (L)   Architectural design.
      (1)   Chimneys and elevator towers are exempt from height restrictions.
      (2)   Architectural appearance shall be consistent with §
153.186, Commercial Building Exteriors.
(Ord. 01-11, passed 11-14-01; Am. Ord. 04-10, passed 5-26-04; Am. Ord. 04-14,
passed 9-13-04; Am. Ord. 04-23, passed 12-13-04; Am. Ord. 06-03, passed 2-22-
06; Am. Ord. 06-10, passed 5-24-06; Am. Ord. 06-11, passed 5-24-06; Am. Ord.
07-06, passed 4-25-07; Am. Ord. 07-13, passed 8-13-07; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-
14-21)
§ 153.314 INTERNET AND/OR ELECTRONIC GAMING ACCESSORY BUSINESS USE.
   Internet and/or electronic gaming machines or devices may be permitted as an
accessory business use in the specified zoning districts of the town according
to the following conditions:
   (A)   Internet and/or electronic gaming machines shall be located within the
same building as the principal business use. The area in which internet and/or
electronic gaming machines are located shall be accessed through the same means
of ingress-egress as the principal use business.
   (B)   The maximum number of internet and/or electronic gaming machines shall
not exceed two (2) machines.
   (C)   For multi-unit/multi-tenant commercial sites where more than one unit
is located within one large commercial structure, the cumulative total of
machines shall not exceed two internet and/or electronic gaming machines for
the entire structure. For commercial group developments, the cumulative total
of machines located within all of the buildings within the commercial group
development site shall not exceed two internet and/or electronic gaming
machines.
   (D)   The hours of operation for the accessory internet and/or electronic
gaming operation shall be the same as hours of operation for the principal
business use in which it is located.
   (E)   Public restrooms for patrons of the internet and/or electronic gaming
operation shall be provided within the principal business use in which it is
located.
   (F)   The placement of internet and/or electronic gaming machines as an
accessory use within a principal business use shall be subject to review and
approval by the town. A copy of the floor plan and site plan of the principal
business use depicting the area where the internet and/or electronic gaming
machines/device will be located shall be submitted to the Planning Department
for approval. Applications for internet and/or electronic gaming machines shall
be submitted at the time the floor plan for the accessory use is submitted to
the Planning Department.
   (G)   Off-street parking shall be provided at a ratio of one 10' x 20' space
for each internet and/or electronic gaming machine/device in addition to the
other required parking spaces for the principal use. An up-to-date copy of a
site plan prepared by a North Carolina licensed surveyor or engineer shall be
submitted to the Planning Department for approval.
   (H)   Any internet and/or electronic gaming operation shall not be located
within a minimum of 500 feet measured in a straight line in any direction from
all property lines of the principal business use site, from any residential
dwelling including mobile homes; any church, place of worship or other
religious building; any child care home or facility; public or private school;
public playground or park; or another principal business use that includes
internet and/or electronic gaming machines as an accessory. The applicant shall
submit an up-to-date, straight-line drawing prepared by a North Carolina
registered surveyor or engineer that depicts each use that is within 500 feet
of the principal business use site to demonstrate compliance with this
separation standard.
   (I)   On-premise alcohol consumption is prohibited within the area dedicated
as the internet and/or electronic gaming operation. Signage to this effect
shall be posted in a conspicuous manner to alert all users of this restriction.
   (J)   Users of the internet and/or electronic gaming machines shall be at
least 18 years of age. Signage to that effect shall be posted in a conspicuous
manner to alert all users of this age restriction.
   (K)   Any internet and/or electronic gaming operations that existed in the
town before November 14, 2012 shall be submitted for review according to the
conditions of this section and will be granted 24 months from November 14, 2012
in which to bring their internet and/or electronic gaming operations into
compliance with these regulations.
(Ord. 12-22, passed 11-14-12; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.315 ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of these provisions for all accessory dwelling
units (ADUs) is to allow the efficient use of existing housing stock, parcels
of land, and community infrastructure, and to increase the number and variety
of residential units while respecting the scale and character of existing
neighborhoods.
   (B)   General provisions. Accessory dwelling units (ADUs) are allowed as
permitted uses in Low Density Residential, High Density Residential,
Commercial, Light Industrial 1 and Light Industrial 2 Zoning Districts, subject
to the following standards:
      (1)   An ADU can only be located on a property containing one single-
family detached dwelling. The property may contain other accessory structures
and uses as permitted in this section.
      (2)   No more than one ADU shall be permitted per residential lot.
      (3)   ADUs shall not be larger than 50% of the living area of the primary
residence, or 800 square feet, whichever is lesser.
      (4)   An ADU must comply with all applicable minimum building setback
requirements and a detached ADU cannot extend beyond the front of the primary
residence.
      (5)   An ADU must be properly permitted, inspected, and comply with all
applicable standards of the State Building Code and Kill Devil Hills Town Code.
      (6)   The owner must obtain a permit from the County Environmental Health
Department that the existing wastewater system can accommodate or be improved
to accommodate the establishment of an ADU.
      (7)   ADUs shall be parked in accordance with §
153.076 Off Street Parking and Loading.
      (8)   Recreational vehicles, travel trailers and/or manufactured homes
shall not be used or approved as an ADU.
      (9)   An ADU shall not be subdivided or segregated in ownership from the
principal dwelling unit.
      (10)   An ADU in Low Density Residential and High Density Residential
Zoning Districts shall only be occupied for long-term occupancy as defined in §
153.002. Property owners shall be required to execute and record, with the Dare
County Register of Deeds, a long-term use agreement declaring that the dwelling
unit shall be used only for long-term occupancy in perpetuity prior to issuance
of a building permit.
(Ord. 17-28, passed 3-8-21; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21; Am. Ord. 19-18,
passed 4-26-23)
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
§ 153.320 INTENT.
   It is the intention of this subchapter that all questions arising in
connection with the enforcement of this chapter shall be presented first to the
town planner for consideration and that such questions shall be presented to
the Board of Adjustment only on appeal from a decision of an administrative
official charged with the enforcement of this chapter, and that from the
decision of the Board of Adjustment, recourse shall be had to the courts, as
provided by law. It is further the intention of this division that appeals from
a decision of the Zoning Administrator or other administrative official,
related to this chapter but not pertaining to the state building code or state
building laws, shall be taken to the Board of Adjustment, and that from the
decision of the Board of Adjustment, recourse shall be had to the courts, as
provided by law; except that it shall be the duty of the Board of Commissioners
to consider any amendments to this chapter, applications for special use
permits or site plans as provided by this chapter and any other duty not
specifically delegated to the Board of Adjustment herein.
(Ord. 13-20, passed 11-13-13; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.321 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   Interpretations. The Board shall interpret zoning maps and pass upon
disputed questions of lot lines or district boundary lines and similar
questions that may arise in the administration of this chapter. The Board shall
hear and decide all matters referred to it or upon which it is required to pass
under this chapter.
   (B)   Administrative Review; Appeals. Pursuant to its powers and duties, the
Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide appeals to administrative decisions,
where it is alleged there is an error in any order, decision, determination or
interpretation made by the Zoning Administrator or such other designated
administrative officer in the enforcement of this chapter. As used in this
section, the term DECISION includes any final and binding order, requirement,
or determination.
   (C)   Variances. To authorize upon appeal in specific cases, variances from
the terms of the Zoning Code according to the standards and procedures herein
so that the spirit of the Code is observed, public safety and welfare secured,
and substantial justice done.
      (1)   The Board of Adjustment may impose appropriate conditions on any
variance, provided the conditions are reasonably related to the variance.
         (a)   A violation of such conditions and safeguards, when made a part
of the terms under which the variance is granted, shall be a violation of this
chapter.
      (2)   The variance is the minimum variance that will make possible the
reasonable use of the land, building, or structure.
   (D)   
Chapter 151, Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance. Pursuant to the terms,
conditions and procedures contained in
Chapter 151, Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance, the Board of Adjustment shall
act as the appeal board and shall hear and decide requests for variances of the
provisions of that chapter; and, shall hear appeals and modify or affirm the
corrective order issued by the Floodplain Administrator.
   (E)   The Board of Adjustment shall comply with all the procedures and
processes applicable to the Board of Adjustment hearing appeals in accordance
with G.S. §§ 160D-405 and 160D-406.
(Ord. 13-20, passed 11-13-13; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.322 APPEALS.
   (A)   Appeals procedures.
      (1)   An appeal may be initiated by any aggrieved party or by any officer
or the Board of Commissioners of the Town of Kill Devil Hills.
      (2)   The Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide appeals decisions of
administrative officials charged with enforcement of the zoning, subdivisions
or flood damage prevention ordinance, pursuant to all of the following:
         (a)   Any person who has standing under G.S.§ 160D-1402(c) or the town
may appeal a decision to the Board of Adjustment. A written notice of appeal
stating the grounds for the appeal must be filed with the Town Clerk.
         (b)   The official who made the decision must give written notice to
the owner of the property that is the subject of the decision and to the party
who sought the decision, if different from the owner. The written notice must
be delivered by personal delivery, electronic mail, or by first-class mail.
         (c)   The owner or other party shall have 30 days from receipt of the
written notice within which to file an appeal. Any other person with standing
to appeal shall have 30 days from receipt from any source of actual or
constructive notice of the decision within which to file an appeal.
         (d)   The official who made the decision must transmit to the Board
all the documents and exhibits constituting the record upon which the action
appealed was taken. The official must also provide a copy of the record to the
appellant and to the owner of the property that is the subject of the appeal if
the appellant is not the owner.
         (e)   An appeal of a notice of violation or other enforcement order
stays enforcement of the action appealed and accrual of any fines, unless the
official who made the decision certifies to the Board of Adjustment after
notice of appeal has been filed that because of the facts stated in an
affidavit, a stay would cause imminent peril to life or property or because the
violation is transitory in nature, a stay would seriously interfere with
enforcement of this chapter. In that case, enforcement proceedings shall not be
stayed except by a restraining order, which may be granted by a court. If
enforcement proceedings are not stayed, the appellant may file with the
official a request for an expedited hearing of the appeal, and the Board of
Adjustment must meet to hear the appeal within 15 days after such request is
filed. Notwithstanding the foregoing, appeals of decisions granting a permit or
otherwise affirming that a proposed use of property is consistent with this
chapter shall not stay the further review of an application for permits or
permissions to use such property. In these situations, the appellant may
request and the Board may grant a stay of a final decision of permit
applications or building permits affected by the issue being appealed.
         (f)   The Board of Adjustment must hear and decide the appeal within a
reasonable time. The Board shall follow quasi-judicial procedures in
determining appeals of administrative decisions (G.S. § 160D-406).
         (g)   Notice of the evidentiary hearing shall follow procedures
outlined in §
153.363.
         (h)   The official who made the decision must be present at the
hearing as a witness.
         (i)   The appellant shall not be limited at the hearing to matters
stated in the notice of appeal. If any party or the town would be unduly
prejudiced by the presentation of matters not presented in the notice of
appeal, the Board shall continue the hearing. The Board of Adjustment may
reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the decision appealed from
and shall make any order requirement, decision, or determination that ought to
be made. The Board shall have all the powers of the official who made the
decision.
         (j)   When hearing an appeal pursuant to G.S.§ 160D-1402 or any other
appeal in the nature of certiorari, the hearing shall be based on the record
and the scope of review shall be as provided in G.S.§ 160D-1402.
      (3)   Staff shall transmit to the Board all applications, reports and
written materials relevant to the matter being considered. Administrative
materials shall become part of the hearing record. The applicant, local
government, and any person who would have standing to appeal the decision shall
have the right to participate as a part of the evidentiary hearing.
      (4)   Upon voting, the decision shall be made by the majority of the
board for appeals.
      (5)   Standards for granting an appeal.
         (a)   The Board of Adjustment shall reverse or modify the order,
decision, determination, or interpretation under appeal only upon finding an
error in the application of these regulations on the part of the officer
rendering the order, decision, determination, or interpretation.
         (b)   In modifying the order, decision, determination, or
interpretation, the Board of Adjustment shall have all the powers of the
officer from whom the appeal is taken.
      (6)   Judicial challenge. A person with standing may bring a separate and
original civil action to challenge the enforceability, validity, effect or
constitutionality of an ordinance or development regulation, or that it is
ultra vires, preempted, or otherwise in excess of statutory authority without
filing an appeal under this section.
(Ord. 13-20, passed 11-13-13; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.323 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Procedures.
      (1)   A petition for variance may be initiated only by the owner of the
affected property, an agent authorized in writing to act on the owner's behalf,
or a person having a written contractual interest in the affected property.
      (2)   When unnecessary hardships would result from carrying out the
strict letter of this chapter, the Board of Adjustment shall vary any of the
provisions upon a showing of all of the following:
         (a)   Unnecessary hardship would result from the strict application of
the ordinance. It shall not be necessary to demonstrate that, in the absence of
the variance, no reasonable use can be made of the property.
         (b)   The hardship results from conditions that are peculiar to the
property, such as location, size, or topography. Hardships resulting from
personal circumstances, as well as hardships resulting from conditions that are
common to the neighborhood or the general public, may not be the basis for
granting a variance.
         (c)   The hardship did not result from actions taken by the applicant
or the property owner. The act of purchasing property with knowledge that
circumstances exist that may justify granting of a variance shall not be
regarded as a self-created hardship.
         (d)   The requested variance is consistent with the spirit, purpose,
and intent of the ordinance, such that public safety is secured and substantial
justice is achieved.
            1.   The Board of Adjustment may impose appropriate conditions on
any variance, provided the conditions are reasonably related to the variance,
which include, as appropriate, requirements that street and utility rights-of-
way be dedicated to the public and that provision be made for recreational
space and facilities.
            2.   A violation of such conditions and safeguards, when made a
part of the terms under which the variance is granted, shall be a violation of
this chapter.
            3.   The variance is the minimum variance that will make possible
the reasonable use of the land, building, or structure.
      (3)   Restrictions.
         (a)   Under no circumstances shall the Board of Adjustment grant a
variance to allow a use not permissible under the terms of this chapter in the
district involved, or any use expressly or by implication prohibited by the
terms of this chapter in the district.
         (b)   The existence of a non-conforming use of neighboring land,
buildings, or structures in the same district, or of permitted or non-
conforming uses in other districts, shall not constitute sufficient reason for
granting the requested variance.
         (c)   The fact that property may be utilized more profitably will not
be considered adequate to justify the Board of Adjustment in granting a
variance.
      (4)   Notice and public hearing shall follow procedures outlined in §
153.363.
(Ord. 13-20, passed 11-13-13; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.324 ACTION BY THE BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   A concurring vote of four-fifths of the Board members shall be
required to grant a variance. The Board may grant the variance as requested,
deny the variance, or grant the variance with conditions. A majority of the
members shall be required to decide any other quasi-judicial matter or to
determine an appeal made in the nature of certiorari. The Board of Adjustment
shall grant or deny the variance or shall reverse, affirm, or modify the order,
decision, determination, or interpretation under appeal by recording in the
minutes of the meeting the reasons that the Board of Adjustment used and the
findings of fact and conclusions of law made by the Board of Adjustment to
reach its decision. For purposes of this subsection, vacant positions on the
Board and members who are disqualified from voting on a quasi-judicial matter
shall not be considered "members of the Board" for calculation of the requisite
supermajority majority if there are no qualified alternates available to take
the place of such members.
   (B)   A member of the Board shall not participate in or vote on any quasi-
judicial matter in a manner that would violate affected persons' constitutional
rights to an impartial decision maker. Impermissible conflicts violations of
due process include, but are not limited to, a member having a fixed opinion
prior to hearing the matter that is not susceptible to change, undisclosed ex
parte communications, a close familial, business, or other associational
relationship with an affected person, or a financial interest in the outcome of
the matter. If an objection is raised to a member's participation and that
member does not recuse himself or herself, the remaining members shall by
majority vote rule on the objection, as outlined in §
153.364 (Conflict of Interest).
   (C)   Quasi-judicial decisions. The Board shall determine contested facts
and make its decision within a reasonable time. Every quasi-judicial decision
shall be based upon competent material and substantial evidence in the record.
Each quasi-judicial decision shall be reduced to writing and reflect the
Board's determination of contested facts and their application to the
applicable standards. The written decision shall be signed by the Chair, or
other duly authorized member of the Board. A quasi-judicial decision is
effective upon filing the written decision with the clerk to the Board, or such
other office or official as the ordinance specifies. The decision of the Board
shall be delivered by personal delivery, electronic mail, or by first-class
mail to the applicant, property owner, and to any person who has submitted a
written request for a copy, prior to the date the decision becomes effective.
The person required to provide notice shall certify that proper notice has been
made.
   (D)   Oaths. The chair of the Board or any member acting as chair and the
clerk to the Board are authorized to administer oaths to witnesses in any
matter coming before the Board. Any person who, while under oath during a
proceeding before the Board of Adjustment, willfully swears falsely is guilty
of a Class 1 misdemeanor.
   (E)   Subpoenas. The Board of Adjustment through the chair, or in the
chair's absence anyone acting as chair, may subpoena witnesses and compel the
production of evidence. To request issuance of a subpoena, persons with
standing under G.S.§ 160D-406(g) may make a written request to the chair
explaining why it is necessary for certain witnesses or evidence to be
compelled. The chair shall issue requested subpoenas he or she determines to be
relevant, reasonable in nature and scope, and not oppressive. The chair shall
rule on any motion to quash or modify a subpoena. Decisions regarding subpoenas
made by the chair may be appealed to the full Board of Adjustment. If a person
fails or refuses to obey a subpoena issued pursuant to this subsection, the
Board of Adjustment or the party seeking the subpoena may apply to the General
Court of Justice for an order requiring that its subpoena be obeyed, and the
court shall have jurisdiction to issue these orders after notice to all proper
parties.
(Ord. 13-20, passed 11-13-13; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.325 EFFECT OF GRANTING OF VARIANCE OR REVERSAL OR MODIFICATION OF
ADMINISTRATIVE DECISION.
   (A)   After the Board of Adjustment approves a variance, or reverses or
modifies an order, decision, determination, or interpretation of an
administrative officer, the appellant or petitioner shall be responsible for a
building permit and/or certificate of occupancy, as applicable, in order to
proceed with the development of the subject property. All orders, decisions,
determinations, and interpretations made by administrative officers under those
procedures shall be consistent with the variance, reversal, or modification
granted to the appellant or petitioner by the Board of Adjustment.
   (B)   Rehearing. The Board of Adjustment shall refuse to hear an appeal or
variance petition which has been previously denied unless it finds that there
have been substantial changes in the conditions or circumstances relating to
the matter.
   (C)   Appeal from Board of Adjustment. Every quasi-judicial decision shall
be subject to review by the superior court by proceedings in the nature of
certiorari pursuant to G.S.§ 160D-406(k). A petition for review shall be filed
with the Clerk of Superior Court no later than 30 days after the decision is
effective or after a written copy thereof is given in accordance with §
153.323(C). When first class mail is used to deliver notice, three days shall
be added to the time to file the petition.
(Ord. 13-20, passed 11-13-13; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.326 FEES.
   A fee established by the Board of Commissioners shall be paid by the
applicant, property owner, or appellant to the town at the time of filing of
any proceeding for hearing before the Board of Adjustment.
(Ord. 13-20, passed 11-13-13; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 153.350 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Zoning Administrator designated by the town shall administer and enforce
this chapter. The Building Inspector may be directed to discharge the duties
and obligations of the Zoning Administrator's office, or a Zoning Administrator
may be appointed and provided with the assistance of such other persons as the
town may direct. The term ZONING ADMINISTRATOR shall include the Building
Inspector when that official has been directed to perform the duties and
obligations of the Zoning Administrator. The Zoning Administrator shall have
all necessary authority to administer and enforce this chapter, including the
ordering of, in writing or verbally, and the remedying of any condition found
in violation of this chapter and the bringing of legal action with prior Board
approval to insure compliance with this chapter, including injunction,
abatement or other appropriate action or proceeding.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 18-4,
passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.351 BUILDING PERMIT.
   (A)   Time limitation to obtain building permit.
      (1)   No building or other structure shall be erected or moved, nor shall
any existing building or structure hereafter be altered in any manner, nor will
any substantial grading or excavation take place unless and until a building
permit, as required by state law, or the rules and regulations promulgated by
the appropriate state agency and this chapter has been approved by the Zoning
Administrator.
      (2)   Upon final approval of the site plan the Building Inspector may
issue a building permit within 365 days from the date of such approval,
provided that all other requirements of this chapter and other applicable town
ordinances are met. If a building permit is not secured within 365 days from
the final approval of the site plan, the applicant must resubmit the site plan
for review by the Planning Board and the Board of Commissioners. In the event
the applicant certifies to the Planning Director that there have been no
intervening ordinance or regulatory changes affecting siting and use, and there
is no significant change in the site plan design, then the Planning Director
may certify such conditions to the Board of Commissioners. Upon such
certification, the Board of Commissioners may give the applicant 90 days in
which to secure a building permit. In the event no building permit is secured
within the 90-day period the site plan approval extension shall expire and the
site plan must be resubmitted through the prescribed site plan approval process
as specified in this chapter.
   (B)   Time limitation to commence and continue construction. If the start of
construction has not commenced within 180 days from the date of issuance of a
building permit, the building permit shall expire. If, after commencement, the
work is discontinued for a period of 12 months, the building permit shall
immediately expire. No work authorized by any permit or site plan that has
expired shall be performed until a new site plan has been approved. If no
change has been made in application or town ordinances affecting, the site
plan, the Planning Director may reauthorize the site plan and a new building
permit issued upon payment of applicable minimum fee and written notification
to Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 93-01, passed 2-8-93; Am. Ord. 01-02,
passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.352 NECESSARY GOVERNMENTAL APPROVAL.
   The Zoning Administrator shall not approve a building permit for any
building for which the Dare County Health Department or any other necessary
governmental approval is required until such approval has been given by the
Health Department, the appropriate government or the appropriate governmental
agency.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 18-4,
passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.353 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   No land shall be used or occupied and no building structurally altered,
erected, moved, be used or its use changed until an as-built site plan is
submitted showing compliance with requirements of federal, state and local
government approved plans and the Building Inspector issues a certificate of
occupancy stating that the building and land or proposed use thereof complies
with the provisions of this chapter and other federal, state and local
ordinances as applicable. A certificate of occupancy, either for the whole or a
part of a building, shall be applied for coincident with the application for a
building permit and shall be issued within three business days after the
erection or structural alterations of such building or part shall have been
completed in conformity with the provisions of this chapter. A record of all
commercial certificates shall be kept on file in the office of the Zoning
Administrator or Building Inspector, and copies shall be furnished, on request,
to any person having a proprietary or tenancy interest in the building erected.
No permit for excavation for or erection of any building or part of a building
or for repairs to or alterations of a building shall be issued until after a
statement of its intended use has been filed by the applicant.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 05-06,
passed 5-25-05; Am. Ord. 07-18, passed 10-24-07; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 153.354 FEES.
   All site plans, development plans, plats or other plans required to be
presented by this chapter for approval by the town shall be accompanied by a
filing fee. This filing fee shall be payable to the town and shall be due and
payable upon submission of the site plan, plan or plat. The fee required by
this section shall be the amount specified in the regularly adopted fee
schedule of the town.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 18-4,
passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.355 SITE PLAN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Upon submission of commercial, industrial and multi-family site plans
for initial staff review, the developer shall have the site plan prepared,
stamped or sealed and signed by persons duly authorized by state law. The site
plan shall be submitted with tentative Health Department approval and the
developer shall pay all site plan review fees as required by the adopted fee
schedule. Fifteen copies of the site plan shall be delivered to the Planning
Director who shall distribute same to the heads of the Public Services
Department, the Police Department, the Fire Department and such other town
officials and departments as the Board may direct. Each such department head
and town official shall review the site plan and report any comments or
recommendations in writing to the planning staff at which time the planning
staff shall meet with the site plan preparer to address recommendations and
comments for revision.
   (B)   In addition to any other requirements of the Planning Board or
Planning Director, the commercial, industrial and multi-family site plans shall
contain the following information:
      (1)   Proper ownership and information, including:
         (a)   Name, address, telephone number and consent of present recorded
owner and the map book reference and subdivision title of the site property and
the property identification number;
         (b)   Boundary of the entire lot by course and distance;
         (c)   Width and location of the existing rights-of-way;
         (d)   Nature or purpose, location and size of existing easements;
         (e)   Iron pins, 3/8-inch in diameter and 36 inches in length shall be
shown and installed at all lot corners, points of tangents and any angle point
along a given course of the lot;
         (f)   Plan drawn to at least 1 inch = 10 feet, 1 inch = 20 feet, 1
inch = 30 feet, 1 inch = 40 feet, or 1 inch = 50 feet scale showing north
arrow; and
         (g)   Site zoning.
      (2)   Existing features information, including:
         (a)   Streets showing the width of pavement and elevations within the
boundaries of the project site;
         (b)   Location of all existing and proposed utilities, including
propane and gasoline tanks, above and below grade;
         (c)   All proposed utilities shall be located underground; and
         (d)   Presence or absence of wetlands.
      (3)   Site improvements, including:
         (a)   Proposed building type (masonry, metal or wood) and number of
floors and dimensions;
         (b)   Proposed building plan elevations and floor plan;
         (c)   Location and type of all sidewalks and curbs within the site;
         (d)   Location of sanitary sewer facilities with connection to sewer
system or septic tank;
         (e)   Locations of signs;
         (f)   Layout and number of parking spaces shown in accordance with
this chapter;
         (g)   Outdoor lighting plan, security lights and NCDOT approved
lights;
         (h)   Existing and finished grades shown for the entire site;
         (i)   Dumpster pad locations;
         (j)   A tabulation of the total number of dwelling units of various
types in the project and the overall project density in dwelling units per
acre;
         (k)   Uniform street address;
         (l)   Landscaping plan;
         (m)   Lot coverage;
         (n)   Inventory of significant natural features or vegetated areas
affecting the site;
         (o)   N.F.I.P. Flood Zone;
         (p)   Boundaries of all AECs; and
         (q)   Sedimentation and erosion control plan.
      (4)   Right-of-way improvements shall be made in accordance with the duly
adopted written policy, as amended from time to time by the Board of
Commissioners, which is on file with the Town Clerk.
      (5)   Stormwater management plan and calculations as specified in §
153.070.
      (6)   In addition to the building permit, a permit for any construction
within the public right-of-way shall be obtained prior to commencing any work.
      (7)   Inspections of sites involving public rights-of-way and inspections
of any on-site construction shall be made by the town.
   (C)   Upon submission of a new structure, moved structure or addition to
single-family or duplex dwelling site plans for initial administrative review
prior to any inspections, the applicant shall have the site plan/building plan
prepared, sealed and signed by persons duly authorized by state law as
necessary and a survey sealed and signed by a North Carolina licensed surveyor
locating the house and all appurtenances on the lot. The site plan shall be
submitted with Health Department permits, consent of present recorded owner,
and the applicant shall pay all site plan review fees as required by the
adopted fee schedule. Two copies of the site building plan stamped by the
Health Department shall be delivered to the Planning Department, who shall
distribute to the heads of the Public Services Department and such other town
officials and departments as may be appropriate.
   (D)   In addition to any other requirements of the Planning Department, the
new structures, moved structures and additions to single-family or duplex
dwelling site plan shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Survey information:
         (a)   Owner(s);
          (b)   Lot number(s), block, subdivision;
         (c)   PIN number and parcel number;
         (d)   Zoning district;
         (e)   Flood zone (ground elevation and first floor elevations);
         (f)   Street address;
         (g)   Lot square footage;
         (h)   Lot coverage calculations;
         (i)   Setbacks;
         (j)   Areas of environmental concern;
         (k)   Building footprint;
         (l)   Covered decks;
         (m)   Open decks;
         (n)   Pools, hot tubs, accessory structures;
          (o)   Paved/maintained street;
         (p)   Water tap location;
         (q)   Septic tank and drainfield location;
         (r)   Required parking clearly drawn;
          (s)   Driveways, sidewalks and patios.
      (2)   Building plans minimum requirements:
         (a)   Heated square footage;
         (b)   Unheated square footage;
          (c)   Building height;
          (d)   Floor plans;
         (e)   Number of bedrooms;
          (f)   Elevations;
         (g)   Foundation plan.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 04-03,
passed 3-24-04; Am. Ord. 14-26, passed 2-9-15; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.356 DIMENSIONAL REQUIREMENTS AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   Dimensional requirements and development standards shall be in accordance
with the zoning district in which the building is located. For new
construction, substantial improvements or substantial damage, a development
utilizing more than one lot shall be recombined in accordance with §
152.59 Recording of Exempt Plats or the lots shall be encumbered by legal
agreement approved by the town for the duration of the development on the lots.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 15-8,
passed 9-21-15; Am. Ord. 15-14, passed 4-11-16; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.357 SITE PLAN REVIEW PROCESS FOR COMMERCIAL, MULTI-FAMILY AND SPECIAL USE
APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Prior to preparing a site plan for commercial, multi-family and
special use applications, the preparer should obtain a site plan requirements
list from the Planning Department. This check list covers most items required
on site plans, and the site plan preparer should address all items on the list
before submitting a site plan. Applicants are encouraged to review their
particular cases with the staff in a sketch plan meeting prior to submission of
formal application. A sketch plan review by the Planning Board may be
recommended.
   (B)   (1)   On or before the third Tuesday of the month prior to Planning
Board review, site plan preparer submits the following to the Planning
Department staff:
         (a)   Fifteen copies of the site plan, all items on checklist
addressed and an engineer's seal on the plan;
         (b)   Letter of tentative Health Department approval, from the local
or state agency having jurisdiction;
         (c)   Site plan review fee.
      (2)   The application is then circulated to the appropriate town
departments for staff review I.
   (C)   Staff comments I due to Planning Department on Monday following
receipt of plans.
   (D)   On the fourth Tuesday of the month, site plan preparer meets with the
planning staff for a preliminary review of the site plan. This meeting will
include discussion of recommendations from the town departments.
   (E)   On the first Tuesday of the following month, the site plan preparer
submits 15 copies of the site plan, revised to address issues raised by the
staff at the preliminary site plan review meeting.
   (F)   On the following Wednesday, staff review II begins.
   (G)   On the following Monday, staff comments II are due to the Planning
Department.
   (H)   On the second Friday of the month, Planning Board packets will be
ready. Copies of the Planning Department staff comments to the Planning Board
will be available to site plan preparers. Comments can be obtained after 1:00
p.m. Friday at the Planning Department.
   (I)   On the third Tuesday of the month, the Planning Board will review the
site plan. They will make recommendations to the Board of Commissioners such
as: approval as submitted, approval with conditions, disapproval or that the
plan be tabled to allow the preparer to address the Planning Board's concerns.
In the event that the plan is tabled by the Planning Board, the tabling motion
shall expire two years from the date of the tabling motion. Such plan shall be
reconsidered only after the applicant:
      (1)   Pays the full site plan review fee; and
      (2)   Resubmits the plan through the prescribed site plan approval
process as specified in this chapter.
   (J)   If the Planning Board forwards the plan to the Board of Commissioners,
the site plan preparer must submit 15 copies of the site plan, addressing any
and all conditions, to the Planning Department by the fourth Tuesday of the
month in order to be considered at the Board of Commissioners' regular meeting
the next month.
   (K)   On the first Monday of the following month, staff comments and revised
site plan will be sent to the Administration Department by 5:00 p.m.
   (L)   After 1:00 p.m. on the Friday before the Board of Commissioners
meeting, copies of staff comments can be obtained at the Administration
Department.
   (M)   The Board of Commissioners will review site plans on the second Monday
of the month. At that time the Board of Commissioners will approve,
conditionally approve, disapprove or table the proposed project.
   (N)   Once a site plan has the Board of Commissioners' approval, the
Building Inspector may issue a building permit during the next 365 days,
provided that all other requirements of this chapter and other applicable town
ordinances are met. If a building permit is not secured within 365 days from
final approval of the site plan, the site plan approval expires and the
applicant must resubmit the site plan for review by the Planning Board and the
Board of Commissioners. In the event the applicant certifies to the Planning
Director that there have been no intervening ordinance or regulatory changes
affecting siting and use and there is no significant change in the site plan
design, then the Planning Director may certify such conditions. Upon such
certification, the Planning Director may give the applicant 90 days in which to
secure a building permit. In the event no building permit is secured within the
90-day period, the site plan approval extension shall expire and the site plan
must be resubmitted through the prescribed site plan approval process as
specified in this chapter.
   (O)   Rejected site plans may be resubmitted in accordance with this chapter
when redrafted to meet the specifications of this chapter and upon payment of
the required fees.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 92-06, passed 5-11-92; Am. Ord. 93-01,
passed 2-8-93; Am. Ord. 97-16, passed 1-28-98; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01;
Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.358 ACTION BY PLANNING BOARD AND BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS.
   (A)   The Planning Board shall review site plans. Upon completion of the
review, the Planning Board may recommend approval, recommend approval with
specific requirements and conditions, table for further study or additional
information, or recommend disapproval. The Planning Board's recommendation
shall be transmitted to the Board of Commissioners. The Board of Commissioners
shall review site plans after the review and recommendation by the Planning
Board. They may approve, approve with specific requirements and conditions,
table for further study or additional information, return to the Planning Board
for further study or review, or disapprove any site plan. A rejected site plan
may be resubmitted in accordance with this chapter when redrafted to meet the
specifications of this chapter and upon payment of the required fees.
   (B)   Tentative approval of a tri-party agreement for Wastewater Treatment
or Health Department tentative approval shall be included with submission of
the site plan. A final, recordable copy of the tri-party agreement shall be
presented by the developer prior to the issuance of a building permit or
presentation of a valid wastewater disposal permit.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 04-13,
passed 9-13-04; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.359 CHANGES IN PLAN BY OWNER OR DEVELOPER.
   If following the final approval, the owner or developer desires to make a
change to the structure, associated site features or use, the change must be
reviewed by the Planning Board in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter and approved by the Board of Commissioners or meet the following
criteria for administrative approvals:
   (A)   Administrative approval for non-conforming structures and uses.
      (1)   Non-conforming single-family and duplex dwellings. Administrative
approval may be authorized for remodel, reconstruction/repair or additions
where additional non-conformities are not created.
      (2)   Non-conforming commercial and institutional structure:
         (a)   Administrative approval may be authorized for remodel, change of
use, reconstruction/repair (no change to total dimensions) within the existing
footprint of the structure in accordance with §
153.053.
         (b)   Administrative approval may be authorized for additions which
will not create or increase any nonconformity in accordance with §
153.053 as follows:
            1.   Additions to site features not exceeding 50% of the existing
site feature less than six inches above finished grade may be granted if the
addition meets all the requirements of this chapter.
            2.   Additions greater than six inches above finished grade may be
granted if additions do not exceed 500 square feet of gross floor area and meet
all the requirements of this chapter.
         (c)   Administrative approval may be authorized for outdoor waiting
activity areas provided that it will not create or increase any nonconformity
in accordance with §
153.053 and meets the following conditions:
            1.   Outdoor waiting activity area(s) shall be accessory to
restaurant use only, not including drive-in restaurants.
            2.   Outdoor waiting activity area(s) shall have no scheduled
events or activities before 7:00 a.m. nor after 11:00 p.m. on any day. There
will be no music or games between 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
            3.   No cooking or serving utilities including grills, bars or
drink dispensers shall be permitted. All such cooking and serving utilities
shall be contained within the principal building.
            4.   Lighting and sound (including music or noise) must comply with
the Town Code. Signage shall comply with the Town Code, including signs on
umbrellas.
            5.   The area must be kept clean of litter and maintained in a safe
and sanitary condition.
            6.   Appropriate waste receptacles with affixed lids shall be
provided.
            7.   On sides not adjoining the principal structure the area
designated as outdoor waiting activity area(s) shall be bordered by a minimum
four foot high fence, with the exception of elevated, covered decks for which
fencing requirements are already in place, and shall be buffered with
landscaping as set forth in §
153.073(F)(2)(b).
            8.   Outdoor waiting activity area(s) may not be roofed or shaded
in any way other than standard table umbrellas. Erection of a tent subject to a
special use or event permit from the town is not prohibited.
            9.   Outdoor waiting activity area(s) shall comply with minimum
parking requirements for the primary structure as set in §
153.076.
         (d)   Changes in plan not meeting division (A)(2)(a), (b) or (c) above
must follow the site plan review process in this chapter.
   (B)   Administrative approval for conforming structures.
      (1)   Administrative approval may be authorized for remodel, change of
use, reconstruction/repair (no change to total dimensions) within the existing
footprint of the structure.
      (2)   Administrative approval may be authorized for additions to
commercial and institutional structures as follows:
         (a)   Additions less than six inches above finished grade may be
granted if the addition meets all the requirements of this chapter.
         (b)   Additions greater than six inches above finished grade may be
granted if additions do not exceed 500 square feet of gross floor area and meet
all the requirements of this chapter.
         (c)   Outdoor waiting activity area subject to the following:
            1.   Outdoor waiting activity area(s) shall be accessory to
restaurant use. This section shall not apply to drive-in restaurants.
            2.   Outdoor waiting activity area(s) shall have no scheduled
events or activities before 7:00 a.m. nor after 11:00 p.m. on any day. There
will be no music or games between 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
            3.   No cooking or serving utilities including grills, bars or
drink dispensers shall be permitted. All such cooking and serving utilities
shall be contained within the principal building.
            4.   Lighting and sound (including music or noise) must comply with
the Town Code. Signage shall comply with the Town Code, including signs on
umbrellas.
            5.   The area must be kept clean of litter and maintained in a safe
and sanitary condition.
            6.   Appropriate waste receptacles with affixed lids shall be
provided.
            7.   On sides not adjoining the principal structure the area
designated as outdoor waiting activity area(s) shall be bordered by minimum
four foot fence, with the exception of elevated, covered decks for which
fencing requirements are already in place, and shall be buffered with
landscaping as set forth in §
153.073(F)(2)(b).
            8.   Outdoor waiting activity area(s) may not be roofed or shaded
in any way other than standard table umbrellas. Erection of a tent subject to a
special use or event permit from the town is not prohibited.
            9.   Outdoor waiting activity area(s) shall comply with minimum
parking requirements for the primary structure as set forth in §
153.076.
   (C)   State of emergency approvals.
      (1)   When a state of emergency is declared by the Mayor, permits for all
reconstruction/repair to damaged commercial industrial and institutional sites
may be administratively approved subject to the following conditions:
         (a)   The repair will not make the property more nonconforming than
prior to the damage.
         (b)   The reconstruction/repairs are in the same footprint and same
dimensions as prior to the damage.
         (c)   The damage is less than 50% of the structure valuation prior to
the damage.
      (2)   If these conditions (items (a) to (c), above) cannot be met, the
Planning Board and Board of Commissioners shall review the application subject
to regulations in §
153.357.
   (D)   Administrative approval procedures.
      (1)   All plans for remodel, change of use, reconstruction/repair and
additions shall meet regulations outlined in §
153.355, including the following minimum requirements:
         (a)   Current survey and site plan (seven copies for commercial) with
proposed changes drawn to scale sealed by a North Carolina licensed surveyor,
engineer, or architect;
         (b)   Written health department approval for improvements;
         (c)   Changes to floor plan and building elevations when applicable;
         (d)   Applicable review fees paid.
      (2)   Commercial plans will be reviewed by:
         (a)   The Public Services Department;
         (b)   The Police Department;
         (c)   The Fire Department;
         (d)   Other departments or agencies, if applicable.
      (3)   All staff and departmental conditions shall be addressed prior to
issuance of a building permit.
      (4)   The Planning Director or his designee will provide written approval
to the building inspector prior to issuance of a building permit.
      (5)   The administrative approval time frame shall be approximately ten
business days if all requirements are met.
      (6)   Other projects not meeting the regulations of this section will be
subject to §
153.357.
      (7)   If administrative approval is denied, the application shall be
reviewed by the Planning Board and Board of Commissioners subject to
regulations in §
153.357.
   (E)   Administrative approval for conforming conditional use site plans.
Additions to site features, not exceeding 50% of the existing site feature,
less than six inches above finished grade may be granted if the addition meets
all the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 92-03, passed 1-22-92; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 03-17,
passed 12-8-03; Am. Ord. 07-18, passed 10-24-07; Am. Ord. 11-11, passed 6-13-
11; Am. Ord. 13-16, passed 10-14-13; Am. Ord. 14-04, passed 3-10-14; Am. Ord.
18-4, passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.360 VESTING OF RIGHTS AND PERMIT CHOICE.
   (A)   Rights granted in accordance with the provisions of this chapter shall
vest for a period of one year only upon site plan approval by the Board of
Commissioners or administrative approval, excepting site specific vesting
plans. This provision is not intended to extend or reduce any time requirements
set forth in the North Carolina General Statutes (G.S.§ 160D-108), North
Carolina Building Code, the town code or any other governmental regulation
applicable to the project for which the site plan approval is granted.
   (B)   Permit choice. If development regulations change after the time of
full application submittal, in accordance with §
153.355, and prior to the time in which the decision is made by the appropriate
authority, the applicant may choose which version of the development
requirements will apply to the application. [(G.S. § 160D-208(b))]
   (C)   A site specific vesting plan. A vested right established by a site
specific vesting plan shall run for a period of two years from the date of the
approval of the development application. For the purposes of this section, a
site specific vesting plans shall be as follows:
      (1)   A special use permit approved by the Board of Commissioners.
      (2)   Subdivision final plat approval.
   (D)   Multi-phase development plan. A multi-phase development plan is vested
for a period of seven years from the date of approval by the Board of
Commissioners. A multi-phase development plan is vested for the entire
development with the zoning and subdivision regulations in place at the time of
approval. For the purposes of this section, a multi-phase development shall
mean a development containing 15 acres or more that is submitted for
development approval to occur in more than one phase and is subject to a master
development plan with committed elements, including a requirement to offer land
for public use as a condition of approval of the master development approval
plan. Multi-phase developments shall be subject to approval as special use
permits according to §
153.363.
   (E)   Development agreement as approved by the Kill Devil Hills Board of
Commissioners according to the provisions of G.S. § 160D, Art. 10.
   (F)   The procedures for administrative development approval are set forth
in §
153.363.
   (G)   The procedures for final plat approval are established in the
Subdivision Ordinance, Chapter 152, of the Kill Devil Hills Code of Ordinances.
   (H)   The procedures for a special use permit are set forth in §
153.363.
      (1)   Each site-specific vesting plan shall include the information
required by Kill Devil Hills for approval as a special use permit.
      (2)   Each site-specific vesting plan shall follow the notice and hearing
procedures for special use permits.
      (3)   An approved site specific vesting plan and its conditions may be
amended with the approval of the applicant and Kill Devil Hills in the same
manner as required for the special use permit.
      (4)   The Kill Devil Hills Board of Commissioners may extend the vesting
period up to five years following the same notice and hearing procedures used
for the original vesting approval upon finding that:
         (a)   The permit (approval) has not yet expired;
         (b)   Conditions have not changed so substantially to warrant a new
application; and
         (c)   The extension is warranted in light of other relevant
circumstances as determined by the Board of Commissioners.
      (5)   Following the establishment of a vested right upon the approval of
a site-specific vesting plan, the Planning Director shall issue a written
statement acknowledging the vested right which describes the duration of the
vesting plan and other information deemed necessary to administer the vested
right.
      (6)   The vested right shall confer upon the landowner the right to
undertake and complete the development use of the property as established in
the site-specific vesting plan. Failure to comply with the approved terms and
conditions of the site-specific vesting plan shall result in a forfeiture of
vested rights. A vested right shall attach to and run with the land.
   (I)   Limits of site-specific vesting plans.
      (1)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the revocation of the
original approval or other remedies for failure to comply with applicable terms
and conditions of the approval of the Kill Devil Hills Zoning Ordinance. The
development remains subject to subsequent review and approvals to ensure
compliance with the terms and conditions of the original approval.
      (2)   The establishment of a vested right according to the ordinance
shall not preclude the application of overlay zoning that imposes additional
requirements but does not affect the allowable type or intensity of use, or
ordinances that are general in nature and applicable to all property subject to
land use regulations by Kill Devil Hills.
      (3)   New and amended zoning regulations that would apply except for the
vested right shall become effective upon the expiration of termination of the
vested right established by the ordinance.
      (4)   Upon issuance of a building permit, the expiration provisions of
G.S. § 160D-1111 and G.S. § 160D-1115 shall apply except that a building permit
shall not expire or be revoked because of the running of time while a zoning
vested right is outstanding.
      (5)   Any vested right for a site-specific vesting plan is subject to the
exceptions set forth in G.S. § 160D-108.1.
      (6)   Notwithstanding any provision of this section, the establishment of
a vested right under this section shall not preclude change, or impair the
authority of Kill Devil Hills to adopt and enforce development regulation
provisions governing non-conforming uses or situations.
      (7)   A sketch plan or document that fails to describe the type and
intensity of use for a specific parcel or parcels of land does not constitute a
vesting plan. A variance shall not constitute a site-specific vesting plan or a
condition of approval to secure a variance constitute a site-specific vesting
plan.
(Ord. 98-04, passed 6-22-98; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 01-04,
passed 6-27-01; Am. Ord. 02-14, passed 7-24-02; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.361 PERMIT APPLICATIONS FOR PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Single-family detached and duplex residential dwellings.
      (1)   All applications for building permits shall be accompanied by plans
in duplicate, drawn to scale, showing the actual dimensions and shape of the
lot to be built upon. The application shall include such other information as
may be required by the laws of the United States, the state, the county or this
chapter, including:
         (a)   Existing or proposed buildings or alterations;
         (b)   Existing or proposed uses of the building and land;
         (c)   The number of families, housekeeping units or rental units the
building is designed to accommodate;
         (d)   Conditions existing on the lot; and
         (e)   Any other matters which may be necessary to determine
conformance with, and provide for, the enforcement of this chapter. Any
application and supporting materials may be submitted by the official
administering this chapter to the various department supervisors of the town,
and those department supervisors shall respond to the submitting official prior
to the expiration of the building permit letting period.
      (2)   One copy of the plans shall be returned to the applicant by the
Building Inspector, after the Building Inspector and the Zoning Administrator
have marked the copy either as approved or disapproved and attested to the same
by their signatures on such copy. The second copy of the plans, similarly
marked, shall be retained by the Inspections Department.
   (B)   Multi-family, group development projects, group housing projects and
commercial buildings; generally.
      (1)   Site plans for the uses listed in this section, when listed as
permitted uses within a district, must be reviewed by the Planning Board in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter and approved by the Board of
Commissioners, including:
         (a)   Multi-family residential dwelling containing three or more
dwelling units;
         (b)   Group development projects consisting of two or more principal
buildings devoted to a common or similar use and constructed on a single lot
where permitted in the specified districts established by this chapter;
         (c)   Apartment buildings;
         (d)   Condominiums;
         (e)   Townhouses;
         (f)   Hotels, motels or motor lodges;
         (g)   Business, commercial or industrial buildings;
         (h)   Recreation or entertainment parks, centers or structures and
night clubs;
         (i)   Docks, piers, marinas and all over-the-water structures except
private over-the-water piers, boathouses and bulkheads accessory to a single-
or two-family private dwelling; and
         (j)   All other uses except single-family detached and duplex
residential dwellings.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 92-03, passed 1-22-92; Am. Ord. 01-02,
passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.362 PERMIT APPLICATIONS FOR SPECIAL USES.
   (A)   Submission. Submission of a site plan for special use shall be subject
to those requirements outlined in §§
153.355 through
153.358. The application shall indicate the section of this chapter under which
a permit is being sought and shall contain the information required by the
appropriate section and such other information as may be required to insure
compliance with this chapter.
   (B)   Prerequisite filings.
      (1)   Prior to review by the Planning Board and the placing of a site
plan upon the agenda of the Planning Board for comment, all town department
reports and recommendations shall be filed with the Planning Director.
      (2)   All evidence of applications and all supplementary, nonlocal
permits and approvals necessary for the particular project shall be filed with
the Planning Director.
      (3)   On any site containing more than ½ acre, the necessary land
disturbing permit shall have been secured, and the plans approved commensurate
with local ordinances shall be filed as a part of the application.
      (4)   If there is any change in the office of the Planning Department,
such items shall be filed with the appropriate municipal official prior to the
matter being considered and placed on the agenda of the Planning Board.
   (C)   Review. The Planning Board shall review the application for a special
use permit or other permits submitted in accordance with this procedure and
shall refer the application to the department heads and the town officials
referred to in §
153.355 for their review. These department heads and town officials designated
by the Board of Commissioners shall submit their recommendation in writing as
part of the evidentiary hearing.
   (D)   Approval process.
      (1)   A quasi-judicial hearing by the Board of Commissioners will be
required for all special use decisions.
      (2)   The Planning Board may provide preliminary forum for review of
quasi-judicial decision, provided that no part of the forum recommendation may
be used as a basis for the deciding board.
      (3)   The quasi-judicial hearing shall be conducted in accordance with
provisions of §
153.363.
      (4)   Any party may appear in person, or by agent or attorney.
      (5)   Before the Board of Commissioners may grant any special use permit,
the Board shall make affirmative findings that:
         (a)   The applicant has met the requirements of this chapter and any
other applicable ordinances and state law;
         (b)   The use will not materially endanger the public health and
safety if located where proposed and developed according to the plan as
submitted;
         (c)   The use, as proposed, will not overburden the firefighting
capabilities and the municipal water supply capacity of the town as such
facilities and capabilities will exist on the completion date of the special
use for which application is made.
   (E)   Granting special use permits. In granting any special use permit, the
Board of Commissioners may prescribe appropriate conditions and safeguards,
including time and deed limitations imposed in conformity with this chapter.
Violation of those conditions and safeguards, when made a part of the terms
under which the special use permit is granted, shall be considered a violation
of this chapter and will be punishable under §
10.99. The Board of Commissioners may prescribe a time limit within which the
action for which the special use permit is required shall be begun or
completed. Failure to comply within the time limit set shall void the special
use permit.
   (F)   Approval of special use permits. The Board of Commissioners may
approve permits for special uses in the zoning districts where such special
uses are specified by this chapter. Where additional permits are required for
group development projects in districts where such development may be allowed,
those applications for such permits shall also be processed under the
procedures of the subchapter. The Board of Commissioners may impose such
reasonable and appropriate conditions and safeguards upon these special use
permits as to ensure that the spirit and intent of this chapter is preserved
and that such special use will not adversely affect the public interest.
(Ord. 91-08, passed 11-18-91; Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 03-17,
passed 12-8-03; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 153.363 DECISION AND NOTIFICATION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Administrative.
      (1)   Planning Director or designee shall give written notice to the
landowner and applicant (if different than owner) of the determination of the
development application. The written notice shall be delivered by personal
delivery, electronic mail or first-class mail. If delivered by first class
mail, the determination shall be deemed received ten days from date of deposit
with the United States Postal Service. Electronic notification shall be deemed
received on date sent.
   (B)   Legislative.
      (1)   Shall be reviewed by the Planning Board and Board of Commissioners.
      (2)   Zoning map amendments.
         (a)   Zoning map amendment hearing notification shall be mailed via
first class mail to the owners of the affected property and all parcels of land
abutting that parcel of land at least ten days but not more than 25 days prior
to the hearing.
         (b)   The town shall prominently post the notice of a zoning map
amendment hearing on the site proposed for amendment or an adjacent public
street or highway. The notice shall be posted in the same time period as the
mailed notices.
         (c)   The town shall publish the notice of a zoning map amendment
hearing once a week for two consecutive weeks not less than ten days or more
than 25 days before the scheduled hearing date.
         (d)   The town shall post notice of a zoning map amendment hearing on
the Kill Devil Hills webpage not less than ten days or more than 25 days before
the scheduled hearing date.
         (e)   Large scale zoning map amendments of 50 lots or greater, shall
follow notification procedures as outlined in G.S. § 160D-602(b) (as amended).
      (3)   Zoning text amendments.
         (a)   The town shall publish the notice of a legislative hearing once
a week for two consecutive weeks not less than ten days or more than 25 days
before the scheduled hearing date.
         (b)   The town shall post notice of a legislative hearing on the Kill
Devil Hills webpage not less than ten days or more than 25 days before the
scheduled hearing date.
         (c)   Mailed notification are not required by North Carolina Law.
         (d)   Other notice procedures may be implemented based on the
specifics of the request and the number of properties involved in the
amendment.
   (C)   Quasi-judicial (evidentiary) hearing.
      (1)   Special use permits shall be heard by the Board of Commissioners.
The Planning Board shall provide a preliminary forum for review of special use
permits.
      (2)   Variances and appeals of administrative decisions shall be heard by
the Zoning Board of Adjustment.
      (3)   Certificates of Appropriateness shall be heard by the Historic
Landmark Comission.
      (4)   Notification of evidentiary hearing as listed above.
         (a)   Hearing notification shall be mailed via first class mail to the
owners of the affected property and all parcels of land abutting that parcel of
land at least ten days but not more than 25 days prior to the hearing. The
Board may continue a hearing that has been convened without further
notification. If an evidentiary hearing is set for a given date and a quorum of
the Board is not then present, the hearing shall be continued until the next
regular Board meeting without further advertisement.
         (b)   The town shall prominently post the notice of hearing on the
site proposed for amendment on an adjacent public street or highway right-of-
way. The notice shall be posted in the same time period as the mailed notices.
         (c)   The town shall publish the notice of a legislative hearing once
a week for two consecutive weeks not less than ten days or more than 25 days
before the scheduled hearing date.
         (d)   The town shall post notice of a legislative hearing on the Kill
Devil Hills webpage not less than ten days or more than 25 days before the
scheduled hearing date.
(Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.364 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   (A)   Governing Board. Members shall not vote on any legislative decision
regarding a development regulation adopted pursuant to this chapter where the
outcome of the matter being considered is reasonably likely to have a direct,
substantial and readily identifiable financial impact on the member. A
governing board member shall not vote on any zoning amendment if the landowner
of the property subject to a rezoning petition or the applicant for a text
amendment is a person with whom the member has a close familial, business, or
other associational relationship.
   (B)   Appointed boards. Members of appointed boards shall not vote on any
advisory or legislative decisions regarding a development regulation adopted,
pursuant to this chapter where the outcome of the matter being considered is
reasonably likely to have a direct, substantial, and readily identifiable
financial impact on the member. An appointed board member shall not vote on any
zoning amendment if the applicant is a person with whom the member shares a
close familial, business, or other associational relationship.
   (C)   Administrative staff. No staff member shall make a final decision on
an administrative decision required by the chapter if the outcome of that
decision would have a direct, substantial, and readily identifiable financial
impact on the staff member, or if the applicant or other person subject to that
decision is a person with whom the staff member has a close familial, business,
or other associational relationship. If a staff member has a conflict of
interest under this section, decision shall be assigned to the supervisor of
the staff person or such person as may be designated by the development
regulation or other ordinance. No staff member shall be financially interested
or employed by a business that is financially interested in a development
subject to regulation under this chapter unless the staff member is the owner
of the land or building involved. No staff member or other individual or an
employee of a company contracting with a local government to provide staff
support shall engage in any work that is inconsistent with his or her duties or
with the interest of the local government, as determined by the town.
   (D)   Quasi-judicial decisions. A member of any board exercising quasi-
judicial function pursuant to this chapter shall not participate in or vote on
any quasi-judicial matter in a manner that would violate the affected person's
constitutional rights to an impartial decision maker. Impermissible violations
of due process include, but are not limited to, a member having a fixed opinion
prior to hearing the matter that is not susceptible to change, undisclosed ex
parte communications, a close familial, business, or other associational
relationship with an affected person or financial interest in the outcome of
the matter.
   (E)   Resolution of objection. If an objection is raised to a board member's
participation at or prior to the hearing or vote on the matter, and that member
does not recuse himself or herself, the remaining members of the board shall,
by majority vote, rule on the objection.
   (F)   Familial relationship. For purposes of this section, a close familial
relationship means a spouse, parent, child, brother, sister, grandparent, or
grandchild. The term includes step, half, and in-law relationships.
(G.S. § 160D-109) (Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
§ 153.365 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any work or activity subject to regulations pursuant to this chapter
or other applicable local development regulations or any state law delegated to
the local government is undertaken in substantial violation of any state to
local law, or in a manner that endangers life or property, staff may order that
work or activity to be immediately stopped.
   (B)   When an activity is undertaken in violation of the development
regulations adopted pursuant to this chapter or other local development
regulations or any state law delegated to the local government for enforcement
purposes, a notice of violation can be issued in accordance with §
10.99. Notice of violation may be posted on the property.
(Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
APPENDIX A: LANDSCAPING GUIDE
   The following table shall serve as a guide for determining minimum plant
size.
Plant Material Perimeter Landscaping Areas, Abutting Vacant All Other Planting
               Lands, Fences and Berms
Plant Material Perimeter Landscaping Areas, Abutting Vacant All Other Planting
               Lands, Fences and Berms
Tree
Deciduous      1½ inches (diam.)                           2 inches (diam.)
Evergreen      5 feet (hgt)                                 8 feet (hgt)
               1½ inches (diam.)                           1½ inches (diam.)
               3 feet                                       5 feet
Shrub:
Deciduous      15 inches (hgt)                              24 inches (hgt)
Evergreen      12 inches (hgt)                              18 inches (hgt)
 
MAJOR TURF GRASSES AND GROUND COVERS
Major Turf Grasses Establishment Culture Fertilization Requirements
MAJOR TURF GRASSES AND GROUND COVERS
Major Turf Grasses  Establishment      Culture             Fertilization
                                                           Requirements
                                       Most soil types,
                                       sun/ drought
Common Bermuda      Seeding, sprigs,   resistant (will     Medium
grass               plugs, sod         turn brown, but
                                       "green-up" rapidly,
                                       pH-6.5
Hybrid Bermuda
grasses (several    Sprigs, plugs,     Sun, irrigate to
varieties - differ  March - April 15,  maintain color,     High
in cold tolerances  sod anytime        soil types pH-6.5
and leaf texture)
                    Sprigs, sod, seed                      Low (sparse nitrogen
Centipede grass     (not usually       Sun to light shade  requirements) avoid
                    successful)        pH-5.5              late summer
                                                           fertilization
                                       Sun-shade moist
St. Augustine grass Sprigs, plugs, sod soils pH-6.5 up     Medium
(Charleston grass)                     (tolerates alkaline
                                       soils)
Zoysia grass        Seed, springs slow Sun to medium       Low to medium
                    to germinate
American beach                         Sun to light shade, Medium (substantial
grass               Sprigs, plugs      salt tolerant,      nitrogen
                                       dense sand          requirements)
                                       Warm growing
Weeping love grass                     season, drought/    Low maintenance
                                       salt tolerant
 
Notes:
   (A)   Sprigging and plugging of all turf grass varieties is most successful
when accomplished between March 15 and April 15. Sod may be laid at any time,
though irrigation is essential for sod establishment during the growing season.
   (B)   The winter rye grain and fescue grass are cool-season adaptable, for
example, they can be used for overseeding permanent lawn areas for winter
color. They will not perform year round as their shallow root system cannot
tolerate the heat of our summer months.
   (C)   Ground covers can be substituted for lawn grasses. Several adaptable
plants are:
      (1)   English ivy (Hedera Helix): grows rapidly once established, needs
shade first year or two of growth, 4 inches high.
      (2)   Common periwinkle (Vinca Minor): shade, blue flower, 6 inches to 8
inches high.
      (3)   Border grasses (liriope Muscare, Ophiopogon): spreads slowly, sun
or shade, many variety species, 4 inches to 12 inches high.
      (4)   Japanese spurge (Euphorbia Japonica): shade, 8 inches high.
      (5)   Junipers (Juniperus, spp.): (same genera) sun, dry, 4 inches to 12
inches high.
      (6)   Blue fescue (Festuca, spp.): sun, will not form solid carpet.
TABLE A: DROUGHT-TOLERANT PLANTS
Botanical Name Common Name
TABLE A: DROUGHT-TOLERANT PLANTS
Botanical Name                      Common Name
Berberis thungergii                 Japanese barberry
B. X. mentorensis                   Mentor barberry
Buddleia davidii                    Butterfly bush
Chaenomeles japonica                Japanese quince
Cotinus coggygria                   Smoke bush (or smoke tree)
Elaeagnus angustifolia and pungens* Russian olive thorny eleagnus
Hamamelis virginiana                Common witch hazel
Hebe spp.                           Hebe
Hypericum spp.                      Saint-John's wort
Juniperus spp.*                     Juniper
Kolkwitzia amabilis                 Beauty bush
Ligustrum spp.                      Privet
Myrica cerifera*                    Wax myrtle
Myrtus communis                     Common myrtle
Nerium oleander                     Oleander
Pinus Thunbergi                     Japanese Black Pine
Pittosporum tobira*                 Japanese pittosporum
Potentilla fruticosa                Bush cinquefoil
Prunus maritima                     Beach plum
Punica granatum                     Pomegranate
Raphiolepis umbellata or indica     Yeddo-hawthorne, Indian hawthorne
Rhamnus spp.                        Buckthorn
Rhus spp.                           Sumac
Robinia kelseyi                     Locust
Rosa spp.                           Carolina rose, Rugosa, Cherokee, Lady
                                    Banks, Japanese rose
Rosmarinus officinalis              Rosemary
Salix tristis                       Dwarf grey willow
Santolina chamaecyparissus*         Lavender cotton
Sophora davidii                     Vetch
Tamarix sp.                         Tamarix
Vaccinium ashei                     Blueberry
Viburnum lentago                    Nannyberry
Vitex agnus-castus                  Chaste tree
Yucca aloiflia                      Spanish dagger
Yucca filamentosa                   Adams needle
Celastrus scandens                  American bittersweet
Clematis paniculata                 Sweet autumn clematis
Cotoneaster spp.                    Cotoneaster
Hibiscus syriacus                   Shrub althea
Hex glabra and opaca*               Inkberry, American holly
Hex vomitoria*                      Yaupon holly
Hex vomitoria nana*                 Dwarf yaupon
Pinus mugo                          Muhgo pine
Eunymus japonicus*                  Japanese Euonymus
Smilax spp.                         Smilax, catbriar
Spireas spp.                        Spirea
Syringa vulgaris                    Common lilac
Trachycarpus fortunei               Windmill palm
*Plants have proven to withstand salt exposure and would be appropriate for
landscaping in close proximity to the Atlantic Ocean.
 
TABLE B: DROUGHT-TOLERANT TREES, VINES AND SHRUBS
Botanical Name Common Name
Trees Tolerant of Dry Ground (Once Established)
TABLE B: DROUGHT-TOLERANT TREES, VINES AND SHRUBS
Botanical Name                Common Name
Trees Tolerant of Dry Ground (Once Established)
Albizia julibrissen           Mimosa, silk tree
Amelanchier Canadensis        Service berry
Cedrus atlantica              Atlas hackberry
Gleditsia triacanthos         Honey locust
Koelreuteria paniculata       Golden raintree
lagerstroemia indica          Crape myrtle
Malus sp. and vars.           Crab apple
Melia azedarack               Chinaberry
Morus spp.                    Mulberry
Populus sp.                   Poplar
Quercus spp.*                 Oak
Robinia sp.                   Locust
Salix pentandra               Laurel willow
Sorbus sp.                    Mountain ash
Tilia cordata                 Little leaf linden
Ulmus parvifolia              Chinese elm
Zelkova serrata               Japanese zelkova
Vines Needing Only a Moderate Amount of Water (Once Established)
Anisostichus capreolatus      Cross vine
Lonicera spp.                 Honeysuckle
Gelsemium sempervirens        Carolina Jasmine
Trachelospermum jasminoides   Confederate jasmine
Rosa banksiac                 Lady Banks rose
Polygonum aubertii            Silver lace vine
Smilax lanceolata             Greenbriar smilax
Campsis radicans              Trumpet vine
Wisteria floribunda           Japanese wisteria (white, purple, pink)
Shrubs Needing Moderate Water (Once Established)
Illicium anisatum             Japanese anise
Aucuba japonica               Japanese aucuba
Michelin figo                 Banana shrub
Callicarpa americana          Beautybush
Cortaderia selloana           Pampas grass
Euonymus spp.*                Euonymus
Pyracantha spp.               Firethorn
Jasminium floridum            Showy jasmine
Jasminum nudiforum            Winter jasmine
Prunas caroliniana            Southern cherry laurel
Mahonia bealei                Leatherleaf mahonia
Nandina domestica             Nandina
Osmanthus fragranas           Sweet olive, tea olive
Osmanthus americanus          Devilwood
Photinia glabra               Japanese photinia
Photinia scrrulata            Chinese photinia
Podocarpuse macrophyllus      Japanese yew
Lonicera fragrantissima       Winter honeysuckle
Shrubs Somewhat Drought-Resistant in Good Loamy Soil
Abelia x grandiflora          Glossy abelia
Raphiolepsis indica and vars. Indian hawthorne
Cleyera japonica              Cleyera
Ternstroemia gymnanthera
Drought-Tolerant Trees
Pyrus calleryana              Bradford pear
Sapium sebiferum              Chinese tallow tree (sometimes called "popcorn
                              tree")
Trees Moderately Drought-Tolerant
Eriobotrya japonica           Loquat
Sabal palmetto*               Cabbage palm
Cedrus deodara                Deodar cedar
Ginkgo biloba                 Maidenhair tree
Pinus spp.*                   Pines
Juniperus virginiana          Red cedar
Juniperus chinesis            Hollywood Juniper
*Plants have proven to withstand salt exposure and would be appropriate for
landscaping in close proximity to Atlantic Ocean.
 
(Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
APPENDIX B: FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY/OWNERSHIP FORM FOR SOIL EROSION AND
SEDIMENTATION CONTROL
   No person may initiate any land-disturbing activity on ½ or more contiguous
acres as covered by the soil erosion and sedimentation control ordinance before
this form and an acceptable erosion and sedimentation control plan have been
completed and approved by the Zoning Administrator of the town of Kill Devil
Hills. (Please type or print and, if question is not applicable, place N/A in
the blank.)
PART A.
1.   Project Name
                                                                                                                 
2.   Location of land-disturbing activity:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
and Highway Street
                                                                   
3.   Approximate date land-disturbing activity will be commenced:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      
4.   Purpose of development (residential, commercial, industrial and the like):
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       
5.   Approximate acreage of land to be disturbed or uncovered:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
6.   Has an erosion and sedimentation control plan been filed?
                                                     
   Yes                     No                       
7.   Person to contact should sediment control issues arise during land-
disturbing activity:
   Name                                                           
   Telephone                                                     
8.   Landowner(s) of Record (use blank page to list additional owners): Name(s)
                                                                                                                                                                       
Current Mailing Address            Current Street Address
                                                                                                                                     
City      State      Zip         City      State      Zip
9.   Recorded in Deed Book No.                                    Page No.
                                           
PART B.
1.   Person(s) or firm(s) who are financially responsible for this land-
disturbing activity (use a blank page to list additional persons or firms):
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               
Name of Person(s) or Firm(s)
                                                                                                                                    
Mailing Address               Street Address
                                                                                                                                     
City      State      Zip         City      State      Zip
                                                                                                                                     
Telephone                  Telephone
2.   (a)   If the Financially Responsible Party is not a resident of North
Carolina, give name and street address of the North Carolina Registered Agent.
                                                                                                                                          
Name
                                                                                                                                     
Mailing Address               Street Address
                                                                                                                                     
City      State      Zip         City      State      Zip
                                                                                                                                     
Telephone                  Telephone
(b)   If the Financially Responsible Party is a Partnership, give the name and
street address of each General Partner (use blank sheet to list additional
partners). If the Financially Responsible Party is a Corporation, give name and
street address of the Registered Agent.
                                                                                                                                           
Name
                                                                                                                                     
Mailing Address               Street Address
                                                                                                                                     
City      State      Zip         City      State      Zip
                                                                                                                                      
Telephone                  Telephone
The above information is true and correct to the best of my knowledge and
belief and was provided by me under oath. (This form must be signed by the
financially responsible person if an individual or his attorney-in-fact; or if
not an individual, by an officer, director, partner or registered agent with
authority to execute instruments for the financially responsible person.) I
agree to provide corrected information should there be any change in the
information provided herein.
                                                                                                                                      
Type or print name               Title or Authority
                                                                                                                                     
Signature                  Date
I,                   , a Notary Public of the County of           , State of
North Carolina, hereby certify that                                     
appeared personally before me this day and being duly sworn acknowledged that
the above form was executed by him.
Witness my hand and notarial seal, this           day of                
20       .
            SEAL                                       
                              Notary
                              My commission expires:                   
(Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
APPENDIX C: SIGN ILLUSTRATIONS
   The following pages contain calculations of several signs that are permitted
in the town of Kill Devil Hills.
Shopping Center/Office Complex Signs/Primary Areas
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/9d3451f5ef75ecb3c1c713f59602788c50a4c62f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5803.jpg]
 
Shopping Center/Office Complex Signs/Secondary Areas
or
Commercial Zone and Light Industrial Zone Signs on the Building
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/9d3451f5ef75ecb3c1c713f59602788c50a4c62f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5806.jpg]
 
Free-Standing Sign
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/9d3451f5ef75ecb3c1c713f59602788c50a4c62f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5809.jpg]
 
Banners
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/9d3451f5ef75ecb3c1c713f59602788c50a4c62f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5812.jpg]
 
Temporary Message Board(For Emergencies)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/9d3451f5ef75ecb3c1c713f59602788c50a4c62f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-5815.jpg]
 
(Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
APPENDIX D: ZONING AMENDMENT APPLICATION
KILL DEVIL HILLS
ZONING AMENDMENT APPLICATION
Name                                                               
Address                                                      
Explanation of request                                      
                                                       
Present zoning classification
                                                   
Zoning change request                                                      
Applicable request as set out in
                                                          
We understand a Planning Board action will be in accordance with site plan
procedure section         . We also understand §
153.039  requires a fee as adopted and amended from time to time by the Board
of Commissioners plus associated procedural costs shall be paid to the town
with the application.
We attach the following data for review:
1)   Legal description of property
2)               Application fee
3)   15 copies of current tax map
4)   15 copies of boundary survey
Please make check in the amount of                payable to the Town of Kill
Devil Hills.
                                                                                                                        
Signature of Applicant      Date of application
(Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
APPENDIX E: FORMS
Application No. ___________                     Form 1
TOWN OF KILL DEVIL HILLS
STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA
APPEAL FROM AN ACTION OF THE ZONING ADMINISTRATOR
and/or PETITION FOR AN INTERPRETATION OF THE ZONING
ORDINANCE and/or
APPLICATION FOR A VARIANCE
                                                       
   Month                 Day                Year
TO THE KILL DEVIL HILLS BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT:
I, __________________________________________, hereby appeal to the Board of
Adjustment from the following adverse decision of a Zoning Administrator of the
Planning Department:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
This adverse decision was made with respect to property described in the
attached form entitled "Application for a Hearing."
I, __________________________________________, hereby request an interpretation
of:
( ) the zoning map
( ) the following section(s) of the text of the ordinance:
                                                                                                                                                                         
insofar as the map and/or the ordinance relates to the use of the property
described in the attached form entitled "Application for a Hearing."
STATEMENT BY APPELLANT: (In the space provided below, or on the back of this
form, present your interpretation of the ordinance provisions in question and
state what reasons you have for believing that your interpretation is the
correct one. In addition, state what facts you are prepared to prove to the
board of adjustment that should lead the board to conclude that the decision of
the zoning administrator was erroneous.)
STATEMENT BY THE PLANNING DEPARTMENT STAFF:
(1) Staff believes that the ordinance sections in question should be
interpreted as follows:
(2) The reasons for the above stated interpretation are as follows:
(3) Based upon this interpretation of the ordinance, Appellant was denied a
permit. For the following reasons, based upon the following facts which Staff
is prepared to demonstrate to the Board of Adjustment, the decision of the
Zoning Administrator should be upheld:
I certify that all of the information presented by me in this application is
accurate to the best of my knowledge, information and belief.
                                                      
                        Signature of Applicant
See Attachments
(Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
                                    Form 2
TOWN OF KILL DEVIL HILLS
STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA
ORDER INTERPRETING THE ZONING ORDINANCE
The Board of Adjustment for the town of Kill Devil Hills, having held a public
hearing on ______________ to consider application number ________ submitted by
                                                                       
a request for an interpretation of (the zoning map) (Section(s) ________ of the
zoning ordinance) insofar as the map and/or the ordinance affect the use of the
property located at                                             and
having heard all of the evidence and arguments presented at the hearing, makes
the following FINDINGS OF FACT and draws the following CONCLUSIONS:
   1. There was substantial evidence in the record to show the following FACTS:
   2.   (a) The resolution of this case depends solely upon an interpretation
of the ordinance language, without regard to the particular facts of this case.
Therefore, it is the Board of Adjustment's CONCLUSION that the following
section or provisions of the ordinance shall in this case and hereafter be
interpreted as follows:
   or
      (b) The resolution of this case depends upon an interpretation of words
or phrases in the ordinance that can only be interpreted in the light of a
particular factual context. Consequently, for purposes of this case only, and
for the following reasons, it is the board of adjustment's CONCLUSION that the
ordinance language in question shall be interpreted in the following manner:
   The following facts and conclusions are set forth on an attached sheet to
this order identified as:
   THEREFORE, IT IS ORDERED that the decision of the Zoning Administrator is
hereby
      ( ) Affirmed
      ( ) Reversed
      ( ) Modified as follows:
                                                                                   
   In addition, IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that the following action be taken:
Ordered this ____ day of ____________, 20___ .
                                                                                  
                        Chairman
                                                       
   Secretary
   NOTE:If you are dissatisfied with the decision of this Board, an appeal may
be taken to the Superior Court of Dare County within thirty (30) days from
after a written copy of the decision is mailed to him in accordance with the
Rules of Civil Procedure. See Section 153.327 of the Kill Devil Hills Town
Code.
(Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
Application No. ___________                        Form 3
TOWN OF KILL DEVIL HILLS
STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA
APPLICATION FOR A VARIANCE
Month                    Day                Year
TO THE KILL DEVIL HILLS BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT:
   I/we ___________________________________________, hereby petition the Board
of Adjustment for a variance from the literal provisions of the Kill Devil
Hills zoning ordinance because, under the interpretation given to me by the
Zoning Administrator, I am prohibited from using the parcel of land described
in the attached form ("Application for a Hearing") in a manner shown by the
site plan attached to that form. I request a variance from the following
provisions of the ordinance (cite paragraph numbers):
so that the above mentioned property can be used in a manner indicated by the
site plan attached to the "Application for a Hearing" form, or if the site plan
does not adequately reveal the nature of the variance, as more fully described
herein (if variance is requested for limited time only specify duration
requested):
FACTORS RELEVANT TO THE ISSUANCE OF A VARIANCE:
   The Board of Adjustment does not have unlimited discretion in deciding
whether to grant a variance. Under the state enabling act, the Board of
Adjustment is required to reach three (3) conclusions as a prerequisite to the
issuance of a variance: (a) that there are practical difficulties or
unnecessary hardships in the way of carrying out the strict letter of the
ordinance, (b) that the variance is in harmony with the general purposes and
intent of the ordinances and preserves its spirit, and (c) that in granting of
the variance the public safety and welfare have been assured and substantial
justice has been done. In the spaces provided below, indicate the facts that
you intend to show and the arguments that you intend to make to convince the
board of adjustment that it can properly reach these three (3) required
conclusions.
A. THERE ARE PRACTICAL DIFFICULTIES OR UNNECESSARY HARDSHIPS IN THE WAY OF
CARRYING OUT THE STRICT LETTER OF THE ORDINANCE. The courts have developed
three (3) rules to determine whether in a particular situation "practical
difficulties or unnecessary hardships" exist. State facts and arguments in
support of each of the following:
   (1) If he complies with the provisions of the ordinance, the property owner
can secure no reasonable return from, or make no reasonable use of, his
property. (It is not sufficient that failure to grant the variance simply makes
the property less valuable.)
   
Staff comment:
   (2) The hardship of which the applicant complains results from unique
circumstances related to the Applicant's land. (Note: hardships suffered by the
applicant in common with his neighbors do not justify a variance. Also, unique
personal or family hardships are irrelevant since a variance, if granted, runs
with the land.)
Staff comment:
   (3) The hardship is not the result of the Applicant's own actions.
Staff comment:
B. THE VARIANCE IS IN HARMONY WITH THE GENERAL PURPOSE AND INTENT OF THE
ORDINANCE AND PRESERVES ITS SPIRIT. (State facts and arguments to show that the
variance requested represents the least possible deviation from the letter of
the ordinance that will allow a reasonable use of the land and that the use of
the property, if the variance is granted, will not substantially detract from
the character of the neighborhood.)
Staff comment:
C. THE GRANTING OF THE VARIANCE SECURES THE PUBLIC SAFETY AND WELFARE AND DOES
SUBSTANTIAL JUSTICE. (State facts and arguments to show that, on balance, if
the variance is denied, the benefit to the public will be substantially
outweighed by the harm suffered by the applicant.)
Staff comment:
Date:______________                                             
                        Signature of Applicant
Attach any additional information necessary for a proper consideration of this
application.
(Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
                                    Form 4
TOWN OF KILL DEVIL HILLS
STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA
ORDER GRANTING/DENYING A VARIANCE
   The Board of Adjustment for the town of Kill Devil Hills, having held a
public hearing on _________ to consider application number ________, submitted
by
                                                                                      
a request for a VARIANCE to use the property located at:
in a manner not permissible under the literal terms of the ordinance, and
having heard all of the evidence and arguments presented at the hearing, makes
the following FINDINGS OF FACT and draws the following CONCLUSIONS.
   1.   It is the Board of Adjustment's CONCLUSION that, if the Applicant
complies with the literal terms of the ordinance, specifically section(s)
________, he (can/cannot) secure a reasonable return from, or make reasonable
use of, his property. This conclusion is based on the following FINDINGS OF
FACTS:
   2.    It is the Board of Adjustment's CONCLUSION that the hardship of which
the applicant complains (results/does not result) from unique circumstances
related to the applicant's land. This conclusion is based on the following
FINDINGS OF FACT:
   3.    It is the Board of Adjustment's CONCLUSION that the hardship is not
the result of the Applicant's own actions. This conclusion is based on the
following FINDINGS OF FACT:
   4.    It is the Board of Adjustment's CONCLUSION that, if granted, the
variance (will/will not) be in harmony with the general purpose and intent of
the ordinance and (will/will not) preserve its spirit. This conclusion is based
upon all of the FINDINGS OF FACT listed above, as well as the following:
   5.    It is the Board of Adjustment's CONCLUSION that, if granted, the
variance (will/will not) secure the public safety welfare and (will/will not)
do substantial justice. This conclusion is based upon all of the FINDINGS OF
FACTS listed above, as well as the following:
   THEREFORE, based upon all of the foregoing, IT IS ORDERED that the
application for a variance be (GRANTED/DENIED), subject to the following
conditions:   
Ordered this ______ day of _______________ , 20_______ .
                                                                                Chairman
                  
Secretary
   NOTE:   If you are dissatisfied with the decision of this Board, an appeal
may be taken to the Superior Court of Dare County within thirty (30) days from
the date of the filing of the order or the date of delivery of the order to the
applicant whichever is later. See Section 153.327 of the Kill Devil Hills Town
Code.
(Am. Ord. 01-02, passed 2-28-01; Am. Ord. 18-4, passed 6-14-21)
APPENDIX F: NONCONFORMITIES WORKSHEET
Nonconformities Worksheet
MINIMUM POINT REQUIREMENTS FOR INDIVIDUAL SECTIONS:
Dimensional:            3
Lighting:            1
Stormwater:            10
Landscaping & Architectural:      5
Access & Parking:         11
USE OF THIS CHECKLIST
Ordinance Required ("Required") points are all "C" and "C*" which apply to a
  specific site.
Total Possible Ordinance Required Points vary by zone and size of site.
"C" - Compliant: designates items which are ordinance regulations
"C*" - Compliant additional: designates items which are ordinance
  requirements for certain sites and zones
"O" - Optional: designates items whose point totals are optional items which
  may be used to offset non-compliant elements
  Minimum Point Totals must be met in each category. New non-conformities shall
  not be created. Improvements shall be made in each category unless site is
deemed "compliant" in that section with the exception of setbacks and height.
  Compliant status shall be when the site point totals equal or exceed the
  total of all ordinance required "C" and "C*" items.
DOCUMENTATION REQUIRED TO RECEIVE CREDIT FOR    NOTES
CHECKLIST ITEMS
Documentation should be submitted to the
  Planning Department
  Providing a "Signature" as documentation for
  a checklist item indicates that the party
signing is accepting responsibility that the
  item has been completed in full and that all
  reasonable care has been taken to meet the
  stated intent of that checklist item.
Requirements                           Points   Documentation
    Must comply with all federal,
    state and local government
    requirements in place at the time
  1 of construction of the building    Required Plans (site and floor)
    and/or site including but not
    limited to: NC Building Code,
    local development regulations and
    other local regulations.
    Site survey of as-built conditions
  2 including but not limited to all   Required Survey prepared and sealed by a
    site features, lot coverage, and            North Carolina licensed PLS
    flood zone
    Points are not awarded for
    correcting violations; only for
  3 improvements to zoning
    nonconformities (see definitions
    153.002)
 
Dimensional (minimum 3 points) Pts Score                   Documentation
                                   Required Exist Proposed
Setbacks
C  1  Front Yard Setback in    2
      compliance, or
      Front Yard Setback
   2  encroachment less than   1                           Survey
      20, or
      Front Yard Setback
   3  encroachment greater     0
      than 20%
C  4  Side/Corner Yard Setback 2                           Survey
      in compliance
C  5  Rear Yard Setback in     2                           Survey
      compliance
C* 6  Accessory structures in  1
      compliance with setbacks
Height
      Building Height in
C  7  compliance w/Zoning      2                           Height Certification
      District
Lot Coverage
      Lot coverage in
   8  compliance with Zoning   10
      District, or
      Lot coverage exceeded by
   9  less than 10 percentage  5
C     points, or                                           Survey
      Lot coverage exceeded by
   10 10-20 percentage points, 2
      or
      Lot coverage exceeded by
   11 more than 20 percentage  0
      points
Subtotal for Dimensional
section (min 3 pts)
 
 
Lighting (minimum 1 point)            Pts Score                   Documentation
                                          Required Exist Proposed
  1 Lighting in compliance with       2
    153.074
C 2 Lighting less than allowable      1                           Light survey
    levels
  3 Lighting exceeds allowable levels 0
Subtotal for Lighting section (min 1
pts)
 
Storm Water (minimum 10 points)    Pts Score                   Documentation
                                       Required Exist Proposed
C 1 Ten-year, 2-hr storm (4.3")    15
    contained on site
    Greater than 75% of ten-year,
  2 2-hr storm contained on site,  10
    or
  3 51-75% of ten-year, 2-hr storm 5                           PE Certification
    contained on site, or
  4 25-50% of ten-year, 2-hr storm 2
    contained on site, or
  5 less than 25% of ten-year, 2-  0
    hr storm contained on site
    Rainwater harvested and
O 6 directed toward landscaping    2                           PE Certification
    needs.
    Install rain gardens, pocket
O 7 wetlands, or other storm water 3                           PE Certification
    quality measures to treat the
    first 1/2" of runoff
    Install rain gardens, pocket
O 8 wetlands, or other storm water 5                           PE Certification
    quality measures to treat the
    first 1" of runoff
Subtotal for Storm Water section
(min 10 pts)
 
Landscaping & Architectural     Pts Score                   Documentation
(minimum 5 points)                  Required Exist Proposed
     Required buffers are in
C* 1 place and meet opacity     5                           Survey
     standards (if applicable)
C  2 Perimeter landscaping per  5                           Survey
     153.073
     Interior landscape islands
C* 3 provided if parking count  5                           Survey
     exceeds 40 spaces (if
     applicable)
     Interior landscape islands
O  4 provided where parking     2
     count does not exceed 40
     spaces
     Landscape includes
O  5 diversity (8-10 species    2                           Landscape Plan
     min.) of native drought-
     tolerant vegetation
     Commercial building
C* 6 exterior standards are met 3                           Architectural Plans
     in the commercial zone (if
     applicable)
     Commercial building
O  7 exterior standards are met 5                           Architectural Plans
     in any other zone
Subtotal for Landscaping & Arch
(min 5 pts)
 
Access & Parking (minimum 11 points)  Pts Score                   Documentation
                                          Required Exist Proposed
C  1  Parking is in compliance with   15
      153.076, or
   2  80% or greater of required      10
      parking is provided, or
   3  61-80% of required parking is   5                           Survey
      provided, or
   4  40-60% of required parking is   2
      provided, or
   5  Less than 40% of required       0
      parking is provided
C* 6  Sidewalk provided along public  5                           Survey
      right-of-way (if applicable)
C  7  Sight triangles provided per    3                           Survey
      Town requirements
C* 8  No access is permitted on US    10                          Survey
      158 (if applicable)
      Right in/ right out access only
O  9  is permitted on US 158 (if      5                           Survey
      applicable)
      Direct full service access to
   10 US 158 when side street is      0                           Survey
      available
C* 11 Curbing is provided for drive   2                           Survey
      radii
Subtotal of points for Access &
Parking (min 11 pts)
 
 
PROJECT SUMMARY               Required Existing Proposed
Total Overall Scores for Site
 
(Ord. 07-18, passed 10-24-07)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   HISTORIC LANDMARKS
      
II.   ANNEXATIONS
TABLE I: HISTORIC LANDMARKS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
06-07    4-26-06     All of the property located at 214 East Palmetto Street is
                     designated as a local historic landmark.
06-21    9-11-06     Hall House located at 2401 N. Virginia Dare Trail is
                     designated as a local historic landmark.
06-27    12-11-06    Stick-Small House located at 1517/1519 N. Virginia Dare
                     Trail is designated as a local historic landmark.
                     Sawyer-Turk-Cheshire House located at 2013/2015 N.
06-28    12-11-06    Virginia Dare Trail is designated as a local historic
                     landmark.
07-09    6-11-07     Poulos-Kiger House located at 2309 North Virginia Dare
                     Trail is designated as a local historic landmark.
07-20    12-10-07    The Cherokee located at 500 North Virginia Dare Trail is
                     designated as a local historic landmark.
08-19    8-11-08     Stick-Roebuck House located at 1521/1523 North Virginia
                     Dare Trail is designated as a local historic landmark.
08-20    8-17-08     Owens House located at 1409 South Virginia Dare Trail is
                     designated as a local historic landmark.
08-29    10-13-08    Parker-Creech House located at 1502 North Virginia Dare
                     Trail is designated as a local historic landmark.
09-10    7-13-09     Edwards Cottage located at 2001 South Virginia Dare Trail
                     is designated as a local historic landmark.
09-11    7-13-09     Spitzer-Weinberg House located at 2701 North Virginia Dare
                     Trail is designated as a local historic landmark.
09-15    9-14-09     Z.A. Harris Cottage located at 1413B North Virginia Dare
                     Trail is designated as a local historic landmark.
09-16    10-12-09    Pappendick-Heath Houses located at 302 North Virginia Dare
                     Trail is designated as a local historic landmark.
09-20    11-9-09     Brothers Cottage located at 1211B South Virginia Dare
                     Trail is designated as a local historic landmark.
09-21    11-9-09     Mardre-Woolard Cottage located at 1229 South Virginia Dare
                     Trail is designated as a local historic landmark.
09-22    11-9-09     Green Cottage located at 1233 South Virginia Dare Trail is
                     designated as a local historic landmark.
10-11    7-12-10     McCandless Cottage located at 2007 New Bern Street is
                     designated as a local historic landmark.
10-16    9-13-10     Ruth-Miller Cottage located at 1235 South Virginia Dare
                     Trail is designated as a local historic landmark.
10-17    9-13-10     Johnston/Whitt Cottage located at 2041 Virginia Dare Trail
                     is designated as a local historic landmark.
10-18    10-11-10    Powell-Stokes Cottage located at 1207 South Virginia Dare
                     Trail is designated as a local historic landmark.
10-22    11-10-10    Boyette Cottage located at 1303 South Virginia Dare Trail
                     is designated as a local historic landmark.
10-23    11-10-10    Austin Cottage located at 1307 South Virginia Dare Trail
                     is designated as a local historic landmark.
11-23    11-14-11    Birdsong/Phelan Cottage located at 1825 North Virginia
                     Dare Trail is designated as a local historic landmark.
11-24    11-14-11    Perry/Jennette Cottage located at 1614 North Virginia Dare
                     Trail is designated as a local historic landmark.
13-19    11-13-13    White Cottage located at 2400 North Virginia Dare Trail as
                     a local historic landmark.
14-20    12-8-14     Beveridge/Weyl Cottage located at 1311/1313 North Virginia
                     Dare Trail is designated as a local historic landmark.
14-21    12-8-14     Christensen/Small Cottage located at 2021 South Virginia
                     Dare Trail designated as a local historic landmark.
15-9     12-14-15    Perry/Owens Cottage located at 2019 South Virginia Dare
                     Trail is designated as a local historic landmark.
15-10    12-14-15    Young/Croarkin Cottage located at 201 Random Street is
                     designated as a local historic landmark.
15-21    12-12-16    Smith Cottage located at 2306 Virginia Dare Trail is
                     designated as a local historic landmark.
15-22    12-12-16    Hayman House located at 418 West Hayman Boulevard is
                     designated as a local historic landmark.
                     Powell-Stokes Cottage located at 1207 South Virginia Dare
15-29    4-10-17     Trail is designated as a local historic landmark
                     (revised).
16-9     12-11-17    Reisse Cottage located at 2807 North Virginia Dare Trail
                     is designated as a local historic landmark.
16-10    12-11-17    Coggins/Lassiter Cottages located at 501 South Virginia
                     Dare Trail is designated as a local historic landmark.
17-13    12-9-19     Brightbill-Jensen Cottage located at 202 East Arch Street
                     is designated as a local historic landmark.
17-14    12-9-19     Savage Cottage located at 2043 Norfolk Street is
                     designated as a local historic landmark.
19-1     12-13-21    Wolcott Cottage located at 3208 North Virginia Dare Trail
                     is designated as a local historic landmark.
                    
 
TABLE II: ANNEXATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
09-23    12-14-09    Annexing the territory formerly known as the Wittle Tract.
09-24    12-14-09    Annexing Lot 1A of the Pine Grove Subdivision.
17-26    11-9-20     Annexing Plat Cabinet B, Slide 377; Lot 3; and Revised
                     Wetlands Plat of Lot 4 of the Pine Grove Subdivision.
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to North Carolina General Statutes
References to 1988 Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUTES
G.S. Cite Code Section
G.S. Cite                Code Section
1A-1, Rule 4             153.071
Ch. 7A                   151.44
Ch. 14                   130.01
                         10.99,
                         93.08,
                         94.04,  
14-4                     96.26,
                         115.99,
                         130.02,
                         150.07,
                         153.079
                         112.15,
Ch. 14, Art. 26          112.16,
                         112.19
                         112.15,
Ch. 14, Art. 26A         112.16,
                         112.19
                         112.15,
Ch. 14, Art. 27          112.16,
                         112.19
14-288.1(2)              33.07
14-288.8(c)(5)           33.07
14-409.39(2)             33.07
Ch. 14, Art. 54B         130.60
14-415.11(c)             130.60
14-415.23                130.60
15A-401                  32.27
18B-1001                 118.01
Ch. 20                   96.22,
                         96.26
20-4.01                  70.01
20-4.01(13)              90.02
20-4.01(27)              96.21
20-4.01(32)              72.07
20-87(4)                 115.01
20-97                    115.26
20-135.2(a)              115.08
20-137.1                 115.08
20-140.4                 73.03
20-141.1                 71.18
20-145 et seq.           71.17
20-146.1                 73.03
20-155 – 20-158        71.14
20-156                   71.14
20-158                   71.25
20-161                   72.03
20-162                   72.01
20-168                   70.05
20-171                   70.06
20-219.09 – 20- 219.14 72.42
20-219.10                90.08
20-219.11                90.08
20-280                   115.04
47-30                    152.28
Ch. 47C                  153.002
Ch. 62                   115.01
67-4.1                   94.20
74-24.1 et seq.          150.22
74-46 et seq.            150.22
74-49(6)                 150.22
Ch. 75, Art. 7           153.071
77-20                    96.02
                         150.21,
87-100 et seq.           150.22,
                         150.28
90-95.2                  32.01
Ch. 93B                  110.10,
                         110.11
99E-25                   130.78
105-109                  110.32
105-302                  130.02
110-86(3)                153.002
Ch. 113A, Art. 4         152.38
113A-1 et seq.           153.071
113A-50 et seq.          150.23,
                         153.002
113A-56(a)               153.071
113A-57(2)               153.071
113A-57(3)               153.071
113A-61(c)               153.071
113A-61.1                153.071
113A-64                  153.002,
                         153.071
113A-64(b)               153.071
Ch. 115C, Art. 21A       32.23
121-5                    110.17,
                         110.31
Ch. 130, Art. 13C        152.38
Ch. 130A, Art. 9         151.01
130A-185                 94.01
130A-199                 94.19
130A-290(a)(6)           151.01
130A- 290(a)(35)         151.01
130A- 290(a)(36)         151.01
131D-6(b)                153.002
136-66.4                 150.21,
                         150.28
136-140.15               153.002
136-143                  90.10
Ch. 139                  153.002
Ch. 143, Art. 8          30.23
Ch. 143, Art. 21, Part 6 151.02
Ch. 143, Art. 33C        30.02,
                         31.43
143-129(a)               30.23
143-129(f)               30.23
143-129(g)               30.23
143-138                  150.07
143-138(h)               150.07
143-143.15               151.26
143-215.58               151.43,
                         151.99
143-318                  31.22
143-318.10               30.02
150B-14(c)               153.002
150B-18 et seq.          153.002
153-123                  50.04
153A, Art. 6             151.02
153A-123                 50.04
153A-212                 32.01
153A-301                 52.25
153A-323                 152.56
Ch. 160A, Art. 8         151.02 ,
                         152.02
Ch. 160A, Art. 12        30.22
160A-1                   Charter § 1-2
160A-64                  Charter §
                         2.4
160A-76                  150.07
160A-77                  70.02
160A-147                 Charter §
                         4.1
160A-148                 30.21
160A-172                 Charter §
                         5.2
160A-174 et seq.         150.07
                         10.99,
                         52.25,
                         96.22,
160A-175                 130.02,
                         130.99,
                         150.07,
                         153.079
160A-175(d)              110.32
160A-188                 94.03
160A-193                 93.06,
                         93.08
160A-194                 150.28
160A-200.1               93.03,
                         93.07
160A-205                 96.22
160A-207                 110.32
160A-217                 91.46,
                         91.49
160A-217(a)              Charter §
                         7.1
160A-266(c)              30.22
160A-288                 32.01,
                         32.04
160A-288.2               32.01
160A-296                 150.28
160A-296(a)              150.21
160A-296(a)(3)           Charter §
                         6.1
160A-299                 91.32
160A-300                 71.25
160A-301(a)              Charter §
                         6.1
160A-311                 52.25
160A-417                 150.02
Ch. 160D                 31.43
160D, Art. 7             151.02
160D, Art. 9             151.02
160D, Art. 10            153.360
160D, Art. 11            151.02
160D-108                 153.002,
                         153.360
160D-108.1               153.360
160D-109                 153.364
160D-110 et seq.         150.07
160D-208(b)              153.360
160D-301                 31.04,
                         153.001
160D-302                 31.60
160D-303                 31.40
160D-304                 31.20
160D-403                 150.30
160D-405                 153.321
                         31.43,
160D-406                 153.321,
                         153.322
160D-406(g)              153.324
160D-406(k)              153.355
160D-602(b)              153.363
160D-605                 153.038
160D-802                 152.59
160D-932                 153.117
160D-1104                150.06
160D-1104 et seq.        150.07
160D-1104(c) - (f)       150.06
160D-1111                153.360
160D-1113                150.05,
                         150.30
160D-1115                153.360
160D-1117                150.05
160D-1119                150.07
160D-1402                153.322
160D-1402(c)             153.322
160D-1403                152.28
Ch. 163                  30.04
                         Charter §
163-292                  3.1,
                         30.04
163-302                  30.04
166A-19.22               33.01
                         
 
REFERENCES TO 1988 CODE
1988 Code Section 2002 Code Section
1988 Code Section 2002 Code Section
4-1               150.01
4-2               150.02
4-3               150.03
4-4               150.04
4-41              150.05
4-42              150.05
4-61              150.07
4-62              150.07
4-81              150.20
4-82              150.21
4-83              150.22
4-84              150.23
4-85              150.24
4-86              150.25
4-87              150.26
4-88              150.27
4-89              150.28
4-90              150.29
5-1               33.01
5-2               33.04
5-3               33.05
5-4               33.06
5-5               33.07
5-6               33.08
5-7               33.09
5-8               33.10
5-9               33.11
5-10              33.12
5-11              33.13
5-12              33.14
11-1              70.01
11-2              70.02
11-3              70.03
11-4              70.04
11-5              70.05
11-6              70.06
11-7              71.01
11-8              71.02
11-9              71.03
11-10             71.04
11-11             71.05
11-12             71.06
11-13             71.07
11-14             71.08
11-31             70.20
11-32             70.21
11-33             70.22
11-34             70.23
11-35             70.24
11-51             71.09
11-52             71.10
11-53             71.11
11-54             71.12
11-55             71.13
11-56             71.14
11-57             71.15
11-58             71.16
11-59             71.17
11-60             71.18
11-61             71.19
11-62             71.20
11-64             71.21
11-81             73.01
11-82             73.02
11-83             73.03
11-84             73.04
11-85             73.05
11-101            72.01
11-102            72.02
11-103            72.03
11-104            72.04
11-105            72.05
11-106            72.06
11-107            72.07
11-121            72.20
11-122            72.21
11-123            72.22
11-124            72.23
11-125            72.24
11-126            72.25
11-134            72.40
11-135            70.99
11-136            72.41
11-137            72.42
12-1              93.01
12-2              93.02
12-3              93.03
12-41             93.04
12-43             93.06
12-44             93.08
13-1              130.01
13-3              130.03
13-4              130.04
13-5              130.05
13-6              130.06
13-7              130.07
13-8              130.08
13-60             130.40
13-61             130.41
13-62             130.42
13-63             130.43
13-64             130.43
13-65             130.44
13-66             130.45
13-67             130.46
13-68             130.99
13-69             130.47
13-79             130.60
13-80             130.61
13-81             130.62
14-1              92.01
14-2              92.02
14-3              92.03
14-26             92.15
14-27             92.16
14-28             92.17
14-29             92.18
14-30             92.19
14-31             92.20
14-32             92.21
14-42             93.05
14-51             92.35
14-52             92.36
14-53             92.37
14-54             92.38
14-55             92.39
14-56             92.40
15-26             31.01
15-27             31.02
15-28             31.03
15-29             31.04
15-49             31.23
15-51             31.24
16-1              32.01
16-2              32.02
16-3              32.03
16-4              32.04
16-5              32.05
16-20             32.20
16-21             32.21
16-22             32.22
16-23             32.23
16-24             32.24
16-25             32.25
16-26             32.26
16-27             32.27
18-3              91.01
18-26             91.15
18-27             91.16
18-28             91.17
18-29             91.18
18-46             91.30
18-61             91.31
18-62             91.32
18-63             91.33
18-64             91.34
18-65             91.35
18-81             91.45
18-82             91.46
18-83             91.47
18-84             91.48
18-85             91.49
18-86             91.50
18-87             91.51
18-88             91.52
18-89             91.53
18-90             91.54
18-91             91.55
18-106            150.40
18-107            150.41
18-108            150.42
18-109            150.43
18-110            150.44
18-111            150.45
18-112            150.46
18-113            150.47
18-114            150.48
18-115            150.49
18-116            150.50
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
                     30.01 
        - -         30.06,
                     30.20-
                     30.23
                     32.01 
        - -         32.05,
                     32.20-
                     32.27
                     51.01 
                     51.07,
        - -         51.21 -
                     51.25,
                     51.35-
                     51.41
                     52.01,
                     52.02,
        - -         52.15-
                     52.25,
                     52.99
        12-9-75     31.02 
                     31.04
        7-12-77     71.08
        6-26-79     72.01
        1-8-80      31.02,
                     31.03
        2-23-82     31.02,
                     31.03
        6-8-82      130.01
        8-11-82     91.17
        12-14-82    31.02,
                     31.03
        12-14-82    91.16,
                     91.18
                     150.40,
        4-18-83     150.41,
                     150.45-
                     150.50
                     93.01 
        11-9-83     93.06,
                     93.08
        6-11-84     150.47
        8-31-84     31.02,
                     31.03
        5-13-85     91.32
        12-9-85     91.17
        1-12-87     91.34,
                     91.35
        8-11-87     71.21
                     150.01 
                     150.05,
        12-14-87    150.07,
                     150.20-
                     150.29
90-02    3-12-90     31.02
91-01    5-13-91     150.07
                     153.001 
                     153.004,
                     153.020-
                     153.023,
                     153.035-
                     153.038,
                     153.050-
                     153.053,
                     153.055,
                     153.056,
                     153.058,
                     153.059,
                     153.070-
                     153.074,
                     153.076,
                     153.077,
                     153.081,
                     153.082,
                     153.095-
                     153.099,
                     153.101-
                     153.104,
                     153.117-
91-08    11-18-91    153.120,
                     153.122-
                     153.124,
                     153.135,
                     153.137,
                     153.138-
                     153.144,
                     153.155-
                     153.164,
                     153.175-
                     153.180,
                     153.182,
                     153.183,
                     153.186,
                     153.205,
                     153.207-
                     153.214,
                     153.225-
                     153.234 ,
                     153.312,  
                     153.350-
                     153.358,
                     153.361,
                     153.362
                     130.40 
92-01    1-13-92     130.47,
                     130.99
92-03    1-22-92     153.359,
                     153.361
92-05    5-1-92      153.038
92-06    5-11-92     153.357
92-12    7-22-92     153.077
                     70.01,
                     70.02,
92-13    8-26-92     72.01,
                     72.05,
                     72.06
93-01    2-8-93      153.351,
                     153.357
93-02    3-8-93      153.227
93-06    6-14-93     153.002,
                     153.177
                     70.99,
                     72.01,
93-09    7-12-93     72.07,
                     72.25,
                     72.40-
                     72.42
93-10    9-13-93     31.02,
                     31.03
                     153.050 
                     153.053,
93-11    9-13-93     153.055,
                     153.056,
                     153.058,
                     153.059
                     93.01 
93-13    12-13-93    93.06,
                     93.08
                     115.01 
                     115.09,
                     115.20-
93-14    12-13-93    115.28,
                     115.40-
                     115.47,
                     115.99
94-01    1-26-94     153.002,
                     153.176
94-02    2-14-94     153.077
                     33.01,
94-04    3-14-94     33.04 
                     33.14
94-05    4-11-94     153.077
94-06    4-11-94     153.022,
                     153.077
94-07    6-27-94     115.01
94-12    9-12-94     93.01
95-01    2-13-95     71.06
95-03    5-8-95      115.45
95-08    7-10-95     115.41
95-09    9-11-95     130.07
95-10    11-15-95    130.60 
                     130.62
95-11    11-15-95    153.071
96-1     2-22-96     153.176
96-05    4-24-96     153.177
96-06    6-2-96      Charter
96-08    5-13-96     91.30
96-09    6-10-96     91.30
96-10    6-10-96     153.004
96-12    6-10-96     153.002
96-14    7-24-96     130.07
97-01    1-13-97     153.176
97-02    2-26-97     153.076
97-04    6-25-97     153.077
                     153.097,
97-05    6-25-97     153.117,
                     153.177,
                     153.227
97-12    9-24-97     130.08
97-14    1-12-98     153.073
97-16    1-28-98     153.357
98-04    6-22-98     153.360
98-05    7-13-98     130.07
98-06    7-13-98     130.09
98-07    8-10-98     111.01 
                     111.02
99-01    1-11-99     153.176
                     112.01,
                     112.02,
                     112.15-
99-02    2-8-99      112.19,
                     112.30-
                     112.38,
                     112.99
99-03    2-8-99      130.10
99-04    2-8-99      153.074
99-05    2-8-99      153.227
99-07    4-12-99     153.080
                     153.095,
                     153.115,
                     153.155,
                     153.175,
                     153.176,
99-08    5-10-99     153.205,
                     153.206,
                     153.225,
                     153.226,
                     153.245,
                     153.265
                     153.075,
99-09    5-10-99     153.206,
                     153.226
99-13    7-12-99     153.077
00-01    1-10-00     153.071
00-02    1-10-00     153.176
00-05    2-14-00     153.097
00-07    5-24-00     153.077
                     50.01 
                     50.03,
00-08    5-24-00     50.15-
                     50.19,
                     50.30-
                     50.32
                     153.001 
                     153.004,
                     153.020-
                     153.023,
                     153.035-
                     153.039,
                     153.050-
                     153.053,
                     153.055,
                     153.056,
                     153.058,
                     153.059,
                     153.070-
                     153.082,
                     153.095-
                     153.104,
                     153.115-
                     153.124,
                     153.135-
                     153.144,
01-02    2-28-01     153.155-
                     153.164,
                     153.175-
                     153.186,
                     153.205-
                     153.215,
                     153.225-
                     153.228,
                     153.230-
                     153.235,
                     153.245-
                     153.254,
                     153.265-
                     153.274,
                     153.312,
                     153.350-
                     153.362;
                     Ch. 153, Appendix A;
                     Ch. 153, Appendix C;
                     Ch. 153, Appendix D;
                     Ch. 153, Appendix E
01-03    4-25-01     153.077
01-04    6-27-01     153.360
01-05    6-27-01     153.002
01-06    6-27-01     50.03
                     114.01 
01-07    7-25-01     114.05,
                     114.20-
                     114.25
01-08    7-25-01     153.177
01-09    7-25-01     153.077
01-10    8-13-01     153.002
01-11    11-14-01    153.313
01-12    11-14-01    153.002
                     153.227,
01-13    11-14-01    153.265-
                     153.274
02-01    1-14-02     153.186
02-02    1-14-02     153.002
02-03    1-14-02     153.186
02-04    2-11-02     153.077
02-05    2-27-02     153.002,
                     153.186
02-06    3-13-02     153.076,
                     153.176
02-07    5-22-02     90.01 
                     90.10
02-08    6-10-02     153.070
                     153.076,
                     153.175-
                     153.177,
02-09    6-10-02     153.205,
                     153.206,
                     153.225-
                     153.227
02-10    6-26-02     153.074
02-12    7-8-02      51.50 
                     51.55
02-14    7-24-02     153.002,
                     153.360
02-15    7-24-02     51.08
                     153.099,
02-16    9-25-02     153.119,
                     153.139
03-01    2-10-03     153.076
03-02    2-10-03     153.101
03-03    2-26-03     153.226
03-04    4-14-03     Adopting Ordinance
03-05    4-14-03     153.002
03-07    6-25-03     153.002,
                     153.077
03-08    6-25-03     91.33,
                     91.35
03-09    6-25-03     153.076
                     153.082,
                     153.101,
03-10    6-25-03     153.121,
                     153.141,
                     153.161,
                     153.271
03-11    6-25-03     153.002
03-12    7-14-03     51.08
03-13    7-14-03     153.141
                     111.01 
03-14    7-14-03     111.05,
                     111.09 
                     111.13
03-15    10-15-03    91.33
03-16    10-15-03    153.002,
                     153.076
03-17    12-8-03     153.359,
                     153.362
03-18    12-8-03     153.079
04-01    2-25-04     153.002
04-02    3-24-04     153.002,
                     153.186
04-03    3-24-04     153.355
04-04    3-24-04     32.40
04-05    4-12-04     31.40 -
                     31.48
04-06    4-28-04     153.002
04-07    4-28-04     91.16,
                     91.35
                     153.002,
04-08    5-26-04     153.076,
                     153.176
04-09    5-26-04     153.077
                     153.120,
                     153.160,
                     153.180,
04-10    5-26-04     153.210,
                     153.230,
                     153.270,
                     153.313
04-11    5-26-04     153.076
04-12    7-12-04     153.076
04-13    9-13-04     153.358
04-14    9-13-04     153.313
04-15    9-13-04     153.053
04-17    10-11-04    153.077
04-18    10-11-04    153.002,
                     153.076
04-19    10-27-04    153.099
04-20    10-27-04    152.37
04-21    11-17-04    153.176
04-22    12-13-04    152.42
04-23    12-13-04    153.313
04-24    12-13-04    91.16
05-01    1-10-05     153.076
05-02    2-16-05     10.05,
                     10.99
                     111.01 
05-03    3-17-05     111.05,
                     111.09 
                     111.13
05-04    4-11-05     153.073
05-05    5-25-05     153.073
05-06    5-25-05     153.353
05-07    5-25-05     116.01 
                     116.09
05-08    5-25-05     Adopting Ordinance
05-10    6-22-05     150.07
05-11    7-11-05     51.41
                     153.002,
                     153.076,
                     153.096,
                     153.100,
                     153.156,
                     153.160,
05-12    8-8-05      153.176,
                     153.180,
                     153.206,
                     153.210,
                     153.226,
                     153.230 ,
                     153.312
05-13    8-8-05      153.076
05-14    8-8-05      94.01,
                     94.08
05-15    9-12-05     153.053
05-16    9-12-05     72.01
05-17    9-12-05     10.18,
                     10.19
                     90.01,
                     90.02,
05-18    9-12-05     90.04,
                     90.06,
                     90.09
                     153.002,
05-19    10-4-05     153.076,
                     153.227
05-20    11-14-05    153.002
06-01    2-22-06     153.211
06-02    2-22-06     153.116
06-03    2-22-06     153.313
06-04    2-22-06     153.226
06-05    4-10-06     153.002,
                     153.100
06-07    4-26-06     T.S.O. I
06-08    5-8-06      153.002
06-09    5-24-06     153.082
06-10    5-24-06     153.313
06-11    5-24-06     153.313
06-14    7-26-06     94.04
                     151.01 -
                     151.07,
                     151.09 -
                     151.13,
                     151.25,
06-15    7-26-06     151.26,
                     151.30,
                     151.40 -
                     151.44,
                     151.50 -
                     151.52,
                     151.99
06-16    8-14-06     153.077
06-17    8-14-06     153.271
06-18    8-14-06     153.099
06-19    8-14-06     153.074
                     153.002,
                     153.080,
                     153.117,
                     153.137,
06-20    8-14-06     153.177,
                     153.247,
                     153.267,
                     153.280 -
                     153.288
06-21    9-11-06     T.S.O. I
06-23    10-9-06     153.076
06-24    11-15-06    153.076
06-25    11-15-06    70.01,
                     70.21
06-26    12-11-06    153.080
06-27    12-11-06    T.S.O. I
06-28    12-11-06    T.S.O. I
07-02    2-12-07     130.11
07-03    3-28-07     153.101
07-04    3-28-07     153.251
07-05    4-9-07      31.02
                     153.181,
                     153.211,
07-06    4-25-07     153.231,
                     153.251,
                     153.271,
                     153.313
07-07    5-23-07     153.002,
                     153.207
07-08    5-23-07     130.12
07-09    6-11-07     T.S.O. I
07-11    6-27-07     50.31
07-13    8-13-07     153.313
07-14    8-13-07     153.082
07-16    10-24-07    153.177
                     153.002,
                     153.076,
07-17    10-24-07    153.176,
                     153.206,
                     153.226
                     153.002,
                     153.050,
                     153.052,
07-18    10-24-07    153.053,
                     153.353,
                     153.359,
                     Ch. 153, Appendix F
07-19    11-14-07    153.081
07-20    12-10-07    T.S.O. I
                     152.16,
08-01    1-2-08      152.27,
                     152.37
08-02    1-14-08     153.077
08-03    1-14-08     153.002,
                     153.053
                     153.082,
08-04    1-14-08     153.176,
                     153.206,
                     153.226
08-05    2-11-08     151.26
08-06    2-11-08     153.053
08-07    2-27-08     153.177
08-08    2-27-08     153.053
08-11    3-26-08     153.002,
                     153.071
08-12    3-26-08     153.207
08-13    4-14-08     153.002,
                     153.082
08-14    4-14-08     117.01 -
                     117.20
08-15    6-25-08     151.26
08-17    7-14-08     153.076
08-18    7-14-08     71.24
08-19    8-11-08     T.S.O. I
08-20    8-17-08     T.S.O. I
08-21    8-11-08     153.021
08-22    8-11-08     153.002
08-23    8-11-08     51.50 -
                     51.61
                     130.75 -
08-24    8-11-08     130.78,
                     130.99
08-26    9-8-08      50.19
08-27    9-24-08     153.002,
                     153.082
08-28    9-24-08     93.03
08-29    10-13-08    T.S.O. I
08-30    10-13-08    151.43
08-31    11-19-08    151.26
                     95.30,
08-32    11-19-08    95.31,
                     95.98
08-34    11-19-08    51.41
08-35    12-8-08     153.002
09-01    1-28-09     153.053
09-02    1-28-09     153.247
09-03    1-28-09     153.076
09-04    3-25-09     94.01,
                     94.20
09-05    5-27-09     150.07
09-06    5-27-09     153.082
09-10    7-13-09     T.S.O. I
09-11    7-13-09     T.S.O. I
09-12    7-13-09     50.04
09-13    8-10-09     111.01,
                     130.03
09-14    9-14-09     51.35
09-15    9-14-09     T.S.O. I
09-16    10-12-09    T.S.O. I
09-17    10-12-09    51.10
                     151.26,
09-18    10-28-09    Ch. 151, Appendix A,
                     Ch. 151, Appendix B
09-19    10-28-09    153.002,
                     153.077
09-20    11-9-09     T.S.O. I
09-21    11-9-09     T.S.O. I
09-22    11-9-09     T.S.O. I
09-23    12-14-09    T.S.O. II
09-24    12-14-09    T.S.O. II
10-01    1-11-10     153.177
10-02    1-27-10     152.37
                     153.002,
10-03    4-12-10     153.076,
                     153.176
10-05    5-26-10     153.082
10-06    5-26-10     153.076
10-08    6-14-10     151.26
10-10    7-12-10     151.26
10-11    7-12-10     T.S.O. I
10-13    7-12-10     153.180
10-14    7-12-10     153.077
10-15    9-13-10     153.076
10-16    9-13-10     T.S.O. I
10-17    9-13-10     T.S.O. I
10-18    10-11-10    T.S.O. I
10-19    10-11-10    31.02
10-20    11-10-10    153.053
10-21    11-10-10    153.186
10-22    11-10-10    T.S.O. I
10-23    11-10-10    T.S.O. I
10-24    11-10-10    51.41
10-25    11-10-10    130.42,
                     130.43
11-01    1-10-11     153.051
11-03    1-26-11     150.07
11-04    4-11-11     153.002,
                     153.186
11-05    4-11-11     153.076,
                     153.077
11-06    4-11-11     153.053
11-07    4-11-11     153.120
11-08    5-25-11     153.002,
                     153.177
11-09    5-25-11     153.076,
                     153.180
11-10    6-13-11     153.077
11-11    6-13-11     153.359
11-17    8-8-11      153.176
11-18    8-8-11      153.077
11-19    9-12-11     71.25
11-21    10-10-11    153.002,
                     153.177
11-22    10-10-11    153.247
11-23    11-14-11    T.S.O. I
11-24    11-14-11    T.S.O. I
12-01    1-25-12     153.002,
                     153.077
12-02    2-13-12     153.076,
                     153.176
                     111.01 -
12-03    3-12-12     111.05,
                     111.09 -
                     111.13
12-04    3-28-12     153.076,
                     153.177
12-05    3-28-12     151.43
12-13    5-23-12     153.002,
                     153.077
                     51.20 -
12-14    5-23-12     51.25,
                     51.35 -
                     51.41
12-17    8-13-12     153.051,
                     153.100
12-18    9-10-12     153.082
12-19    9-10-12     31.20 -
                     31.22
12-20    11-14-12    130.02
12-21    11-14-12    153.082
                     153.002,
                     153.176,
12-22    11-14-12    153.206,
                     153.226,
                     153.314
12-24    12-10-12    153.176
                     153.002,
13-1     1-14-13     153.076,
                     153.226
13-2     2-11-13     51.10
                     153.002,
                     153.074,
13-3     3-20-13     153.076,
                     153.077,
                     153.177
                     153.002,
13-4     4-24-13     153.076,
                     153.082,
                     153.177
13-5     5-13-13     153.078
13-6     5-13-13     153.073
13-7     5-13-13     31.20
13-8     5-13-13     95.07
13-9     6-10-13     153.082
                     94.01,
13-11    7-8-13      94.04,
                     94.25 -
                     94.27
13-12    8-8-13      151.26
13-12a   9-9-13      153.082
                     111.01,
                     111.04,
13-13    9-9-13      111.05,
                     111.08,
                     111.12 -
                     111.14
13-14    10-14-13    153.230
13-15    10-14-13    153.076
                     153.002,
                     153.076,
13-16    10-14-13    153.082,
                     153.176,
                     153.177,
                     153.359
13-17    10-14-13    91.16
13-19    11-13-13    T.S.O. I
13-20    11-13-13    153.320 -
                     153.326
13-21    11-13-13    31.60 -
                     31.66
14-01    1-13-14     51.41
                     71.15,
14-02    2-19-14     73.02 -
                     73.05
14-03    2-19-14     93.01
14-04    3-10-14     153.359
14-05    3-10-14     153.076
14-06    3-10-14     117.07,
                     117.14
14-07    6-17-14     153.002,
                     153.053
14-08    5-12-14     153.073,
                     153.186
14-09    5-12-14     153.070
14-10    6-9-14      153.077
14-13    6-25-14     51.41
14-15    7-14-14     153.073
                     93.03,
14-18    10-13-14    93.05,
                     93.07,
                     93.08
14-20    12-8-14     T.S.O. I
14-21    12-8-14     T.S.O. I
14-23    1-12-15     31.40
14-24    2-9-15      153.100
14-25    2-9-15      153.002,
                     153.076
14-26    2-9-15      153.355
14-27    2-9-15      153.082
14-28    3-9-15      153.100
14-29    5-13-15     153.096
14-30    5-13-15     31.24
                     94.01,
14-32    5-13-15     94.04,
                     94.25 -
                     94.27
                     96.01 -
                     96.10,
15-1     6-8-15      96.20 -
                     96.22,
                     96.24 -
                     96.26
15-2     6-24-15     152.59
15-6     9-21-15     153.002,
                     153.083
15-7     9-21-15     153.176
15-8     9-21-15     153.356
15-9     12-14-15    T.S.O. I
15-10    12-14-15    T.S.O. I
15-11    2-8-16      130.02
15-12    3-14-16     153.078
15-13    3-14-16     Adopting Ordinance
15-14    4-11-16     153.356
15-15    5-16-16     153.076,
                     153.177
15-16    5-16-16     153.180
15-17    5-16-16     94.28
15-20    7-11-16     31.02
15-21    12-12-16    T.S.O. I
15-22    12-12-16    T.S.O. I
15-24    12-12-16    96.06
15-25    12-12-16    110.01 -
                     110.33
15-26    12-12-16    50.32
15-28    2-13-17     93.01
15-29    4-10-17     T.S.O. I
16-1     6-12-17     93.04
16-4     7-10-17     118.01
16-5     9-11-17     152.37,
                     153.120
16-6     11-15-17    153.002,
                     153.207
16-7     11-15-17    50.15,
                     50.19
16-8     11-15-17    90.02
16-9     12-11-17    T.S.O. I
16-10    12-11-17    T.S.O. I
16-12    4-9-18      31.20
16-13    5-14-18     153.207,
                     153.210
16-15    6-11-18     51.42
                     51.10,
16-16    6-11-18     51.35,
                     51.36,
                     51.38
16-17    6-11-18     52.16,
                     52.25
16-18    6-27-18     153.117
                     153.002,
16-19    6-27-18     153.096,
                     153.176,
                     153.310
16-20    7-19-18     153.120
16-21    7-19-18     153.002,
                     153.076
                     153.002,
16-23    1-14-19     153.096,
                     153.176,
                     153.311
16-24    4-8-19      94.40
16-25    4-24-19     153.076,
                     153.176
17-1     5-13-19     153.080
17-2     5-13-19     153.075
17-4     6-10-19     130.40 -
                     130.47
17-5     7-10-19     111.01 -
                     111.14
17-6     8-12-19     94.40
17-7     8-12-19     10.18
17-8     9-11-19     153.072
17-9     9-11-19     153.070
17-10    9-11-19     33.01 -
                     33.14
17-11    9-11-19     130.11
17-13    12-9-19     T.S.O. I
17-14    12-9-19     T.S.O. I
17-15    2-12-20     153.071
17-18    5-27-20     153.076
                     153.101,
                     153.121,
17-19    5-27-20     153.141,
                     153.161,
                     153.271
17-20    5-27-20     153.073
17-21    5-27-20     153.310,
                     153.311
                     151.01 -
                     151.13,
                     151.25 -
                     151.30,
17-23    6-10-20     151.40 -
                     151.44,
                     151.50 -
                     151.52,
                     151.99
17-24    9-14-20     153.077
17-25    10-12-20    153.181
17-26    11-9-20     T.S.O. II
                     153.002,
                     153.076,
17-28    3-8-21      153.176,
                     153.206,
                     153.226
                     153.160,
17-29    3-8-21   153.180,
                     153.210,
                     153.230
17-27    3-12-21     153.076
18-1     4-12-21     153.076
18-2     4-12-21     31.20
                     152.01 -
                     152.04,
                     152.15,
                     152.16,
18-3     6-14-21     152.25 -
                     152.28,
                     152.35 -
                     152.44,
                     152.55 -
                     152.59
                     153.001 -
                     153.004,
                     153.020 -
                     153.023,
                     153.035 -
                     153.039,
                     153.050 -
                     153.053,
                     153.055,
                     153.056,
                     153.058,
                     153.059,
                     153.070 -
                     153.083,
                     153.095 -
                     153.104,
                     153.115 -
                     153.124,
                     153.135 -
                     153.144,
18-4     6-14-21     153.155 -
                     153.164,
                     153.175 -
                     153.186,
                     153.205 -
                     153.215,
                     153.225 -
                     153.235,
                     153.245 -
                     153.254,
                     153.265 -
                     153.274,
                     153.280 -
                     153.288,
                     153.310 -
                     153.314,
                     153.320 -
                     153.326,
                     153.350 -
                     153.362,
                     Ch. 153, Appendix A -
                     E
                     10.01 -
18-5     6-14-21     10.19,
                     10.99
                     30.01 -
18-6     6-14-21     30.07,
                     30.20 -
                     30.23
                     31.01 -
                     31.06,
                     31.20 -
18-7     6-14-21     31.26,
                     31.40 -
                     31.50,
                     31.60 -
                     31.68
                     150.01 -
                     150.07,
18-8     6-23-21     150.20 -
                     150.30,
                     150.40 -
                     150.50
18-14    9-13-21     153.227
                     96.20,
18-15    9-13-21     96.22,
                     96.23
18-16    10-11-21    153.077
Res.     1-26-22     153.077
19-1     12-13-21    T.S.O. I
19-2     12-13-21    96.21
19-3     12-13-21    Adopting Ordinance
19-4     1-10-22     153.210
19-5     1-10-22     153.310,
                     153.311
19-6     1-10-22     153.100,
                     153.180
19-7     1-10-22     153.076
19-8     3-7-22      153.002,
                     153.177
19-9     3-7-22      Charter §
                     2-3
                     153.002,
19-12    7-11-22     153.117,
                     153.120,
                     153.311
                     96.06,
19-13    8-8-22      96.21 -
                     96.26
19-14    11-14-22    Adopting Ordinance
19-15    12-12-22    153.076
19-16    3-13-23     113.01 -
                     113.09
Res.     2-13-23     31.20
19-17    4-26-23     153.211,
                     153.231
                     153.116,
19-18    4-26-23     153.156,
                     153.315
19-19    6-14-23     153.180
                     130.75 -
19-21    7-10-23     130.78,
                     130.99
19-22    8-14-23     153.002,
                     153.079
19-23    8-14-23     95.02
                    
 
