LAKE LURE, NORTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
 
Current through December 2023
_____________________________
 
Published in 2021 by Order of the Town Council
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TOWN OFFICIALS
Carol C. Pritchett
Mayor
David DiOrio, Mayor Pro Tem
Patrick Bryant
Scott Doster
Jim Proctor
Town Council
William H. Perkins, Jr.
Town Manager
William Morgan
Town Attorney
Olivia Stewman
Town Clerk
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 21-11-09C
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING AND ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES RECODIFICATION FOR THE
TOWN OF LAKE LURE, NORTH CAROLINA; PROVIDING FOR THE REPEAL OF CERTAIN
ORDINANCES NOT INCLUDED THEREIN; PROVIDING A PENALTY FOR THE VIOLATION THEREOF;
PROVIDING FOR THE MANNER OF AMENDING SUCH CODE; AND PROVIDING WHEN SUCH CODE
AND THIS ORDINANCE SHALL BECOME EFFECTIVE.
BE IT ORDAINED by the Town Council of the Town of Lake Lure, North Carolina,
meeting in regular session and with a majority of town council voting in the
affirmative:
SECTION ONE. The Code entitled "Code of Ordinances, Town of Lake Lure, North
Carolina," published by Municipal Code Corporation, consisting of chapters 1
through 36, each inclusive, is adopted.
SECTION TWO. All ordinances of a general and permanent nature enacted on or
before July 9, 2019, and not included in the Code or recognized and continued
in force by reference therein, are repealed.
SECTION THREE. The repeal provided for in section 2 hereof shall not be
construed to revive any ordinance or part thereof that has been repealed by a
subsequent ordinance that is repealed by this ordinance.
SECTION FOUR. Unless another penalty is expressly provided, every person
convicted of a violation of any provision of the Code or any ordinance, rule or
regulation adopted or issued in pursuance thereof shall be punished according
to code Section 1-10. Each act of violation and each day upon which any such
violation shall continue or occur shall constitute a separate offense. The
penalty provided by this section, unless another penalty is expressly provided,
shall apply to the amendment of any Code section, whether or not such penalty
is reenacted in the amendatory ordinance. In addition to the penalty prescribed
above, the town may pursue other remedies such as abatement of nuisances,
injunctive relief and revocation of licenses or permits.
SECTION FIVE. Additions or amendments to the Code when passed in such form as
to indicate the intention of the town to make the same a part of the Code shall
be deemed to be incorporated in the Code, so that reference to the Code
includes the additions and amendments.
SECTION SIX. Ordinances adopted after July 9, 2019, that amend or refer to
ordinances that have been codified in the Code, shall be construed as if they
amend or refer to like provisions of the Code.
SECTION SEVEN. This Ordinance shall become effective upon adoption.
Adopted this 9th day of November, 2021.
ATTEST: ;sigr; Carol C. Pritchett
Mayor ;sigl; Olivia Stewman
Town Clerk
Approved as to content & form: ;sigl; William C. Morgan, Jr.
Town Attorney
Certificate of Adoption
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of the ordinance passed at
the regular meeting of the town council, held on the ___9th___day of November,
2021.
SUPPLEMENT HISTORY TABLE
The table below allows users of this Code to quickly and accurately determine
what ordinances have been considered for codification in each supplement.
Ordinances that are of a general and permanent nature are codified in the Code
Book and are considered "Includes." Ordinances that are not of a general and
permanent nature are not codified in the Code Book and are considered "Omits."
In addition, by adding to this table with each supplement, users of this Code
of Ordinances will be able to gain a more complete picture of the Code's
historical evolution.
Ordinance Date    Included/
Number    Adopted Omitted
Ordinance Date       Included/
Number    Adopted    Omitted
Supplement 1
Ord. of   10-11-1977 Included
19-07-09A 7- 9-2019  Included
20-02-11  2-11-2020  Omitted
20-06-09  6- 9-2020  Omitted
21-05-11  5-11-2021  Included
21-05-11A 5-11-2021  Included
21-05-11B 5-11-2021  Included
21-06-08  6- 8-2021  Included
21-08-10  8-10-2021  Omitted
21-11-09  11- 9-2021 Included
21-11-09A 11- 9-2021 Included
21-11-09B 11- 9-2021 Omitted
21-11-09C 11- 9-2021 Included
21-12-01  12- 1-2021 Omitted
21-12-14  12-14-2021 Included
 
PART I
CHARTER AND SESSION LAWS
Subpart A   CHARTER 1
Section 1. The Charter of the Town of Lake Lure is hereby revised and
consolidated to read as follows:
"THE CHARTER OF THE TOWN OF LAKE LURE
 
Notes
  Editor's note(s)—Printed herein is the Charter of the Town of Lake Lure, as
1 revised and consolidated by the 1987 General Session of the General Assembly,
  Chapter 194, House Bill 282. Section 1.2, Town Boundaries, was amended and
  restated by Session 2013, Session Law 2014-81, House Bill 1056.
"ARTICLE I. INCORPORATION, POWERS AND BOUNDARIES
"Section 1.1. Incorporation. 
The inhabitants of the Town of Lake Lure, in Rutherford County, are a body
corporate and politic, under the name "Town of Lake Lure." Under that name,
they have all the powers, duties, rights, privileges and immunities conferred
and imposed on the Town by this Charter or on cities by the general law. The
term "general law" is employed herein as defined in G.S. 160A-1.
"Section 1.2. Town Boundaries. 
Until modified in accordance with law, the boundaries of the Town are as set
forth on the official map entitled "Boundary Map of the Town of Lake Lure, N.
C.," dated March 10, 2014, and recorded at Plat Book 35, Page 30, in the office
of the Rutherford County Register of Deeds. The official map of the Town's
boundaries shall be maintained as required by G.S. 160A-22. Immediately upon
modification of the boundaries in accordance with law, the appropriate changes
to the official map shall be made, copies shall be filed in the offices of the
Secretary of State, the Rutherford County Register of Deeds and the appropriate
board of elections, as required by general law."
"ARTICLE II. GOVERNING BODY
"Section 2.1. Structure; Number of Members. 
The governing body of the Town is the Board of Commissioners, which has four
(4) members, and the Mayor.
"Section 2.2. Manner of Electing Board. 
The qualified voters of the entire Town elect the members of the Board.
"Section 2.3. Term of Office of Board Members. 
Members of the Board are elected to four-year staggered terms. The Board
members serving on the date of ratification of this Charter shall serve until
the expiration of their terms. In the municipal election in 1987 and every four
years thereafter, two members of the Board shall be elected. In the municipal
election in 1989 and every four years thereafter, two members of the Board
shall be elected.
"Section 2.4. Election of Mayor; Term of Office. 
The qualified voters of the entire Town elect the Mayor. The Mayor is elected
for a term of two years. The Mayor shall have the right to vote on matters
before the Board only when there are equal numbers of votes in the affirmative
and in the negative."
"ARTICLE III. ELECTIONS
"Section 3.1. Nonpartisan Plurality Method. 
Town officers are elected on a nonpartisan basis, and the results determined by
a plurality, as provided in G.S. 163-292."
"ARTICLE IV. ADMINISTRATION
"Section 4.1. Form of Government. 
The Town operates under the council-manager form of government, as provided in
Chapter 160A of the General Statutes, Article 7, Part 2.
"Section 4.2. Town Manager. 
The Board appoints a Town Manager who is responsible for the administration of
all departments of the Town government. The Town Manager has all the powers and
duties conferred by general law, except as expressly limited by the provisions
of this Charter.
"Section 4.3. Town Clerk. 
The Board appoints a Town Clerk to perform the duties required by law and as
the Board may direct.
"Section 4.4. Tax Collector. 
The Board appoints a Tax Collector to perform the duties required by law and as
the Board may direct.
"Section 4.5. Town Attorney. 
The Board appoints a Town Attorney licensed to practice law in North Carolina.
The Town Attorney represents the Town, advises Town officials and performs
other duties required by law and as the Board may direct.
"Section 4.6. Finance Officer. 
The Board appoints a Finance Officer to perform the duties provided by law and
other appropriate duties.
"Section 4.7. Other Officers and Employees. 
The Board may authorize other offices and positions to be filled by appointment
of the Town Manager and may organize the Town government and combine offices as
deemed appropriate, subject to the requirements of general law."
"ARTICLE V. ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS
"Section 5.1. Termination of Utility Service; Charges Become Liens.
   (a)   Notwithstanding the provisions of G.S. 160A-314, or any other
provisions of law, in case any charges for water service or sewerage service
due and owing to the Town of Lake Lure are not paid, then such charges and any
penalties assessed for nonpayment shall become a lien upon the property served
or in connection with which service is used, upon compliance with the procedure
set out in this section; provided, however, no such charges shall become a lien
unless the same were incurred by the owner of the particular property.
   (b)   Upon nonpayment, the Town shall give the customer a fair opportunity
to avoid termination of utility service and application of the charges and
penalties as a lien against the property, by paying charges due or showing that
the charges are in error. As soon as possible following the specified past due
date, written notice of delinquency shall be sent to the customer by first-
class mail.
   (c)   The notice required by subsection (b) shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   The amount which must be paid to avoid termination;
      (2)   The date on which termination will occur, which must be at least 10
days after the mailing date;
      (3)   A statement that the customer may appear at Town Hall between the
hours of 9:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. on any business day and request an informal
hearing with the Town Manager or designee, for the purpose of showing error or
working out a satisfactory extended payment arrangement; and
      (4)   A statement that failure by the customer to appear and show error,
make payment or work out a satisfactory extended payment arrangement shall
result in the charges and penalties being applied as a lien against the real
property, which may be enforced by sale of the real property as provided by
law.
   (d)   The employee responsible for mailing the notice as provided in
subsections (b) and (c) shall certify the date on which the notice was mailed,
on a form or in a record book or electronic medium designed for that purpose.
   (e)   If the customer does not make acceptable payment arrangements and
fails to show cause why service should not be terminated and the charges and
penalties applied as a lien against the property, service may be terminated on
or after the date specified in the notice of termination, and the charges and
penalties may be applied as a lien against the property. Service may be
terminated between the hours of 8:30 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. on business days from
Monday through Thursday only. If the customer fails to comply with the agreed
upon extended payment arrangements, service may be terminated without further
notice and the charges and penalties may be applied as a lien.
   (f)   Unpaid charges and penalties may at any time be collected by civil
action in the name of the Town. In addition, the charges and penalties may be
collected by the Town Tax Collector by sale of the property to which the lien
attaches, as provided in G.S. 105-375, and the lien shall be treated as a
property tax lien for the purposes of that statute. The lien shall attach on
the date on which the certificate of charges due is docketed as provided in
G.S. 105-375(d), and shall continue until the principal amount of the charges
plus penalties, interest and costs allowed by law have been fully paid.
"Sec. 5.2. Town Alcoholic Beverage Control Stores. 
Town alcoholic beverage control stores shall operate as provided in Chapter
353, Session Laws of 1979, as amended.
"Sec. 5.3. Rehabilitation and Maintenance of Lake Lure.
   (a)   The Town shall have the power to operate the electric power generating
plant at Lake Lure and sell all the power produced thereby to a single utility,
to lease the plant to any private person, firm or corporation under such terms
and conditions and for such period or periods as the Board of Commissioners
shall deem to be in the best interests of the Town.
   (b)   The rehabilitation and maintenance by the Town of the lake, trunk
sewerage line, dam and electric power generating plant and ancillary facilities
and the issuance of revenue bonds therefore are hereby declared to be proper
public and municipal purposes.
"Sec. 5.4. Sewage Assessments. 
In addition to any authority granted by general or local law to the Town to
finance sewage disposal facilities and sewage treatment facilities, the Board
is hereby authorized to levy assessments upon all properties which are now or
will hereafter be connected to any sewage disposal or treatment facilities
owned or constructed by the Town, for the purpose of financing, in whole or in
part, the construction and operation of sewage disposal or treatment
facilities. Such assessments shall apply uniformly within reasonable
classifications to all properties now or hereafter connected to any disposal or
treatment facilities owned or constructed by the Town; provided, however, the
Board may establish higher assessments for property developed or to be
developed for commercial, industrial, or institutional uses or purposes than
those established for private residential use, and may base the assessments for
residential property or hotel or motel property upon the number of dwelling
units served or to be served by such disposal or treatment facility.
"Sec. 5.5. Special Assessments.
   (a)   Streets.
      (1)   In addition to the authority granted by general law, the Board is
authorized to order street improvements and to assess the costs thereof against
abutting property in accordance with the provisions of this section.
      (2)   The Board may order street improvements and assess the total costs
thereof against abutting property, exclusive of the costs incurred at street
intersections, according to one or more of the assessment bases set forth in
Article 10 of Chapter 160A of the General Statutes without the necessity of a
petition, upon the following findings of fact:
         (i)   That the street improvement project does not exceed 1,200 linear
feet; and
         (ii)   That such street or part thereof is unsafe for vehicular
traffic and it is in the public interest to make such improvements; or
         (iii)   That it is in the public interest to connect two streets or
portions of a street already improved; or
         (iv)   That it is in the public interest to widen a street, or part
thereof, which is already improved; provided that assessments for widening any
street or portion of a street without a petition shall be limited to the cost
of widening and otherwise improving such street in accordance with the street
classification and improvement standards established by the Town's thoroughfare
or major street plan, as applied to the particular street or part thereof.
      (3)   For the purposes of this Article, the term "street improvement"
includes grading, regrading, surfacing, resurfacing, widening, paving,
repaving, acquisition of right-of-way and construction or reconstruction of
curbs, gutters and street drainage facilities.
   (b)   Sidewalks. In addition to the authority granted by general law, the
Board is authorized, without the necessity of petition, to order sidewalk
improvements or repairs according to standards and specifications of the Town,
and to assess the total costs thereof against abutting property, according to
one or more of the assessment bases set forth in Article 10 of Chapter 160A of
the General Statutes, provided that regardless of the assessment basis or bases
employed, the Board may order the costs of sidewalk improvements made only on
one side of a street to be assessed against property abutting both sides of
such street.
   (c)   Procedure. In ordering street and sidewalk improvements without a
petition and assessing the cost thereof under authority of this section, the
Board shall comply with the procedures required by Article 10 of Chapter 160A
of the General Statutes, except those provisions relating to petitions of
property owners and sufficiency thereof. The effect of the act of levying
assessments under authority of this section shall be the same as if assessments
were levied under authority of Article 10 of Chapter 160A of the General
Statutes."
-------------------------
Sec. 2. The purpose of this act is to revise the Charter of the Town of Lake
Lure and to consolidate certain acts concerning the property, affairs and
government of the Town. It is intended to continue without interruption those
provisions of prior acts which are expressly consolidated into this act, so
that all rights and liabilities which have accrued are preserved and may be
enforced.
Sec. 3. This act does not repeal or affect any acts concerning the public
schools, or acts validating official actions, proceedings, contracts or
obligations of any kind.
Sec. 4. All acts in conflict with this act are repealed. The following acts,
having served the purposes for which they were enacted or having been
consolidated into this act, are expressly repealed:
Chapter 179, Private Laws of 1927
Chapter 71, Private Laws of 1929
Chapter 205, Private Laws of 1935
Chapter 228, Public-Local Laws of 1937
Chapter 254, Public-Local Laws of 1937
Chapter 738, Session Laws of 1943
Chapter 739, Session Laws of 1943
Chapter 1057, Session Laws of 1953
Chapter 437, Session Laws of 1963
Chapter 101, Session Laws of 1975
Chapter 351, Session Laws of 1979
Chapter 105, Session Laws of 1985
Sec. 5. Chapter 353, Session Laws of 1979 is amended to change each reference
to "Chapter 18A" to "Chapter 18B," and to change each reference to a particular
section of the former Chapter 18A of the General Statutes to refer to the
provisions of the current Chapter 18B of the General Statutes which most
closely correspond.
Sec. 6. This act does not affect any rights or interests which arose under any
provisions repealed by this act.
Sec. 7. All existing ordinances, resolutions, and other provisions of the Town
of Lake Lure not inconsistent with the provisions of this act shall continue in
effect until repealed or amended.
Sec. 8. No action or proceeding pending on the effective date of this act by or
against the Town or any of its departments or agencies shall be abated or
otherwise affected by this act.
Sec. 9. If any provision or application of this act is held invalid, such
invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of this act which
can be given effect without the invalid provision or application, and to this
end the provisions of this act are declared to be severable.
Sec. 10. Whenever a reference is made in this act to a particular provision of
the General Statutes, and such provision is later amended, superseded or
codified, the reference shall be deemed amended to refer to the amended General
Statute or the General Statute which most closely corresponds to the statutory
provision which is superseded or recodified.
Sec. 11. This act is effective upon ratification.
In the General Assembly read three times and ratified this the 15th day of May
1987.
CHARTER COMPARATIVE TABLE
SESSION LAWS
This table shows the location of the sections of the basic Charter and the
Session Laws of the General Assembly amending the Charter.
 
Sess. Laws Year Chapter No. House Bill Section Section this Charter
1987            194         282        1.2     Char. (note)
2013            2014-81     1056       —     Char. (note)
 
Subpart B   SESSION LAWS 1
GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF NORTH CAROLINA
SESSION 2003
SESSION LAW 2003-332
SENATE BILL 89
AN ACT TO ESTABLISH THE LAKE LURE MARINE COMMISSION.
The General Assembly of North Carolina enacts:
SECTION 1. Chapter 77 of the General Statutes is amended by adding a new
Article to read:
"Article 7A.
"Lake Lure Marine Commission.
"§ 77-80. Definitions.
For purposes of this Article:
(1)   "Board" means the Board of Commissioners of the Town of Lake Lure.
(2)   "Commission" means the Lake Lure Marine Commission or its governing
board, as the case may be.
(3)   "Commissioner" means a member of the governing board of the Lake Lure
Marine Commission.
(4)   Lake Lure Reservoir, known for purposes of this Article as "Lake Lure" or
"the waters of Lake Lure," means the body of water along the Broad River in
Rutherford County, impounded by the dam at Tumbling Shoals, and lying below the
995-foot contour line above sea level.
(5)   "Shoreline area" means the area submerged by the dam at Tumbling Shoals,
lying below 955 feet above mean sea level of the normal full pond elevation of
992 feet above mean sea level, on Lake Lure.
(6)   "Wildlife Commission" means the North Carolina Wildlife Resources
Commission.
"§ 77-81. Creation of Commission authorized.
The Board of Commissioners of the Town of Lake Lure may by ordinance create the
Lake Lure Marine Commission. The Board shall hold a public hearing on the
ordinance to create the Commission. The location of the public hearing shall be
determined by the Boards and established by resolution. The Board shall cause
notice of the hearing to be published once a week for two successive calendar
weeks in a newspaper of general circulation in Rutherford County. The notice
shall be published the first time not less than 10 days nor more than 25 days
before the date fixed for the hearing. Upon its creation the Commission shall
enjoy the powers and have the duties and responsibilities conferred upon it by
the Lake Lure municipal ordinance, subject to the provisions of this Article
and the laws of the State of North Carolina. The provisions of any ordinance
may be modified, amended, or rescinded by a subsequent ordinance.
"§ 77-82. Governing board.
Upon its creation, the Commission shall have a governing board. The governing
board shall, unless otherwise stated by ordinance, be the Board of
Commissioners of the Town of Lake Lure.
"§ 77-83. Compensation; budgetary and accounting procedures.
The municipal ordinance shall state the terms relating to compensation to
commissioners, if any, compensation of consultants and staff members employed
by the Commission, and reimbursement of expenses incurred by commissioners,
consultants, and employees. The Commission shall be governed by these budgetary
and accounting procedures as may be specified by the municipal ordinance and
the applicable laws of North Carolina.
"§ 77-84. Organization and meetings.
Upon creation of the Commission, its governing board shall meet at a time and
place set by the Town of Lake Lure ordinance. Unless otherwise stated in the
ordinance, the mayor of the Town of Lake Lure shall act as the presiding
officer. The governing board shall adopt such rules and regulations as it may
consider necessary, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Article or of
any ordinance of the Town of Lake Lure or the laws of the State of North
Carolina, for the proper discharge of its duties and for the governance of the
Commission. In order to conduct business, a quorum must be present. The
presiding officer may appoint those committees as may be authorized by such
rules and regulations. The Commission shall meet regularly at those times and
places as may be specified in its rules and regulations or in the Town of Lake
Lure municipal ordinance. Special meetings may be called as specified in the
rules and regulations. The provisions of the Open Meetings Law, Article 33C of
Chapter 143 of the General Statutes, apply.
"§ 77-85. Powers of Commission; administrative provision.
(a)   Within the limits of funds available to it, and subject to the provisions
of this Article and of the Town of Lake Lure municipal ordinance, the
Commission may:
(1)   Hire and fix the compensation of permanent and temporary employees and
staff as it may consider necessary in carrying out its duties;
(2)   Contract with consultants for such services as it may require;
(3)   Contract with the State of North Carolina or the federal government, or
any agency or department or subdivision of them, for property or services as
may be provided to or by these agencies, and carry out the provisions of such
contracts;
(4)   Contract with persons, firms, and corporations generally as to all
matters over which it has a proper concern, and carry out the provisions of
such contracts;
(5)   Lease, rent, purchase, or otherwise obtain suitable quarters and office
space for its employees and staff, and lease, rent, purchase, or otherwise
obtain furniture, fixtures, vehicles, uniforms, and other supplies and
equipment necessary or desirable for carrying out the duties imposed in or
under the authority of this Article; and
(6)   Lease, rent, purchase, construct, otherwise obtain, maintain, operate,
repair, and replace, either on its own or in cooperation with other public or
private agencies or individuals, any of the following: boat docks, navigation
aids, waterway markers, public information signs and notices, and other items
of real and personal property designed to enhance public recreation, public
safety on the waters of Lake Lure and its shoreline area, or protection of
property in the shoreline area, subject, however, to the provisions of Chapter
113 of the General Statutes and rules promulgated under that Chapter as to
property within North Carolina.
(b)   The Commission may accept, receive, and disburse in furtherance of its
functions any funds, grants, services, or property made available by the
federal government or its agencies or subdivisions, or by private and civic
sources.
(c)   The Board of Commissioners of the Town of Lake Lure may appropriate funds
to the Commission out of surplus funds or funds derived from nontax sources. It
may appropriate funds out of tax revenues and may also levy annually taxes for
the payment of such appropriation as a special purpose, in addition to any
allowed by the North Carolina Constitution or as provided by G.S. 160A-209.
(d)   The Commission shall be subject to such audit requirements as may be
specified in the municipal ordinance.
(e)   In carrying out its duties, and either in addition to or in lieu of
exercising various provisions of the above authorizations, the Commission may,
with the agreement of the Board of Commissioners of the Town of Lake Lure,
utilize personnel and property of or assign responsibilities to any officer or
employee of the Town of Lake Lure. Such contribution in kind, if substantial,
may with agreement between the Board and the Commission be considered to
substitute in whole or in part for the financial contribution required of the
Town in support of the Commission.
"§ 77-86. Filing and publication of applicable municipal ordinances.
(a)   A copy of the initial municipal ordinance creating the Commission and of
any ordinance amending or repealing the resolution creating the Commission
shall be filed with:
(1)   The Executive Director of the Wildlife Commission.
(2)   The Secretary of State.
(3)   The clerk to the Town of Lake Lure.
(4)   The clerk of superior court of Rutherford County. Upon request, the
Executive Director shall also send a certified single copy of any and all
applicable ordinances to the chairman of the Commission.
(5)   A newspaper of general circulation in Rutherford County.
(b)   Unless the municipal ordinance specifies a later date, it shall take
effect when the text has been submitted to the Secretary of State for filing.
Certifications of the Board under the seal of the Commission as to the text or
amended text of any municipal ordinance and of the date or dates of submission
to the Secretary of State shall be admissible in evidence in any court.
Certifications by the clerk of superior court of Rutherford County of the text
of any certified ordinance filed with the clerk by the Board is admissible in
evidence and the Board's submission of the resolution for filing to the clerk
shall constitute prima facie evidence that such resolution was on the date of
submission also submitted for filing with the Secretary of State. Except for
the certificate of a clerk as to receipt and date of submission, no evidence
may be admitted in court concerning the submission of the certified text of any
ordinance by the Board to any person other than the Secretary of State.
"§ 77-87. Regulatory authority.
(a)   Except as limited in subsection (b) of this section, by restrictions in
any municipal ordinance, and by other supervening provisions of law, the
Commission may make regulations applicable to Lake Lure and its shoreline area
concerning all matters relating to or affecting the use of Lake Lure. These
regulations may not conflict with provisions of general or special acts or of
regulations of State agencies promulgated under the authority of general law.
No regulations adopted under the provisions of this section may be adopted by
the Commission except after public hearing, with publication of notice of the
hearing in a newspaper of general circulation in Rutherford County at least 10
days before the hearing. In lieu of or in addition to passing regulations
supplementary to State law and regulations concerning the operation of vessels
on Lake Lure, the Commission may, after public notice, request that the
Wildlife Resources Commission pass local regulations on this subject in
accordance with the procedure established by appropriate State law.
(b)   Violation of any regulation of the Commission commanding or prohibiting
an act shall be a Class 3 misdemeanor.
(c)   The regulations promulgated under this section take effect upon passage
or upon such dates as may be stipulated in the regulations except that no
regulation may be enforced unless adequate notice of the regulation has been
posted in or on Lake Lure or its shoreline area. Ordinances providing
regulations for specific areas shall clearly establish the boundaries of the
affected area by including a map of the regulated area, with the boundaries
clearly drawn, by setting out the boundaries in a written description, or by a
combination of these techniques. Adequate notice as to a regulation affecting
only a particular location shall be given in the following manner. When an
ordinance providing regulations for a specific area is proposed, owners of the
parcel of land involved as shown on the county tax listing, and the owners of
land within 500 feet of the proposed area to be regulated, as shown on the
county tax listing, shall be mailed a notice of the proposed classification by
first-class mail at the last addresses listed for such owners on the county tax
abstracts. This mailing requirement does not apply in regulations affecting the
entire lake. Notice shall also be given by a sign, uniform waterway marker,
posted notice, or other effective method of communicating the essential
provisions of the regulation in the immediate vicinity of the location in
question. Where a regulation applies generally as to the waters of Lake Lure or
its shoreline area, or both, there must be a posting of notices, signs, or
markers communicating the essential provisions in at least three different
places throughout the area, and it shall be printed in a newspaper of general
circulation in Rutherford County.
(d)   A copy of each regulation promulgated under this section must be filed by
the Commission with the following persons:
(1)   The Secretary of State;
(2)   The clerk of superior court of Rutherford County;
(3)   The Executive Director of the Wildlife Resources Commission; and
(4)   The federal Energy Regulatory Commission licensee for Lake Lure, if other
than the Town of Lake Lure.
(e)   Any official designated in subsection (d) of this section may issue
certified copies of regulations filed with the official under the seal of the
official's office. Such certified copies may be received in evidence in any
proceeding.
(f)   Publication and filing of regulations promulgated under this section as
required above are for informational purposes and are a prerequisite to their
validity if they in fact have been duly promulgated, the public has been
notified as to the substance of the regulations, a copy of the text of all
regulations is in fact available to any person who may be affected, and no
party to any proceeding has been prejudiced by any defect that may exist with
respect to publication and filing. Rules and regulations promulgated by the
Commission under the provisions of other sections of this Article relating to
internal governance of the Commission need not be filed or published. Where
posting of any sign, notice, or marker, or the making of other communication is
essential to the validity of a regulation duly promulgated, it is presumed in
any proceeding that prior notice was given and maintained, and the burden lies
upon the party asserting to the contrary to prove lack of adequate notice of
any regulation.
"§ 77-88. Enforcement.
(a)   Where a municipal ordinance so provides, all law enforcement officers, or
those officers as may be designated in the municipal ordinance, with
territorial jurisdiction as to any part of the waters of Lake Lure or its
shoreline area within the limitations of their subject matter jurisdiction,
have the authority of peace officers in enforcing the laws over all of the
waters of Lake Lure and its shoreline area. A certificate of training issued by
the North Carolina Criminal Justice Education and Training Standards Commission
or the North Carolina Sheriffs' Education and Training Standards Commission
will suffice for certification for the purposes of this Article.
(b)   Where a law enforcement officer with jurisdiction over any part of the
waters of Lake Lure or its shoreline area is performing duties relating to the
enforcement of the laws on the waters of Lake Lure or in its shoreline area,
the officer shall have such extraterritorial jurisdiction as may be necessary
to perform the officer's duties. These duties include investigations of crimes
an officer reasonably believes have been, or are about to be, committed within
the area in question. This includes traversing by reasonable routes from one
portion of this area to another although across territory not within the
boundaries of the waters of Lake Lure and its shoreline area; conducting
prisoners in custody to a court or to detention facilities as may be authorized
by law, although this may involve going outside the area in question; execution
of process connected with any criminal offense alleged to have been committed
within the boundaries in question, except that this process may not be executed
by virtue of this provision beyond the boundaries of Rutherford County. This
also includes continuing pursuit of and arresting any violator or suspected
violator as to which grounds for arrest arose within the area in question.
(d)   Where law enforcement officers are given additional territorial
jurisdiction under the provisions of this section, this shall be considered an
extension of the duties of the office held, and no officer shall take any
additional oath or title of office."
SECTION 2. This act is effective when it becomes law.
In the General Assembly read three times and ratified this the 9th day of July
2003.
 
Notes
1 Editor's note(s)—Printed herein are session laws affecting the Town of Lake
  Lure.
PART II
CODE OF ORDINANCES
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
1-1.   Title of Code.
1-2.   Definitions.
1-3.   Rules of construction.
1-4.   Continuation of existing ordinances.
1-5.   Section headings.
1-6.   Repeal, expiration, and revival of ordinances.
1-7.   Severability.
1-8.   Amendments to Code; amendatory language.
1-9.   Damaging ordinances.
1-10.   Enforcement and penalties.
Sec. 1-1. Title of Code.
   The provisions embraced in this and the following chapters and sections
shall constitute and be designated the "Code of Ordinances, Town of Lake Lure,
North Carolina," and may be so cited. This Code may also be cited as the "Lake
Lure Code of Ordinances."
(Code 1989, § 10.01)
State law reference(s) —Admission of code into evidence, G.S. 160A-79.
Sec. 1-2. Definitions.
For the purpose of this Code, the following definitions shall apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
Charter. The term "Charter" means the Charter of the Town of Lake Lure.
Council, town council, board of commissioners. The term "council," "town
council" or "board of commissioners" means the legislative body of the town.
The term "board of commissioners" also may be used to designate that same
legislative body of the town.
County. The term "county" means the County of Rutherford, in the State of North
Carolina, except as otherwise provided.
Mayor. The term "mayor" means the mayor of the town.
Month. The term "month" means a calendar month.
NCAC. The abbreviation "NCAC" refers to the North Carolina Administrative Code.
Oath. The term "oath" includes an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an
affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in certain cases the terms
"swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the terms "affirm" and "affirmed".
Officials, boards, and commissions. References made to "officials," "boards,"
and "commissions" by title only shall be deemed to refer to the officials,
boards, and commissions of the Town of Lake Lure.
Or, and. The term "or" may be read "and" and the term "and" may be read "or,"
if the sense requires it.
Owner. The term "owner," applied to a building or land, includes any part
owner, joint owner, tenant in common, joint tenant, or tenant by the entirety,
of the whole or a part of the building or land.
Person. The term "person" extends and is applied to a corporation, firm,
partnership, association, organization, and any other group acting as a unit,
as well as an individual.
Personal property. The term "personal property" means every species of property
except real property as herein defined.
Preceding, following. The terms "preceding" and "following" mean next before
and next after, respectively.
Property. The term "property" includes real and personal property.
Real property. The term "real property" includes lands, tenements, and
hereditaments.
Sidewalk. The term "sidewalk" means any portion of a street between the
curbline and the adjacent property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
Signature,subscription. The term "signature " or "subscription" includes a mark
when the person cannot write.
State. The term "state" means the State of North Carolina.
Street. The term "street" shall be construed to embrace any public way, road,
highway, street, avenue, boulevard, parkway, alley, lane, or bridge and the
approaches thereto within the town.
Tenant or occupant. The term "tenant" or "occupant," applied to a building or
land, includes any person holding a written or oral lease of, or who occupies
the whole or a part of the building or land whether alone or with others.
Town, city, municipal corporation, or municipality. The term "town," "city,"
"municipal corporation," or "municipality" means the Town of Lake Lure, in
Rutherford County, North Carolina, except as otherwise provided.
Written andin writing. The term "written" or "in writing" shall be construed to
include any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by printing or
otherwise.
Year. The term "year" means a calendar year.
(Code 1989, § 10.02)
Sec. 1-3. Rules of construction.
For the purpose of this Code, the following rules of construction shall apply:
Gender. Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine and
neuter.
Joint authority. All words giving a joint authority to three or more persons or
officers shall be construed as giving authority to a majority of those persons
or officers.
Nontechnical and technical words. Words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and any others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to that meaning.
Number. Words used in the singular include the plural and the plural includes
the singular number.
Plural, singular. Words importing the singular shall include the plural, and
words importing the plural shall include the singular.
Statute references. The abbreviation "G.S." refers to the General Statutes of
North Carolina.
Tense. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well as
the past and the present.
Title of office. The title of any office shall be construed to include the
words, "of the Town of Lake Lure, North Carolina."
(Code 1989, § 10.03)
State law reference(s) —Computation of time, G.S. 1-593; rules of construction,
G.S. 12-3.
Sec. 1-4. Continuation of existing ordinances.
   The provisions appearing in this Code, so far as they are the same as
ordinances adopted prior to this Code and included herein, shall be considered
as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
(Code 1989, § 10.04)
Sec. 1-5. Section headings.
   The underlined headings of the several sections of this Code are intended as
mere catchlines to indicate the contents of the section and shall not be deemed
or taken to be titles of these sections, nor as any part of the section, nor,
unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of the sections,
including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
(Code 1989, § 10.05)
Sec. 1-6. Repeal, expiration, and revival of ordinances.
   (a)   The repeal of an ordinance, or its expiration by virtue of any
provision contained therein, shall not affect any right accrued, any offense
committed, any penalty or punishment incurred or any proceeding commenced
before the repeal took effect or the ordinance expired.
   (b)   When an ordinance which repeals another shall itself be repealed, the
previous ordinance shall not be revived without express words to that effect.
(Code 1989, § 10.06)
Sec. 1-7. Severability.
   It is declared to be the intention of the council that the sections,
paragraphs, sentences, clauses, and phrases of this Code are severable and if
any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, or section of this Code shall be
declared unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by the valid judgment or decree
of any court of competent jurisdiction, the unconstitutionality or invalidity
shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs,
and sections of this Code since the same would have been enacted by the council
without the incorporation in this Code of an unconstitutional or invalid
phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, or section.
(Code 1989, § 10.07)
Sec. 1-8. Amendments to Code; amendatory language.
   (a)   All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code which amend, repeal or
in any way affect this Code, may be numbered in accordance with the numbering
system of this Code and printed for inclusion herein. In the case of repealed
chapters, sections, subsections or any part thereof, by subsequent ordinances,
such repealed portions may be excluded from the Code by omission from reprinted
pages affected thereby. The subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed, or
omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of subsequent
ordinances until a time that this Code and subsequent ordinances numbered or
omitted are readopted as a new Code by the council.
   (b)   Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code may be made by
amending these provisions by specific reference to the section number of this
Code in the following or similar language: "That section ___ of the Code of
Ordinances, Town of Lake Lure, North Carolina, is hereby amended to read as
follows:…." The new provisions shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (c)   In the event a new section not heretofore existing in the Code is to
be added, the following or similar language may be used: "That the Code of
Ordinances, Town of Lake Lure, North Carolina, is hereby amended by adding a
section to be numbered ___, which section reads as follows:…." The new
provisions shall then be set out in full as desired.
(Code 1989, § 10.08)
Sec. 1-9. Damaging ordinances.
   No person shall tear or deface any of the town ordinances.
(Code 1989, § 10.09)
Sec. 1-10. Enforcement and penalties.
   Unless another town ordinance either previously or hereafter adopted
provides within that section additional or alternative means of enforcing those
provisions, a violation of any town ordinance may be enforced by any one, all,
or a combination of the remedies set forth in subsections (1) and (2) of this
section.
      (1)   Remedies. Any or all of the following procedures may be used to
enforce provisions of this Code:
         a.   Injunction. Any violation of the Code of the town or of any
condition, order, requirement, or remedy adopted pursuant hereto may be
restrained, corrected, abated, mandated, or enjoined by any other appropriate
proceedings permitted by state law.
         b.   Civil penalties. Any person, corporation or legal entity who
violates any provisions of this Code shall be subject to the assessment of a
civil penalty under the procedures provided in subsection (2)b of this section.
         c.   Criminal prosecution. Where specifically set forth within a
specific ordinance provision that a violation is punishable as a misdemeanor,
violations of the ordinances of the town may also be enforced by criminal
prosecution as a Class 3 misdemeanor as provided in G.S. 14-4, punishable upon
conviction by a maximum fine not to exceed $500.00 for each separate violation
or by imprisonment not to exceed 30 days pursuant to the authority of G.S. 14-3
(a)(3).
      (2)   Penalties.
         a.   Criminal penalties. If a violation of any specific ordinances of
the town is enforced by criminal prosecution as a Class 3 misdemeanor as set
forth in subsection (1)a of this section, the penalties shall be pursuant to
G.S. 14-4, by a maximum fine not to exceed $500.00 for each separate violation
or by imprisonment not to exceed 30 days as set forth in G.S. 14.3(a)(3).
         b.   Civil penalties. If the town elects, instead of criminal
penalties, as set forth in subsection (1)c of this section, each offender may
be assessed a civil penalty upon the issuance of a citation for said violations
as herein provided. The civil penalty, if not paid to the town within 15 days
of the issuance of a citation, may be recovered by the town in a civil action
in the nature of a debt. Said civil penalties shall be in the amount of $100.00
for each violation and each day any single violation continues shall be a
separate violation. The procedures to be followed in issuing civil penalties
shall be as follows:
            1.   The enforcement official shall cause a warning citation to be
issued to the violator. Such warning citation shall be issued either in person
or posted in the United States mail service by first-class mail addressed to
the last known address of the violator as contained in the records of the
county. Such warning citation shall set out the nature of the violation, the
section violated, the date of the violation, and shall contain an order to
immediately cease the violation. If the violation is in the nature of an
infraction for which an order of abatement would be appropriate in a civil
proceeding, a reasonable period of time must be stated in which the violation
must be abated. The warning citation shall specify that a second citation shall
incur a civil penalty, together with costs, and attorney fees.
            2.   An appeal from a warning citation shall be taken within 15
days from the date of said warning citation by filing with the enforcement
official and with the board of adjustment a notice of appeal which shall
specify the grounds upon which the appeal is based. Except in any case where
the ordinance is violated, which is the subject of the warning citation,
specifically grants to the board of adjustment other powers in considering
appeals and such appeal is applied for, the board of adjustment, in considering
appeals of warning citations, shall have power only in the manner of
administrative review and interpretation where it is alleged that the
enforcement official has made an error in the application of an ordinance, in
the factual situation as it relates to the application of an ordinance or both.
            3.   Where the enforcement official of the town determines that the
period of time stated in the original warning citation is not sufficient for
abatement based upon the work required or consent agreement, the enforcement
official may amend the warning citation to provide for additional time.
            4.   Upon failure of the violator to obey the warning citation, a
civil citation may be issued by the enforcement official, either served
directly on the violator, his duly designated agent, or registered agent if a
corporation, either in person or posted in the United States mail service by
first-class mail addressed to the last known address of the violator as
contained in the records of the county or obtained from the violator at the
time of issuance of the warning citation. The violator shall be deemed to have
been served upon the mailing of said citation. The citation shall direct the
violator to appear before the town manager, or designee, within 15 days of the
date of the citation, or alternatively to pay the citation by mail. The
violation for which the citation is issued must have been corrected by the time
the citation is paid; otherwise, further citations shall be issued. Citations
may be issued for each day the offense continues until the prohibited activity
is ceased or abated.
            5.   If the violator fails to respond to a citation within 15 days
of its issuance, and pay the penalty prescribed therein, the town may institute
a civil action in the nature of debt in the appropriate division of the state
general court of justice for the collection of the penalty, costs, attorney
fees, and such other relief as permitted by law.
         c.   In addition to the criminal and civil penalties set out in
subsections (2)b.1 through 5 of this section, any provision of any town
ordinance may be enforced by an appropriate equitable remedy issuing from a
court of competent jurisdiction. In such case, the general court of justice
shall have jurisdiction to issue such orders as may be appropriate, and it
shall not be a defense to the application of the town for equitable relief that
there is an adequate remedy at law.
         d.   In addition to the criminal and civil penalties set out in
subsections (2)a and b of this section, any provision of any town ordinance
that makes unlawful a condition existing upon or use made of real property may
be enforced by injunction and order of abatement by the general court of
justice. When a violation of such a provision occurs, the town may apply to the
appropriate division of the general court of justice for a mandatory or
prohibitory injunction and/or order of abatement commanding the defendant to
correct the unlawful condition upon or cease the unlawful use of the property.
The action shall be governed in all respects by the laws and rules governing
civil proceedings, including the rules of civil procedure in general and G.S.
1A-1, rule 65 in particular. An order of abatement may direct that buildings or
other structures on the property be closed, demolished or removed; that
fixtures, furniture or other movable property be removed from buildings on the
property; that grass and weeds be cut; that abandoned or junked vehicles be
removed; that improvements or repairs be made; or that any other action be
taken that is necessary to bring the property into compliance with the
applicable town ordinance. If the defendant fails or refuses to comply with an
injunction or with an order of abatement within the time allowed by the court,
he may be cited for contempt, and the town may execute the order of abatement.
The town shall have a lien on the property for the cost of executing an order
of abatement in the nature of a mechanic's and materialman's lien. The
defendant may secure cancellation of an order of abatement by paying all costs
of the proceedings and posting a bond for compliance with the order. The bond
shall be given with sureties approved by the clerk of superior court in an
amount approved by the judge before whom the matter is heard and shall be
conditioned on the defendant's full compliance with the terms of the order of
abatement within a time fixed by the judicial order. Cancellation of an order
of abatement shall not suspend or cancel an injunction issued in conjunction
therewith.
         e.   The provisions of this chapter may be enforced by one, all, or a
combination of the remedies authorized and prescribed by this section.
(Code 1989, § 10.99; Ord. of 3-13-2012; Ord. of 8-14-2012, Ord. of 6-14-2022)
Chapter 2
ADMINISTRATION 1
ARTICLE I.   IN GENERAL
Secs. 2-1–2-18.   Reserved.
ARTICLE II.   TOWN COUNCIL
DIVISION 1.   GENERALLY
2-19.   Composition; governance function.
2-20.   Powers and duties.
2-21.   Mayor; duties.
2-22.   Mayor pro tem.
2-23.   Town manager.
Secs. 2-24–2-49.   Reserved.
DIVISION 2.   MEETINGS
2-50.   Regular meetings; time and place.
2-51.   Special meetings.
2-52.   Continual and adjourned meetings.
Secs. 2-53–2-77.   Reserved.
ARTICLE III.   OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
2-78.   Clerk; duties.
2-79.   Town attorney; duties.
2-80.   Finance officer; duties.
2-81.   Other officers and employees.
Secs. 2-82–2-105.   Reserved.
ARTICLE IV.   FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION
2-106.   Procedure for disbursement.
2-107.   Delegating authority for contract approval.
Secs. 2-108–2-127.   Reserved.
ARTICLE V.   DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, AND COMMISSIONS
DIVISION 1.   GENERALLY
2-128.   Board of adjustment.
Secs. 2-129–2-154.   Reserved.
DIVISION 2.   ZONING AND PLANNING BOARD
2-155.   Establishment.
2-156.   Members; terms; vacancies.
2-157.   Officers.
2-158.   Powers and duties.
Secs. 2-159–2-184.   Reserved.
DIVISION 3.   MARINE COMMISSION
2-185.   Establishment.
2-186.   Definitions.
2-187.   Powers and duties.
2-188.   Governing board.
2-189.   Compensation; budgetary and accounting procedures.
2-190.   Organization and meetings.
2-191.   Powers of commission; administrative provision.
2-192.   Filing and publication of applicable municipal ordinances.
2-193.   Regulatory authority.
2-194.   Enforcement.
 
Notes
  State law reference(s)—Cities and towns, G.S. 160A-1 et seq.; government and
  general management of municipality vested in governing body, G.S. 160A-67;
  franchises and technical ordinances, G.S. 160A-76; code of ordinances, G.S.
1 160A-77; municipality must file ordinances in ordinance book, G.S. 160A-78;
  governing body has authority to organize and reorganize municipal government,
  G.S. 160A-146 et seq.; general ordinance-making power, G.S. 160A-174; city
  power to impose specifically authorized taxes, G.S. 160A-206; remedies for
  collecting taxes, G.S. 160A-207; property taxes, G.S. 160A-209.
ARTICLE I.   IN GENERAL
Secs. 2-1—2-18. Reserved.
ARTICLE II.
TOWN COUNCIL
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
Sec. 2-19. Composition; governance function.
   The governing body of the town consists of a mayor and council of four
members. The town council shall be charged with the general government and
administration of the affairs of the town.
(Code 1989, § 20.01)
State Law Reference(s)—Council to organize town government, see G.S. 160A-146.
Sec. 2-20. Powers and duties.
   The powers and duties of the town council shall be as set out in the general
statutes of the state, the town Charter, and the ordinances of the town.
(Code 1989, § 20.02)
Sec. 2-21. Mayor; duties.
   The mayor shall be the official head of the town, and, as such, shall
perform the following duties:
      (1)   Keep himself informed as to the town's business.
      (2)   Preside over the meetings of the council.
      (3)   Sign all contracts, ordinances, resolutions, franchises, and all
other documents as authorized by the council.
      (4)   Appoint all committees and outline their duties, under the general
direction of the council.
      (5)   Make recommendations to the council concerning the affairs of the
town, as he deems necessary.
      (6)   Represent the town at ceremonies and other official occasions.
      (7)   Perform other duties as authorized by the general statutes, the
Charter, and this Code.
(Code 1989, § 20.03)
State Law Reference(s)—Duties of the mayor, G.S. 160A-69.
Sec. 2-22. Mayor pro tem.
   At the first meeting after its election, the council shall select one of its
number to act as mayor pro tem. The mayor pro tem shall have no fixed term of
office, but as such, shall perform all the duties of the mayor in the mayor's
absence or disability.
(Code 1989, § 20.04)
State Law Reference(s)—Mayor pro tem, G.S. 160A-70.
Sec. 2-23. Town manager.
   (a)   The council shall appoint a town manager to serve at its pleasure. The
manager shall be appointed solely on the basis of his executive and
administrative qualifications. He need not be a resident of the town or state
at the time of his appointment. The office of town manager is hereby declared
to be an office that may be held concurrently with other appointive (but not
elective) offices pursuant to article VI, section 9 of the constitution (G.S.
160A-147).
   (b)   The town manager shall be the chief administrator of the town. He
shall be responsible to the council for administering all municipal affairs
placed in his charge by them, and shall have the following powers and duties:
      (1)   He shall appoint and suspend or remove all town officers and
employees not elected by the people, and whose appointment or removal is not
otherwise provided for by law, except the town attorney, in accordance with
such general personnel rules, regulations, policies, or ordinances as the
council may adopt.
      (2)   He shall direct and supervise the administration of all
departments, offices, and agencies of the town, subject to the general
direction and control of the council, except as otherwise provided by law.
      (3)   He shall attend all meetings of the council and recommend any
measures that he deems expedient.
      (4)   He shall see that all laws of the state, Charter, and the
ordinances, resolutions, and regulations of the council are faithfully executed
within the town.
      (5)   He shall prepare and submit the annual budget and capital program
to the council.
      (6)   He shall annually submit to the council and make available to the
public a complete report on the finances and administrative activities of the
town as of the end of the fiscal year.
      (7)   He shall make monthly reports to council concerning the operations
of town departments, offices, and agencies subject to his direction and
control.
      (8)   He shall perform any other duties that may be required or
authorized by the council (G.S. 160A-148).
   (c)   Neither the mayor nor any member of the council shall be eligible for
appointment as manager or acting or interim manager (G.S. 160A-151).
(Code 1989, § 20.05)
Secs. 2-24—2-49. Reserved.
DIVISION 2. MEETINGS
Sec. 2-50. Regular meetings; time and place.
   The regular meetings of the council shall be held on the second Tuesday of
each month at 5:00 p.m. at the community center, unless otherwise designated by
the council.
(Code 1989, § 20.15)
State Law Reference(s)—Quorum, see G.S. 160A-74; voting, G.S. 160A-75.
Sec. 2-51. Special meetings.
   Special meetings of the council may be held according to the procedures set
out in the applicable general statutes.
(Code 1989, § 20.16)
State Law Reference(s)—Notice of special meetings, G.S. 143-318.12; special
meetings, G.S. 160A-71.
Sec. 2-52. Continual and adjourned meetings.
   Any meeting of the council may be continued or adjourned from day to day, or
for more than one day.
(Code 1989, § 20.17)
Secs. 2-53—2-77. Reserved.
ARTICLE III.
OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
Sec. 2-78. Clerk; duties.
   The board shall appoint a clerk. It shall be the duty of the clerk to:
      (1)   Act as secretary to the council;
      (2)   Keep a true record of all the proceedings of the council;
      (3)   Keep the original of all ordinances in a book especially provided
for that purpose;
      (4)   Act as custodian for all the books, papers, records, and journals
of the council; and
      (5)   Perform other duties as may be required by law or by the council.
(Code 1989, § 21.01)
State Law Reference(s)—Duties of the clerk specified, G.S. 160A-171.
Sec. 2-79. Town attorney; duties.
   The council shall appoint a town attorney whose duties shall be to:
      (1)   Prosecute or defend any and all suits or actions at law or equity
to which the town may be a party, or in which it may be interested, or which
may be brought against, or by, any officer of the town, or in the capacity of
the person as an officer of the town;
      (2)   See to the full enforcement of all judgments or decrees rendered or
entered in favor of the town;
      (3)   See to the completion of all special assessment proceedings and
condemnation proceedings;
      (4)   Draft or review any contract, lease, or other document or
instrument to which the town may be a party, and approve all ordinances and
resolutions of the council as to form;
      (5)   At the request of the council, draft ordinances covering any
subject within the power of the town;
      (6)   Attend meetings of the council on request; and
      (7)   Perform any other duties required of him by G.S. 160A-173 and other
laws and ordinances.
(Code 1989, § 21.02)
State Law Reference(s)—Duties of the attorney, G.S. 160A-173.
Sec. 2-80. Finance officer; duties.
   The council shall provide for the appointment of a finance officer, whose
duties shall be to:
      (1)   Keep the books and accounts of the town;
      (2)   Receive and disburse all monies of the town as required under state
law;
      (3)   Countersign and preaudit all checks, drafts, contracts, purchase
orders, or other documents obligating town funds;
      (4)   Report to the council monthly and as they may require concerning
the finances of the town;
      (5)   Maintain all records of the bonded debt of the town and maintain
sinking funds;
      (6)   Supervise the investment of idle funds; and
      (7)   Perform other duties assigned by the general statutes, the Charter,
or by the council.
(Code 1989, § 21.04)
State Law Reference(s)—Duties of the finance officer, G.S. 159-25; fiscal
control generally, G.S. 159-7 et seq.
Sec. 2-81. Other officers and employees.
   Such other officers and employees as are deemed necessary shall be appointed
by the council at the first meeting after each election. All officers and
employees shall serve at the pleasure of the council and receive such
compensation as from time to time may be prescribed by the council.
(Code 1989, § 21.05)
Secs. 2-82—2-105. Reserved.
ARTICLE IV.
FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION
Sec. 2-106. Procedure for disbursement.
   (a)   In accordance with the Local Government Budget and Fiscal Control Act,
no bill or claim against the town may be paid unless it has been approved by
the officer or employee responsible for the function or agency to which the
expense is charged. No check or draft of the town shall be valid unless it
bears on its face the certificate of the finance officer as follows: "This
disbursement has been approved as required by the Local Government Budget and
Fiscal Control Act."
   (b)   No contract, agreement, or purchase order shall be valid unless it
bears the finance officer's certificate as follows: "This instrument has been
pre-audited in the manner required by the Local Government Budget and Fiscal
Control Act."
(Code 1989, § 22.01)
State Law Reference(s)—Preaudit of disbursements required, G.S. 159-28.
Sec. 2-107. Delegating authority for contract approval.
   (a)   Grant of authority. Subject to the restrictions and conditions
thereinafter provided, when purchasing apparatus, supplies, materials,
equipment, construction services, or professional services, for use by the town
in addition to such authority as may be provided by law and/or otherwise
delegated by the town council, the town manager shall have the authority to:
      (1)   Prepare, or cause to be prepared, plans and/or specifications
setting forth a complete description of the item to be purchased and the
characteristics, features and/or requirements therefor;
      (2)   Include, where appropriate in specifications for the item to be
purchased, an opportunity for bidders to purchase as trade-in specified
personal property owned by the town;
      (3)   Advertise, or otherwise secure bids, for such item, if required
under applicable law;
      (4)   Award contracts for the purchase of the item, and, where
applicable, award contracts for the purchase of the item and the sale of trade-
in-property up to the thresholds provided for by this article;
      (5)   Reject bids;
      (6)   Re-advertise to receive bids;
      (7)   Waive bid bond or deposit requirements;
      (8)   Waive performance and payment bond requirements; and
      (9)   Execute and deliver the purchase contract.
   (b)   Report. At the first meeting of the town council following the award
of any contract in the informal and formal range pursuant to this article, the
town manager shall submit a report to the town council summarizing the bids
received and the contract awarded. Such report shall be included in the minutes
of the meeting at which it is received.
   (c)   Extent of authority. Except in cases of sole source purchases pursuant
to G.S. 143-129(f) and cases of purchases from established contracts pursuant
to G.S. 143-129(g), unless otherwise provided by law, the provisions of this
article shall apply to all contracts required for use by the town.
   (d)   No limitation of other authority. The provisions of this article are
not intended to limit, restrict or revoke, in any manner, authority otherwise
granted and/or delegated to the town manager by statute, law or action of the
town council.
   (e)   Appropriation required. No purchase shall be made by the town manager
under authority of this article, unless an appropriation for such purpose has
been authorized in the annual budget, or by supplemental appropriation or
budget appropriation amendment duly adopted by the town council.
   (f)   Application of general statutes. In acting pursuant to the authority
delegated by this article, the town manager shall comply with the requirements
of G.S. ch. 143, art. 8, as from time to time amended, modified, supplemented,
revised, or superseded, to the same extent as would have otherwise applied to
the town council.
   (g)   Contract approval. The town council must approve all contracts that
meet the following criteria:
      (1)   Contracts greater than $30,000.00 with or without budgetary
authority.
      (2)   Contracts exceeding budgetary approval, which require a budget
amendment.
      (3)   Contracts with terms greater than one year.
      (4)   Contracts subject to statutory informal or formal bid thresholds.
      (5)   Contracts suggesting a significant policy change, as determined by
the town manager.
      (6)   Project change orders that exceed approved cost of the contract and
budgeted funds.
   (h)   Contract execution by town manager. The town manager may execute
contracts without additional town council approval, if the contract meets all
of the following conditions:
      (1)   Contracts less than $30,000.00 that have been authorized by the
town council through direct award or budget authorization.
      (2)   Contracts that are less than one year.
      (3)   Equipment leases or rentals for less than one year, which require a
budget amendment.
      (4)   Project change orders that do not exceed the total capital budget
and are not a significant change in project scope or design.
   (i)   Contract conditions. Department heads or designees may execute
purchase, maintenance or service contracts if the contracts meet all of the
following conditions:
      (1)   Contracts less than $5,000.00 that have been authorized by direct
award or budget authorization.
      (2)   Contracts or agreements less than one year.
      (3)   Upon utilization of standard contract document or contract review
process.
      (4)   Equipment leases or rentals for less than one year, which do not
require a budget amendment.
   (j)   Contract documents. All contracts for which the contractor will
perform work or provide services for the town must be accompanied by the
standard town contract form or a contract approved by the town attorney. The
contract must follow all procedures and contain all necessary insurance and
payment options. A copy of the completed and signed contract must be forwarded
to the town clerk and if necessary to the finance department for requisition
approval. The town will not enter into contractual agreements that are subject
to automatic renewal and will attempt to structure contracts to coincide with
the fiscal year.
   (k)   Contract review form. Unless a department is utilizing the standard
town contract, all contracts must be circulated through the utilization of the
Contract Review Form (CRF) (attached to the ordinance from which this section
is derived). The contract cannot be executed until all applicable parties have
signed the CRF. The town manager or department head will execute or authorize
the execution of the contract once they are satisfied that all review have been
completed.
   (l)   Finance officer review. Regardless of form, no contract may be
executed unless the town finance director has pre-audited the contract in the
manner required by the Local Government Budget and Fiscal Control Act.
Contracts funded with federal grant or loan funds must be procured in a manner
that conforms with all applicable federal laws, policies, standards, including
those under the uniform guidance (2 CFR 200).
(Code 1989, § 22.02; Ord. of 8-14-2018)
Secs. 2-108—2-127. Reserved.
ARTICLE V.
DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, AND COMMISSIONS
DIVISION 1.    GENERALLY
Sec. 2-128. Board of adjustment.
   For provisions concerning the board of adjustment, see section
36-178.
(Code 1989, § 23.01)
Secs. 2-129—2-154. Reserved.
DIVISION 2. ZONING AND PLANNING BOARD
Sec. 2-155. Establishment.
   (a)   Pursuant to the provisions of G.S. 160D-301, the town council hereby
establishes a planning agency under the name of the "town zoning and planning
board."
   (b)   The existing planning agency known as the zoning planning board shall
be, and the same is hereby, discontinued.
   (c)   All memberships on said zoning planning board shall be, and the same
are, hereby terminated.
(Code 1989, § 23.10; Ord. of 3-23-1982)
Sec. 2-156. Members; terms; vacancies.
   The zoning and planning board shall consist of five members, each of whom
shall serve for a term of three years, expiring on December 31 of the third
year. Terms shall be staggered. Any vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired
term in the same manner as the initial appointment. Not more than two members'
terms shall expire in any one year.
(Code 1989, § 23.11; Ord. of 3-23-1982; Ord. of 7-27-1993)
Sec. 2-157. Officers.
   The zoning and planning board shall elect from its members a chairperson and
may elect such other officers as it may deem necessary.
(Code 1989, § 23.12; Ord. of 3-23-1982)
Sec. 2-158. Powers and duties.
   (a)   The following powers and duties are hereby delegated to the zoning and
planning board:
      (1)   Propose amendments, or receive for review and recommendations
requests or suggestions for amendments, to the town's zoning chapter and map.
      (2)   Make studies of the town and surrounding areas.
      (3)   Determine objectives to be sought in the development of the study
area.
      (4)   Prepare and adopt plans for achieving these objectives.
      (5)   Develop and recommend policies, ordinances, administrative
procedures, and other means for carrying out plans in a coordinated and
efficient manner.
      (6)   Advise the town council concerning the use and amendment of means
for carrying out plans.
      (7)   Exercise any function in the administration and enforcement of
various means for carrying out plans that the council may direct.
      (8)   Perform any other related duties that the council may direct.
   (b)   The zoning and planning board shall be subject to all the duties and
responsibilities set forth in G.S. ch. 160D, and shall have such other duties
and responsibilities as may have heretofore been delegated to the zoning and
planning board.
   (c)   The zoning and planning board may adopt such internal rules,
regulations and bylaws for the proper operation of its business, and not
inconsistent with this division, as the board deems necessary.
(Code 1989, § 23.13; Ord. of 3-23-1982)
Secs. 2-159—2-184. Reserved.
DIVISION 3. MARINE COMMISSION
Sec. 2-185. Establishment.
   Pursuant to the provisions of Senate Bill 89, effective July 20, 2003, and
authority granted by the general assembly of the state, the board of
commissioners of the town hereby establishes the town marine commission.
(Code 1989, § 23.20; Ord. of 9-9-2003)
Sec. 2-186. Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
Board means the board of commissioners of the town, also known as "town
council."
Commission means the Lake Lure Marine Commission or its governing board, as the
case may be.
Commissioner means a member of the governing board of the Lake Lure Marine
Commission.
Lake Lure Reservoir, known for purposes of this division as Lake Lure or "the
waters of Lake Lure," means the body of water along the Broad River in the
county, impounded by the dam at Tumbling Shoals, and lying below the 995- foot
contour line above sea level.
Shoreline area means the area submerged by the dam at Tumbling Shoals, lying
below 995 feet above mean sea level of the normal full pond elevation of 992
feet above mean sea level, on Lake Lure.
Wildlife commission means the North Carolina Wildlife Resources Commission.
(Code 1989, § 23.21; Ord. of 9-9-2003)
Sec. 2-187. Powers and duties.
   The commission shall enjoy the powers and have the duties and
responsibilities conferred upon it by the town municipal ordinance, or any
modification, amendment or rescission of any ordinance, subject to the
provisions of this section and the laws of the state.
(Code 1989, § 23.22; Ord. of 9-9-2003)
Sec. 2-188. Governing board.
   The commission shall have a governing board. The governing board shall,
unless otherwise amended by future ordinance, be the board of commissioners of
the town.
(Code 1989, § 23.23; Ord. of 9-9-2003)
Sec. 2-189. Compensation; budgetary and accounting procedures.
   Any compensation, or separate budgetary and accounting procedures for the
commission, shall be as subsequently established by the board of commissioners
of the town. Compensation of consultants and staff members employed by the
commission, and reimbursement of expenses incurred by commissioners,
consultants, and employees, if any, shall be as subsequently approved by the
board of commissioners of the town. The commission shall be governed by these
budgetary and accounting procedures as may be specified by the municipal
ordinance and the applicable laws of the state.
(Code 1989, § 23.24; Ord. of 9-9-2003)
Sec. 2-190. Organization and meetings.
   (a)   The governing board of the town marine commission shall meet at a
regular time and place as established by the board of commissioners of the
town.
   (b)   The mayor of the town shall act as the presiding officer of the
commission, unless changed by future amendment to this section. The governing
board of the commission shall adopt such rules and regulations as it may
consider necessary, not inconsistent with the provisions of this division or of
any ordinance of the town or the laws of the state, for the proper discharge of
its duties and for the governance of the commission. In order to conduct
business, a quorum must be present. The presiding officer may appoint those
committees as may be authorized by such rules and regulations. The commission
shall meet regularly at those times and places as may be specified in its rules
and regulations or in this division or any amendment thereto. Special meetings
may be called as specified in the rules and regulations. The provisions of the
Open Meetings Law, G.S. ch. 143, art. 33C (G.S. 143- 318.9 et seq.), apply.
(Code 1989, § 23.25; Ord. of 9-9-2003)
Sec. 2-191. Powers of commission; administrative provision.
   (a)   Within the limits of funds available to it, and subject to the
provisions of this division and of the town municipal Code, the commission may:
      (1)   Hire and fix the compensation of permanent and temporary employees
and staff as it may consider necessary in carrying out its duties;
      (2)   Contract with consultants for such services as it may require;
      (3)   Contract with the state, federal government, or any agency or
department or subdivision of them, for property or services as may be provided
to or by these agencies, and carry out the provisions of such contracts;
      (4)   Contract with persons, firms, and corporations generally as to all
matters over which it has a proper concern, and carry out the provisions of
such contracts;
      (5)   Lease, rent, purchase, or otherwise obtain suitable quarters and
office space for its employees and staff, and lease, rent, purchase, or
otherwise obtain furniture, fixtures, vehicles, uniforms, and other supplies
and equipment necessary or desirable for carrying out the duties imposed in or
under the authority of this division; and
      (6)   Lease, rent, purchase, construct, otherwise obtain, maintain,
operate, repair, and replace, either on its own or in cooperation with other
public or private agencies or individuals, any of the following: boat docks,
navigation aids, waterway markers, public information signs and notices, and
other items of real and personal property designed to enhance public
recreation, public safety on the waters of Lake Lure and its shoreline area, or
protection of property in the shoreline area, subject, however, to the
provisions of G.S. ch. 113 and rules promulgated under that article as to
property within the state.
   (b)   The commission may accept, receive, and disburse in furtherance of its
functions any funds, grants, services, or property made available by the
federal government or its agencies or subdivisions, or by private and civic
sources.
   (c)   The board of commissioners of the town may appropriate funds to the
commission out of surplus funds or funds derived from nontax sources. It may
appropriate funds out of tax revenues and may also levy annually taxes for the
payment of such appropriation as a special purpose, in addition to any allowed
by the state constitution or as provided by G.S. 160A-209.
   (d)   In the event the commission receives or expends any funds in any town
fiscal year, it shall also be audited annually in conjunction with the town's
audit as required by law.
   (e)   In carrying out its duties, and either in addition to or in lieu of
exercising various provisions of subsections (a) through (d) of this section,
the commission may, with the agreement of the board of commissioners of the
town, utilize personnel and property of or assign responsibilities to any
officer or employee of the town. Such contribution in kind, if substantial,
may, with agreement between the board and the commission, be considered to
substitute in whole or in part for the financial contribution required of the
town in support of the commission.
(Code 1989, § 23.26; Ord. of 9-9-2003)
Sec. 2-192. Filing and publication of applicable municipal ordinances.
   (a)   A copy of the initial municipal ordinance creating the commission and
of any ordinance amending or repealing the resolution creating the commission
shall be filed with:
      (1)   The executive director of the wildlife commission.
      (2)   The secretary of state.
      (3)   The clerk of the town.
      (4)   The clerk of the superior court of the county. Upon request, the
executive director shall also send a certified single copy of any and all
applicable ordinances to the chairperson of the commission.
      (5)   A newspaper of general circulation in the county.
   (b)   This section shall take effect when the text has been submitted to the
secretary of state for filing. Certifications of the board under the seal of
the commission as to the text or amended text of any municipal ordinance and of
the date of submission to the secretary of state shall be admissible in
evidence in any court. Certifications by the clerk of superior court of the
county of the text of any certified ordinance filed with the clerk by the board
is admissible in evidence and the board's submission of the resolution for
filing to the clerk shall constitute prima facie evidence that such resolution
was on the date of submission also submitted for filing with the secretary of
state. Except for the certificate of a clerk as to receipt and date of
submission, no evidence may be admitted in court concerning the submission of
the certified text of any ordinance by the board to any person other than the
secretary of state.
(Code 1989, § 23.27; Ord. of 9-9-2003)
Sec. 2-193. Regulatory authority.
   (a)   Except as limited in subsection (b) of this section, by restrictions
in any municipal ordinance, and by other supervening provisions of law, the
commission may make regulations applicable to Lake Lure and its shoreline area
concerning all matters relating to or affecting the use of Lake Lure. These
regulations may not conflict with provisions of general or special acts or of
regulations of state agencies promulgated under the authority of general law.
No regulations adopted under the provisions of this section may be adopted by
the commission except after public hearing, with publication of notice of the
hearing in a newspaper of general circulation in the county at least ten days
before the hearing. In lieu of or in addition to passing regulations
supplementary to state law and regulations concerning the operation of vessels
on Lake Lure, the commission may, after public notice, request that the
wildlife resources commission pass local regulations on this subject in
accordance with the procedure established by appropriate state law.
   (b)   Violation of any regulation of the commission commanding or
prohibiting an act shall be a Class 3 misdemeanor.
   (c)   The regulations promulgated under this section take effect upon
passage or upon such dates as may be stipulated in the regulations except that
no regulation may be enforced unless adequate notice of the regulation has been
posted in or on Lake Lure or its shoreline area. Ordinances providing
regulations for specific areas shall clearly establish the boundaries of the
affected area by including a map of the regulated area, with the boundaries
clearly drawn, by setting out the boundaries in a written description, or by a
combination of these techniques. Adequate notice as to a regulation affecting
only a particular location shall be given in the following manner. When an
ordinance providing regulations for a specific area is proposed, owners of the
parcel of land involved as shown on the county tax listing, and the owners of
land within 500 feet of the proposed area to be regulated, as shown on the
county tax listing, shall be mailed a notice of the proposed classification by
first-class mail at the last addresses listed for such owners on the county tax
abstracts. This mailing requirement does not apply in regulations affecting the
entire lake. Notice shall also be given by a sign, uniform waterway marker,
posted notice, or other effective method of communicating the essential
provisions of the regulation in the immediate vicinity of the location in
question. Where a regulation applies generally as to the waters of Lake Lure or
its shoreline area, or both, there must be a posting of notices, signs, or
markers communicating the essential provisions in at least three different
places throughout the area, and it shall be printed in a newspaper of general
circulation in the county.
   (d)   A copy of each regulation promulgated under this section must be filed
by the commission with the following persons:
      (1)   The secretary of state;
      (2)   The clerk of the superior court of the county;
      (3)   The executive director of the wildlife resources commission; and
      (4)   The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission licensee for Lake Lure, if
other than the town.
   (e)   Any official designated in subsection (d) of this section may issue
certified copies of regulations filed with the official under the seal of the
official's office. Such certified copies may be received in evidence in any
proceeding.
   (f)   Publication and filing of regulations promulgated under this
subsection as required are for informational purposes and are a prerequisite to
their validity if they in fact have been duly promulgated, the public has been
notified as to the substance of the regulations, a copy of the text of all
regulations is in fact available to any person who may be affected, and no
party to any proceeding has been prejudiced by any defect that may exist with
respect to publication and filing. Rules and regulations promulgated by the
commission under the provisions of other sections of this article relating to
internal governance of the commission need not be filed or published. Where
posting of any sign, notice, or marker, or the making of other communication is
essential to the validity of a regulation duly promulgated, it is presumed in
any proceeding that prior notice was given and maintained, and the burden lies
upon the party asserting to the contrary to prove lack of adequate notice of
any regulation.
(Code 1989, § 23.28; Ord. of 9-9-2003)
Sec. 2-194. Enforcement.
   (a)   All law enforcement officers with territorial jurisdiction as to any
part of the waters of Lake Lure or its shoreline area within the limitations of
their subject matter jurisdiction, have the authority of peace officers in
enforcing the laws over all of the waters of Lake Lure and its shoreline area.
A certificate of training issued by the North Carolina Criminal Justice
Education and Training Standards Commission or the North Carolina Sheriffs'
Education and Training Standards Commission will suffice for certification for
the purposes of this article.
   (b)   Where a law enforcement officer with jurisdiction over any part of the
waters of Lake Lure or its shoreline area is performing duties relating to the
enforcement of the laws on the waters of Lake Lure or in its shoreline area,
the officer shall have such extraterritorial jurisdiction as may be necessary
to perform the officer's duties. These duties include investigations of crimes
an officer reasonably believes have been, or are about to be, committed within
the area in question. This includes traversing, by reasonable routes, from one
portion of this area to another although across territory not within the
boundaries of the waters of Lake Lure and its shoreline area; conducting
prisoners in custody to a court or to detention facilities as may be authorized
by law, although this may involve going outside the area in question; execution
of process connected with any criminal offense alleged to have been committed
within the boundaries in question, except that this process may not be executed
by virtue of this provision beyond the boundaries of the county. This also
includes continuing pursuit of and arresting any violator or suspected violator
as to which grounds for arrest arose within the area in question.
   (c)   Where law enforcement officers are given additional territorial
jurisdiction under the provisions of this section, this shall be considered an
extension of the duties of the office held, and no officer shall take any
additional oath or title of office.
(Code 1989, § 23.29)
Chapter 3
RESERVED
Chapter 4
ANIMALS 1
4-1.   Definitions.
4-2.   Dangerous dogs; barking; leash requirements.
4-3.   Livestock.
4-4.   Bird sanctuary.
4-5.   Penalty.
 
Notes
  State law reference(s)—Rabies, G.S. 130A-184 et seq.; authority of city to
  define and prohibit abuse of animals, G.S. 160A-182; authority of city to
1 regulate domestic animals, G.S. 160A-186; limitations on municipal
  regulations concerning standards of care for farm animals, G.S. 160A-203.1;
  authority of city to regulate possession or harboring of dangerous animals,
  G.S. 160A-187; bird sanctuaries, G.S. 160A-188.
Sec. 4-1. Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
Chicken coop means a protective indoor space where chicken hens are kept.
Chicken run means a fully enclosed area where chicken hens may move freely in
the open.
Dog having dangerous or destructive propensities means a dog which constitutes
a physical threat to humans or other animals, or a dog which habitually turns
over garbage receptacles, habitually destroys shrubs, flowers, grass, and other
plant growth, habitually kills other animals, habitually attacks or attempts to
attack persons, or habitually performs other similar acts.
Free range means permitting livestock to graze, forage for food or otherwise
roam freely outdoors as opposed to being confined within an enclosure.
Hen means a female chicken.
Proper enclosure when used in reference to dogs means a building or other
structure from which a dog cannot escape, or an outside area enclosed by a
fence at least six feet in height secured to the ground in a manner so that a
dog cannot escape.
(Code 1989, § 81.01; Ord. of 12-12-2023)
Sec. 4-2. Dangerous dogs; barking; leash requirements.
   (a)   The keeping or maintenance outside a proper enclosure of any dog
having dangerous or destructive propensities is prohibited.
   (b)   The keeping or maintenance of any dog which by prolonged and habitual
barking, howling, or whining cause serious annoyance to neighboring residents
and interfere with the reasonable use and enjoyment of the premises occupied by
such residents, or with the reasonable use and enjoyment of the public streets,
sidewalks or other public areas, is prohibited.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning, having possession, charge,
care, custody or control of a dog to allow such dog to enter any town owned
parcels, including, but not limited to, Lake Lure Town Hall, Washburn Marina,
Morse Park, Dittmer Watts Nature Trail and Lake Lure Greenspace without being
secured by a leash, lead or other means of physical restraint not exceeding 10
feet in length, which leash, lead or other means of physical restraint is not
harmful or injurious to the dog and which is held by a responsible person
capable of physically restraining the dog. This section shall apply to all dogs
with the following exceptions:
      (1)   Dogs used or being trained for law enforcement by law enforcement
officials.
      (2)   Service animals, as defined by the Americans with Disabilities Act,
used by authorized persons and under the control of such persons.
      (3)   Dogs in specified off-leash areas as designated by the town.
      (4)   Dogs fulfilling a specific town or public purpose, per
authorization from the town.
(Code 1989, § 81.02; Ord. of 9-11-2012; Ord. of 5-14-2019; Ord. No. 12-14-2021,
Ord. of 11-9-2022)
Sec. 4-3. Livestock.
   (a)   Keeping of livestock prohibited. It shall be unlawful to keep or
maintain any cow, mule, sheep, goat, hog, other livestock, or fowl other than
hens as defined in section 4-1, on any lot or within any pen, stable, or other
enclosure or building within the corporate limits. This section shall not be
deemed to prohibit the assembling of livestock for shipment or the unloading
from shipment of livestock, provided that such livestock are not kept within
the corporate limits for more than 24 hours prior to shipment or subsequent to
unloading.
   (b)   Horses and ponies. Horses and ponies may be kept within town limits
for pleasure or recreational purposes only, provided that no horse or pony is
kept, housed, penned, or maintained in a shed, stall, stable or other place
within 200 feet of a residence, including the owner's or boarder's residence,
church, store or other place of business. All pens, sheds, stalls or stables,
or structures in which the same may be kept, housed or penned, shall at all
times be required to be kept clean, disinfected and sanitary, and the same
shall not emit at any time any noxious or offensive odor or smell which can be
detected by and is offensive to the occupant of any house in the town.
Safeguards must be utilized and maintained to minimize the breeding and
dissemination of rodents and flies by the use of appropriate pesticides and
feed-storage facilities. The pasturing of any horse or pony will be limited to
one animal for every two acres of pasture.
   (c)    Hens. Up to four (4) hens may be kept within town limits, on
residentially zoned properties, for non- commercial purposes only, provided
that no hen is kept, housed, penned or maintained within 100 feet of a
residence other than the owner’s or tenant’s, a church, store or other place of
business. Additionally, hens shall be kept separated from any property line by
a minimum of 50 feet and a minimum of 75 feet from any body of water or
roadway. All areas where hens are kept shall at all times be required to be
kept clean, disinfected and sanitary, and the same shall not emit at any time
any noxious or offensive order which can be detected by and is offensive to the
occupant of any dwelling in the town. Safeguards must be utilized and
maintained to minimize the breeding and dissemination of rodents and flies by
the use of appropriate pesticides and feed-storage facilities. Hens must be
kept within a completely enclosed chicken coop and/or run, the total area of
which shall not exceed 160 square feet in size. The free ranging of hens is
prohibited. Any individual keeping hens within the town must obtain an annual
registration permit to be in compliance with this section of the Code of
Ordinances.
   (d)   Effect upon existing livestock. Persons keeping or maintaining within
the corporate limits any of the animals named in subsection (a) of this
section, shall remove them from the corporate limits in order to comply with
subsection (a) of this section not later than six months from the effective
date of the ordinance from which this subsection is derived.
   (e)   Violations. In any event, if any horse, pony or hen being kept
pursuant to this section becomes noncompliant with these provisions, upon
written notice given by the town to either the owner of the horse, pony or hen
or the possessor of said horse, pony or hen, that owner or possessor shall have
seven days to correct the deficiencies noted in the written notice, and failure
to correct the deficiencies noted in the written notice shall constitute a
violation of this chapter.
(Code 1989, § 81.03; Ord. of 2-23-1993, Ord. of 12-12-2023)
Sec. 4-4. Bird sanctuary.
   (a)   The territory within the corporate limits of the town is declared a
bird sanctuary.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to kill, trap, or otherwise take
any bird within the corporate limits except hawks, crows, starlings, pigeons,
and domesticated fowls.
   (c)   On all town property, it shall be unlawful to:
      (1)   Feed any pigeon, duck, goose, or any other bird;
      (2)   Disperse any food material or other matter edible by pigeons,
ducks, geese, or any other birds so as to make such material or matter
available to pigeons, ducks, geese, or any other birds for ingestion; or
      (3)   Permit any food or other matter edible by any pigeon, duck, goose,
or any other bird to remain on the ground after dispersing or dropping the
same.
   (d)   A violation of subsection (c) of this section shall constitute an
infraction for the first offense. Any subsequent violation occurring within six
months after the first violation shall constitute a misdemeanor punishable as
per section 4-5. At the sole discretion of the town attorney, any subsequent
violation may be prosecuted as an infraction.
(Code 1989, § 81.04)
State Law Reference(s)—Establishment of bird sanctuaries authorized, G.S. 160A-
188.
Sec. 4-5. Penalty.
   (a)   Any person violating the provisions of sections
4-2 and
4-3 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable on conviction by a fine not
exceeding $50.00 or by imprisonment of not more than 30 days.
      (1)   The violation of any provision of section
4-3 shall subject the offender to a civil penalty in the amount of $50.00 to be
recovered by the town. Violators shall be issued a written citation which must
be paid within 72 hours.
      (2)   Each day's continuing violation of section
4-3 shall be a separate and distinct offense.
      (3)   Notwithstanding subsection (a)(1) of this section, this provision
may also be enforced by appropriate equitable remedies issuing from a court of
competent jurisdiction or by criminal penalties as provided in G.S. 14-4.
   (b)   Any person violating the provisions of section
4-4 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable on conviction by a fine not
exceeding $50.00 or by imprisonment of not more than 30 days, or both.
   (c)   In addition, enforcement of this chapter may be by injunction,
restraining order, or order of abatement in a court of competent jurisdiction,
as provided by G.S. 160A-175(d) and (e).
(Code 1989, § 81.99; Ord. of 2-23-1993)
Chapter 5
RESERVED
Chapter 6
BUILDINGS AND BUILDING REGULATIONS
ARTICLE I.   IN GENERAL
Secs. 6-1–6-18.   Reserved.
ARTICLE II.   ABANDONED STRUCTURES; UNFIT DWELLINGS
6-19.   Finding; intent.
6-20.   Duties of the code enforcement officer.
6-21.   Powers of the code enforcement officer.
6-22.   Standards for enforcement.
6-23.   Procedure for enforcement.
6-24.   Methods of service of complaints and orders.
6-25.   In rem action by code enforcement officer; placarding.
6-26.   Costs a lien on premises.
6-27.   Alternative remedies.
6-28.   Conflict with other provisions.
6-29.   Violations.
Secs. 6-30–6-46.   Reserved.
ARTICLE III.   LAKE STRUCTURES
6-47.   Intent and application.
6-48.   Definitions.
6-49.   Permit to construct.
6-50.   Liability insurance.
6-51.   Design and construction standards.
6-52.   Repair, reconstruction, and removal of structures.
6-53.   Shoreline stabilization.
6-54.   Lake structure certificate and tag; maintenance of structures.
6-55.   Markers.
6-56.   Electrical and plumbing.
6-57.   Swimming areas.
6-58.   Commercial and multi-dwelling use lake structures.
6-59.   Cluster mooring facilities.
6-60.   Marinas.
6-61.   Prohibited uses.
6-62.   Lake structure appeals board.
6-63.   Injunctive relief.
6-64.   Inspections and investigations.
6-65.   Penalties.
Secs. 6-66–6-88.   Reserved.
ARTICLE IV.   FABRIC STRUCTURES
6-89.   Permit required; applications.
6-90.   Standards and review.
ARTICLE I.
IN GENERAL
Secs. 6-1–6-18.   Reserved.
ARTICLE II.
ABANDONED STRUCTURES; UNFIT DWELLINGS 1
 
Notes
  State law reference(s) Minimum housing codes, G.S. 160D-1201 et seq.;
1 regulation regarding repair or demolition of nonresidential structures, G.S.
  160D-1129; condemnation of unsafe buildings, G.S. 160D-1119.
Sec. 6-19. Finding; intent.
   (a)   General. It is hereby found that there exists within the town
dwellings that are unfit for human habitation due to dilapidation; defects
increasing the hazards of fire, accident or other calamities; lack of
ventilation, light, or sanitary facilities; and other conditions rendering the
dwellings unsafe or unsanitary, or dangerous or detrimental to the health,
safety, morals, or otherwise inimical to the welfare of the residents of the
town, and that there exists within the town abandoned structures which the town
council finds to be hazardous to the health, safety, and welfare of the
residents of the town due to the attraction of insects or rodents, conditions
creating a fire hazard, dangerous conditions constituting a threat to children,
or frequent use by vagrants as living quarters in the absence of sanitary
facilities. Therefore, pursuant to the authority granted by G.S. 160A-174 et
seq., and 160D- 1201 et seq., it is the intent of this article to provide for
the repair, closing, or demolition of any such dwellings or abandoned
structures in accordance with the provisions and procedures as are set forth by
law.
   (b)   Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this
article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except
where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
   Abandoned structure means any structure, whether designed and intended for
residential or other uses, which has been vacant or not in active use,
regardless of purpose or reason, for the past two-year period and which is
determined by the code enforcement officer to be unfit for human habitation or
occupancy based upon the standards as set forth in this article.
   Code enforcement officer means the code enforcement officer designated or
appointed by the town council to carry out the administration and enforcement
of this article.
   Structure means a combination of material to form a construction. The term
"structure" shall be construed as if followed by the words "or part thereof."
(Code 1989, § 90.01; Ord. of 3-13-2012)
Sec. 6-20. Duties of the code enforcement officer.
   The code enforcement officer is hereby designated as the town officer to
enforce the provisions of this article. It shall be his duty to:
      (1)   Locate abandoned structures within the town and determine which
structures are in violation of this article;
      (2)   Locate dwellings within the town that are unfit for human
habitation;
      (3)   Take such action, pursuant to this article as may be necessary to
provide for the repair, closing, or demolition of such structures and
dwellings;
      (4)   Keep an accurate record of all enforcement proceedings begun
pursuant to the provisions of this article; and
      (5)   Perform such other duties as may be prescribed herein or assigned
to him by the town council.
(Code 1989, § 90.02; Ord. of 3-23-1982; Ord. of 3-13-2012)
Sec. 6-21. Powers of the code enforcement officer.
   The code enforcement officer is authorized to exercise such powers as may be
necessary to carry out the intent and the provisions of this article, including
the following powers in addition to others granted herein:
      (1)   To investigate the condition of buildings within the town in order
to determine which structures are abandoned and in violation of this article
and to report the same to the town council;
      (2)   To investigate the condition of dwellings within the town in order
to determine those that are in violation of this article and to report the same
to the town council;
      (3)   To enter upon premises for the purpose of making inspections;
      (4)   To administer oaths and affirmations, examine witnesses, and
receive evidence; and
      (5)   To designate such other officers, agents, and employees of the town
as he deems necessary to carry out the provisions of this chapter.
(Code 1989, § 90.03; Ord. of 3-23-1982; Ord. of 3-13-2012)
Sec. 6-22. Standards for enforcement.
   (a)   Every abandoned structure within the town shall be deemed in violation
of this article whenever such structure constitutes a hazard to the health,
safety, or welfare of the town citizens as a result of:
      (1)   The attraction of insects or rodents;
      (2)   Conditions creating a fire hazard;
      (3)   Dangerous conditions constituting a threat to children; or
      (4)   Frequent use by vagrants as living quarters in the absence of
sanitary facilities.
   (b)   In making the determination of whether or not an abandoned structure
is in violation of this article, the code enforcement officer may, by way of
illustration and not limitation, consider the presence or absence of the
following conditions:
      (1)   Holes or cracks in the structure's floors, walls, ceilings, or roof
which might attract or admit rodents and insects, or become breeding places for
rodents and insects;
      (2)   The collection of garbage or rubbish in or near the structure which
might attract rodents or insects, or become breeding places for rodents or
insects;
      (3)   Violations of the fire prevention code which constitutes a fire
hazard in such structure;
      (4)   The collection of garbage, rubbish, or combustible material which
constitutes a fire hazard in such structure;
      (5)   The use of such structure or nearby grounds or facilities by
children as a play area;
      (6)   Repeated use of such structure by transients and vagrants, in the
absence of sanitary facilities, for living, sleeping, cooking, or eating.
   (c)   A dwelling within the town shall be deemed unfit for human habitation,
and the code enforcement officer may so determine, if he finds that conditions
exist in the dwelling that render it dangerous or injurious to the health,
safety, or morals of the occupants of the dwelling, the occupants of
neighboring dwellings, or other residents of the town.
   (d)   In seeking the determination of whether or not a dwelling is in
violation of this article, the code enforcement officer may, by way of
illustration and not limitation, consider the following defective conditions:
      (1)   Defects therein increasing the hazards of fire, accidents, or other
calamities.
      (2)   Lack of adequate ventilation, light, or sanitary facilities.
      (3)   Dilapidation.
      (4)   Disrepair.
      (5)   Structural defects.
      (6)   Uncleanliness.
(Code 1989, § 90.04; Ord. of 3-23-1982; Ord. of 3-13-2012)
Sec. 6-23. Procedure for enforcement.
   (a)   Preliminary investigation; complaint and notice of hearing. Whenever a
petition is filed with the code enforcement officer by a public authority or by
at least five residents of the town charging that any dwelling or structure is
in violation of this article or whenever it appears to the code enforcement
officer, upon inspection, that any dwelling or structure exists in violation
hereof, he shall, if his preliminary investigation discloses a basis for such
charges, issue and cause to be served upon the owner of and parties in interest
in such dwelling or structure a complaint stating the charges and containing a
notice that a hearing will be held before the code enforcement officer at a
place therein fixed, not less than ten or more than 30 days after the serving
of the complaint. The owner or any party in interest shall have the right to
file an answer to the complaint and to appear in person, or otherwise, and give
testimony at the place and time fixed in the complaint. Notice of such hearing
shall also be given to at least one of the persons signing a petition relating
to such dwelling or structure. Any person so desiring to do so may attend such
hearing and give evidence relevant to the matter being heard. The rules of
evidence prevailing in courts of law or equity shall not be controlling in
hearings before the code enforcement officer.
   (b)   Notice of lis pendens. Upon the issuance of a complaint and notice of
hearing pursuant to this section, the inspector may cause the filing of a
notice of lis pendens, with a copy of the complaint and notice of hearing
attached thereto, in the office of the clerk of superior court of the county,
to be indexed and cross-indexed in accordance with the indexing procedures of
the state general statutes. The inspector shall cause a copy of the notice of
lis pendens to be served upon the owners and parties in interest in the
dwelling at the time of filing in accordance with G.S. 160D-1206, as
applicable. Upon compliance with the requirements of any order issued based
upon such complaint and hearing, the inspector shall direct the clerk of
superior court to cancel the notice of lis pendens.
   (c)   Procedure after hearing; order. If, after notice and hearing, the code
enforcement officer determines that the structure under consideration is unfit
for human habitation in accordance with the standards set forth herein, he
shall state in writing his findings of fact in support of that determination
and shall issue and cause to be served upon the owner thereof an order as
provided herein.
      (1)   If the repair, alteration or improvement of the dwelling can be
made at a cost of less than 50 percent of the value of the dwelling, the order
shall require the owner, within the time specified, to repair, alter or improve
the dwelling in order to render it fit for human habitation.
      (2)   If the repair, alteration or improvement of the dwelling cannot be
made at a cost of less than 50 percent of the value of the dwelling, the order
shall require the owner, within the time specified, to repair, alter, or
improve the dwelling in order to render it fit for human habitation or, at the
owner's option, to remove or demolish such dwelling.
      (3)   If continued occupancy during the time allowed for repair will
present a significant threat of bodily harm, taking into account the nature of
the necessary repairs, alterations, or improvements, the current state of the
property, and any additional risks due to the presence and capacity of minors
under the age of 18 years or occupants with physical or mental disabilities,
the order may require that the property be vacated and closed. The order shall
state that the failure to make timely repairs as directed in the order shall
make the dwelling subject to the remedies afforded the town in subsection (d)
of this section.
   (d)   Failure to comply with order.
      (1)   In personam remedy. If the owner of any dwelling or structure shall
fail to comply with an order of the code enforcement officer within the time
specified therein, the code enforcement officer may submit to the town council
at its next regular meeting a resolution directing the town attorney to
petition the superior court for an order directing such owner to comply with
the order of the inspector, as authorized by G.S. 160D-305.
      (2)   In rem remedy. After failure of an owner of a dwelling or structure
to comply with an order of the code enforcement officer within the time
specified therein, if injunctive relief has not been sought or has not been
granted as provided in subsection (d)(1) of this section, the code enforcement
officer shall submit to the town council an ordinance ordering the code
enforcement officer to cause such dwelling or structure to be repaired, altered
or improved, vacated and closed, or removed or demolished, as provided in the
original order of the code enforcement officer and pending such repair,
alteration, improvement, vacating, closure, removal or demolition, to placard
any such dwelling as provided by G.S. 160D-1203.
   (e)   Appeals.
      (1)   The board of adjustment is hereby appointed as the housing appeals
board to which appeals from any decision or order of the code enforcement
officer may be taken. Except where this article provides for different rules or
procedures, the board of adjustment acting as the housing appeals board shall
follow its rules of procedure, which may be amended to provide specifically for
this function.
      (2)   An appeal from any decision or order of the code enforcement
officer may be taken by any person aggrieved thereby or by any officer, board
or commission of the town. Any appeal from the code enforcement officer shall
be taken within 15 days from the rendering of the decision or service of the
order by filing with the code enforcement officer and with the board a notice
of appeal which shall specify the grounds upon which the appeal is based. Upon
the filing of any notice of appeal, the code enforcement officer shall
forthwith transmit to the board all the papers constituting the record upon
which the decision appealed from was made. When an appeal is from a decision of
the code enforcement officer refusing to allow the person aggrieved thereby to
do any such act, his decision shall remain in force until modified or reversed.
When any appeal is from a decision of the code enforcement officer requiring
the person aggrieved to do any act, the appeal shall have the effect of
suspending the requirement until the hearing by the board, unless the code
enforcement officer certifies to the board after the notice of appeal is filed
with him, that because of facts stated in the certificate (a copy of which
shall be furnished the appellant), a suspension of his requirement would cause
imminent peril to life or property. In that case the requirement shall not be
suspended except by a restraining order, which may be granted for due cause
shown upon not less than one day's written notice to the code enforcement
officer, by the board, or by a court of record upon petition made pursuant to
subsection (e)(5) of this section.
      (3)   The board of adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for hearing
appeals, shall give due notice to the parties, and shall render its decision
within a reasonable time. Any party may appear in person or by agent or
attorney. The board may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the
decision or order appealed from, and may make any decision and order that in
its opinion ought to be made in the matter, and to that end it shall have all
the powers of the code enforcement officer, but the concurring vote of four-
fifths of the members of the board shall be necessary to reverse or modify any
decision or order of the code enforcement officer. The board shall have power
also in passing upon appeals, when practical difficulties or unnecessary
hardships would result from carrying out the strict letter of this article, to
adapt the application of the section to the necessities of the case to the end
that the spirit of the article shall be observed, public safety and welfare
secured, and substantial justice done.
      (4)   Every decision of the board shall be subject to review by
proceedings in the nature of certiorari instituted within 15 days of the
decision of the board, but not otherwise.
      (5)   Any person aggrieved by an order issued by the code enforcement
officer or a decision rendered by the board may petition the superior court for
an injunction, restraining the code enforcement officer from carrying out the
order or decision and the court may, upon such petition, issue a temporary
injunction restraining the code enforcement officer pending a final disposition
of the cause as provided by G.S. 160D-305. The petition shall be filed within
30 days after issuance of the order or rendering of the decision. Hearings
shall be had by the court on a petition within 20 days, and shall be given
preference over other matters on the court's calendar. The court shall hear and
determine the issues raised and shall enter such final order or decree as law
and justice may require. It shall not be necessary to file bond in any amount
before obtaining a temporary injunction under this subsection.
(Code 1989, § 90.05; Ord. of 3-23-1982; Ord. of 3-13-2012; Ord. of 3-14-2013)
Sec. 6-24. Methods of service of complaints and orders.
   (a)   Complaints or orders issued by the code enforcement officer shall be
served upon persons either personally or by registered or certified mail. When
service is made by registered or certified mail, a copy of the complaint or
order may also be sent by regular mail. Service shall be deemed sufficient if
the registered or certified mail is unclaimed or refused, but the regular mail
is not returned by the post office within ten days after the mailing. If
regular mail is used, a notice of the pending proceedings shall be posted in a
conspicuous place on the premises affected.
   (b)   If the identities of any owners or the whereabouts of persons are
unknown and cannot be ascertained by the inspector in the exercise of
reasonable diligence, or, if the owners are known but have refused to accept
service by registered or certified mail, and the inspector makes an affidavit
to that effect, then the serving of the complaint or order upon the owners or
other persons may be made by publication in a newspaper having general
circulation in the town at least not later than the time at which personal
service would be required under the provisions of this article. When service is
made by publication, a notice of the pending proceedings shall be posted in a
conspicuous place on the premises thereby affected.
(Code 1989, § 90.06; Ord. of 3-23-1982; Ord. of 3-13-2012)
Sec. 6-25. In rem action by code enforcement officer; placarding.
   (a)   After failure of an owner of a structure to comply with an order of
the code enforcement officer issued pursuant to the provisions of this article,
and upon adoption by the town council of an ordinance authorizing and directing
him to do so, as provided by G.S. 160D-1203 and section 6-23(c), the code
enforcement officer shall proceed to cause such structure to be repaired,
altered or improved, vacated and closed, or removed or demolished, as directed
by the ordinance of the town council and shall cause be to posted on the main
entrance of such structure a placard prohibiting the use or occupation of the
structure. Use or occupation of a building so posted shall constitute a
misdemeanor.
   (b)   Each such ordinance shall be recorded in the office of the register of
deeds in the county, and shall be indexed in the name of the property owner is
the grantor index, as provided by G.S. 160D-1203.
(Code 1989, § 90.07; Ord. of 3-23-1982; Ord. of 3-13-2012)
Sec. 6-26. Costs a lien on premises.
   (a)   As provided by G.S. 160D-1203, the amount of the cost of any removal
or demolition caused to be made or done by the code enforcement officer
pursuant to this article shall be a lien against the real property upon which
such cost was incurred. Such lien shall be filed, have the same priority, and
be enforced and the costs collected as provided by G.S. ch. 160A, art. 10 (G.S.
160A-216 et seq.).
   (b)   If the dwelling is removed or demolished by the code enforcement
officer, he shall sell the materials of the dwelling, and any personal
property, fixture or appurtenances found in or attached to the dwelling, and
shall credit the proceeds of the sale against the cost of the removal or
demolition and any balance remaining shall be deposited in the superior court
by the code enforcement officer, shall be secured in a manner directed by the
court, and shall be disbursed by the court to the persons found to be entitled
thereto by final order of the decree of the court.
(Code 1989, § 90.08; Ord. of 3-23-1982; Ord. of 3-13-2012)
Sec. 6-27. Alternative remedies.
   (a)   Neither this article nor any of its provisions shall be construed to
impair or limit in any way the power of the town to define and declare
nuisances and to cause their abatement by summary action or otherwise, or to
enforce this chapter by criminal process, and the enforcement of any remedy
provided herein shall not prevent the enforcement of any other remedy provided
herein or in other ordinance or law.
   (b)   In addition to the remedies provided for herein, an owner or party of
interest may be subject to a misdemeanor as provided in NCGS 14-4(a) for any
violation of the terms of this article. In addition, violations of this article
may subject the violator to civil penalties and remedies as set forth in
section 1-10.
(Code 1989, § 90.09; Ord. of 3-23-1982; Ord. of 3-13-2012. Ord. of 6-14-2022)
Sec. 6-28. Conflict with other provisions.
   In the event any provision, standard or requirement of this article is found
to be in conflict with any provision of any other ordinance or Code, the
provision which establishes the higher standard or more stringent requirement
for the promotion and protection of the health and safety of the residents of
the town's jurisdiction shall prevail. The North Carolina Building Code,
current edition, shall serve as the standard for all alterations, repairs,
additions, removals, demolitions and other acts of building made or required
pursuant to this chapter.
(Code 1989, § 90.10; Ord. of 3-13-2012)
Sec. 6-29. Violations.
   In addition to the conditions, acts or failures to act that constitute
violations specified in this article, it shall be a violation of this article
for the owner of any dwelling or dwelling unit to fail, neglect or refuse to
repair, alter or improve the same, or to vacate and close or vacate and remove
or demolish the same, upon order of the code enforcement officer duly made and
served as herein provided, within the time specified in such order. It shall be
a violation of this article for the owner of any dwelling, with respect to
which an order has been issued pursuant to section 6-23, to occupy or permit
the occupancy of the same after the time prescribed in such order for its
repair, alteration or improvement or its vacation and closing, or vacation and
removal or demolition. Violations of this section are punishable as a
misdemeanor as provided by G.S. 14-4. In addition, violations of this article
may subject the violator to civil penalties as set forth in section 1-10.
(Code 1989, § 90.11; Ord. of 3-13-2012, Ord. of 6-14-2022)
Secs. 6-30—6-46. Reserved.
ARTICLE III.
LAKE STRUCTURES
Sec. 6-47. Intent and application.
   (a)   Intent. All land covered by the waters of Lake Lure at full pond is
owned by the town. Lure is held in trust by the town for the benefit of the
citizens of the town. Based on the above, the town council desires to establish
regulations governing all structures to be erected and maintained within the
boundaries of the lake for the purpose of enhancing the health, safety, and
welfare of the general public and to preserve the property of the town and the
properties of upland landowners.
   (b)   Application. No structure shall hereafter be erected or maintained
within the lake boundary of Lake Lure within the corporate limits of the town
and no use made of the water surface and land thereunder or any facility or
structure located thereon, except in conformity with the regulations of this
article, or amendments thereto. Issuance of a permit or certificate for a lake
structure does not confer any rights to ownership of land or water owned by the
town.
   (c)   Preexisting structures. The town recognizes that some lake structures
with living quarters existed at the time of adoption of these regulations. It
is the intent of the town that this nonconforming use of lake structures
eventually goes away. These structures may continue such use, including repairs
and remodeling consistent with these regulations, until the structure is
voluntarily removed or involuntarily destroyed.
(Code 1989, § 94.01; Ord. of 12-15-1992; Ord. of 4-12-2016)
Sec. 6-48. Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
Boardwalk means a structure running parallel to the shoreline and used for
pedestrian access along the shoreline of one or more properties.
Boathouse means any roofed structure enclosed with walls containing one or more
slips designed principally for permanent or temporary storage and/or housing of
watercraft.
Cluster mooring facility means a fixed or floating pier with more than three
permanent moorings to provide dock space to owners of condominiums and other
dwellings or customers of marinas.
Commercial use means any use of the lake or lake structure in a manner that
will generate direct or indirect revenue or by a commercial entity that
operates for profit or not for profit. The term "commercial use" can be, but is
not limited to, activities that may occur in connection with any type of
business, trade or commerce such as boat rentals, marinas, resorts, inns,
lodging establishments, camps, ski schools, fishing guides, realtors, house
rentals, tour boats, contractors, boat repair companies, real estate
development companies or property owners associations.
Covered slip means any roofed structure not enclosed with walls and containing
one or more slips designed principally for permanent or temporary storage and/
or housing of watercraft.
Cutoff fixture means a fixture, which provides a cutoff (shielding) of the
emitted light.
Distance from the shoreline means measured from the contour elevation of 990
feet MSL.
Dock means a platform generally parallel to the shoreline for the reception,
loading, unloading and mooring of boats.
Glare means the discomfort or impairment of vision experienced when parts of
the visual field are excessively bright in relation to the general
surroundings.
Involuntary destruction means destroyed or rendered useless by an act of God or
force of nature. This shall not include structures rendered useless due to
decay or deterioration as the result of neglect and lack of maintenance.
Lake advisory board means the board appointed by the town council to advise the
town council, the marine commission, and staff, on lake-related issues.
Lake boundary means the contour elevation 995 feet MSL. The term "lake
boundary" is not synonymous with the term "lake shoreline."
Lake structure means anything constructed or erected within the lake boundary
including any pier, dock, boathouse, slip, ramp, swimming float, sea wall, or
similar facility whether fixed or floating or a combination thereof, used
primarily as a stationary facility for the mooring or housing of watercraft and
associated items; and, used for lake access and related recreational
activities. Lake structures shall not be used as living quarters.
Lake structure administrator means the person responsible for administering and
enforcing the lake structure regulations.
Lake structure appeals board means the board appointed by the town council to
review and rule on applications for lake structure permits and variances.
Lake structure certificate means the document that is issued to property owners
following approval by the lake structure administrator that the lake structure
adjacent to their property conforms to this article.
Lake structure tag means a metal tag, to be affixed to a lake structure, which
indicates that a lake structure certificate has been issued.
Light trespass means light directed or projected beyond a perimeter of 50 feet
from any light source on the lake structures or shore.
Living quarters means a room used as overnight housing, designed to be used as
overnight housing or equipped with furnishings, appliances and accessories that
create a domicile.
Lot of record means any lot for which a plat has been recorded in the register
of deeds office of the county, or described by metes and bounds, the
description of which meets the standards of the town's regulations.
Marina, restricted, means a facility with a lakefront location contiguous to a
private development or commercial property which provides temporary or
permanent watercraft moorings for rent or lease to occupants, guests, clients,
or customers of that property only, and not to the general public not doing
business with that property.
Marina, unrestricted, means a facility with a lakefront location which provides
temporary or permanent watercraft mooring for rent or lease and may also
include the rental, sale or repair of boats, boat motors, and accessories, and/
or the sale of marine fuel and lubricants, bait and fishing equipment, and the
like to the general public.
Markers means floating buoys or fixed signs that give navigational or warning
information.
Measurable shoreline means the shoreline length used to determine what type of
lakeside structures are permissible, the permissible number of such structures,
and the permissible dimensions of such structures. The term "measurable
shoreline" is the front footage of any upland lot where it meets the shoreline
with the exclusion of creeks, streams or other tributaries, which may be
covered with water at the elevation of 990 MSL and is 28 feet or less in width.
The span of the tributary shall be included in the measurable shoreline;
measured at the narrowest point at either the mouth if narrower than 28 feet at
the 990 MSL or where it constricts to 28 feet.
Moored floating platform means a floating platform anchored near the shoreline
for the use of swimmers, to include both solid surfaced swimming floats and
inflatable water recreational platforms.
Mooring means a location adjacent to the shoreline or any lake structure,
equipped with cleats, posts or any other devices intended to secure a boat.
Mooring, permanent, means a mooring that can be occupied at any time.
Mooring, temporary, means a mooring that can only be occupied during the hours
between 6:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight.
MSL means the elevation above mean sea level, North Carolina Geodetic Survey
Datum.
Multi-dwelling use means any use of the lake or lake structure in a manner that
creates a lake portal for owners or occupants of multiple dwellings. The term
"multi-dwelling use" can be, but is not limited to, activities that may occur
in connection with any type of operation or association such as boat clubs,
real estate development companies or property owners associations.
Permit means documents that are required prior to any construction of a
structure on land or in the lake within the lake boundary.
Pier means an uncovered structure extending from land out into the lake for the
mooring of boats and to afford convenient passage of passengers and cargo to
and from boats.
Ramp means a short slope extending from the shoreline into the lake for the
purpose of launching or retrieving a boat.
Reconstruction means full or partial replacement of a lake structure or more
than 50 percent of the structure's support base. The support base consists of
all components underlying but within the exterior perimeter of the structure.
Repair, internal, external or cosmetic, means actions that affect the general
maintenance of a lake structure, but do not alter electrical or plumbing
systems, or the outer dimensions of the structure. Examples of the term
"repair; internal, external or cosmetic" include painting, staining, or
pressure washing; replacing decking inside or outside of a structure; replacing
exterior siding; replacing the roof covering, felt or sheeting; removing and
replacing rooftop decks; replacing entrance or boat slip doors; replacing
windows; or replacing any portion of approved decktop accessory structures.
Also included are standard repairs of electrical or plumbing items by licensed
professionals.
Repairs, Minor Structural. Structural repair or replace in like kind actions to
an existing lake structure costing no more than $4,999.
Repair, structural, means actions that affect sea walls and other shoreline
stabilization methods; or the support base, framing, electrical or plumbing
systems, or alteration of the outer dimensions of any lake structure. Examples
of the term "repair, structural" are support posts, footers, studs, headers,
top or bottom wall plates, load-bearing walls, floor joists, rafters, wiring,
circuit breakers, or sewer connections; or repairs affecting height, length,
width, or relationship of the structure to setbacks.
Sea wall means a structure built along the shoreline to resist the erosion of
the land caused by the lake and which may also be used to moor boats and as a
structure to receive and discharge a boat's passengers and cargo.
Shoreline means the line where the land or an existing seawall and waters of
the lake meet. For the purpose of these regulations, the normal lake level of
990 feet MSL as it exists for the majority of each year shall be used to
establish the shoreline. The official benchmark for MSL Datum shall be as
marked on the Lake Lure dam. For the purpose of positioning lake structures
along an irregular boundary, the term "shoreline" shall be defined as the
straight line between the two widest points on the shoreward side of the lake
structure, where they meet the shoreline.
Slip means a specific type of mooring, contiguous to a lake structure that is
confined by two parallel sides of the lake structure, does not exceed 11 feet
in width and that is designed for temporary or permanent mooring. A space
confined by one side and one end may be a mooring, but is not a slip.
Upland lot means a lot having a boundary coexistent with the portion of the
shoreline where a lake structure exists or is planned.
Usable shoreline means the shoreline length on lots of record that is available
for use for lake structures after subtracting the required 30 feet from both
15-foot side yard setbacks from the measurable shoreline.
Water depth means measured from the average lake level of 990 feet above mean
sea level, North Carolina Geodetic Survey Datum.
(Code 1989, § 94.02; Ord. of 8-9-1994; Ord. of 10-20-1998; Ord. of 6-18-2001;
Ord. of 12-9-2003; Ord. of 4-12- 2005; Ord. of 7-11-2006; Ord. of 8-14-2007;
Ord. of 4-12-2011; Ord. of 12-9-2014; Ord. of 4-12-2016)
Sec. 6-49. Permit to construct.
   (a)   No structure of any kind, whether stationary, floating, or access
ramp, or fuel dispensing system for boats, shall be constructed or installed
before having first made written application for and obtained from the lake
structure administrator a lake structure permit. A building permit must be
obtained from the county building inspector except for structures installed
rather than built (such as umbrellas, awnings, canopies, or moored inflatable
platforms), so long as these structures do not exceed 150 pounds in total
weight. Upon application for a lake structure permit, the applicant shall
present to the lake structure administrator the following information and
materials. The application and all plans shall be signed and dated by the
property owner. Additional restrictions and regulations apply to commercial
lake structures, cluster mooring facilities and marinas. Please see sections
6-58 through
6-60 for information regarding the permit to construct these types of lake
structures.
      (1)   Plans, drawn to scale, showing the location of the proposed
installation with respect to the shoreline and the boundaries of the upland lot
to which it is adjacent.
      (2)   A map of the measurable shoreline of upland lot showing the
shoreline length.
      (3)   Plans certified by a licensed architect or engineer in accordance
with the state code, drawn to scale, showing the height, length, width and
configuration of the proposed installation. Excluded from this requirement are
structures installed rather than built (such as umbrellas, awnings, canopies,
or moored inflatable platforms) so long as these structures do not exceed 150
pounds in total weight.
      (4)   Whether covered or uncovered (enclosed or open).
      (5)   Specified materials for use in construction or installation.
      (6)   Water depth at the farthest point of projection.
      (7)   Distance from the farthest point of projection to the opposite
shore.
      (8)   Proof of liability insurance (see section
6-50).
      (9)   Documents showing approval of fuel storage and dispensing systems
from any appropriate federal, state and local agencies, if required.
      (10)   In the case of a boathouse, proof of ownership of a residence or
residence under construction on the upland lot or an adjoining lot. This is not
required for any other lake structures.
      (11)   Plans for the construction of a sea wall (if required) must be
accompanied by all required permits (e.g., North Carolina Division of Water
Quality, Army Corps of Engineers, North Carolina Game and Wildlife, etc.). The
applicant is responsible for separately securing required permits from the
applicable county, state, or federal agency.
      (12)   The application fee, the amount of which shall be established by
the town council. Failure to obtain a required permit prior to commencing work
shall subject applicant to double application fee.
      (13)   A deposit of compliance that is refundable if the structure
receives a lake structure certificate. The deposit of compliance shall be a
certified or cashier's check for $500.00 for any structure or alteration
costing more than $1,000.00 and less than $5,000.00 or $1,000.00 for any
structure or alteration costing more than $5,000.00.
   (b)   Dimensional and structural guidelines are provided in section 6-51 and
in the town standards, specifications and details for construction.
   (c)   Construction pursuant to the issuance of a lake structure permit must
commence within six months of approval and may not, thereafter, cease for a
period of 12 consecutive months or the permit shall become invalid. If the
structure for which a permit was approved has not received a lake structure
certificate within two years after the date of approval, the applicant shall be
required to renew the permit and comply with all regulations in effect on the
date of renewal.
   (d)   The final approval of the construction shall require an inspection and
certification by the lake structure administrator that the structure was built
substantially in accordance with the approved plans. Where plans submitted for
a dock, pier or boathouse show that any portion of the new structure or
addition to an existing structure will be within 20 feet of either side lot
line as extended into the lake or within five feet of the maximum distance the
structure is allowed to extend into the lake, a survey prepared by a registered
land surveyor or civil engineer shall be made to ensure that the proposed
structure has been located as shown on the approved plans. The survey shall
also indicate the location of roof overhangs, decks, and any other
appurtenances that extend beyond the walls of any boathouse. This survey shall
be submitted to the lake structure administrator for review. The lake structure
administrator shall have the authority to require a survey where there is a
question regarding the location of a new sea wall in relation to the approved
plans. All approved structures, upon final inspection, shall be issued a lake
structure certificate and tag. Upon issuance, the tag shall be attached to the
structure to indicate it is an approved structure.
(Code 1989, § 94.03; Ord. of 8-9-1994; Ord. of 2-12-2002; Ord. of 7-11-2006;
Ord. of 9-12-2006; Ord. of 8-14-2007; Ord. of 10-13-2009)
Sec. 6-50. Liability insurance.
   All property owners having structures other than seawalls on Lake Lure
(including existing lake structures as well as future lake structures) must at
all times keep and maintain in force, at their sole expense, liability
insurance coverage against claims for bodily injury, death or property damage
occurring in or about the lake structure in the amount of at least $500,000.00
per occurrence. Prior to applying for a lake structure permit or renewal of a
lake structure certificate, proof of this liability insurance must be provided
the town pursuant to section
6-49(a)(8).
(Code 1989, § 94.04; Ord. of 6-28-1994; Ord. of 10-20-1998; Ord. of 7-11-2006;
Ord. of 9-12-2006)
Sec. 6-51. Design and construction standards.
   The following standards shall be adhered to during the design and
construction of any structure on Lake Lure. The lake structure administrator
will carefully examine plans submitted with any applications for a lake
structure permit as described in section 6-49, to be sure that the plans meet
the following provisions. Requests for variances must be made when the lake
structure permit application is submitted.
      (1)   Effective the date of this regulation, December 15, 1992, the
minimum measurable shoreline length required to construct any lake structure
shall be 100 feet. Nonconforming lots of record that existed prior to these
regulations, with 35 to 100 feet of measurable shoreline length, may construct
any authorized lake structure, provided minimum setbacks are met, and the owner
of the subject lot does not own contiguous upland property to enable conformity
to the minimum measurable shoreline length through recombination. When
contiguous upland property is owned by the same owner, it shall be legally
recombined to achieve the longest shoreline length possible, before any lake
structure is approved. In rare situations, recombination may not be legally
possible. Should recombination not be allowed, the subject shoreline shall be
treated as though it is not contiguously owned. See examples A and B in
subsections (1)d.1 and 2 of this section. Sea walls are allowed on any lot
subject to shoreline stabilization requirements in section
6-53.
         a.   Covered or enclosed structures, including boathouses, shall be
limited to a width of 45 feet or 45 percent of the measurable shoreline length,
or the usable shoreline length of the upland lot, whichever is less.
         b.   Lots with 100 feet or more of measurable shoreline length shall
be limited to any authorized lake structure or combination thereof, with a
maximum of three moorings or slips, provided minimum setbacks are met. Other
provisions of these regulations shall apply and the maximum number of moorings
or slips shall not be varied.
         c.   Lots of record with 35 to 100 feet of measurable shoreline length
shall be limited to any authorized lake structure or combination thereof, with
a maximum of two moorings or slips, and shall not exceed the usable shoreline
length. Variances are not permitted for the maximum number of moorings or
slips; or structures that are larger than what the usable shoreline will
accommodate. Covered or enclosed structures shall require a lake structure
appeals board determination the proposed structure will not materially obstruct
the view of the lake from any adjacent upland property. Other provisions of
these regulations shall apply. See examples C and D in subsections (1)d.3 and 4
of this section.
         d.   Lots of record with a minimum measurable shoreline length of less
than 35 feet shall be limited to a single mooring, which shall not be varied.
This mooring may be part of a pier not to exceed six feet in width. The pier
will be centered on the subject shoreline to the greatest extent possible but,
without variance, shall be allowed up to five feet off center. When placed off
center, the tie up cleats will be on the side of the pier with the greatest
area available between the pier and the projected property line. Other
provisions of these regulations shall apply, which may require a variance.
            1.   Example A. A lot of record has 50 feet of measurable shoreline
which, after subtracting the 30 feet for both 15-foot side yard setbacks, could
accommodate a boathouse with one slip in the 20 feet of remaining usable
shoreline.
            2.   Example B. The same owner in example A owns the small upland
lot of record next door with 25 feet of measurable shoreline, which would
normally allow a single pier. That owner could not build the small boathouse on
the one lot and the pier on the other. Instead, that owner must recombine the
lots to provide 75 feet of measurable shoreline before building any structure.
If the recombination was not allowed for some legal reason, then both lots
could be built upon.
            3.   Example C. Assume the recombination in example B did occur. On
the new 75-foot lot, the owner would be allowed to build any authorized lake
structure that would fit in the resulting 45 feet of usable shoreline, but
still subject to the lesser 45 percent of the measurable shoreline length for
covered or enclosed structures, which is 33.75 feet in this scenario. The owner
could then build a boathouse up to 33.75 feet wide with two slips anywhere
within that 45 feet of usable shoreline. The remaining usable shoreline space
could be used for docks and access.
            4.   Example D. A lot of record with only 40 feet of measurable
shoreline could build a small lake structure up to ten feet wide. Conversely,
that same lot could not get a variance to build the structure 11 feet wide or
wider. The usable shoreline, ten feet in this example, is less than 45 percent
(18 feet) of the measurable shoreline.
      (2)   No structure shall be placed in the water more than 30 feet or one
third the distance to the opposite shore, whichever is less, as measured to and
from the shoreline. At least one third of the waterway shall be left
unobstructed. No portion of any lake structure shall extend beyond this
boundary. For the purpose of positioning lake structures along an irregular
boundary, the shoreline shall be defined as the straight line between the two
widest points on the shoreward side of the structure, where they meet the
shoreline. The measurement to the opposite shore shall be made to the point on
the opposite shore which results in the shortest distance from the proposed
structure.
      (3)   No portion of any structure shall be located closer than 15 feet to
any side lot line, as projected into the lake. The projection of the lot line
shall be a straight line on the same bearing as the lot line and shall extend
no further than 30 feet or one third the distance to the opposite shore. This
provision does not apply to sea walls.
      (4)   Handrails should be constructed in such a way so as not to
interfere with boaters' visibility.
      (5)   Height.
         a.   Except as provided in subsection (5)b of this section, lake
structures shall not exceed 15 feet in height above the shoreline elevation of
990 feet MSL. This does not include the additional height of railings (no
greater than 42 inches) around a rooftop deck. As actual lake levels may vary,
establishing the 990 MSL on any particular day can be achieved by calling the
town hall for the lake level reading at the dam on that day. The maximum
allowable height of structures above the shoreline elevation can then be
calculated. As an example, if the lake level is one foot below 990 MSL, then
the maximum allowable height is 16 feet above the actual level of the lake on
that particular day.
         b.   Accessory structures to be used for protection from direct sun
and rain may be erected above rooftop decks provided they meet the following
standards and are approved by the lake structures appeals board.
      (6)   Decktop accessory structures guidelines:
         a.   Shall not exceed a height of ten feet above the surface of the
rooftop deck. Thus, the maximum allowable height of any lake structure that
includes a decktop accessory structure is 25 feet.
         b.   Shall not exceed 50 percent of the area of the rooftop deck or
150 square feet, whichever is less.
         c.   Shall be completely open on all sides except for partial walls
not more than 42 inches in height above the surface of the rooftop deck and
insect screens.
         d.   Shall be located abutting the shoreward end of the rooftop deck
and not extend towards the lake beyond the midpoint of the deck.
         e.   Shall not include any sanitary facilities.
         f.   May include one storage container not more than 42 inches in
height to store deck furnishings.
      (7)   Decktop accessory structures shall be approved by the lake
structures appeals board upon a finding that the structures meet the standards
in this subsection and that they do not materially obstruct the view of the
lake from any adjacent or nearby properties.
      (8)   Materials of construction for pilings shall include reinforced
concrete, hot dipped galvanized steel, aluminum, or pressure-treated wood,
provided railroad ties and other wood treated with creosote or similar material
shall not be allowed. Anchorages for floating docks and piers shall be of
galvanized steel cables or the equivalent secured to reinforced concrete
anchorage on the lake bottom and/or to steel anchor piles in firm ground on
shore. Alternate materials may be approved if specified by a licensed engineer
or architect and does not pose an environmental threat.
      (9)   The town exercises no jurisdiction or control over the design of
structures to be built over the lake, but strongly urges that the design of
lake structures be architecturally compatible with that of the residence on the
adjoining upland lots.
      (10)   Any sewage or wastewater systems installed in or on lake
structures must meet state and local codes.
      (11)   No lake structure shall be designed, constructed or used as
temporary or permanent living quarters.
      (12)   Satellite dish antennae of not more than 30 inches in diameter may
be installed on lake structures, provided they do not exceed the highest
portion of the lake structure to which it is attached.
      (13)   Moored floating platforms.
         a.   Moored wooden or other solid surfaced floating swimming platforms
shall be no greater than 64 square feet in area and have white or silver
reflectors affixed to both sides of each corner. The frames for such structures
shall be constructed of hot dipped galvanized steel or pressure treated lumber
and with polystyrene floatation. Steel drums are prohibited. Alternate
materials may be approved if specified by a licensed engineer or architect and
does not pose an environmental threat. Only one permanently moored floating
platform (solid or inflatable) shall be permitted for each upland lake front
lot, except as provided in subsection (13)c of this section.
         b.   Permanently moored inflatable floating platforms shall be no
greater than 178 square feet in area or 15 feet in diameter and have white or
silver reflectors affixed to both sides of each corner or, for circular
platforms, at least every six feet of circumference. Such platforms shall be
located not less than ten feet from the shore or any hard surfaced structures
and shall be moored in water not less than ten feet in depth at any point below
the platform. All permanently moored inflatable floating platforms shall be
removed from the lake between November 1 and April 1 of each year and at any
time they deflate or are in a state of disrepair. As part of the permit
application process, the applicant shall provide a copy of the manufacturer's
recommended safety specifications and shall specify the manner in which the
applicant will adhere to said specifications. Only one permanently moored
floating platform (solid or inflatable) shall be permitted for each upland lake
front lot, except as provided in subsection (13)c of this section.
         c.   Permanently moored inflatable floating platforms larger than 178
square feet in area may be approved by the town council, but only for organized
group recreation programs supervised by appropriately trained personnel meeting
the standards of the American Red Cross. Said platforms shall only be approved
adjacent to land zoned R-3, CG or GU under chapter 92 and shall have white or
silver reflectors affixed to both sides of each corner or, for circular
platforms, at least every six feet of circumference. All permanently moored
inflatable floating platforms shall be removed from the lake between November 1
and April 1 of each year and at any time they deflate or are in a state of
disrepair. As part of the permit application process, the applicant shall
provide a copy of the manufacturer's recommended safety specifications and
shall specify the manner in which the applicant will adhere to said
specifications. At its discretion, the town council may allow more than one
permanently moored inflatable floating platforms adjacent to land zoned R-3, CG
or GU.
         d.   Anchorage for moored floating platforms shall be of galvanized
steel cables, galvanized chain or stainless steel cables secured to reinforced
concrete anchorage on the lake bottom, vertically below. Alternate materials
may be approved if specified by a licensed engineer or architect and does not
pose an environmental threat.
         e.   Temporarily moored inflatable water recreation devices shall be
no greater than 80 square feet in area or ten feet in diameter and are allowed
in the lake only from April 1 through November 30.
         f.   Any moored floating platform, whether permanent or temporary,
shall be identified with the owner's name, local address, and local telephone
number so that the platform can be identified and returned if it breaks loose
from its mooring. This identification may be accomplished by attaching a metal
or plastic tag to the platform or by printing the information directly onto the
device using paint or ink.
      (14)   Boardwalks shall not exceed four feet in width and shall not
extend more than six feet into the lake. If approved by adjoining property
owners, a boardwalk may run the full distance from property line to property
line or even cross the property line if the adjacent properties' owners approve
of its construction and wish it to continue along in front of their property.
      (15)   No lake structure, other than sea walls, shall obstruct the free
flow of water in the lake.
      (16)   As a condition of issuance of a permit, all structures built above
the roof of a boathouse or covered slip, including decks and deck top accessory
structures, shall require certification by a licensed architect or engineer
that the boathouse structure is capable of supporting the dead and live load of
the rooftop structure. Excluded from this requirement are structures installed
rather than built (such as umbrellas, awnings, canopies, or moored inflatable
platforms) so long as these structures do not exceed 150 pounds in total
weight.
      (17)   Temporary mooring at commercial and resort locations shall be
identified by a sign which states that the mooring may only be occupied during
the hours between 6:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight.
   These standards shall not apply to any lake structures owned or proposed by
the town, providing that designs for such structures have been reviewed and
approved by the lake advisory board and the town council.
(Code 1989, § 94.05; Ord. of 12-15-1992; Ord. of 10-20-1998; Ord. of 6-18-2001;
Ord. of 4-12-2005; Ord. of 7-11- 2006; Ord. of 8-14-2007; Ord. of 3-11-2008;
Ord. of 10-13-2009; Ord. of 4-12-2011; Ord. of 4-12-2016)
Sec. 6-52. Repair, reconstruction, and removal of structures.
   (a)   Internal, external, and cosmetic repairs do not require a lake
structure permit, unless a county building permit is required. It is the
property owner's responsibility to determine if a county building permit is
required for the work being performed.
   (b)    Minor structural repairs and replacements may be excluded from the
requirement that plans be professionally sealed if presented plans are approved
by the Lake Structure Administrator as sufficient to justify the applicant’s
assurance of structural integrity of the project.
   (c)   Structural repairs and reconstruction of lake structures require a
lake structure permit as described in section 6-49 before any work is
performed. A survey shall be required, and must accompany the application for
all structural repair and reconstruction endeavors that affect the physical
location, outer dimensions (height, length, width), projection into the lake,
or setbacks of a lake structure. A county building permit may also be required
depending on the nature and extent of the work.
   (d)   Reconstruction of lake structures shall be permitted as described in
section
6-49; shall begin within 18 months from the date of condemnation, collapse, or
destruction; and shall meet the following requirements:
      (1)   The original structure may be replaced with a like structure, not
necessarily of the same dimensions, (i.e., a dock with a dock, a boathouse with
a boathouse) and shall not include living quarters over the water.
      (2)   Height and projection into the lake meets current standards as
described in section
6-51.
      (3)   The number of permanent moorings meets current standards as
described in section
6-51.
      (4)   The distance from the lake structure to the projected upland lot
property lines, if less than 15 feet, shall be no closer to the projected lot
line than the structure being replaced and shall not encroach on or over
projected property lines.
   (e)   Cleanup and removal of condemned, collapsed, or involuntarily
destroyed structures shall begin within 90 days of the date of condemnation,
collapse, or destruction. Hazardous items such as fuel, lubricants, paint,
chemicals, unused boat batteries, etc., shall be removed immediately to protect
water quality.
   (f)   These standards shall not apply to any lake structures owned by the
town, providing that designs for such structures have been reviewed and
approved by the lake advisory board and the town council.
(Code 1989, § 94.06; Ord. of 10-20-1998; Ord. of 7-11-2006; Ord. of 8-14-2007;
Ord. of 3-11-2008; Ord. of 4-12-2016)
Sec. 6-53. Shoreline stabilization.
   Preserving the shoreline and the water quality of the lake is dependent on
following established BMPs (best management practices) of riparian and
shoreline stabilization. Land disturbance creates sedimentation from the
erosion of the upland lot and waves generated by wind and boating activities
can attack the disturbed shoreline from the lakeside. To minimize the effects
of these disturbances, several routes may be taken. Whether retaining a natural
buffer along the majority of the shoreline or utilizing a variety of
construction methods and materials to reduce the effects of the disturbance,
the town requires plans for some form of shoreline stabilization be included
with any lake structure permit application.
      (1)   Property owners are required to stabilize the shoreline on any lot
with a lake structure. The lake structures appeals board may waive this
requirement if the property is determined by to be substantially free of
erosion potential by the town's erosion control officer and is also determined
to be eligible for exemption from this requirement by the lake structure
administrator. If necessary, the construction of sea walls for shoreline
stabilization shall only disrupt the contour of the shoreline to a minimum. The
application for the construction of the shoreline stabilization shall include
the following:
         a.   An existing site plan with an overlay showing any proposed
changes to the contours and profiles of the shoreline.
         b.   Dimensions and proposed type of construction.
         c.   Signature of property owner and date.
         d.   Plans drawn by a licensed engineer or architect—sea walls only.
      (2)   The shoreline stabilization or construction shall address erosion
above and below the shoreline elevation of 990 feet MSL. The level of
protection depends on the lakeside wind and boat activity at the particular
location and the potential of erosion of the upland lot. (Note: Refer to
section 6-51 for details on how to establish the shoreline elevation of 990
feet MSL.) The erosion control officer will determine the type of stabilization
required.
         a.   Retained natural stabilization is allowed for lots that are 90
percent undisturbed to the building buffer boundary of 35 feet from the
shoreline and no tree lap is removed from the shoreline. This is also allowed
on banks located within no wake coves, protected from the wind, and the lot is
undisturbed within the 25-foot trout buffer with no tree lap removed from the
shoreline. A sea wall or rip-rap stabilization will be required shoreward of
lake structures to ensure their structural integrity.
         b.   Moderate stabilization is required where the land disturbance on
the upland lot creates moderate to severe erosion potential and the lakeside is
not threatened from the wind and is located within a no wake cove. If sea walls
are utilized, underwater reinforcement of the toe with rip-rap to the shoreline
height is required.
         c.   Extreme stabilization is required where the land disturbance on
the upland lot creates moderate to severe erosion potential and the lakeside is
threatened from the wind and by boat traffic at wake speed. If sea walls are
utilized, underwater reinforcement of the toe with rip-rap extending to a
height of two feet above the shoreline is required.
      (3)   Earth fills on the lakeside of the shoreline are prohibited.
      (4)   When possible, rip-rap laid on a layer of geotextile filter fabric
should be considered as the optimum choice for moderate or extreme
stabilization. While this stabilization method does not require an engineer's
or architect's design, the illustrated method of installation with the
prescribed slope of 2:1 and elevations above the shoreline of three feet must
be adhered to. Please refer to the illustration within the town's standards,
specifications and details for construction.
      (5)   If rip-rap is not selected for the shoreline stabilization, sea
walls, designed by a licensed engineer or architect, and reinforced at the toe
with rip-rap to the shoreline or two feet above the shoreline on the lake side
for extreme stabilization shall be constructed of one of the following
materials:
         a.   Concrete—to conform to NC DWQ regulations, it must cure 28 days
prior to making contact with the lake water.
         b.   Stone—to conform to NC DWQ regulations, the mortar must cure 28
days prior to making contact with the lake water.
         c.   A properly designed plastic, steel or aluminum sheet piling
system.
         d.   A properly designed pressure treated wood piling system. Railroad
ties and other wood treated with creosote or environmentally hazardous
materials shall not be allowed.
      (6)   All sea walls shall be in a good state of repair or the property
owner will be subject to penalties outlined in section 6-65.
(Code 1989, § 94.07; Ord. of 8-9-1994; Ord. of 10-20-1998; Ord. of 7-11-2006;
Ord. of 9-12-2006; Ord. of 4-12-2016)
Sec. 6-54. Lake structure certificate and tag; maintenance of structures.
   (a)   All structures on the waters of Lake Lure, either new or existing,
prior to the adoption of the ordinance from which this section is derived,
shall require a lake structure certificate and tag issued in accordance with
this section. All owners of existing structures deemed in compliance with
sections
6-51,
6-53,
6-55 through
6-57 and
6-61 will be issued a lake structure certificate and accompanying tag after the
lake structure administrator receives the lake structure certificate fee and
approves the property owner's lake structure certificate application. The tag
must be attached to the lake structure so it is visible from the water before
December 1, 1994, and be renewed every five years. Therefore, any structure not
having a lake structure tag attached by December 1, 1994, shall be considered
in violation of this article. Any boathouse which cannot qualify for a
certificate and tag either because it is not in compliance with this section,
or because it is not in the same ownership as the upland lot, shall be removed
at the owner's expense. Owners of upland property who fail to comply with this
section shall be ineligible to receive a boat permit.
   (b)   The property owner shall be responsible for maintaining all lake
structures covered by this article in good repair. The town shall have the
authority to condemn any lake structure due to decay, disrepair, or any
hazardous condition. The property owner will be given a written notice and 90
days to comply with the town council's determination. If the owner fails to
appeal to the town council for a hearing or comply with their determination,
council may revoke their lake structure certificate and accompanying tag (if
one had been issued) and remove the structure at the property owner's expense.
   (c)   The purpose of a lake structure permit is to ensure compliance with
the lake structures regulations, and is not in the nature of a building permit,
which is additionally required. Neither the issuance of a lake structures
permit nor the failure of the town to inspect said lake structure periodically
and reissue a lake structure permit, or revoke a lake structure permit, or take
action to condemn a lake structure, shall imply warranty or constitute either a
contract or assurance that any lake structure is safe for the general public
because it has a lake structure permit.
(Code 1989, § 94.08; Ord. of 8-9-1994; Ord. of 10-20-1998; Ord. of 9-9-2003;
Ord. of 8-14-2007; Ord. of 4-12-2006)
Sec. 6-55. Markers.
   No markers or signs, other than navigational aids that comply with the
uniform waterway marking system and the state wildlife resources commission's
regulations, shall be placed within the lakebed. Placement of these markers
will be reviewed and approved by the lake advisory board. Appeals of the lake
advisory board decision shall be sent to the marine commission. Unauthorized
movement or removal of markers will result in the revocation of all lake lure
boat permits held by the owner of the boat used for such activity and the
penalties and civil fines described in section 6-65.
(Code 1989, § 94.09; Ord. of 8-14-2007; Ord. of 4-12-2016; Ord. of 9-11-2018)
Sec. 6-56. Electrical and plumbing.
   All electrical wiring and fixtures and all plumbing must be inspected and
approved by the county building inspector. Lighting, whether public or private,
which offers navigational aid on the lake shall comply with the state wildlife
resources commission's regulations. Non-navigational lighting must be non-
flashing white or yellow, with the exception of bug lights, and shall be of
such a low intensity as to not cause blindness of boat operators on the lake or
inhibit their vision in any way. In addition to all state and local
requirements, all pole mounted outdoor fixtures on the lake structure or within
the lake boundary must be cutoff fixtures. All lighting shall be mounted and
maintained to avoid light trespass and glare on the waterway of Lake Lure.
(Code 1989, § 94.10; Ord. of 8-14-2007)
Sec. 6-57. Swimming areas.
   Swimming areas, whether adjacent to public or private property, shall be
marked in accordance with the state wildlife resources commission's regulations
and the town's ordinances regulating boating and water safety.
(Code 1989, § 94.11; Ord. of 8-9-1994)
Sec. 6-58. Commercial and multi-dwelling use lake structures.
   (a)   The lake structure administrator and the lake advisory board shall
review each lake structure permit application for any new or existing structure
that is to be built or converted for commercial or multi-dwelling use. The
application review will confirm that the proposed facility conforms to these
regulations, evaluate its impact on the lake's carrying capacity, and determine
that the location will not be adverse to navigation and boating safety or to
any nearby residential area with single-family dwellings. A recommendation
based on this review will then be submitted to the town council. The town
council shall approve or deny the request after examining the report. Specific
design standards, restrictions, and/or prohibitions may be varied by a special
grant from the town council if specifically requested by the petitioner as part
of a commercial lake structure application and if the special grant is found to
secure general welfare and the best overall interest of the public and the
municipality. The town council may also apply specific conditions with
nonconforming upon commercial lake structures as council deems necessary.
   (b)   As an exception to subsection (a) of this section, any application to
change the use of a lake structure with nonconforming living quarters to a
commercial use, shall be submitted to the lake structure appeals board for
approval or disapproval, and then to the town council for further appeal if
necessary. The lake structure appeals board will determine if the application
is consistent with section 6-47(a) concerning the health, safety, and welfare
of the general public. Further, the board will determine if the change in use
positively or negatively impacts the preservation of town property or the
properties of upland and adjacent landowners.
(Code 1989, § 94.12; Ord. of 8-14-2007; Ord. of 12-22-2015; Ord. of 4-12-2016)
Sec. 6-59. Cluster mooring facilities.
   (a)   The lake structure administrator and the lake advisory board shall
review each lake structure permit application for a cluster mooring facility.
The application review will confirm that the proposed facility conforms to
these regulations, evaluate its impact on the lake's carrying capacity, and
determine that the location will not be adverse to navigation and boating
safety or to any nearby residential area. A recommendation based on this review
will then be submitted to council. The council shall approve or deny the
request after examining the report.
   (b)   Cluster mooring facilities shall only be installed adjacent to upland
lot zoned for resort or commercial use. The same requirements apply to cluster
mooring facilities as do to all other lake structures except they shall have no
walls or roofs. Canopies attached to or installed above boat lifts are
considered roofs and are prohibited in cluster mooring facilities. Such
facilities may not have more than three individual permanent moorings per 100
feet of measurable shoreline of lake front property that is owned by the
applicant and that is free of any lake structures (other than sea walls and
boardwalks). Existing private docks or boathouses must be removed prior to
construction of a cluster mooring facility and no private docks or boathouses
can be applied for or constructed adjacent to the upland lot for which a
cluster mooring facility has been approved. All moorings shall be classified as
permanent or temporary, numbered, and with signage that is viewable from the
lake which indicates classification and number of each mooring.
   (c)   For areas with upland lots that are zoned for resort use, the lake
front property that is used in the formula for determining the number of
moorings must be contiguous with the site of the proposed cluster mooring
facility and the same lake front property must be developed with roads and
structures in place prior to review of the application. If any existing mooring
facilities are to be included in the total moorings of the mooring facility,
they will be factored into the total slips calculated with the above formula.
   (d)   For areas with upland lots zoned and utilized for commercial purposes,
only temporary moorings shall be allowed. A maximum of three craft owned by the
operators of the commercial establishment may be permanently moored at the
establishment's cluster mooring facility.
(Code 1989, § 94.13; Ord. of 4-12-2005; Ord. of 8-14-2007; Ord. of 4-12-2016)
Sec. 6-60. Marinas.
   (a)   The lake structure administrator and the lake advisory board shall
review each lake structure permit application for a marina, restricted and
unrestricted. The review will confirm that the proposed facility conforms to
these regulations, evaluate its impact on the lake's carrying capacity, and
determine that the location will not be adverse to navigation and boating
safety or to any nearby residential area. A recommendation based on this review
will then be submitted to council. The council shall approve or deny the
request after examining the report.
   (b)   Marinas must meet the following standards:
      (1)   Marinas shall only be installed adjacent to upland lot zoned for
commercial or resort use.
      (2)   The same requirements shall apply to marinas as do to all other
lake structures except individual slips or moorings shall not be enclosed or
covered. Canopies attached to or installed above boat lifts are considered
roofs and are prohibited in marinas.
      (3)   Such facilities may not have more than five permanent or temporary
moorings for each 100 feet of shoreline that is owned by the applicant. The
lakefront property that is used in the formula for determining the number of
moorings must be contiguous with the site of the proposed marina.
      (4)   The shoreline must be free of any other lake structures that could
be used specifically for the purpose of mooring boats. This does not include
seawalls, boardwalks, docks, or gazebos that are used for access, protection
from direct sun and rain, and as collection areas for users of the facility.
Such structures must meet the following standards:
         a.   Shall not have any tie-up points or cleats that would allow a
boat to be moored, thereby changing the structure's function.
         b.   Shall not exceed a height of 15 feet above the shoreline
elevation of 990 feet MSL.
         c.   Shall not exceed 1,200 square feet.
         d.   Shall be completely open on all sides.
      (5)   Existing private docks or boathouses must be removed prior to
construction of a marina and no private docks or boathouses can be applied for
or constructed adjacent to the upland lot that are associated with a marina.
      (6)   All moorings shall be classified as permanent or temporary,
numbered, and with signage that is viewable from the lake which indicates
classification and number of each mooring.
      (7)   These limitations shall not apply to any marina owned by the town.
   (c)   Moorings shall only be rented or leased for the permanent mooring of
any watercraft with a valid boat permit issued by the town for the current
year. The town may assess the marina owner an annual commercial use fee for
each permanent mooring leased or rented.
   (d)   Docks and piers at a marina may be either fixed or floating
structures.
   (e)   Sale of fuel, lubricants, boats, marine accessories, bait and fishing
supplies and repair of boats shall be permitted only at unrestricted marinas,
provided the upland property is zoned for commercial use.
(Code 1989, § 94.14; Ord. of 10-20-1998; Ord. of 4-12-2005; Ord. of 7-11-2006;
Ord. of 8-14-2007; Ord. of 3-11- 2008; Ord. of 5-12-2015; Ord. of 4-12-2016)
Sec. 6-61. Prohibited uses.
   The following uses or activities shall be prohibited unless written approval
is given by the town council:
      (1)   Any activity such as dredging or filling at or below the shoreline
without written permission from the town or any land disturbance which alters
the shoreline other than as required by action of the town council.
      (2)   The cutting of standing trees at or below the lake boundary.
      (3)   Disposal of any trash, brush, leaves, or scrap building materials
into the lake.
      (4)   Allowing any livestock or commercially raised animals to have
access to the lake or its shoreline.
      (5)   Allowing a boat to remain on the lake bottom after sinking.
      (6)   Using the waters of the lake for commercial irrigation purposes.
      (7)   The permanent or temporary mooring of a boat or any other floating
object in such a way that it extends beyond the boundaries established in
section 6-51 and restrict the passage of boats.
      (8)   The permanent mooring of more than three motorized boats at any one
lake structure or combination of lake structures, other than a marina or
cluster mooring facility, adjacent to an upland lot with a measurable shoreline
length of 100 feet or more.
      (9)   The permanent mooring of more than two motorized boats at any one
lake structure or combination of lake structures, other than a marina or
cluster mooring facility, adjacent to an upland lot of record with a measurable
shoreline length of 35 to 100 feet.
      (10)   The permanent mooring of more than one motorized boat at any one
lake structure, other than a marina or cluster mooring facility, adjacent to an
upland lot of record with a measurable shoreline length of less than 35 feet.
      (11)   The permanent mooring at a cluster mooring facility of more than
three motorized boats per 100 front feet at shoreline of upland lot adjacent to
a cluster mooring facility.
      (12)   The permanent mooring at a marina of more than five motorized
boats per 100 front feet at shoreline of upland lot adjacent to a marina.
      (13)   The permanent mooring of any boats licensed for commercial use at
a lake structure with an upland lot that is not zoned in accordance with or
having a special use permit to comply with section 1.59 of the lake use
regulations requirements for lake commercial licensing and supporting criteria.
      (14)   The use of any lake structure as temporary or full-time living
quarters.
      (15)   The rental of a mooring at a dock, boathouse or any other lake
structures in the manner of a marina when the adjacent upland lot is zoned R-1.
      (16)   The commercial or multi-dwelling use of a lake structure adjacent
to an upland lot that is zoned R-1 with the exception of lake structure
approved by town council for commercial or multi dwelling use or those lake
structure that are approved as the permanent mooring address on an annual lake
commercial license during the applicable calendar year.
      (17)   Any temporarily moored inflatable water recreation device larger
than 80 square feet in area or ten feet in diameter, and any such device in the
lake from December 1 through March 31.
      (18)   Sale of fuel, lubricants, boats, marine accessories, bait and
fishing supplies and repair of boats shall be prohibited at restricted marinas.
(Code 1989, § 94.15; Ord. of 10-20-1998; Ord. of 4-12-2005; Ord. of 8-14-2007;
Ord. of 4-12-2011; Ord. of 4-12- 2016)
Sec. 6-62. Lake structure appeals board.
   (a)   Membership. The lake structure appeals board shall consist of five
regular and three alternate members to be appointed by the town council.
Members of the board shall serve a term of three years, provided that terms of
office may be adjusted at the time of appointment in order that terms are
staggered. In filling vacancies created by resignation or other causes, a new
member may be appointed to fill the unexpired term of the member so vacating.
Each alternate member while attending any regular or special meeting of the
board and serving in the absence of any regular members shall have and may
exercise all the powers and duties of a regular member. Members shall serve
without pay but may be reimbursed for any expenses incurred while representing
the lake structure appeals board.
   (b)   Rules of conduct. Board members shall comply with the following rules
of conduct. Members may be removed by the town council for cause, including
violation of the rules stated in the following subsections:
      (1)   Faithful attendance at meetings of the board and conscientious
performance of the duties required of members of the board shall be considered
a prerequisite to continuing membership on the board.
      (2)   A board member shall not participate in or vote on any quasi-
judicial matter in a manner that would violate affected persons' constitutional
rights to an impartial decision. Impermissible conflicts include, but are not
limited to, a member having a fixed opinion prior to hearing the matter that is
not susceptible to change, undisclosed ex-parte communications, a close
familial, business, or other associational relationship with an affected
person, or a financial interest in the outcome of the matter.
      (3)   No board member shall discuss any case with any parties thereto
prior to the hearing on that case; provided, however, that members may receive
and/or seek information pertaining to the case from the lake structure
administrator, any other member of the board, or the clerk prior to the
hearing.
      (4)   Members of the board shall not express individual opinions on the
proper judgment of any case prior to its determination on that case.
      (5)   Members of the board shall give notice to the chairperson at least
48 hours prior to the hearing of any potential conflict of interest which he
has in a particular case before the board.
      (6)   No board member shall vote on any matter that decides an
application or appeal unless he has attended the hearing on that application or
appeal.
   (c)   General proceedings. The board shall annually elect a chairperson and
a vice-chairperson from among its regular members. A clerk shall be provided by
the town; however, when necessary, the chairperson shall appoint a clerk, who
may be an employee of the town, a municipal officer, or a member of the lake
structure appeals board. The chairperson, or any member acting as chairperson,
and the clerk, may administer oaths. The chairperson, or any member acting as
the chairperson, may subpoena witnesses and compel the production of evidence.
To request issuance of a subpoena, persons with standing under G.S. 160A-393(d)
may make a written request to the chairperson explaining why it is necessary
for certain witnesses or evidence to be compelled. The chairperson shall issue
requested subpoenas he determines to be relevant, reasonable in nature and
scope, and not oppressive. The chairperson shall rule on any motion to quash or
modify a subpoena. Decisions regarding subpoenas made by the chairperson may be
appealed to the full lake structure appeals board. The board shall keep minutes
of its proceedings, including the names of members present and absent, a record
of the vote on every question, or abstention from voting, if any, together with
records of its examinations and other official actions.
   (d)   Meetings. The board shall hold regular monthly meetings at a specified
time and place. Special meetings of the board may be called at any time by the
chairperson or by request of three or more members of the board. At least 48
hours written notice of the time and place of meetings shall be given, by the
chairperson, to each member of the board. All board meetings are to be held in
accordance with G.S. ch. 143, art. 33C (G.S. 143-318.9 et seq.), commonly
referred to as the Open Meetings Act.
      (1)   Cancellation of meetings. Whenever there are no appeals,
applications, or variances, or other business for the board, or whenever so
many members notify the clerk of inability to attend that a quorum will not be
available, the chairperson may dispense with a meeting by giving written or
oral notice to all members.
      (2)   Quorum. A quorum shall consist of three members of the board, but
the board shall not pass upon any questions relating to an appeal from a
decision or determination of the lake structure administrator, or an
application for a variance or decktop accessory structure when there are less
than four members present.
      (3)   Voting. All regular members may vote on any issue unless they have
disqualified themselves for one or more of the reasons listed in subsection (b)
(2) of this section. The required vote to decide appeals and applications shall
be as provided in subsection (h) of this section and shall not be reduced by
any disqualification. In all other matters the vote of a majority of the
members present and voting shall decide issues before the board.
   (e)   Powers and duties. The powers and duties of the lake structure appeals
board shall be as follows:
      (1)   Administrative appeals. To hear and decide appeals from any
decision or determination made by the lake structure administrator in the
enforcement of this article.
      (2)   Variances. Upon application, the lake structure appeals board may
authorize in specific cases such variance from the terms of this article as
will not be contrary to the public interest where, owing to special conditions,
a literal enforcement of the provisions of this article will, in an individual
case, result in practical difficulty or unnecessary hardship. The variance may
be permitted as long as the spirit of the chapter shall be observed, public
safety and welfare secured, and substantial justice done. The lake structure
appeals board shall not have authority to grant a variance when to do so would
permit a use of land, building or structure which is not permitted within the
applicable zoning district. In judging an application for a variance, the lake
structure appeals board shall be guided by the following:
         a.   There are extraordinary and exceptional conditions pertaining to
the particular piece of property in question because of its size, shape or
topography that are not applicable to other lands or structures in the same
district.
         b.   Granting the variance requested will not confer upon the
applicant any special privileges that are denied to other residents of the
district in which the property is located.
         c.   A literal interpretation of the provisions of this article would
deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other residents of the
district in which the property is located.
         d.   The requested variance will be in harmony with the purpose and
intent of this article and will not be injurious to the neighborhood or to the
general welfare.
         e.   The special circumstances are not the result of the actions of
the applicant.
         f.   The variance is the minimum necessary for the proposed use of the
land, building or structure.
         g.   A nonconforming use of neighboring land, structures or buildings
in the same district, and permitted uses of land, structures or buildings in
other districts, will not be considered grounds for the issuance of a variance.
   In granting any variance, the lake structure appeals board may prescribe
appropriate conditions and safeguards in conformity with this article.
Violation of such conditions and safeguards, when made a part of the terms
under which the variance is granted, shall be deemed a violation of this
article and punishable under section 6-65.
      (3)   Other matters. The board shall hear any other matters specified in
this article.
   (f)   Procedure for filing appeals and applications. No appeal shall be
heard by the board unless written notice thereof is filed within 30 days after
the interested party or parties receive the decision or determination by the
lake structure administrator. Applications for variances or for other matters
governed by this article may be filed at any time. Both appeals and
applications shall be filed with the lake structure administrator, who shall
act as clerk for the board in receiving this notice. All appeals and
applications shall be made upon the form specified for that purpose, and all
information required on the form shall be complete before an appeal or
application shall be considered as having been filed. Once appeals and
applications have been filed with the lake structure administrator, the lake
structure administrator shall notify the chairperson of the board that such
appeals or applications have been received.
   (g)   Hearings. Hearings before the board shall be governed by the
provisions contained herein.
      (1)   Time. After receipt of notice of an appeal or a variance, the
chairperson shall schedule a time for a hearing which shall be within 41 days
from the filing of such notice of appeal or application.
      (2)   Notice of hearing. Notice of hearings conducted pursuant to this
section shall be mailed to the person or entity whose appeal or application is
the subject of the hearing, to the owner of the property that is the subject of
the hearing if the owner did not initiate the hearing; to the owners of all
parcels of land abutting the parcel of land that is the subject of the hearing;
and to any other persons entitled to receive notice as provided by these
regulations. In the absence of evidence to the contrary, the town may rely on
the county tax listing to determine owners of property entitled to mailed
notice. The notice must be deposited in the mail at least ten days, but not
more than 25 days, prior to the date of the hearing. Within that same time
period, the town shall also prominently post a notice of the hearing on the
site that is the subject of the hearing or on an adjacent street or highway
right- of-way.
      (3)   Conduct of hearing. Any party may appear in person or by agent or
by attorney at the hearing. The order of business for the hearing shall be as
follows:
         a.   The chairperson, or such person as he shall direct, shall give a
preliminary statement of the case.
         b.   The applicant shall present the argument in support of his appeal
or application.
         c.   Persons supporting or opposed to the appeal or application shall
present arguments for or against the application or appeal.
         d.   Both sides will be permitted to present rebuttals to opposing
testimony.
         e.   Witnesses may be called and factual evidence may be submitted,
but the board shall not be limited to consideration of only such evidence as
would be admissible in a court of law. The board may view the premises before
arriving at a decision. All witnesses before the board shall be placed under
oath. Attorneys representing any party may cross examine any witness.
   (h)   Decisions. A decision by the board shall be made within 35 days from
the date of hearing. The 35-day period shall begin on the date the public
hearing ends.
      (1)   Form. The decision shall be reduced to writing and reflect the
board's determination of contested facts, if any, and their application to
applicable standards. The written decision shall be signed by the chairperson
or other duly authorized member of the board. The decision of the board shall
be effective upon filing such decision with the clerk to the board. The clerk
shall see that the decision is delivered by personal delivery, electronic mail,
or by first-class mail to the applicant, property owner, any entity granted
party status at the hearing, and to any person who has submitted a written
request for a copy prior to the date the decision becomes effective, and shall
certify that proper notice has been made.
      (2)   Voting. The concurring vote of four-fifths of the members of the
board entitled to vote on a matter shall be necessary to reverse any decision
or determination of the lake structure administrator, or to grant a variance or
to approve any other request under this subsection.
      (3)   Public record of decisions. The decisions of the board, as filed in
its minutes, shall be a public record, available for inspection at all
reasonable times.
   (i)   Appeals of decisions of the board. Decisions of the lake structure
appeals board shall be final unless appealed by the applicant or an affected
property owner to the town council within 30 days of such decision. The town
council shall hold a hearing on the record within 45 days of the appeal, and
council's decision shall be final.
   (j)   Fees for applications and appeals. The fee for an application for a
variance or other matter regulated by this article, or for an administrative
appeal shall be determined by resolution of the town council and shall be
payable to the town.
(Code 1989, § 94.16; Ord. of 5-12-2009; Ord. of 11-12-2013)
Sec. 6-63. Injunctive relief.
   (a)   In the event any lake structure is erected, constructed,
reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted or maintained, or used in violation
of these regulations, the lake structure administrator or any other appropriate
town authority, or any person who would be damaged by such violation, in
addition to other remedies, may institute an action for injunction, or
mandamus, or other appropriate action or proceedings to prevent such violation.
   (b)   Whenever the town council has reasonable cause to believe that any
person is violating or threatening to violate this article or any rule or order
adopted or issued pursuant to this article, or any term, condition, or
provision of an approved lake structure permit, it may, either before or after
the institution of any other action or proceeding authorized by this article,
institute a civil action in the name of the town for injunctive relief to
restrain the violation or threatened violation. The action shall be brought in
the superior court of the county.
   (c)   Upon determination by a court that an alleged violation is occurring
or is threatened, the court shall enter any order or judgment that is necessary
to abate the violation, to ensure that restoration is performed, or to prevent
the threatened violation. The institution of an action for injunctive relief
under this section shall not relieve any party to the proceedings from any
civil or criminal penalty prescribed in section 6-65 for violations of this
article.
(Code 1989, § 94.17; Ord. of 4-12-2005; Ord. of 8-14-2007; Ord. of 4-12-2011)
Sec. 6-64. Inspections and investigations.
   (a)   Inspection. The lake structure administrator or a designee will
periodically inspect lake structures to ensure compliance with this article, or
rules or orders adopted or issued pursuant to this article. Notice of the right
to inspect shall be included in the certificate of approval of each lake
structure permit.
   (b)   Willful resistance, delay or obstruction. No person shall willfully
resist, delay, or obstruct an authorized representative, employee, or agent of
the town while that person is inspecting or attempting to inspect a lake
structure under this article.
   (c)   Notice of violation. If it is determined that a person engaged in
activities in violation of this article, or rules, or orders adopted or issued
pursuant to this article, a notice of violation shall be served upon that
person. The notice may be served by any means authorized under G.S. 1A-1, rule
4. The notice shall specify a date by which the person must comply with this
section, or rules, or orders adopted pursuant to this article, and inform the
person of the actions that need to be taken to comply with this article, or
rules, or orders adopted pursuant thereto. However no time period for
compliance need be given for failure to submit a lake structure permit
application for approval or for obstructing, hampering, or interfering with an
authorized representative while in the process of carrying out his official
duties. Any person who fails to comply within the time specified is subject to
the civil and criminal penalties provided in this article.
   (d)   Investigation. The lake structure administrator shall have the power
to conduct such investigation as may reasonably be deemed necessary to carry
out the duties prescribed in this article, and for this purpose to enter at
reasonable times upon any property, public or private, for the purpose of
investigating and inspecting the site of any lake structure.
   (e)   Statements and reports. The town shall also have the power to require
written statements, or filings of reports under oath, with respect to pertinent
questions relating to lake structures.
(Code 1989, § 94.18; Ord. of 4-12-2011)
Sec. 6-65. Penalties.
   (a)   Generally. This section may be enforced by any one, all, or a
combination of the remedies authorized and prescribed by G.S. 160A-175.
   (b)   Criminal penalties.
      (1)   All lake structures built after December 15, 1992 are required to
have a permit prior to commencement of any construction or alteration for which
a permit is required (see section 6-49). Any person who knowingly or willfully
violates any provision of this section, or rule, or order adopted pursuant to
this article, or who knowingly or willfully initiates or continues construction
or alteration of a lake structure for which a permit is required except in
accordance with the terms, conditions, and provisions of an approved plan,
shall be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor which may include a fine not to exceed
$500.00 as provided in G.S. 14-4.
      (2)   Failure to receive a lake structure permit as required by this
section prior to commencement of construction or alteration of a lake structure
shall subject both the owner of the upland property and any contractor engaged
for the purpose of performing the work to a fine not to exceed $500.00. If the
illegal construction or alteration meets all requirements of this section, a
permit and a lake structure certificate shall be issued upon payment of the
fine and submittal of a completed application, including detailed plans, other
required documentation, and fees. If the illegal structure or alteration does
not meet said requirements, the structure shall either be removed, be brought
into compliance, or receive a variance (see section 6-62) prior to approval of
a permit and receipt of the certificate.
      (3)   The owner of the illegal structure shall either apply for a permit
or apply for a variance within 30 days or remove the structure within 60 days
of receipt of notification that the structure is in violation of this section.
Failure to comply with this requirement shall subject the owner to an
additional fine, not to exceed $500.00, payable immediately upon notification.
      (4)   The fines imposed in subsection (b)(1) of this section shall be due
and payable by the owner within 30 days of approval of a permit and due and
payable by the contractor within 30 days of notification that the structure is
in violation of this chapter.
      (5)   In the event that a petition for variance is submitted, the
petitioner shall have 30 days in which to apply for a permit in conformance
with the conditions of an order granting the variance or 60 days in which to
remove the illegal structure if an order denying the variance is issued.
Failure to comply with this subsection shall result in an additional fine, not
to exceed $500.00, payable immediately upon notification.
   (c)   Civil penalties.
      (1)   Civil penalty for a violation. Any person who violates any of the
provisions of this section, or rule or order adopted or issued pursuant to this
article, or who initiates or continues construction or alteration of a lake
structure for which a permit is required except in accordance with the terms,
conditions, and provisions of an approved permit, is subject to a civil
penalty. The maximum civil penalty amount that the town may assess per
violation is $500.00. A civil penalty may be assessed from the date of
violation. Each day of a continuing violation shall constitute a separate
violation.
      (2)   Notice of civil penalty assessment. The lake structure
administrator shall provide notice of the civil penalty amount and basis for
assessment to the person assessed. The notice of assessment shall be served by
any means authorized under G.S. 1A-1, rule 4, and shall direct the violator to
either pay the assessment or contest the assessment, by written demand for a
hearing (see section 6-62).
      (3)   Collection. If payment is not received within 30 days after it is
due, the town may institute a civil action to recover the amount of the
assessment. The civil action may be brought either in the superior court of the
county or in a court in the location of the violator's residence of principal
place of business, as the town shall elect. Such civil actions must be filed
within three years of the date the assessment is due. An assessment that is not
contested is due when the violator is served with a notice of assessment. An
assessment that is contested is due at the conclusion of the administrative and
judicial review of the assessment.
   (d)   Any provision of this section that makes unlawful a condition existing
upon or use made of any property may be enforced by injunction and order of
abatement, and the general court of justice shall have jurisdiction to issue
such orders. When a violation of such a provision occurs, the town may apply to
the appropriate division of the general court of justice for a mandatory or
prohibitory injunction and order of abatement commanding the defendant to
correct the unlawful condition upon or cease the unlawful use of the property.
The action shall be governed in all respects by the laws and rules governing
civil proceedings, including the rules of civil procedure in general and rule
65 in particular. In addition to an injunction, the court may enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the cause. An order of abatement may
direct that buildings or other structures on the property be closed, demolished
or removed; the fixtures, furniture or other movable property be removed from
the building on the property; that grass and weeds be cut; that improvements or
repairs be made; or that any other action be taken that is necessary to bring
the property into compliance with this policy or such ordinance. If the
defendant fails or refuses to comply with an injunction or with an order of
abatement within the time allowed by the court, such defendant may be cited for
contempt, and the town may execute the order of abatement. The town shall have
a lien on the upland property for the cost of executing an order of abatement
in the nature of a mechanic's and materialman's lien. The defendant may secure
cancellation of an order of abatement by paying all costs to the town of the
proceedings and posting a bond for compliance with the order. The bond shall be
given with sureties approved by the clerk of superior court in an amount
approved by the judge before whom the matter is heard and shall be conditioned
on the defendant's full compliance with the terms of the order of abatement
within a time fixed by the judge. CanceAlation of an order of abatement shall
not suspend or cancel an injunction issued in conjunction therewith.
   (e)   The provisions of this section may be enforced by any one, all, or any
combination of the remedies authorized and prescribed by this article.
   (f)   Except as otherwise specifically provided, each day's continuing
violation of any provision of this section shall be a separate and distinct
offense.
(Code 1989, § 94.99; Ord. of 10-20-1998; Ord. of 4-12-2011)
Secs. 6-66—6-88. Reserved.
ARTICLE IV.
FABRIC STRUCTURES
Sec. 6-89. Permit required; applications.
   A permit shall be required for all structures constructed of fabric,
including tents, erected within the town which exceed 500 square feet in area.
All fabric structures, regardless of size, erected longer than 30 days and
visible from any street as defined by town regulations and/or the waters of the
town also require a permit. The town manager may issue permits for such
structures erected for 30 days or less in any one calendar year and having an
area of less than 2,000 square feet. Fabric structures erected for longer than
30 days in any one calendar year and/or having an area of 2,000 square feet or
more must be approved by the town council. Applications for a permit shall be
submitted on a form obtainable from town hall. A site plan shall accompany the
application detailing the dimensions of the lot and the location of the
structure in relation to all property boundaries and existing structures. The
site plan shall also include a description of any proposed land clearing and
grading as well as proposed restoration of the site upon removal of the
structure.
(Code 1989, § 97.01; Ord. of 5-8-2001; Ord. of 6-11-2002; Ord. of 10-13-2009)
Sec. 6-90. Standards and review.
   Applications for fabric structure permits shall demonstrate compliance with
the minimum standards set forth in this section:
      (1)   Fire safety. The fire chief or his designee shall review all
applications for compliance with the standards for fabric structures set forth
in the state fire code.
      (2)   Zoning compliance. The zoning administrator shall review all
applications for compliance with the use requirements in the district for which
the structure will be located as set forth in the town zoning regulations.
      (3)   Land clearing and grading. Land clearing for fabric structures
shall be limited to the removal of non- significant trees and the removal of
shrubbery without grubbing as defined by the zoning regulations. Grading shall
be limited to minimal leveling within the footprint of the structure and the
driveway, if required. Upon removal of the structure, the site shall be
returned as closely as possible to its condition prior to approval.
(Code 1989, § 97.02; Ord. of 5-8-2001; Ord. of 10-13-2009)
Chapter 7
RESERVED
Chapter 8
BUSINESSES AND BUSINESS REGULATIONS
ARTICLE I.   IN GENERAL
Secs. 8-1–8-18.   Reserved.
ARTICLE II.   PEDDLERS
8-19.   Peddling prohibited.
8-20.   Exemptions.
8-21.   Penalty.
Secs. 8-22–8-45.   Reserved.
ARTICLE III.   CONTROLLED BUSINESSES
DIVISION 1.   GENERALLY
Secs. 8-46–8-66.   Reserved
DIVISION 2.   MUSICAL ENTERTAINMENT
8-67.   Hours of operation of dance halls, concert halls, or other public
musical entertainment.
Secs. 8-68–8-85.   Reserved.
DIVISION 3.   PUBLIC ENTERTAINMENT ENTERPRISES
8-86.   Permission to operate bowling alleys, pool rooms, or other public
entertainment enterprises required.
8-87.   Application; determination of board.
8-88.   Permits subject to discretion of board; revocation.
Secs. 8-89–8-114.   Reserved.
ARTICLE IV.   LIQUOR CONTROL
8-115.   Consumption of malt beverages and unfortified wine, spirituous
liquors, or mixed beverages.
8-116.   Permit.
8-117.   Penalty.
ARTICLE I.
IN GENERAL
Secs. 8-1—8-18. Reserved.
ARTICLE II.
PEDDLERS
Sec. 8-19. Peddling prohibited.
   (a)   No person or itinerant merchant shall sell or offer for sale produce,
merchandise, or other items of personal property or engage in the general
business of peddling within the corporate limits of the town. The sale of
produce, merchandise, and other items of personal property, and in general the
carrying on of business of peddling from stands and other temporary structures,
trucks, cars, or other vehicles, constitutes a nuisance and is dangerous to the
health and safety of the citizens of the town.
   (b)   Nothing contained herein shall prevent property owners from conducting
yard sales on their own property, as long as said yard sales are not held more
frequently than one day per month.
(Code 1989, § 61.10; Ord. of 4-10-2018)
Sec. 8-20. Exemptions.
   The following are exempt from the provisions of this article:
      (1)   The circulation of petitions for signature or lawful distribution
of advertising materials, flyers, or materials expressing views on political,
social or religious matters.
      (2)   The lawful promotion or expression of views concerning political,
social, religious and other like matters.
      (3)   The selling or offering for sale of goods, wares, merchandise,
food, periodicals or services by bona fide members or representatives of
charitable, religious, civic, educational or fraternal organizations, and who
receive no compensation of any kind for their services, and such sale or
offering by children under the age of 18 years who are students in a public or
private school for school activities.
      (4)   The solicitation of contributions or pledges thereof for bona fide
nonprofit organizations.
      (5)   The selling or delivery of goods to business establishments.
(Code 1989, § 61.20; Ord. of 4-10-2018)
Sec. 8-21. Penalty.
   Violation of this article shall be a misdemeanor and punishable on
conviction by a fine not exceeding $50.00 or by imprisonment not exceeding 30
days, or both, as provided in G.S. 14-4.
(Code 1989, § 61.90; Ord. of 4-10-2018)
Secs. 8-22—8-45. Reserved.
ARTICLE III.
CONTROLLED BUSINESSES
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
Secs. 8-46—8-66. Reserved
DIVISION 2. MUSICAL ENTERTAINMENT
Sec. 8-67. Hours of operation of dance halls, concert halls, or other public
musical entertainment.
   It shall be unlawful to operate any public dance hall, concert hall, or
other public musical entertainment in the town between the hours of 12:00
midnight and 10:00 a.m.
(Code 1989, § 62.01; Ord. of 7-9-1974)
Secs. 8-68—8-85. Reserved.
DIVISION 3. PUBLIC ENTERTAINMENT ENTERPRISES
Sec. 8-86. Permission to operate bowling alleys, pool rooms, or other public
entertainment enterprises required.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to operate a
bowling alley, pool room, open air theatre, shooting gallery, or other public
entertainment enterprise within the corporate limits of the town without first
applying to the town board for permission to operate such facility and securing
such permission pursuant to a formal resolution of the board.
(Code 1989, § 62.10; Ord. of 7-9-1974)
Sec. 8-87. Application; determination of board.
   (a)   The application to the board for permission to operate the businesses
mentioned in section
8-86 which contain, at a minimum, information as to the following items:
      (1)   The proposed location and size of the business.
      (2)   Those persons who will be responsible for the operation of the
business.
      (3)   That the business will be operated in a quiet and orderly manner.
      (4)   That the business will not be operated between the hours of 12:00
midnight and 8:00 a.m. nor between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 1:00 p.m. on
Sundays.
      (5)   That the premises will be kept sanitary and orderly.
      (6)   That adequate liability insurance will be provided.
   (b)   Upon review of the application, the board shall in its discretion,
based upon the health and welfare of the community and the information
contained in the application, make a determination upon the granting of a
permit.
(Code 1989, § 62.11; Ord. of 7-9-1974)
Sec. 8-88. Permits subject to discretion of board; revocation.
   (a)   All permits for operation granted under this article shall be subject
to and conditioned upon a statement filed by the owners and operators of the
businesses described in section 8-86, placing the conditioned operation of the
business in the sole discretion of the board of commissioners and further
stating that it understands and agrees that at such time as the board of
commissioners shall in its wisdom and discretion determine that the business is
a public nuisance, or in any other way harmful to the community, they will
cease operations upon 30 days' notice.
   (b)   If the town board shall see fit to revoke the permission for the
operation of such business, the operators thereof shall cease operation within
30 days of written notice.
(Code 1989, § 62.12; Ord. of 7-9-1974)
Secs. 8-89—8-114. Reserved.
ARTICLE IV.
LIQUOR CONTROL
Sec. 8-115. Consumption of malt beverages and unfortified wine, spirituous
liquors, or mixed beverages.
   No person shall consume malt beverages or unfortified wine, fortified wine,
spirituous liquors, or mixed beverages, as defined in G.S. 18B-101, on or
within the rights-of-way of the public streets, alleys, or sidewalks or
community center, or on the town beach, or any other town-owned property
(excluding the lake, on which state law concerning alcohol consumption will
apply and be enforced) unless a permit is received therefor from the town. It
is further provided an open container shall be prima facie evidence of
consumption under this article.
(Code 1989, § 63.01; Ord. of 4-23-1991; Ord. of 5-10-1994)
Sec. 8-116. Permit.
   The town manager and chief of police may jointly grant a permit allowing
consumption of either malt beverages, unfortified wine, fortified wine,
spirituous liquor and/or mixed beverages for special events on town property
and the permit shall be in writing and describe the location, type of beverage
to be served and the date and hours in which the operation of this article
shall be temporarily suspended for said special event. If a party applies for a
permit and the permit is denied by the town manager and/or chief of police, the
denial may be appealed to the town council.
(Code 1989, § 63.02; Ord. of 4-23-1991; Ord. of 5-12-2015)
Sec. 8-117. Penalty.
   Violation of this article shall be a misdemeanor and punishable on
conviction by a fine not exceeding $50.00 or by imprisonment not exceeding 30
days, as provided by G.S. 14-4.
(Code 1989, § 63.99; Ord. of 4-23-1991)
Chapter 9
RESERVED
Chapter 10
ENVIRONMENT
ARTICLE I.   IN GENERAL
Secs. 10-1–10-18.   Reserved.
ARTICLE II.   TREE PROTECTION
10-19.   Scope.
10-20.   Definitions.
10-21.   Prohibitions.
10-22.   Licensure required for tree services providers.
10-23.   Application.
10-24.   Suspension or revocation.
10-25.   Exception.
Secs. 10-26 10-53.   Reserved.
ARTICLE III.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
10-54.   Definitions.
10-55.   Duty of owners.
10-56.   Liability of persons to owners.
10-57.   Removal of abandoned vehicle by town.
10-58.   Indemnification of town.
10-59.   Notice.
10-60.   Sale or disposal of abandoned vehicles; hearing procedure.
10-61.   Exemptions.
ARTICLE I.
IN GENERAL
Secs. 10-1—10-18. Reserved.
ARTICLE II.
TREE PROTECTION
Sec. 10-19. Scope.
   This article shall apply to the cutting or removal of trees and to those who
provide such services for compensation.
(Code 1989, § 65.1; Ord. of 2-8-2011; Ord. of 4-1-2011)
Sec. 10-20. Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
Excessive removal of trees means the removal, by any means, of all or
substantially all the trees and/or woody shrubs from one acre or 25 percent of
the acreage of a lot or tract of land, whichever is greater.
Tree services means the removal of portions or the entirety of trees or other
woody vegetation by any means, including, without limitation, cutting,
trimming, topping, pruning, grading, and the application of chemicals.
Tree services provider means any person or entity who provides tree services
for compensation.
(Code 1989, § 65.2)
Sec. 10-21. Prohibitions.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or other entity to provide tree services
within the town unless such services comply with applicable regulations
contained in this Code. The excessive removal of trees, as defined herein, is
likewise prohibited, except when done pursuant to a forest management plan
prepared or approved by a forester registered in accordance with G.S. ch. 89B.
A copy of such forest management plan shall be filed with the tree protection
officer prior to the removal of trees.
(Code 1989, § 65.3)
Sec. 10-22. Licensure required for tree services providers.
   No person or entity may be a tree services provider within the town without
first obtaining a license to do so in accordance with this section.
(Code 1989, § 65.4)
Sec. 10-23. Application.
   Any person or entity desiring to be a tree services provider in the town
shall make application for a license to do so upon forms provided by the town
and shall pay a license fee which shall be set by resolution of town council.
Such person or entity shall be required to demonstrate knowledge of good tree
management principles, particularly those contained in the town's tree
management handbook, and with town regulations concerning trees and
landscaping.
(Code 1989, § 65.4.1)
Sec. 10-24. Suspension or revocation.
   The failure of a tree services provider to abide by town regulations
concerning trees and landscaping or to follow the guidance of the tree
management handbook shall, in addition to any other penalties provided by this
Code, be grounds for the suspension or revocation of the license for such tree
services provider.
(Code 1989, § 65.4.2)
Sec. 10-25. Exception.
   The licensure required in this article shall not apply to a forester
registered by the state pursuant to G.S. ch. 89B.
(Code 1989, § 65.4.3)
Secs.10-26—10-53. Reserved.
ARTICLE III. ABANDONED VEHICLES 1
 
Notes
1 State law reference(s)—Removal, disposal of junked and abandoned motor
  vehicles, G.S. 160A-303.
Sec. 10-54. Definitions.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   Abandoned motor vehicle means a motor vehicle that:
      (1)   Has been left upon a street or highway in violation of a law,
provision of this Code, or other ordinance of the town prohibiting parking;
      (2)   Is left on property owned or operated by the town for longer than
24 hours;
      (3)   Is left on private property without the consent of the owner,
occupant, or lessee thereof for longer than two hours; or
      (4)   Is left on any public street or highway for longer than seven days
or is determined by law enforcement to be a hazard to the motoring public.
   Junk motor vehicle means a motor vehicle that also:
      (1)   Is partially dismantled or wrecked;
      (2)   Cannot be self-propelled or moved in the manner in which it was
originally intended to move;
      (3)   Is more than five years old and worth less than $500.00; or
      (4)   Does not display a current license plate.
   Motor vehicle means all machines designed or intended to travel over land or
water by self-propulsion or while attached to any self-propelled vehicle.
(Code 1989, § 80.01)
Sec. 10-55. Duty of owners.
   It shall be the duty and responsibility of the owner of any abandoned or
junked motor vehicle to cause the removal thereof immediately and to pay all
costs incident to the removal. It shall be unlawful for any person to allow a
motor vehicle owned by him to remain after notice has been given to such person
to have the vehicle removed.
(Code 1989, § 80.02)
Sec. 10-56. Liability of persons to owners.
   No person shall be held to answer in any civil or criminal action to any
owner or other person legally entitled to the possession of any abandoned,
lost, or stolen motor vehicle for disposing of the vehicle as provided in this
article.
(Code 1989, § 80.03)
Sec. 10-57. Removal of abandoned vehicle by town.
   Any junked or abandoned motor vehicle may be removed by the town to a
storage garage or area. However, no such vehicle shall be removed from private
property without the written request of the owner, lessee, or occupant of the
premises, unless the town or a duly authorized town official or employee has
declared that vehicle to be a health or safety hazard.
(Code 1989, § 80.04)
Sec. 10-58. Indemnification of town.
   Any person requesting the removal of a junked or abandoned motor vehicle
from private property shall indemnify the town against any loss, expense, or
liability incurred because of the removal, storage, or sale of that vehicle.
(Code 1989, § 80.05)
Sec. 10-59. Notice.
   When any junked or abandoned motor vehicle is removed, the town shall give
notice to the owner as required by G.S. 20-219.11(a) and (b).
(Code 1989, § 80.06)
Sec. 10-60. Sale or disposal of abandoned vehicles; hearing procedure.
   Regardless of whether a municipality does its own removal and disposal of
motor vehicles or contracts with another person to do so, the town shall
provide a hearing procedure for the owner. For purposes of this section, the
definitions in G.S. 20-219.9 apply.
      (1)   If the town operates in such a way that the person who tows the
vehicle is responsible for collecting towing fees, all provisions of G.S. ch.
20, art. 7A shall apply.
      (2)   If the town operates in such a way that it is responsible for
collecting towing fees, it shall:
         a.   Provide by contract or ordinance for a schedule of reasonable
towing fees;
         b.   Provide a procedure for a prompt fair hearing to contest the
towing;
         c.   Provide for an appeal to district court from that hearing;
         d.   Authorize release of the vehicle at any time after towing by the
posting of a bond or paying of the fees due; and
         e.   Provide a sale procedure similar to that provided in G.S. 44A-
4 through 44A-6, except that no hearing in addition to the probable cause
hearing is required. If no one purchases the vehicle at the sale and if the
value of the vehicle is less than the amount of the lien, the town may destroy
it.
(Code 1989, § 80.07)
Sec. 10-61. Exemptions.
   Nothing in this article shall apply to any vehicle in an enclosed building
or any vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise being operated in a
lawful place and manner, if the vehicle is necessary to the operation of the
enterprise, or to any vehicle in an appropriate storage place or depository
maintained in a lawful place and manner by the town.
(Code 1989, § 80.08)
Chapter 11
RESERVED
Chapter 12
FIRE PROTECTION 1
ARTICLE I.   IN GENERAL
Secs. 12-1–12-18.   Reserved.
ARTICLE II.   FIRE DEPARTMENT
DIVISION 1.   GENERALLY
Secs. 12-19–12-39.   Reserved.
DIVISION 2.   FIRE DEPARTMENT
12-40.   Organization.
12-41.   Duties of fire chief.
Secs. 12-42–12-70.   Reserved.
DIVISION 3.   FIRE CODE
12-71.   Enforcement.
12-72.   Definitions.
12-73.   Modifications.
12-74.   Appeals.
12-75.   Penalty.
 
Notes
  State law reference(s)—Town fire protection generally, G.S. 160A-291 et seq.;
1 municipal authority to regulate or prohibit explosive and corrosive substances,
  G.S. 160A-183; city council may establish fire limits, G.S. 160D-1128.
ARTICLE I.
IN GENERAL
Secs. 12-1—12-18. Reserved.
ARTICLE II.
FIRE DEPARTMENT
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
Secs. 12-19—12-39. Reserved.
DIVISION 2. FIRE DEPARTMENT
Sec. 12-40. Organization.
   (a)   The fire department shall consist of the fire chief and a sufficient
number of volunteer firefighters to maintain and operate the department.
   (b)   The chief is authorized and empowered at his discretion to appoint in
any emergencies he deems necessary such temporary members of the department as
he desires to serve as members temporarily, and each such member so appointed
shall be entitled to the same rights and benefits as all other members of the
department for the duration of such temporary service, no matter how limited
his length of service may be.
(Code 1989, § 31.01)
Sec. 12-41. Duties of fire chief.
   The fire chief shall:
      (1)   Have general control of the department, the personnel, apparatus,
and fire alarm systems;
      (2)   Command the department and supervise the firefighting and
extinguishing of all fires and shall have the authority to keep away from the
vicinity of all fires any and all idle, disorderly, or suspicious persons;
      (3)   Inspect or cause to be inspected all trucks and other equipment of
the fire department to ascertain that the equipment is being kept in proper
condition; and
      (4)   Report annually to the council the condition of all equipment.
(Code 1989, § 31.02)
Secs. 12-42—12-70. Reserved.
DIVISION 3. FIRE CODE
Sec. 12-71. Enforcement.
   The state fire code shall be enforced by the fire chief of the town.
(Code 1989, § 31.11)
Sec. 12-72. Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this division, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
Alarm means any electrical or mechanical device which transmits an electronic
alarm signal or recorded message to the county communications center indicating
a fire or other incendiary occurrence.
False alarm means an activation of an alarm system, which elicits a response
from the fire department when no situation requiring such a response does, in
fact, exist. The term "false alarm" includes accidental, avoidable, and
unnecessary alarm activation due to user error, equipment malfunction and
improper or unsuited equipment, but does not include alarm activation caused by
violent conditions of nature or other extraordinary circumstances not
reasonably subject to control by the alarm user.
   The terms "residential," "storage," "business," "assembly," "educational,"
"industrial," "mercantile," "hazardous" and "institutional" as used herein
shall have the meanings as set forth more fully in the occupancy classification
of the state building code as adopted and enforced from time to time.
(Code 1989, § 31.12)
Sec. 12-73. Modifications.
   The fire chief shall have power to modify any of the provisions of the code
hereby adopted on application in writing by the owner or lessee, or his duly
authorized agent, when there are practical difficulties in the way of carrying
out the strict letter of the code, provided that the spirit of the code shall
be observed, public safety secured, and substantial justice done. The
particulars of such modification when granted or allowed and the decision of
the fire chief thereon shall be entered on the records of the department and a
signed copy shall be furnished the applicant.
(Code 1989, § 31.13)
Sec. 12-74. Appeals.
   Whenever the fire chief shall disapprove an application or refuse to grant a
permit applied for, or when it is claimed that the provisions of the code do
not apply or that the true intent and meaning of the code have been
misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal from the decision
of the fire chief to the council within 30 days from the date of the decision
appealed.
(Code 1989, § 31.14)
Sec. 12-75. Penalty.
   (a)   If the town fire department shall respond to more than two false
alarms at the same premises or location within any calendar month, the fire
chief may issue a civil penalty citation giving notice of the violation of this
section for each such false alarm over two per month. The citation shall issue
to the owner of record of the property, or to the person or entity having
present control of such premises or location if different from the owner of
record of the property. Citations may be served in person or mailed by
certified mail, return receipt requested, to the person or entity charged.
   (b)   The amount of the penalty shall be $75.00 pertaining to false alarms
to residential and storage properties, $100.00 pertaining to false alarms to
business and assembly properties, and $150.00 pertaining to false alarms to
educational, industrial, mercantile, hazardous, and institutional properties.
   (c)   Each citation shall impose the penalty described in subsection (b) of
this section and shall be paid to the town finance director within 14 days of
issuance in full satisfaction of the assessed civil penalty. If the civil
penalty is not paid within the time prescribed in the citation, the town may
initiate a civil action in the nature of debt to collect such penalty.
   (d)   Payments shall be deposited into the responding fire department's
budget.
(Code 1989, § 31.99)
Chapter 13
RESERVED
Chapter 14
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION 1
ARTICLE I.   IN GENERAL
14-1.   Statutory authorization.
14-2.   Findings of fact.
14-3.   Statement of purpose.
14-4.   Objectives.
14-5.   Definitions.
14-6.   Lands to which this chapter applies.
14-7.   Basis for establishing the special flood hazard areas.
14-8.   Establishment of floodplain development permit.
14-9.   Compliance.
14-10.   Abrogation and greater restrictions.
14-11.   Interpretation.
14-12.   Warning and disclaimer of liability.
14-13.   Penalties for violation.
Secs. 14-14–14-44.   Reserved.
ARTICLE II.   ADMINISTRATION
14-45.   Designation of floodplain administrator.
14-46.   Floodplain development application, permit and certification
requirements.
14-47.   Duties and responsibilities of the floodplain administrator.
14-48.   Corrective procedures.
14-49.   Variance procedures.
Secs. 14-50–14-71.   Reserved.
ARTICLE III.   PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
14-72.   General standards.
14-73.   Specific standards.
14-74.   Standards for floodplains without established base flood elevations.
14-75.   Standards for riverine floodplains with base flood elevations but
without established floodways or non-encroachment areas.
14-76.   Floodways and non-encroachment areas.
 
Notes
1 State law reference(s)—Floodplain regulations, G.S. 160D-923.
ARTICLE I.
IN GENERAL
Sec. 14-1. Statutory authorization.
   The legislature of the state has delegated to local governmental units the
responsibility to adopt regulations designed to promote the public health,
safety, and general welfare.
(Code 1989, § 95.001; Ord. of 5-13-2008)
Sec. 14-2. Findings of fact.
   (a)   The floodprone areas within the jurisdiction of the town are subject
to periodic inundation which results in loss of life, property, health and
safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary
public expenditures of flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax
base, all of which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general
welfare.
   (b)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities and by the
occupancy in floodprone areas of uses vulnerable to floods or other hazards.
(Code 1989, § 95.002)
Sec. 14-3. Statement of purpose.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions within floodprone areas by provisions designed to accomplish the
following:
      (1)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water or erosion hazards or that result in damaging increases
in erosion, flood heights or velocities;
      (2)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities that
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
      (3)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
      (4)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and all other development that
may increase erosion or flood damage; and
      (5)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers that will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(Code 1989, § 95.003)
Sec. 14-4. Objectives.
   The following are the objectives of this chapter:
      (1)   Protect human life, safety, and health;
      (2)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
      (3)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      (4)   Minimize prolonged business losses and interruptions;
      (5)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities (i.e., water and
gas mains, electric, telephone, cable and sewer lines, streets, and bridges)
that are located in floodprone areas;
      (6)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of floodprone areas; and
      (7)   Ensure that potential buyers are aware that property is in a
special flood hazard area.
(Code 1989, § 95.004)
Sec. 14-5. Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
Accessory structure, appurtenant structure means a structure located on the
same parcel of property as the principal structure and the use of which is
incidental to the use of the principal structure. Garages, carports and storage
sheds are common urban accessory structures. Pole barns, hay sheds and the like
qualify as accessory structures on farms, and may or may not be located on the
same parcel as the farm dwelling or shop building.
Addition (to an existing building) means an extension or increase in the floor
area or height of a building or structure.
Appeal means a request for a review of the floodplain administrator's
interpretation of any provision of this article.
Area of special flood hazard. See Special flood hazard area (SFHA).
Base flood means the flood having a one percent chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
Base flood elevation (BFE) means a determination of the water surface
elevations of the base flood as published in the flood insurance study. When
the BFE has not been provided in a special flood hazard area, it may be
obtained from engineering studies available from a federal, state, or other
source using FEMA-approved engineering methodologies. This elevation, when
combined with the freeboard, establishes the regulatory flood protection
elevation.
Basement means any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
Building. See Structure.
Chemical storage facility means a building, portion of a building, or exterior
area adjacent to a building used for the storage of any chemical or chemically
reactive products.
Development means any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
Disposal, as defined in G.S. 130A-290(a)(6), means the discharge, deposit,
injection, dumping, spilling, leaking, or placing of any solid waste into or on
any land or water so that the solid waste or any constituent part of the solid
waste may enter the environment or be emitted into the air or discharged into
any waters, including groundwaters.
Elevated building means a non-basement building which has its lowest elevated
floor raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear walls, posts, piers,
pilings, or columns.
Encroachment means the advance or infringement of uses, fill, excavation,
buildings, structures or development into a floodplain, which may impede or
alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
Existing manufactured home park or manufactured home subdivision means a
manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities
for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) was
completed before the effective date of the ordinance from which this section is
derived.
Flood or flooding means a general and temporary condition of partial or
complete inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
Flood boundary and floodway map (FBFM) means an official map of a community,
issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, on which the special flood
hazard areas and the floodways are delineated. This official map is a
supplement to and shall be used in conjunction with the flood insurance rate
map (FIRM).
Flood insurance means the insurance coverage provided under the National Flood
Insurance Program.
Flood insurance rate map (FIRM) means an official map of a community, issued by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency, on which both the special flood hazard
areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community are delineated.
Flood insurance study (FIS) means an examination, evaluation, and determination
of flood hazards, corresponding water surface elevations (if appropriate),
flood hazard risk zones, and other flood data in a community issued by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency. The flood insurance study report includes
flood insurance rate maps (FIRMS) and flood boundary and floodway maps (FBFMs),
if published.
Flood zone means a geographical area shown on a flood hazard boundary map or
flood insurance rate map that reflects the severity or type of flooding in the
area.
Floodplain means any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any
source.
Floodplain administrator is the individual appointed to administer and enforce
the floodplain management regulations.
Floodplain development permit means any type of permit that is required in
conformance with the provisions of this chapter, prior to the commencement of
any development activity.
Floodplain management means the operation of an overall program of corrective
and preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including, but not limited
to, emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations, and open space plans.
Floodplain management regulations means this chapter and other zoning
ordinances, subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations,
special purpose ordinances, and other applications of police power. The term
"floodplain management regulations" describes federal, state or local
regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards for preventing
and reducing flood loss and damage.
Floodprone area. See Floodplain.
Floodproofing means any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitation facilities,
structures, and their contents.
Floodway means the channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent
land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
Freeboard means the height added to the base flood elevation (BFE) to account
for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater
than the height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions,
such as wave action, blockage of bridge openings, and the hydrological effect
of urbanization of the watershed. The base flood elevation plus the freeboard
establishes the regulatory flood protection elevation.
Functionally dependent facility means a facility which cannot be used for its
intended purpose unless it is located in close proximity to water, limited to a
docking or port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or
passengers, shipbuilding, or ship repair. The term "functionally dependent
facility" does not include long-term storage, manufacture, sales or service
facilities.
Hazardous waste management facility, as defined in G.S. 130A-290(a)(9), means a
facility for the collection, storage, processing, treatment, recycling,
recovery, or disposal of hazardous waste.
Highest adjacent grade (HAG) means the highest natural elevation of the ground
surface, prior to construction, immediately next to the proposed walls of the
structure.
Historic structure means any structure that meets one or more of the following
criteria:
      (1)   It is listed individually in the National Register of Historic
Places (a listing maintained by the U.S. Department of Interior) or
preliminarily determined by the Secretary of Interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the National Register.
      (2)   It is certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary of
Interior to qualify as a registered historic district.
      (3)   It is individually listed on a local inventory of historic
landmarks in communities with a certified local government (CLG) program.
      (4)   It is certified as contributing to the historical significance of a
historic district designated by a community with a certified local government
(CLG) program. Certified local government (CLG) programs are approved by the
U.S. Department of the Interior in cooperation with the North Carolina
Department of Cultural Resources through the state historic preservation
officer as having met the requirements of the National Historic Preservation
Act of 1966, as amended in 1980.
Lowest adjacent grade (LAG) means the elevation of the ground, sidewalk or
patio slab immediately next to the building, or deck support, after completion
of the building.
Lowest floor means the lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood- resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access, or limited storage in an area other than
a basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor, provided that such
an enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable nonelevation design requirements of this chapter.
Manufactured home means a structure, transportable in one or more sections,
which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
"manufactured home" does not include a recreational vehicle.
Manufactured home park or subdivision means a parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
Market value means the building value, not including the land value and that of
any accessory structures or other improvements on the lot. Market value may be
established by independent certified appraisal, by replacement cost depreciated
for age of building and quality of construction (actual cash value), or by
adjusted tax assessed values.
Mean sea level means the National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) as corrected
in 1929, the North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) as corrected in 1988, or
other vertical control datum used as a reference for establishing varying
elevations within the floodplain, to which base flood elevations (BFEs) shown
on a FIRM are referenced. Refer to each FIRM panel to determine datum used.
New construction means structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of the ordinance from which the floodplain
management regulations are derived and includes any subsequent improvements to
such structures.
Non-encroachment area means the channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot
as designated in the flood insurance rate study report.
Post-FIRM means construction or other development for which the start of
construction occurred on or after the effective date of the ordinance from
which the flood insurance rate map is derived.
Pre-FIRM means construction or other development for which the start of
construction occurred before the effective date of the ordinance from which the
initial flood insurance rate map is derived.
Principally above ground means that at least 51 percent of the actual cash
value of the structure is above ground.
Recreational vehicle (RV) means a vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   400 square feet or less in area when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light-
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
Reference level is the top of the lowest floor for structures within special
flood hazard areas designated as Zone A1- A30, AE, A, or A99.
Regulatory flood protection elevation means the base flood elevation plus the
freeboard. In special flood hazard areas where base flood elevations (BFEs)
have been determined, this elevation shall be the BFE plus two feet of
freeboard. In special flood hazard areas where no BFE has been established,
this elevation shall be at least two feet above the highest adjacent grade.
Remedy a violation means to bring the structure or other development into
compliance with state and community floodplain management regulations, or, if
this is not possible, to reduce the impacts of its noncompliance. Ways that
impacts may be reduced include:
      (1)   Protecting the structure or other affected development from flood
damages;
      (2)   Implementing the enforcement provisions of this chapter or
otherwise deterring future similar violations; or
      (3)   Reducing federal financial exposure with regard to the structure or
other development.
Riverine means relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, etc.
Salvage yard means any nonresidential property used for the storage,
collection, and/or recycling of any type of equipment, and including, but not
limited to, vehicles, appliances and related machinery.
Solid waste disposal facility, as defined in G.S. 130A-290(a)(35), means any
facility involved in the disposal of solid waste.
Solid waste disposal site, as defined in G.S. 130A-290(a)(36), means any place
at which solid wastes are disposed of by incineration, sanitary landfill, or
any other method.
Special flood hazard area (SFHA) means the land in the floodplain subject to a
one percent or greater chance of being flooded in any given year as determined
in section
14-7.
Start of construction includes substantial improvement, and means the date the
building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair,
reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement, or other improvement was
within 180 days of the permit date. The term "actual start" means either the
first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the
pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading, and filling; nor does it include the
installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a
basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of temporary forms;
nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings,
such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start of construction
means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural
part of the building, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the building.
Structure means a walled and roofed building, a manufactured home, or a gas,
liquid, or liquefied gas storage tank that is principally above ground.
Substantial damage means damage of any origin sustained by a structure during
any one-year period whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before
damaged condition would equal or exceed 50 percent of the market value of the
structure before the damage occurred. See the definition of the term
"substantial improvement." The term "substantial damage" also means flood-
related damage sustained by a structure on two separate occasions during a ten-
year period for which the cost of repairs at the time of each such flood event,
on the average, equals or exceeds 25 percent of the market value of the
structure before the damage occurred.
Substantial improvement means any combination of repairs, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, or other improvement of a structure, taking place
during any one-year period for which the cost equals or exceeds 50 percent of
the market value of the structure before the start of construction of the
improvement. The term "substantial improvement" includes structures which have
incurred substantial damage, regardless of the actual repair work performed.
The term "substantial improvement" does not, however, include:
      (1)   Any correction of existing violations of state or community health,
sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been identified by the
community code enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to
ensure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as an
historic structure.
Threat to public safety and/ornuisance means anything which is injurious to the
safety or health of an entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable
number of persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the
customary manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay stream, canal, or basin.
Variance is a grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter.
Violation means the failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in sections 14-46, 14-47, 14-49, 14-72
and 14-73 is presumed to be in violation until such time as that documentation
is provided.
Water surface elevation (WSE) means the height, in relation to mean sea level,
of floods of various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal
or riverine areas.
Watercourse means a lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically. The
term "watercourse" includes specifically designated areas in which substantial
flood damage may occur.
(Code 1989, § 95.010)
Sec. 14-6. Lands to which this chapter applies.
   This chapter shall apply to all special flood hazard areas within the
jurisdiction, including any extra-territorial jurisdiction, of the town and
within the jurisdiction of any other community whose governing body agrees, by
resolution, to such applicability.
(Code 1989, § 95.020)
Sec. 14-7. Basis for establishing the special flood hazard areas.
   (a)   The special flood hazard areas are those identified under the
cooperating technical state (CTS) agreement between the state and FEMA in its
flood insurance study (FIS) and its accompanying flood insurance rate maps
(FIRM), for the county, dated July 2, 2008, which are adopted by reference and
declared to be a part of this chapter.
   (b)   In addition, upon annexation to the town or inclusion in its extra-
territorial jurisdiction (ETJ), the special flood hazard areas identified by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and/or produced under the
cooperating technical state agreement between the state and FEMA as stated in
subsection (a) of this section, for the unincorporated areas of the county,
with accompanying maps and other supporting data are adopted by reference and
declared to be a part of this chapter.
   (c)   The initial flood insurance rate maps are as follows for the
jurisdictional areas at the initial date:
      (1)   The unincorporated area of the county, dated June 1, 1987.
      (2)   Town of Lake Lure, dated July 2, 2008.
(Code 1989, § 95.021)
Sec. 14-8. Establishment of floodplain development permit.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities within special flood hazard areas determined in accordance with the
provisions of section
14-7.
(Code 1989, § 95.022)
Sec. 14-9. Compliance.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted,
altered, or developed in any way without full compliance with the terms of
these and other applicable regulations.
(Code 1989, § 95.023)
Sec. 14-10. Abrogation and greater restrictions.
   These regulations are not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any
existing easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where these
regulations and others conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more
stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Code 1989, § 95.024)
Sec. 14-11. Interpretation.
   In the interpretation and application of these regulations, all provisions
shall be:
      (1)   Considered as minimum requirements;
      (2)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
      (3)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Code 1989, § 95.025)
Sec. 14-12. Warning and disclaimer of liability.
   The degree of flood protection required by these regulations is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
consideration. Larger floods can and will occur. Actual flood heights may be
increased by manmade or natural causes. These regulations do not imply that
land outside the special flood hazard areas or uses permitted within such areas
will be free from flooding or flood damages. These regulations shall not create
liability on the part of the town, or any officer or employee thereof, for any
flood damages that result from reliance on these regulations or any
administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Code 1989, § 95.026)
Sec. 14-13. Penalties for violation.
   Any person who violates any of these regulations or fails to comply with any
of their requirements shall be subject to the assessment of a civil penalty in
accordance with the provisions of section 36-431(e), the terms of which are
incorporated herein by reference. Each day such violation continues shall be
considered a separate offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the town
from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any
violation.
(Code 1989, § 95.027)
Secs. 14-14—14-44. Reserved.
ARTICLE II.
ADMINISTRATION
Sec. 14-45. Designation of floodplain administrator.
   The town designee, referred to as the floodplain administrator, is hereby
appointed to administer and implement the provisions of this chapter.
(Code 1989, § 95.030)
Sec. 14-46. Floodplain development application, permit and certification
requirements.
   (a)   Application requirements. Application for a floodplain development
permit shall be made to the floodplain administrator prior to any development
activities located within special flood hazard areas. The following items shall
be presented to the floodplain administrator to apply for a floodplain
development permit:
      (1)   A plot plan drawn to scale which shall include, but not be limited
to, the following specific details of the proposed floodplain development:
         a.   The nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the area of
development/disturbance; existing and proposed structures, utility systems,
grading/paving areas, fill materials, storage areas, drainage facilities, and
other development;
         b.   The boundary of the special flood hazard area as delineated on
the FIRM or other flood map as determined in section
14-7, or a statement that the entire lot is within the special flood hazard
area;
         c.   Flood zone designation of the proposed development area as
determined on the FIRM or other flood map as determined in section
14-7;
         d.   The boundary of the floodway or non-encroachment area as
determined in section
14-7;
         e.   The base flood elevation (BFE) where provided, as set forth in
section
14-7,
14-47 or
14-74;
         f.   The old and new location of any watercourse that will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development; and
         g.   The certification of the plot plan by a registered land surveyor
or professional engineer.
      (2)   Proposed elevation, and method thereof, of all development within a
special flood hazard area, including, but not limited to, the following:
         a.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the proposed reference
level (including basement) of all structures;
         b.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any
nonresidential structure in Zone AE or A will be floodproofed; and
         c.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any proposed
utility systems will be elevated or floodproofed.
      (3)   If floodproofing, a floodproofing certificate (FEMA Form 81-65)
with supporting data, an operational plan, and an inspection and maintenance
plan that include, but are not limited to, installation, exercise, and
maintenance of floodproofing measures.
      (4)   A foundation plan, drawn to scale, which shall include details of
the proposed foundation system to ensure all provisions of this article are
met. These details include, but are not limited to, the following:
         a.   The proposed method of elevation, if applicable (i.e., fill,
solid foundation perimeter wall, solid backfilled foundation, open foundation
on columns/posts/piers/piles/shear walls); and
         b.   Openings to facilitate automatic equalization of hydrostatic
flood forces on walls in accordance with section 14-73(4)c.3 when solid
foundation perimeter walls are used in Zones A, AE, and A1-30.
      (5)   Usage details of any enclosed areas below the lowest floor.
      (6)   Plans and/or details for the protection of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems to be located and
constructed to minimize flood damage.
      (7)   Certification that all other local, state and federal permits
required prior to floodplain development permit issuance have been received.
      (8)   Documentation for placement of recreational vehicles and/or
temporary structures, when applicable, to ensure that the provisions of section
14-73(6) and (7).
      (9)   A description of proposed watercourse alteration or relocation,
when applicable, including an engineering report on the effects of the proposed
project on the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse and the effects to
properties located both upstream and downstream; and a map (if not shown on a
plot plan) showing the location of the proposed watercourse alteration or
relocation.
   (b)   Permit requirements. The floodplain development permit shall include,
but not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   A description of the development to be permitted under the
floodplain development permit.
      (2)   The special flood hazard area determination for the proposed
development in accordance with available data specified in section
14-7.
      (3)   The regulatory flood protection elevation required for the
reference level and all attendant utilities.
      (4)   The regulatory flood protection elevation required for the
protection of all public utilities.
      (5)   All certification submittal requirements with timelines.
      (6)   A statement that no fill material or other development shall
encroach into the floodway or non- encroachment area of any watercourse, as
applicable.
      (7)   The flood openings requirements, if in Zones A, AE or A1-30.
      (8)   Limitations of below-BFE-enclosure uses (if applicable) (i.e.,
parking, boathouses, building access and limited storage only).
   (c)   Certification requirements.
      (1)   Elevation certificates.
         a.   An elevation certificate (FEMA Form 81-31) is required prior to
the actual start of any new construction. It shall be the duty of the permit
holder to submit to the floodplain administrator a certification of the
elevation of the reference level, in relation to mean sea level. The floodplain
administrator shall review the certificate data submitted. Deficiencies
detected by such review shall be corrected by the permit holder prior to the
beginning of construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure to
make required corrections shall be cause to deny a floodplain development
permit.
         b.   An elevation certificate (FEMA Form 81-31) is required after the
reference level is established. Within seven calendar days of establishment of
the reference level elevation, it shall be the duty of the permit holder to
submit to the floodplain administrator a certification of the elevation of the
reference level in relation to mean sea level. Any work done within the seven-
day calendar period and prior to submission of the certification shall be at
the permit holder's risk. The floodplain administrator shall review the
certificate data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be
corrected by the permit holder immediately and prior to further work being
permitted to proceed. Failure to submit the certification or failure to make
required corrections shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the project.
         c.   A final as-built elevation certificate (FEMA Form 81-31) is
required after construction is completed and prior to certificate of
compliance/occupancy issuance. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to
submit to the floodplain administrator a certification of final as-built
construction of the elevation of the reference level and all attendant
utilities. The floodplain administrator shall review the certificate data
submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the
permit holder immediately and prior to certificate of compliance/occupancy
issuance. In some instances, another certification may be required to certify
corrected as- built construction. Failure to submit the certification or
failure to make required corrections shall be cause to withhold the issuance of
a certificate of compliance/occupancy.
      (2)   Floodproofing certificate. If nonresidential floodproofing is used
to meet the regulatory flood protection elevation requirements, a floodproofing
certificate (FEMA Form 81-65), with supporting data, an operational plan, and
an inspection and maintenance plan are required prior to the actual start of
any new construction. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to
the floodplain administrator a certification of the floodproofed design
elevation of the reference level and all attendant utilities, in relation to
mean sea level. Floodproofing certification shall be prepared by or under the
direct supervision of a professional engineer or architect and certified by
same. The floodplain administrator shall review the certificate data, the
operational plan, and the inspection and maintenance plan. Deficiencies
detected by such review shall be corrected by the applicant prior to permit
approval. Failure to submit the certification or failure to make required
corrections shall be cause to deny a floodplain development permit. Failure to
construct in accordance with the certified design shall be cause to withhold
the issuance of a certificate of compliance/occupancy.
      (3)   Manufactured home. If a manufactured home is placed within Zone A,
AE, or A1-30 and the elevation of the chassis is more than 36 inches in height
above grade, an engineered foundation certification is required in accordance
with the provisions of section 14-73(3)b.
      (4)   Watercourse. If a watercourse is to be altered or relocated, the
following shall be submitted by the permit applicant prior to issuance of a
floodplain development permit:
         a.   A description of the extent of watercourse alteration or
relocation;
         b.   A professional engineer's certified report on the effects of the
proposed project on the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse and the
effects to properties located both upstream and downstream; and
         c.   A map showing the location of the proposed watercourse alteration
or relocation.
      (5)   Certification exemptions. The following structures, if located
within Zone A, AE, or A1-30, are exempt from the elevation and floodproofing
certification requirements specified in subsections (5)a and b of this section:
         a.   Recreational vehicles meeting the requirements of section
14-73(6)a;
         b.   Temporary structures meeting the requirements of section
14-73(7); and
         c.   Accessory structures with an area of less than 150 square feet
meeting requirements of section
14-73(8).
(Code 1989, § 95.031)
Sec. 14-47. Duties and responsibilities of the floodplain administrator.
   The floodplain administrator shall assume and perform all such duties and
responsibilities as are necessary to administer these regulations including,
without limitation, those listed herein.
      (1)   Review all floodplain development applications and issue permits
for all proposed development within special flood hazard areas to ensure that
the requirements of this article have been satisfied.
      (2)   Review all proposed development within special flood hazard areas
to ensure that all necessary local, state, and federal permits have been
received.
      (3)   Notify adjacent communities and the North Carolina Department of
Crime Control and Public Safety, Division of Emergency Management, State
Coordinator for the National Flood Insurance Program, prior to any alteration
or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification to the
Federal Emergency Management Agency.
      (4)   Ensure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is maintained.
      (5)   Prevent encroachments into floodways and non-encroachment areas
unless the certification and flood hazard reduction provisions of section 14-76
are met.
      (6)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the
reference level (including basement) and all attendant utilities of all new and
substantially improved structures, in accordance with the provisions of section
14-46.
      (7)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which
all new and substantially improved structures and utilities have been
floodproofed, in accordance with the provisions of section 14-46.
      (8)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of all
public utilities in accordance with the provisions of section 14-46.
      (9)   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, obtain
certifications from a registered professional engineer or architect in
accordance with the provisions of sections 14-46 and 14-73(2).
      (10)   Make the necessary interpretation where interpretation is needed
as to the exact location of boundaries of the special flood hazard areas,
floodways, or non-encroachment areas (for example, where there appears to be a
conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions). The person
contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity
to appeal the interpretation as provided in this section.
      (11)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data have not been provided in
accordance with the provisions of section 14-7, obtain, review, and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation (BFE) data, along with floodway data or non-
encroachment area data available from a federal, state, or other source,
including data developed pursuant to section 14-74(2)b, in order to administer
the provisions of this article.
      (12)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data are provided but no floodway
or non-encroachment area data have been provided in accordance with the
provisions of section 14-7, obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any floodway
data or non-encroachment area data available from a federal, state, or other
source in order to administer the provisions of this article.
      (13)   When the lowest floor and the lowest adjacent grade of a structure
or the lowest ground elevation of a parcel in a special flood hazard area is
above the base flood elevation, advise the property owner of the option to
apply for a letter of map amendment (LOMA) from FEMA. Maintain a copy of the
letter of map amendment (LOMA) issued by FEMA in the floodplain development
permit file.
      (14)   Permanently maintain all records that pertain to the
administration of this article and make these records available for public
inspection, recognizing that such information may be subject to the Privacy Act
of 1974, as amended.
      (15)   Make on-site inspections of work in progress. As the work pursuant
to a floodplain development permit progresses, the floodplain administrator
shall make as many inspections of the work as may be necessary to ensure that
the work is being done according to the provisions of the local ordinance and
the terms of the permit. In exercising this power, the floodplain administrator
has a right, upon presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises
within the jurisdiction of the community at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action.
      (16)   Issue stop-work orders as required. Whenever a building or part
thereof is being constructed, reconstructed, altered, or repaired in violation
of this article, the floodplain administrator may order the work to be
immediately stopped. The stop-work order shall be in writing and directed to
the person doing or in charge of the work. The stop-work order shall state the
specific work to be stopped, the specific reason for the stoppage, and the
condition under which the work may be resumed. Violation of a stop-work order
subjects the perpetrator to a civil penalty pursuant to section 14-13.
      (17)   Revoke floodplain development permits as required. The floodplain
administrator may revoke and require the return of the floodplain development
permit by notifying the permit holder in writing stating the reason for the
revocation. Permits shall be revoked for the following reasons:
         a.   Any substantial departure from the approved application, plans,
and specifications;
         b.   Refusal or failure to comply with the requirements of state or
local laws; or
         c.   False statements or misrepresentations made in securing the
permit. Any floodplain development permit mistakenly issued in violation of an
applicable state or local law may also be revoked.
      (18)   Make periodic inspections throughout the special flood hazard
areas within the jurisdiction of the community. The floodplain administrator
and each member of his inspections department shall have a right, upon
presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises within the
territorial jurisdiction of the department at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action.
      (19)   Follow through with the corrective procedures of section 14-48.
      (20)   Review, provide input, and make recommendations for variance
requests.
      (21)   Maintain a current map repository to include, without limitation,
the FIS Report, FIRM and other official flood maps and studies adopted in
accordance with the provisions of section 14-7, including any revisions
thereto, including letters of map change, issued by FEMA. Notify the state and
FEMA of mapping needs.
      (22)   Coordinate revisions to FIS reports and FIRMs, including letters
of map revision based on fill (LOMR-Fs) and letters of map revision (LOMRs).
(Code 1989, § 95.032)
Sec. 14-48. Corrective procedures.
   (a)   Violations to be corrected. When the floodplain administrator finds
violations of applicable state and local laws, it shall be his duty to notify
the owner or occupant of the building of the violation. The owner or occupant
shall immediately remedy each of the violations of law cited in such
notification.
   (b)   Actions in event of failure to take corrective action. If the owner of
a building or property fails to take prompt corrective action, the floodplain
administrator shall give the owner written notice, by certified or registered
mail to the owner's last known address or by personal service, stating the
following:
      (1)   That the building or property is in violation of the floodplain
management regulations;
      (2)   That a hearing will be held before the floodplain administrator at
a designated place and time, not later than ten days after the date of the
notice, at which time the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or by
counsel and to present arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter; and
      (3)   That following the hearing, the floodplain administrator may issue
an order to alter, vacate, or demolish the building or to remove fill as
applicable.
   (c)   Order to take corrective action. If, upon a hearing held pursuant to
the notice prescribed in subsection (b) of this section, the floodplain
administrator shall find that a building or development is in violation of the
flood damage prevention ordinance, he shall issue an order in writing to the
owner, requiring the owner to remedy the violation within a specified time
period, not less than 60 calendar days, nor more than 180 calendar days. Where
the floodplain administrator finds that there is imminent danger to life or
other property, he may order that corrective action be taken in such lesser
period as may be feasible.
   (d)   Appeal. Any owner who has received an order to take corrective action
may appeal the order to the local elected governing body by giving notice of
appeal in writing to the floodplain administrator and the clerk within ten days
following issuance of the final order. In the absence of an appeal, the order
of the floodplain administrator shall be final. The local governing body shall
hear an appeal within a reasonable time and may affirm, modify and affirm, or
revoke the order.
   (e)   Failure to comply with order. If the owner of a building or property
fails to comply with an order to take corrective action for which no appeal has
been made or fails to comply with an order of the governing body following an
appeal, the owner shall be guilty of a violation of these regulations
punishable as provided by section 14-13. Furthermore, the town may seek
equitable or other appropriate relief to compel compliance with such order.
(Code 1989, § 95.033)
Sec. 14-49. Variance procedures.
   (a)   The town board of adjustment, hereinafter referred to as the appeal
board, shall hear and decide requests for variances from the requirements of
this chapter.
   (b)   Any person aggrieved by a decision of the appeal board may appeal such
decision to the superior court as provided in G.S. ch. 7A.
   (c)   Variances may be issued for the following:
      (1)   The repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon the
determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the
structure's continued designation as a historic structure and that the variance
is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the
structure;
      (2)   Functionally dependent facilities if determined to meet the
definition stated in section 14-5 and provided provisions of subsection (i)(2)
and (5) of this section have been satisfied, and provided such facilities are
protected by methods that minimize flood damages during the base flood and
create no additional threats to public safety; and
      (3)   Any other type of development, provided it meets the requirements
of this section.
   (d)   In passing upon variances, the appeal board shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other
sections of this article, and the following:
      (1)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (2)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, as defined
under section 14-5, as a functionally dependent facility, where applicable;
      (6)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
      (7)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (10)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
      (11)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
   (e)   A written report addressing each of the factors listed in subsection
(d) of this section shall be submitted with the application for a variance.
   (f)   Upon consideration of the factors listed in subsection (d) of this
section and the purposes of this article, the appeal board may attach such
conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the
purposes and objectives of this article.
   (g)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation (BFE) and the
elevation to which the structure is to be built and that such construction
below the BFE increases risks to life and property, and that the issuance of a
variance to construct a structure below the BFE will result in increased
premium rates for flood insurance up to $25.00 per $100.00 of insurance
coverage. Such notification shall be maintained with a record of all variance
actions, including justification for their issuance.
   (h)   The floodplain administrator shall maintain the records of all appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency and
the state upon request.
   (i)   Additional standards for variances.
      (1)   Variances shall not be issued when the variance will make the
structure in violation of other federal, state or local laws, regulations, or
ordinances.
      (2)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway or
non-encroachment area if the variance would result in any increase in flood
levels during the base flood discharge.
      (3)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (4)   Variances shall only be issued prior to development permit
approval.
      (5)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         a.   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         b.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship; and
         c.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, or
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
   (j)   A variance may be issued for solid waste disposal facilities or sites,
hazardous waste management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage
facilities that are located in special flood hazard areas, provided that all of
the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The use serves a critical need in the community;
      (2)   No feasible location exists for the use outside the special flood
hazard area;
      (3)   The reference level of any structure is elevated or floodproofed to
at least the regulatory flood protection elevation;
      (4)   The use complies with all other applicable federal, state and local
laws; and
      (5)   The town has notified the secretary of the state department of
crime control and public safety of its intention to grant a variance at least
30 calendar days prior to granting the variance.
(Code 1989, § 95.034)
Secs. 14-50—14-71. Reserved.
ARTICLE III.
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
Sec. 14-72. General standards.
   The following standards apply in all special flood hazard areas:
      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be designed
(or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, and
lateral movement of the structure.
      (2)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
      (3)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damages.
      (4)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as
to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components during
conditions of flooding to the regulatory flood protection elevation. These
include, but are not limited to, HVAC equipment, water softener units, bath/
kitchen fixtures, ductwork, electric/gas meter panels/boxes, utility/cable
boxes, hot water heaters, and electric outlets/switches.
      (5)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
      (6)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into floodwaters.
      (7)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
      (8)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a
structure, which is in compliance with the provisions of this article, shall
meet the requirements of new construction as contained in this article.
      (9)   Nothing in these regulations shall prevent the repair,
reconstruction, or replacement of a building or structure existing on the
effective date of the ordinance from which is section is derived and located
totally or partially within the floodway, non-encroachment area, or stream
setback, provided there is no additional encroachment below the regulatory
flood protection elevation in the floodway, non-encroachment area, or stream
setback, provided that such repair, reconstruction, or replacement meets all of
the other requirements of this article.
      (10)   New solid waste disposal facilities and sites, hazardous waste
management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage facilities shall not
be permitted, except by variance as specified in section 14-49(j). A structure
or tank for chemical or fuel storage incidental to an allowed use or to the
operation of a water treatment plant or wastewater treatment facility may be
located in a special flood hazard area only if the structure or tank is either
elevated or floodproofed to at least the regulatory flood protection elevation
and certified in accordance with the provisions of section 14-46(c).
      (11)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall be
consistent with the need to minimize flood damage.
      (12)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall
have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water
systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage.
      (13)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall
have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
      (14)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall
have received all necessary permits from those governmental agencies for which
approval is required by federal or state law, including section 404 of the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 USC 1344.
      (15)   When a structure is partially located in a special flood hazard
area, the entire structure shall meet the requirements for new construction and
substantial improvements.
      (16)   When a structure is located in multiple flood hazard zones or in a
flood hazard risk zone with multiple base flood elevations, the provisions for
the more restrictive flood hazard risk zone and the highest base flood
elevation shall apply.
(Code 1989, § 95.040)
Sec. 14-73. Specific standards.
   In addition to the general standards contained in section 14-72, the
following specific standards apply in all special flood hazard areas where base
flood elevation (BFE) data have been provided, as set forth in section 14-7 or
14-74:
      (1)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial
improvement of any residential structure (including manufactured homes) shall
have the reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the
regulatory flood protection elevation, as defined in section 14-5.
      (2)   Nonresidential construction. New construction and substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or other nonresidential structure
shall have the reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the
regulatory flood protection elevation, as defined in section 14-5. Structures
located in A, AE, and A1-30 zones may be floodproofed to the regulatory flood
protection elevation in lieu of elevation, provided that all areas of the
structure, together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, below the
regulatory flood protection elevation are watertight with walls substantially
impermeable to the passage of water, using structural components having the
capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effect of
buoyancy. A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the floodproofing standards of this subsection are satisfied. Such
certification shall be provided to the floodplain administrator as set forth in
section 14-46(c), along with the operational plan and the inspection and
maintenance plan.
      (3)   Manufactured homes.
         a.   New and replacement manufactured homes shall be elevated so that
the reference level of the manufactured home is no lower than the regulatory
flood protection elevation, as defined in section 14-5.
         b.   Manufactured homes shall be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement, either
by certified engineered foundation system, or in accordance with the most
current edition of the state regulations for manufactured homes adopted by the
commissioner of insurance pursuant to G.S. 143-143.15. Additionally, when the
elevation would be met by an elevation of the chassis 36 inches or less above
the grade at the site, the chassis shall be supported by reinforced piers or
engineered foundation. When the elevation of the chassis is above 36 inches in
height, an engineering certification is required.
         c.   All enclosures or skirting below the lowest floor shall meet the
requirements of subsection (4) of this section.
         d.   An evacuation plan must be developed for evacuation of all
residents of all new, substantially improved or substantially damaged
manufactured home parks or subdivisions located within floodprone areas. This
plan shall be filed with and approved by the floodplain administrator and the
local emergency management coordinator.
      (4)   Elevated buildings. Any fully enclosed area, of new construction
and substantially improved structures, which is below the lowest floor shall
comply with the following requirements:
         a.   It shall not be designed or used for human habitation but shall
only be used for parking of vehicles, building access, or limited storage of
maintenance equipment used in connection with the premises. Access to the
enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow for parking of vehicles
(garage door) or limited storage of maintenance equipment (standard exterior
door), or entry to the living area (stairway or elevator). The interior portion
of such enclosed area shall not be finished or partitioned into separate rooms,
except to enclose storage areas.
         b.   It shall be constructed entirely of flood-resistant materials at
least to the regulatory flood protection elevation.
         c.   In Zones A, AE, and A1-30, it shall include flood openings to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on walls by allowing for the
entry and exit of floodwaters. To meet this requirement, the openings must
either be certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed
the following minimum design criteria:
            1.   A minimum of two flood openings on different sides of each
enclosed area subject to flooding;
            2.   The total net area of all flood openings must be at least one
square inch for each square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding;
            3.   If a building has more than one enclosed area, each enclosed
area must have flood openings to allow floodwaters to automatically enter and
exit;
            4.   The bottom of all required flood openings shall be no higher
than one foot above adjacent grade;
            5.   Flood openings may be equipped with screens louvers, or other
coverings or devices, provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions; and
            6.   Enclosures made of flexible skirting are not considered
enclosures for regulatory purposes, and, therefore, do not require flood
openings. Masonry or wood underpinning, regardless of structural status, is
considered an enclosure and requires flood openings as outlined in this
subsection.
      (5)   Additions/improvements.
         a.   Pre-FIRM structures. Additions and/or improvements to pre-FIRM
structures when the addition and/or improvements in combination with any
interior modifications to the existing structure are not a substantial
improvement, the addition and/or improvements must be designed to minimize
flood damages and must not be any more nonconforming than the existing
structure. When such additions and/or improvements constitute a substantial
improvement, both the existing structure and the addition and/or improvements
must comply with the standards for new construction.
         b.   Post-FIRM structures.
            1.   Additions to post-FIRM structures with no modifications to the
existing structure other than a standard door in the common wall shall require
only the addition to comply with the standards for new construction.
            2.   Additions and/or improvements to post-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or
improvements only must comply with the standards for new construction. When
such additions and/or improvements constitute a substantial improvement, both
the existing structure and the addition and/or improvements must comply with
the standards for new construction.
      (6)   Recreational vehicles. Recreational vehicles shall either:
         a.   Be on site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
         b.   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use (a recreational
vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is
attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities, and has no
permanently attached additions); or
         c.   Meet all the requirements for new construction.
      (7)   Temporary nonresidential structures. Prior to the issuance of a
floodplain development permit for a temporary structure, the applicant must
submit to the floodplain administrator a plan for the removal of such structure
in the event of a hurricane, flash flood or other type of flood warning
notification. The following information shall be submitted in writing to the
floodplain administrator for review and written approval:
         a.   A specified time period for which the temporary use will be
permitted. Time specified may not exceed three months, renewable up to one
year;
         b.   The name, address, and telephone number of the individual
responsible for the removal of the temporary structure;
         c.   The time frame prior to the event at which a structure will be
removed (i.e., minimum of 72 hours before landfall of a hurricane or
immediately upon flood warning notification);
         d.   A copy of the contract or other suitable instrument with the
entity responsible for physical removal of the structure; and
         e.   Designation, accompanied by documentation, of a location outside
the special flood hazard area, to which the temporary structure will be moved.
      (8)   Accessory structures. When accessory structures (sheds, boathouses,
detached garages, etc.) are to be placed within a special flood hazard area,
the following criteria shall be met:
         a.   Accessory structures shall not be used for human habitation
(including working, sleeping, living, cooking or restroom areas);
         b.   Accessory structures shall not be temperature-controlled;
         c.   Accessory structures shall be designed to have low flood-damage
potential;
         d.   Accessory structures shall be constructed and placed on the
building site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
         e.   Accessory structures shall be firmly anchored in accordance with
the provisions of section 14-72(1);
         f.   All service facilities such as electrical shall be installed in
accordance with the provisions of section 14- 72(4); and
         g.   Flood openings to facilitate automatic equalization of
hydrostatic flood forces shall be provided below regulatory flood protection
elevation in conformance with the provisions of subsection (4)c of this
section. An accessory structure with a footprint less than 150 square feet that
satisfies the criteria outlined above does not require an elevation or
floodproofing certificate. Elevation or floodproofing certifications are
required for all other accessory structures in accordance with section 14-46
(c).
(Code 1989, § 95.041)
Sec. 14-74. Standards for floodplains without established base flood
elevations.
   Within the special flood hazard areas established in section 14-7, where no
base flood elevation (BFE) data have been provided by FEMA, the provisions
contained herein shall apply in addition to those contained in section 14- 72.
      (1)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements or new development shall be permitted within a distance of 20 feet
each side from top of bank or five times the width of the stream, whichever is
greater, unless certification with supporting technical data by a registered
professional engineer is provided demonstrating that such encroachments shall
not result in any increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the base
flood discharge.
      (2)   The BFE used in determining the regulatory flood protection
elevation shall be determined based on the following criteria:
         a.   When base flood elevation (BFE) data are available from other
sources, all new construction and substantial improvements within such areas
shall also comply with all applicable provisions of these regulations and shall
be elevated or floodproofed in accordance with the standards in sections 14-72
and 14-73.
         b.   When floodway or non-encroachment area data are available from a
federal, state or other source, all new construction and substantial
improvements within floodway and non-encroachment areas shall also comply with
the requirements of this section and sections 14-73, 14-75 and 14-76.
         c.   All subdivision, manufactured home park and other development
proposals shall provide base flood elevation (BFE) data if the development is
greater than five acres or has more than 50 lots/manufactured home sites. Such
BFE data shall be adopted by reference in accordance with section 14-73 and
utilized in implementing this article.
         d.   When BFE data are not available from a federal, state, or other
source, as outlined in subsection (2)a of this section, the reference level
shall be elevated or floodproofed (nonresidential) to or above the regulatory
flood protection elevation, as defined in section 14-5. All other applicable
provisions of section 14-73 shall also apply.
(Code 1989, § 95.043)
Sec. 14-75. Standards for riverine floodplains with base flood elevations but
without established floodways or non- encroachment areas.
   (a)   All development along rivers and streams where base flood elevation
(BFE) data are provided by FEMA or are available from another source, but
neither floodway nor non-encroachment areas are identified for a special flood
hazard area on the FIRM, or in the FIS report, shall comply with the standards
contained within sections 14-72 and 14-73.
   (b)   Furthermore, until a regulatory floodway or non-encroachment area is
designated, no encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements, or other development, shall be permitted unless certification
with supporting technical data by a registered professional engineer is
provided demonstrating that the cumulative effect of the proposed development,
when combined with all other existing and anticipated development, will not
increase the water surface elevation of the base flood more than one foot at
any point within the town's planning jurisdiction.
(Code 1989, § 95.044)
Sec. 14-76. Floodways and non-encroachment areas.
   Areas designated as floodways or non-encroachment areas are located within
the special flood hazard areas established in section 14-7. The floodways and
non-encroachment areas are extremely hazardous areas due to the velocity of
floodwaters that have erosion potential and carry debris and potential
projectiles. In addition to the standards contained in sections 14-72 and 14-
73, the following additional requirements shall apply to all development within
such areas:
      (1)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements and other developments shall be permitted unless:
         a.   Hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with
standard engineering practice and presented to the floodplain administrator
prior to issuance of a floodplain development permit demonstrate that the
proposed encroachment would not result in any increase in the flood levels
during the occurrence of the base flood; or
         b.   A conditional letter of map revision (CLOMR) has been approved by
FEMA. A letter of map revision (LOMR) shall also be obtained upon completion of
the proposed encroachment.
      (2)   If the provisions of this section are satisfied, all development
shall comply with all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of this
article.
      (3)   Manufactured homes shall not be permitted except replacement
manufactured homes in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision
provided such development meets the anchoring and the elevation standards of
section 14-73(3), as well as the no encroachment standard of subsection (1) of
this section.
(Code 1989, § 95.045)
Chapter 15
RESERVED
Chapter 16
LAW ENFORCEMENT 1
16-1.   Police department Created.
16-2.   Police department Composition.
16-3.   Duties of police officers.
16-4.   Personnel.
16-5.   Control and supervision over the department.
16-6.   Conditions of employment.
16-7.   Requirements.
16-8.   Specific duties of the chief of police.
16-9.   Auxiliary police.
 
Notes
1 State law reference(s)—Town law enforcement in general, G.S. 160A-281 et seq.
Sec. 16-1. Police department—Created.
   The police department is created subject to the terms, authority, and
conditions set out in sections 16-2 through 16-8.
(Code 1989, § 30.01)
Sec. 16-2. Police department—Composition.
   The police department shall consist of a chief of police and officers,
patrol officers, and police officers of designated grade as the council deems
necessary.
(Code 1989, § 30.02)
Sec. 16-3. Duties of police officers.
   (a)   The chief of police and the members of the police department shall
have the duty of enforcing all the ordinances of the town and the laws of the
state within the town, and other duties as may be prescribed by ordinance.
   (b)   It shall be the duty of each member of the police department, on
information furnished him, or on his knowledge of any violation of the
ordinances of the town or of the laws of the state, to secure proper warrants
for the arrest and trial of any and all offenders against any ordinances or
laws.
(Code 1989, § 30.03)
Sec. 16-4. Personnel.
   The council shall have the duty of hiring persons as may be necessary to man
the police department and to provide the town with adequate police protection,
together with the duty of discharging such members.
(Code 1989, § 30.04)
Sec. 16-5. Control and supervision over the department.
   The chief of police, subject to the general supervision of the council, is
held responsible for the discipline, good order, and proper conduct of the
department.
(Code 1989, § 30.05)
Sec. 16-6. Conditions of employment.
   (a)   Members of police department shall be appointed by the town council
after due examination by the council and based on the results of the
examination.
   (b)   An appointee shall serve six months' probation, or as extended by the
town council.
(Code 1989, § 30.06)
Sec. 16-7. Requirements.
   Every person appointed as a law enforcement officer shall:
      (1)   Be a citizen of the United States;
      (2)   Be at least 20 years of age;
      (3)   Be of good moral character;
      (4)   Be fingerprinted and a search made of local, state, and federal
fingerprint files;
      (5)   Not have been convicted of a felony or an offense involving moral
turpitude;
      (6)   Have a high school diploma or its equivalent;
      (7)   Pass an examination conducted by a physician employed by the town;
and
      (8)   Be certified in accordance with state law.
(Code 1989, § 30.07)
State Law Reference(s)—State law requires that law enforcement officers be
certified by the criminal justice education and training standards commission,
G.S. 17C-6.
Sec. 16-8. Specific duties of the chief of police.
   (a)   The chief of police commands the force under his order, and is
responsible for its discipline and efficiency. Further, he shall recommend to
the council the reforms and changes in the police department which practical
experience shows should be instituted. The chief of police will be required to
make out a quarterly statement of conduct of the affairs of the department and
shall include therein any suggestions for the improvement in the service or
personnel of the department.
   (b)   Additional, specific functions of the chief of police are:
      (1)   To issue to the force under his command such orders and directives
as may be necessary to preserve the public peace, prevent crime, arrest
offenders, and to protect public and private property and persons in the town;
      (2)   To enforce the laws, ordinances, police regulations, and executive
orders applicable to his jurisdiction;
      (3)   To require the proper submission and handling of the necessary
required reports.
(Code 1989, § 30.08)
Sec. 16-9. Auxiliary police.
   (a)   The town auxiliary police department made up entirely of volunteer
members is hereby established.
   (b)   The board of commissioners shall have the duty of approval of
volunteers to serve as auxiliary personnel, together with the duty of
discharging such volunteer members.
   (c)   Auxiliary law enforcement personnel shall perform no duties on behalf
of the town unless under orders or instructions of the chief of police of the
town.
   (d)   Neither the town nor its police department shall be liable to the
auxiliary law enforcement personnel for any additional fringe benefits, wages,
other compensation, or insurance coverage, except as follows: while undergoing
official training and while performing duties on behalf of the town pursuant to
orders or instructions of the chief of police of the town, auxiliary law
enforcement personnel shall be entitled to benefits under the North Carolina
Workers' Compensation Act.
   (e)   Neither the town nor its police department shall be liable to any
third parties for any actions, intentional or otherwise, malicious or not,
including negligence and/or gross negligence, unless said auxiliary law
enforcement personnel was engaged in the performance of duties on behalf of the
town pursuant to orders or instructions of the chief of police of the town.
   (f)   Neither the town, the town manager, and/or the board of commissioners
shall be held responsible for the discipline, good order, and proper conduct of
the auxiliary law enforcement police department.
   (g)   Every person appointed as a volunteer auxiliary law enforcement
department member shall:
      (1)   Be a citizen of the United States;
      (2)   Be at least 20 years of age;
      (3)   Be of good moral character;
      (4)   Not have been convicted of a felony or an offense involving moral
turpitude;
      (5)   Have a high school diploma or its equivalent; and
      (6)   Must complete the basic law enforcement training, be certified as a
law enforcement officer, and meet any additional law requirements.
(Code 1989, § 30.09; Ord. of 5-26-1989)
State Law Reference(s)—Authority to establish auxiliary police department, G.S.
160A-282.
Chapter 17
RESERVED
Chapter 18
NUISANCES
18-1.   "Nuisance" defined.
18-2.   Certain conditions declared as public nuisances.
18-3.   Complaint; investigation of public nuisance.
18-4.   Abatement procedure.
18-5.   Procedure is alternative.
Sec. 18-1. "Nuisance" defined.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the term "nuisance" means or refers to any
condition or any use of property or any act or omission affecting the condition
or use of property which threatens or is likely to threaten the safety of the
public; adversely affects the general health, happiness, security or welfare of
others; or is detrimental to the rights of others to the full use of their own
property and their own comfort, happiness and emotional stability because of
decreased property values and the unsightliness and decreased livability of
neighborhoods.
(Code 1989, § 83.01; Ord. of 3-13-2012)
Sec. 18-2. Certain conditions declared as public nuisances.
   The following enumerated and described conditions, or any combination
thereof, are hereby found, deemed, and declared to constitute a detriment,
danger and hazard to the health, safety, morals and general welfare of the
inhabitants of the town and are found, deemed and declared to be public
nuisances wherever the conditions may exist and the creation, maintenance or
failure to abate any nuisances is hereby declared unlawful:
      (1)   Any weeds or other vegetation having an overall height of more than
24 inches above the surrounding ground, provided that the following shall not
be considered to be a part of this condition: trees and ornamental shrubs;
cultured plants; natural vegetation on undeveloped property that is not a
threat to the character of surrounding properties; and flowers and growing and
producing vegetable plants.
      (2)   Any accumulation of trash, garbage, food waste and other trash
which is the result of the absence of, or overflowing of, or improperly closed
trash or garbage containers, that attracts or is likely to attract mice and
rats, flies and mosquitoes or other pests.
      (3)   An open or unsecured storage or collection place for chemicals,
acids, oils, gasoline, flammable or combustible materials or flammable or
combustible liquids, poisonous materials or other similar harmful or dangerous
substances, gasses or vapors.
      (4)   An open place, collection, storage place or concentration of
combustible items such as mattresses, boxes, paper, automobile tires and tubes,
garbage, trash, refuse, brush, old clothes, rags, or any other combustible
materials collection.
      (5)   An open storage place for old worn out, broken or discarded
machinery, car parts, junk, tire rims, furniture, stoves, refrigerators,
appliances, cans and containers, household goods, plumbing or electrical
fixtures, old rusty metal, fencing materials or other similar materials.
      (6)   Any accumulation of garbage, rubbish, trash, or junk causing or
threatening to cause a fire hazard, or causing or threatening to cause the
accumulation of stagnant water, or causing or threatening to cause the
inhabitation therein of rats, mice, snakes, mosquitoes, or vermin prejudicial
to the public health.
      (7)   Any accumulation of animal or vegetable matter that is offensive by
virtue of odors or vapors or by the inhabitance therein of rats, mice, snakes,
or vermin of any kind which is or may be dangerous or prejudicial to the public
health.
      (8)   The open storage of any discarded ice box, furniture, refrigerator,
stove, glass, building materials, building rubbish or similar items. The use of
carports, open porches, decks, open garages and other outdoor areas that are
visible from the street as a storage or collection place for boxes, appliances,
furniture (not typical outdoor or yard furniture), tools, equipment, junk,
garbage, old worn out broken or discarded machinery and equipment, cans,
containers, household goods or other similar condition that increase the
likelihood of a fire; may conceal dangerous conditions; may be a breeding place
or habitat for mice, rats or other pests; or, create an unattractive condition
or visually blighted property.
      (9)   A collection place for lumber, bricks, blocks, nails, building
hardware, roofing materials, scaffolding, masonry materials, electrical
supplies or materials, plumbing supplies or materials, heating and air
conditioning supplies or materials or any other type of old or unusable
building supplies (especially those with nails, staples or sharp objects and
edges) unless such conditions are temporary in nature and caused by a current
construction project in progress pursuant to a lawfully issued building
permit. 
      (10)   Any building or other structure which has been burned, partially
burned or otherwise partially destroyed and which is hazardous to the safety of
any person, is a continuing fire hazard or which is structurally unsound to the
extent that the code enforcement officer or his designee can reasonably
determine that there is a likelihood of personal or property injury to any
person or property entering the premises.
      (11)   A collection place, pool or pond of stagnant or foul water or
persistent dampness caused by manmade dams, open ditches, overflowing pipes,
foundation trenches or other impoundments of any kind.
      (12)   Barns or farm animal pens, pastures or enclosures for farm animals
which are not kept sanitary and clean or otherwise become a collection place
for animal waste and which, because of the conditions associated therewith,
attract rats, mice, flies or other pests or emit foul odors that can be
detected or noticed on adjacent properties or are otherwise not kept in a
sanitary condition.
      (13)   Dog lots, pens, pet enclosures of all kinds, outdoor areas where
dogs or other pets are chained or kept or areas where dogs and cats are
permitted to roam which become a collection place for dog, cat or pet waste and
excrement and which attract flies or other pests, emit foul odors which can be
detected or noticed on adjacent property or are not kept in a sanitary
condition.
      (14)   A collection place for sewage and sewage drainage or the seepage
from septic tanks, broken or malfunctioning plumbing and sewer pipes or any
other seepage of dangerous, hazardous or poisonous liquids.
      (15)   A collection place for tree limbs, dried brush, dead vegetation,
stumps or other decayed wood and materials or other similar rubbish that is
offensive by virtue of odors or vapors or by the inhabitance therein of rats,
mice, snakes, or vermin of any kind which is or may be dangerous or prejudicial
to the public health.
      (16)   Any discharge into or polluting of any stream, creek, river or
other body of water or the discharge of any dangerous substance or any other
material likely to harm the water or any vegetation, fish or wildlife in or
along the water or the storage of such harmful materials and substances in a
manner so that it is likely that such streams, creeks, rivers or other bodies
of water will become polluted or adversely affected in any manner.
      (17)   Nuisance vehicle. A vehicle on public or private property that is
determined and declared to be a health or safety hazard, including a vehicle
found to be:
         a.   A breeding ground or harbor for mosquitoes, other insects, rats
or other pests;
         b.   A point of heavy growth of weeds or other noxious vegetation
which exceeds 24 inches in height;
         c.   A concentration of quantities of gasoline, oil, or other
flammable or explosive materials as evidenced by odor;
         d.   An area of confinement which cannot be operated from the inside,
such as, but not limited to, trunks or hoods;
         e.   So situated or located that there is a danger of it falling or
turning over;
         f.   A collection of garbage, food waste, animal waste, or any other
rotten or putrescent matter of any kind;
         g.   One which has sharp parts thereof which are jagged or contain
sharp edges of metal or glass; or
         h.   Any other vehicle specifically declared a health and safety
hazard and a public nuisance by the town council.
      (18)   Any condition detrimental to the public health which violates the
rules and regulations of the county health departments.
(Code 1989, § 83.02)
Sec. 18-3. Complaint; investigation of public nuisance.
   When any condition in violation of this chapter is found to exist, the code
enforcement officer or such persons as may be designated by the town council
shall give notice to the owner of the premises to abate or remove such
conditions within 15 days. Such notice shall be in writing, shall include a
description of the premises sufficient for identification and shall set forth
the violation and state that, if the violation is not corrected within 15 days,
the town may proceed to correct the same as authorized by this chapter. Service
of such notice shall be by any one of the following methods:
      (1)   By delivery to any owner personally or by leaving the notice at the
usual place of abode of the owner with a person who is over the age of 16 years
and a member of the family of the owner.
      (2)   By depositing the notice in the U.S. post office addressed to the
owner's address as reflected on the tax records of the county with regular mail
postage prepaid thereon.
      (3)   By posting a copy of the notice, in placard form, in a conspicuous
place on the premises on which the violation exists, when notice cannot be
served by subsections (1) and (2) of this section.
(Code 1989, § 83.03)
Sec. 18-4. Abatement procedure.
   If the owner of any property fails to comply with a notice given pursuant to
this chapter, within 15 days after the service of such notice, he shall be
subject to prosecution for violation of this chapter punishable as a
misdemeanor as provided in G.S. 14-4 and each day that such failure continues
shall be a separate offense. In addition, the town may have the condition
described in the notice abated, removed or otherwise corrected and all expenses
incurred thereby shall be chargeable to and paid by the owner of the property
and shall be collected as taxes and levies are collected. All such expenses
shall constitute a lien against the property on which the work was done.
(Code 1989, § 83.04, Ord. of 6-14-2022)
Sec. 18-5. Procedure is alternative.
   The procedure set forth in this chapter shall be in addition to any other
remedies that may now or hereafter exist under law for the abatement of public
nuisances. In addition to the remedies provided for herein, any violation of
the terms of this chapter shall subject the violator to the penalties and
remedies as set forth in section 1-10.
(Code 1989, § 83.05)
Chapter 19
RESERVED
Chapter 20
OFFENSES AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
ARTICLE I.   IN GENERAL
20-1.   Discharge of firearms.
20-2.   Disturbing public meetings.
20-3.   Injuring town property.
20-4.   Possession of firearms on certain municipal property.
Secs. 20-5–20-26.   Reserved.
ARTICLE II.   NOISE REGULATION
20-27.   Scope.
20-28.   Definitions.
20-29.   General regulation.
20-30.   Exceptions.
20-31.   Decibel standards Generally.
20-32.   Decibel standards Method of measurement.
20-33.   Quiet hour prohibitions.
20-34.   Vehicular noise.
20-35.   Animal noises.
20-36.   Non-exclusivity.
20-37.   Enforcement.
ARTICLE I.
IN GENERAL
Sec. 20-1. Discharge of firearms.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fire or discharge any rifle,
gun, pistol, pellet gun, air gun, air pistol, or air rifle within the town, on
or off his premises, in sport or amusement. A violation of this section is
punishable as a misdemeanor as provided by G.S. 14-4.
   (b)   Any person who shall knowingly and willfully permit his minor child
under 18 years of age to discharge, fire, shoot, or operate within the town any
such air rifle or pellet gun, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable as a
misdemeanor as provided by G.S.14-4r.
(Code 1989, § 84.01. Ord. of 6-14-2022)
State Law Reference(s)—Authority to regulate and restrict firearms, and pellet
guns, G.S. 160A-189, 160A-190.
Sec. 20-2. Disturbing public meetings.
   It shall be unlawful to behave in a boisterous or indecent manner or to
create any disturbance at or near any public entertainment or meeting. A
violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor as provided by G.S>
14-4.
(Code 1989, § 84.02, Ord. of 6-14-2022)
Sec. 20-3. Injuring town property.
   It shall be unlawful to trespass upon, damage, deface, break, or injure any
property belonging to the town. A violation of this section is punishable as a
misdemeanor as provided by G.S. 14-4.
(Code 1989, § 84.03, Ord. of 6-14-2022)
Sec. 20-4. Possession of firearms on certain municipal property.
   (a)   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this section,
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the
context clearly indicates a different meaning:
   Firearm means a handgun, shotgun, or rifle which expels a projectile by
action of an explosion.
   Handgun means a pistol, revolver, or other gun that has a short stock and is
designed to be held and fired by the use of a single hand.
   (b)   The possession of firearms, carried openly or concealed, is hereby
prohibited within the following municipal buildings:
      (1)   The town police department located at 2950 Memorial Highway, Lake
Lure, N.C.
      (2)   The town alcoholic beverage control (ABC) store located on Memorial
Highway, Lake Lure, N.C.
   (c)   The possession of firearms, carried openly or concealed, is hereby
prohibited within the following municipal buildings; however, this subsection
shall not apply to a person who is legally carrying a concealed handgun and has
a concealed handgun permit that is valid under G.S. 14, art. 54B (G.S. 14-
415.10 et seq.), or who is exempt from obtaining a permit pursuant to that
article. Open carry is still prohibited:
      (1)   Town hall located at 2948 Memorial Highway, Lake Lure, N.C.
      (2)   Lake operations located on Buffalo Shoals Road, Lake Lure, N.C.
   (d)   Appropriate decals or signs indicating that firearms are prohibited
within, shall be conspicuously displayed at each entrance by which the general
public can access the municipal buildings specified in subsections (b) and (c)
of this section. Decals or signs shall not be posted at or on municipal
properties not identified herein, or where no prohibitions exist.
   (e)   If this section or application thereof to any person or circumstance
is held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect other provisions or
applications of the chapter which can be given separate effect and to that end
the provisions of this section are declared to be severable. All ordinances or
parts of ordinances in conflict with this section are hereby repealed.
   (f)   This section shall be effective immediately upon adoption by majority
vote of the town council.
   (G)    A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor as
provided by G.S. 14-4.
(Code 1989, § 84.04; Ord. of 6-14-2016, Ord. of 6-14-2022)
Secs. 20-5—20-26. Reserved.
ARTICLE II.
NOISE REGULATION 1
 
Notes
1 State law reference(s)—Authority to regulate noises, G.S. 160A-184.
Sec. 20-27. Scope.
   This article shall apply to all sound, sound vibration, and noise
originating within the corporate limits of the town. Nothing in this article
shall be construed to limit or prevent the town or any person from pursuing any
other legal remedies for damages or the abatement of noises in the town.
(Code 1989, § 84A.01)
Sec. 20-28. Definitions.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   Amplified sound means any sound or noise, including the human voice, that is
increased in volume or intensity by means of mechanical and/or electrical
power.
   Construction means the erection, repair, assembly, alteration, landscaping,
or demolition of any building or building site.
   Decibel (dB) means a unit for describing the amplitude of sound, equal to 20
times the logarithm to the base ten of the ratio of the pressure of the sound
measured to the reference pressure, which is 20 micronewtons per square meter.
   Motorized vehicle means any vehicle, as defined in G.S. 20-4.01(49),
including, but not limited to:
      (1)   Excursion passenger vehicles as defined in G.S. 20-4.01(27)e.
      (2)   Common carriers of passengers as defined in G.S. 20-4.01(27)d.
      (3)   Motorcycles and mopeds as defined in G.S. 20-4.01(27)h and j.
      (4)   Truck tractors as defined in G.S. 20-4.01(48).
      (5)   Farm tractors as defined in G.S. 20-4.01(11).
   Noise disturbance means any sound or noise which:
      (1)   Endangers or injures the health or safety of humans or animals;
      (2)   Endangers or injures personal or real property; or
      (3)   Disturbs a reasonable person of normal sensitivity or interferes
with normal human activity.
      Except as otherwise provided herein, a sound will be considered a noise
disturbance if it exceeds the decibel level thresholds established by zoning
district and time of day.
   Person means any individual, association, firm, partnership, corporation, or
business entity.
   Sound means any disturbance of the air or other medium that is detectable by
the unaided human ear or which produces vibrations detectable by reasonable
persons of normal sensitivity.
   Sound level meter means an ANSI standard S1.4 Type 0, I or II class
instrument which includes a microphone, amplifier, RMS detector, integrator or
time average (LEQ as defined below), output meter, and weighting network used
to measure sound pressure levels.
(Code 1989, § 84A.02)
Sec. 20-29. General regulation.
   Except as allowed in this article, no person shall willfully engage in any
activity within the town, whether on private or public property, which activity
produces or constitutes a noise disturbance on occupied neighboring premises or
public area.
(Code 1989, § 84A.03)
Sec. 20-30. Exceptions.
   Sound or noise associated with the following are excepted from the
application of this article:
      (1)   Construction activity performed by an agency of government,
provided that all equipment is operated in accordance with manufacturer's
specifications and is equipped with all noise-reducing equipment in proper
condition;
      (2)   Construction or repair work and regulated activities of utilities
regulated by the state utilities commission;
      (3)   Construction activities associated with home improvements between
the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. Monday through Sunday;
      (4)   Lawnmowers and turf management equipment operated between the hours
of 6:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. when operated in accordance with manufacturer's
specifications and with all standard noise reducing equipment in place and in
proper condition;
      (5)   Refuse collection vehicles operating during daylight hours;
      (6)   Safety signals, warning devices, emergency pressure relief valves,
and church bells;
      (7)   Outdoor entertainment events only to the extent authorized in a
special event permit issued by the town;
      (8)   Regularly scheduled athletic events at town parks, athletic
facilities, and public or private schools;
      (9)   Film and video production activities for which permits have been
issued by the town, provided all equipment such as generators are properly
muffled;
      (10)   Lawful fireworks;
      (11)   Properly equipped aircraft operated in accordance with applicable
federal rules and regulations; and
      (12)   Governmental emergency vehicles and firearms in the course of the
performance of official duties.
(Code 1989, § 84A.04)
Sec. 20-31. Decibel standards—Generally.
   It shall be presumed that a noise disturbance in violation of this article
has occurred whenever any noise or sound is projected from one property in the
town onto another or onto a public area if such sound, measured in accordance
with section 20-32, exceeds the following decibel standards. The zoning
classification of the property where the sound originates will be used to
determine which standards apply.
      (1)   Residential districts R-2, R-4, L-1, M-1, S-1 and the various R-
1 districts:
         a.   7:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m.: 65 dBA.
         b.   11:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.: 55 dBA.
      (2)   Resort, commercial and all other zoning districts:
         a.   7:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m.: 65 dBA.
         b.   11:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.: 55 dBA.
(Code 1989, § 84A.05)
Sec. 20-32. Decibel standards—Method of measurement.
   Except as qualified by section 20-34, when measuring vehicular noise, this
section describes acceptable methods and techniques for the measurement and
reporting of noise for the purpose of determining compliance with the allowable
noise levels listed in section 20-31.
      (1)   Measurement location. Measurement of sound shall be made at any
point beyond (outside) the property line of the property where the noise
originates; provided, however, when sound is measured on town property, the
point of measurement shall be at least 50 yards from the property line of the
property where the sound originates.
      (2)   Calibration. All sound level measuring devices shall be calibrated
by a certified agency, at a minimum once each year.
      (3)   Sound level meter. Sound level measurement shall be made with a
sound level meter using the A-weighting scale, set on "slow" response.
      (4)   Use of sound level meters. Sound level meters shall be at least
Type II meeting American National Standard Institute (ANSI S1.4-1983)
requirements. Persons using the sound level meters shall be trained in sound
level measurement and the operation of sound level measurement equipment.
      (5)   Measurement procedures. The following procedures shall be followed
to obtain representative sound level measurements:
         a.   Measurement location shall be at least three feet above the
ground and not more than ten feet above ground.
         b.   Measurement shall be taken with line of sight to the noise source
if possible.
         c.   Measurements shall be made with the sound level meter set for "A"
weighting and "slow" response.
      (6)   Data documentation. A record of all sound level measurements shall
be completed and signed by the person making the measurements. The record sheet
should include the following:
         a.   Date.
         b.   Time of measurement.
         c.   Location (street address if possible).
         d.   Noise source.
         e.   Make, model and serial number of sound level meter and the date
of last certification/calibration.
         f.   Field calibration results.
         g.   Name of complainant (if provided).
(Code 1989, § 84A.06)
Sec. 20-33. Quiet hour prohibitions.
   In addition to the general prohibition set forth in section 20-29, the
following quiet hours are established that further restrict noise-generating
activities in order to support the community's expectation of a quiet sleeping
period. The following activities are prohibited:
      (1)   Construction activities associated with home improvements between
the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. Monday through Sunday.
      (2)   Lawnmowers and turf management equipment operated between the hours
of 9:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
      (3)   With the exception of construction activities associated with home
improvements, which are addressed in subsection (1) of this section, the
excavation, grading and/or the erection demolition, alteration or repair of any
building or other structure within 500 feet of a residential district as
established pursuant to chapter 36, between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 7:00
a.m. Monday through Saturday, except by permit from the town manager when, in
his opinion, such work will not adversely affect other persons. Following the
issuance of such a permit, if the town manager shall determine that the
building operations are adversely affecting others, he shall be authorized to
modify or revoke the permit. The town manager may permit emergency work in the
preservation of public health or safety at any time.
      (4)   Operation of outdoor amplified music or public address systems
between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
(Code 1989, § 84A.07)
Sec. 20-34. Vehicular noise.
   The following shall be prohibited as a public nuisance under this article:
      (1)   Operation of any motor vehicle so as to cause the tires to squeal
or screech unnecessarily.
      (2)   Operation within the town limits any type of motor vehicle that
exceeds a measured noise level of 92 decibels on the sound meter when measured
20 inches from the exhaust pipe at a 45-degree angle while the engine is
operating at idle.
      (3)   Operation of any motor vehicle of any size and regardless of the
year of manufacture that meets one or more of the following criteria:
         a.   It is not equipped with an adequate muffler in constant
operation, free of defects and modifications, that prevents the escape of any
excessive or unusual noise;
         b.   It has a muffler system that is equipped with a straight pipe
exhaust system (regardless of the presence of baffles);
         c.   It has a hollow core muffler;
         d.   It has a muffler that is labeled for off-road course competition
use;
         e.   It has a muffler system that has a cut-out, bypass, or similar
device designed or so installed so that it can be used continually or
intermittently to bypass or otherwise reduce or eliminate the effectiveness of
a muffler or muffler system;
         f.   It has a muffler system that has been modified in a manner which
will amplify or increase the noise emitted by the exhaust.
      (4)   Operation of any motor vehicle within the town limits so as to make
any unreasonably loud noise that results from any one or more of the following
actions by the operator:
         a.   Misuse of acceleration or braking power that exceeds tire
traction limits, sometimes known as "burn- outs," "burning rubber," "laying
down rubber" or "peeling rubber."
         b.   Excessive acceleration or deceleration while in motion where
there is no emergency need.
         c.   Racing or revving of engines by manipulation of the accelerator,
gas pedal, or carburetor in applying fuel to the engine in a greater amount
than is necessary whether the vehicle is either in motion or standing still.
         d.   Use of an engine braking system which is in any way activated or
operated by the compression of the engine of any motor vehicle or any part
thereof, except in cases of emergency for the protection of persons and/or
property. Such braking systems are commonly referred as compression brakes or
jake brakes.
(Code 1989, § 84A.08)
Sec. 20-35. Animal noises.
   Animal noise may constitute a noise disturbance even though they do not
exceed the decibel levels established in section 20-31. Accordingly, the
keeping of any dog which by prolonged or habitual barking, howling or whining
or any other animal that frequently or for long periods of time makes noises
which disturb the comfort or repose of any persons in the vicinity shall
constitute a noise disturbance.
(Code 1989, § 84A.10)
Sec. 20-36. Non-exclusivity.
   Nothing in this article shall be construed to prevent or limit any person
from seeking any remedy available in law or equity for activities that are or
may be subject to regulation by this article, or from pursuing said remedy
simultaneously with proceedings under this article, nor shall any of the
procedures specified herein be a condition precedent to the initiation of any
legal action.
(Code 1989, § 84A.10)
Sec. 20-37. Enforcement.
   (a)   Violations of the provisions of this article shall be punishable as a
misdemeanor as provided by G.S. 14-4. Violations of the provisions of this
article shall also subject the offender to the civil penalties set forth in
Section 1- 10. In addition to the penalties set forth therein, second or
subsequent violations of the provisions of this article by the same person for
the same activity occurring within one year of the first such violation shall
be subject to civil penalties per section 1-10 as follows:
 
Violation                                   Penalty
First violation                             $50.00
Second violation                            $100.00
Third violation                             $200.00
Fourth or subsequent violation, per offense $300.00
 
   (b)   In addition to the penalties provided for in the table in subsection
(a) of this section, the town may enforce the provisions of this chapter by
appropriate equitable remedies.
   (c)   This article may be enforced by the town police department and by
other employees of the town as designated by the town manager. Employees of an
animal control agency working under contract with the town for the enforcement
of animal control ordinances and who have been designated by the chief of
police may enforce the provisions of this chapter relating to animals and
animal noises.
(Code 1989, § 84A.11, Ord. of 6-14-2022)
Chapter 21
RESERVED
Chapter 22
PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
ARTICLE I.   IN GENERAL
Secs. 22-1–22-18.   Reserved.
ARTICLE II.   SOIL EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL
22-19.   Title.
22-20.   Purposes.
22-21.   Definitions.
22-22.   Scope and exclusions.
22-23.   General requirements.
22-24.   Objectives.
22-25.   Standards for land disturbing activity.
22-26.   Design and performance standards.
22-27.   Stormwater outlet protection.
22-28.   Borrow and waste areas.
22-29.   Access and haul roads.
22-30.   Operations in lakes or natural watercourses.
22-31.   Responsibility for maintenance.
22-32.   Additional measures.
22-33.   Existing uncovered areas.
22-34.   Fees.
22-35.   Appeals.
22-36.   Inspections and investigations.
22-37.   Injunctive relief.
22-38.   Restoration of areas affected by failure to comply.
22-39.   Penalty.
Secs. 22-40–22-60.   Reserved.
ARTICLE III.   DAM RESTRICTIONS
22-61.   Permit required for water impoundment facilities.
22-62.   Proposal to be submitted to the town.
22-63.   Decision of town board.
22-64.   Penalty.
ARTICLE I.
IN GENERAL
Secs.22-1—22-18. Reserved.
ARTICLE II.
SOIL EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL
Sec. 22-19. Title.
   This article may be cited as the town soil erosion and sedimentation control
regulation.
(Code 1989, § 96.01; Ord. of 11-15-2005)
Sec. 22-20. Purposes.
   This article is adopted for the purposes of:
      (1)   Regulating certain land disturbing activity to control accelerated
erosion and sedimentation in order to prevent the pollution of water and other
damage to lakes, watercourses, and other public and private property by
sedimentation; and
      (2)   Establishing procedures through which these purposes can be
fulfilled.
(Code 1989, § 96.02)
Sec. 22-21. Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
25-year storm means the surface runoff resulting from a rainfall of an
intensity expected to be equaled or exceeded, on the average, once in 25 years,
and of a duration which will produce the maximum peak rate of runoff, from the
watershed of interest under average antecedent wetness conditions.
Accelerated erosion means any increase over the rate of natural erosion as a
result of land disturbing activity.
Act means the North Carolina Sedimentation Pollution Control Act of 1973 and
all rules and orders adopted pursuant to it.
Adequate erosion control measure, structure, or device means a measure,
structure or device which controls the soil material within the land area under
responsible control of the person conducting the land disturbing activity.
Affiliate means a person that directly, or indirectly through one or more
intermediaries, controls, is controlled by, or is under common control of
another person.
Being conducted means a land disturbing activity has been initiated and
permanent stabilization of the site has not been completed.
Borrow means fill material which is required for on-site construction and is
obtained from other locations.
Buffer zone means the strip of land adjacent to a lake or natural watercourse.
Commission means the state sedimentation control commission.
Completion of construction or development means the point at which no further
land disturbing activity is required on a phase of a project except that which
is necessary for establishing a permanent ground cover.
Contractor means anyone performing work at the behest of a property owner,
whether the contract is verbal or written.
Department means the state department of environment and natural resources.
Director means the director of the division of energy, mineral, and land
resources of the department of environment and natural resources.
Discharge point means that point at which stormwater runoff leaves a tract of
land.
District means the county soil and water conservation district created pursuant
to G.S. ch. 139.
Energy dissipator means a structure or shaped channel section with mechanical
armoring placed at the outlet of pipes or conduits to receive and break down
the energy from high velocity flow.
Erosion means the wearing away of land surface by the action of wind, water,
gravity, or any combination thereof.
Erosion control officer means a town official working under the auspices of the
community development administrator for the purpose of applying this article.
Ground cover means any natural vegetative growth or other material which
renders the soil surface stable against accelerated erosion.
High quality water (HQW) zones means areas within one mile and draining to
HQWs.
High quality waters means those waters classified as such in 15A NCAC 2B.0101
(e)(5) - general procedures, which is incorporated herein by reference to
include further amendments pursuant to G.S. 150B-14(c).
Lake or natural watercourse means any stream, river, brook, creek, run, branch,
wetland, waterway, and any reservoir, lake or pond, natural or impounded in
which sediment may be moved or carried in suspension, and which could be
damaged by accumulation of sediment.
Land disturbing activity means any use of the land by any person in
residential, industrial, educational, institutional, or commercial development,
highway and road construction and maintenance or other construction or
maintenance activity, including chemical applications or other techniques, that
results in a change in the natural cover or topography and that may cause or
contribute to sedimentation.
Major erosion control plan means an erosion and sedimentation control plan for
land disturbance of one acre or more approved by the town or the state
department of environment and natural resources.
Minor erosion and sedimentation control plan means an erosion and sedimentation
control plan approved by the town for land disturbance activities taking place
on less than one acre.
Natural erosion means the wearing away of the earth's surface by water, wind,
or other natural agents under natural environmental conditions undisturbed by
man.
Parent means an affiliate that directly, or indirectly through one or more
intermediaries, controls another person.
Permit means written governmental permission issued by an authorized official,
empowering the holder thereof to do some act not forbidden by law but not
allowed without such authorization.
Person means any individual, partnership, firm, association, joint venture,
public or private corporation, trust, estate, commission, board, public or
private institution, utility, cooperative, interstate body, or other legal
entity.
Person conducting land disturbing activity means any person who may be held
responsible for a violation unless expressly provided otherwise by this section
or any order adopted pursuant to this article.
Person responsible for the violation means any developer or other person who
has or holds himself out as having financial or operational control over the
land disturbing activity; or the landowner or person in possession or control
of the land that has directly or indirectly allowed the land disturbing
activity, or benefited from it or failed to comply with a duty imposed by any
provision of this section, the Act, or any order adopted pursuant to this
article or the Act.
Phase of grading means one of two types of grading — rough or fine.
Plan means an erosion and sedimentation control plan.
Sediment means solid particulate matter, both mineral and organic, that has
been or is being transported by water, air, gravity, or ice from its site of
origin.
Sedimentation means the process by which sediment resulting from accelerated
erosion has been or is being transported off the site of the land disturbing
activity or into a lake or natural watercourse.
Siltation means sediment resulting from accelerated erosion which is settleable
or removable by properly designed, constructed, and maintained control
measures; and which has been transported from its point of origin within the
site of a land disturbing activity; and which has been deposited, or is in
suspension in water.
Storm drainage facilities means the system of inlets, conduits, channels,
ditches and appurtenances which serve to collect and convey stormwater through
and from a given drainage area.
Stormwater runoff means the direct runoff of water resulting from precipitation
in any form.
Subsidiary means an affiliate that is directly, or indirectly through one or
more intermediaries, controlled by another person.
Ten-year storm means the surface runoff resulting from a rainfall of an
intensity expected to be equaled or exceeded, on the average, once in ten
years, and of a duration which will produce the maximum peak rate of runoff,
for the watershed of interest under average antecedent wetness conditions.
Tract means all contiguous land and bodies of water being disturbed or to be
disturbed as a unit, regardless of ownership.
Uncovered means the removal of ground cover from, on, or above the soil
surface.
Undertaken means the initiating of any activity, or phase of activity, which
results or will result in a change in the ground cover or topography of a tract
of land.
Velocity means the average velocity of flow through the cross section of the
main channel at the peak flow of the storm of interest. The cross section of
the main channel shall be that area defined by the geometry of the channel plus
the area of flow below the flood height defined by vertical lines at the main
channel banks. Overload flows are not to be included for the purpose of
computing velocity of flow.
Waste means surplus materials resulting from on-site construction and disposed
of at other locations.
Working days means days exclusive of Saturday and Sunday during which weather
conditions or soil conditions permit land disturbing activity to be undertaken.
(Code 1989, § 96.03; Ord. of 6-12-2007; Ord. of 5-8-2018)
Sec. 22-22. Scope and exclusions.
   (a)   Geographical scope of regulated land disturbing activity. This section
shall apply to all land disturbing activities, as defined, within the
territorial jurisdiction of the town and to the extraterritorial jurisdiction
of the town as allowed by the agreement between local governments, the extent
of annexation or other appropriate legal instrument or law.
   (b)   Exclusions from regulated land disturbing activity. Notwithstanding
the general applicability of this section to all land disturbing activity, this
section shall not apply to the following types of land disturbing activity:
      (1)   Activities undertaken on forest land for the production and
harvesting of timber and timber products and conducted in accordance with best
management practices set out in forest practice guidelines related to water
quality, as adopted by the state department of environment and natural
resources. If land disturbing activity undertaken on forest land for the
production and harvesting of timber and timber products is not conducted in
accordance with forest practice guidelines related to water quality, the
provisions of this section shall apply to such activity and any related land
disturbing activity on the tract.
      (2)   Activities for which a permit is required under the mining Act of
1971, G.S. ch. 74, art. 7 (G.S. 74-46 et seq.).
      (3)   Land disturbing activity over which the state has exclusive
regulatory jurisdiction as provided in G.S. 113A- 56(a).
      (4)   For the duration of an emergency, activities essential to protect
human life, including activities specified in an executive order issued under
G.S. 166A-19.30(a)(5).
      (5)   An activity, including breeding and grazing of livestock,
undertaken on agricultural land for the production of plants and animals useful
to man, including, but not limited to, the following:
         a.   Forage and sod crops, grain and feed crops, tobacco, cotton and
peanuts.
         b.   Dairy animals and dairy products.
         c.   Poultry and poultry products.
         d.   Livestock, including beef cattle, sheep, swine, horses, ponies,
mules and goats.
         e.   Bees and apiary products.
         f.   Fur-producing animals.
      (6)   Activities undertaken to restore the wetland functions of converted
wetlands to provide compensatory mitigation to offset impacts permitted under
section 404 of the Clean Water Act.
      (7)   Activities undertaken pursuant to Natural Resources Conservation
Service standards to restore the wetland functions of converted wetlands as
defined in 7 CFR 12.2 (January 1, 2014 edition).
   (c)   Plan approval requirement for land disturbing activity. No person
shall undertake any land disturbing activity subject to this article without
first obtaining a plan approval therefor from the town.
   (d)   Protection of property. Persons conducting land disturbing activity
shall take all reasonable measures to protect all public and private property
from damage caused by such activity.
   (e)   More restrictive rules shall apply. Whenever conflicts exist between
federal, state, or local laws, this chapter, or rules, the more restrictive
provision shall apply.
   (f)   Plan approval exceptions. Notwithstanding the general requirement to
obtain a plan approval prior to undertaking land disturbing activity, a plan
approval shall not be required for land disturbing activity that does not
exceed the applicable threshold specified in section 22-23(a). In making this
determination, lands under one or diverse ownership being developed as a unit
will be aggregated.
(Code 1989, § 96.04; Ord. of 6-12-2007; Ord. of 5-8-2018)
Sec. 22-23. General requirements.
   (a)   Permit required.
      (1)   A land disturbance permit approved by the erosion control officer
shall be required for all non-exempt land disturbing activities, except that no
permit shall be required for land disturbing activity:
         a.   Where land disturbing activities are essential to protect human
life and only for the duration of an emergency;
         b.   Where land disturbing activities are within 35 feet of a lake or
natural watercourse and do not exceed 100 square feet in surface area; or
         c.   Where land disturbing activities are not within 35 feet of a lake
or natural watercourse and do not exceed 2,000 square feet in surface area.
         d.    The application package shall include the review fee, the amount
of which shall be established by the town council. Failure to obtain a required
permit and plan approval prior to commencing work shall result in double the
normal application review fee.
      (2)   Where a major erosion control plan approved by the state department
of environment and natural resources is required, such plan approval shall be a
prerequisite to receiving a permit from the town.
   (b)   Plans required.
      (1)   Minor plan submission. A minor erosion and sedimentation control
plan shall be prepared for all land disturbing activities subject to this
section whenever more than 2,000 square feet (100 square feet if land
disturbing activity is within 35 feet of a lake or natural watercourse) but
less than one acre of land is to be uncovered. The plan shall be filed with,
and accepted for review by the erosion control officer, ten or more working
days prior to initiating the activity. Two copies of the plan shall be filed
and upon approval, one copy, signed by the erosion control officer, shall be
returned to the applicant.
      (2)   Major plan submission. A major erosion and sedimentation control
plan shall be prepared for all land disturbing activities subject to this
article whenever one acre or more is to be uncovered. Three copies of the plan
shall be filed with the town, a copy shall be simultaneously submitted to the
director of the division of water resources at least 30 days prior to the
commencement of the proposed activity.
      (3)   Financial responsibility and ownership. Plans may be disapproved
unless accompanied by an authorized statement of financial responsibility and
ownership. This statement shall be signed by the person financially responsible
for the land disturbing activity or his attorney in fact. The statement shall
include the mailing and street addresses of the principal place of business of
the person financially responsible; the owner of the land; and any registered
agents. If the person financially responsible is not a resident of the state, a
state agent must be designated in the statement for the purpose of receiving
notice of compliance or noncompliance with the plan, the Act, this section, or
rules or orders adopted or issued pursuant to this article. Except as provided
in subsections (3)a and b of this section, if the applicant is not the owner of
the land to be disturbed, the draft erosion and sedimentation control plan must
include the owner's written consent for the applicant to submit a draft erosion
and sedimentation control plan and to conduct the anticipated land disturbing
activity.
         a.   If the applicant is the owner of the land to be disturbed and the
anticipated land disturbing activity involves the construction of utility lines
for the provision of water, sewer, gas, telecommunications, or electrical
service, the draft erosion and sedimentation control plan may be submitted
without the written consent of the owner of the land, so long as the owner of
the land has been provided prior notice of the project.
         b.   The town may transfer an erosion and sedimentation control plan
approved pursuant to this section without the consent of the plan holder to a
successor-owner of the property on which the permitted activity is occurring or
will occur as provided in this subsection. The town may transfer a plan if all
of the following conditions are met:
            1.   The successor-owner of the property submits to the local
government a written request for the transfer of the plan and an authorized
statement of financial responsibility and ownership.
            2.   The town finds all the following:
               (i)   The plan holder is one of the following:
                  A.   A natural person who is deceased.
                  B.   A partnership, limited liability corporation, or any
other business association that has been dissolved.
                  C.   A person who has been lawfully and finally divested of
title to the property on which the permitted activity is occurring or will
occur.
                  D.   A person who has sold the property on which the
permitted activity is occurring or will occur.
               (ii)   The successor-owner holds title to the property on which
the permitted activity is occurring or will occur.
               (iii)   The successor-owner is the sole claimant of the right to
engage in the permitted activity.
               (iv)   There will be no substantial change in the permitted
activity.
         c.   The plan holder shall comply with all terms and conditions of the
plan until such time as the plan is transferred.
         d.   The successor-owner shall comply with all terms and conditions of
the plan once the plan has been transferred.
         e.   Notwithstanding changes to law made after the original issuance
of the plan, the town may not impose new or different terms and conditions on
the plan without the prior express consent of the successor-owner. Nothing in
this subsection shall prevent the town from requiring a revised plan pursuant
to G.S. 113A-54.1(b).
      (4)   Environmental policy act document. Any major plan submitted for a
land disturbing activity for which an environmental document is required by the
North Carolina Environmental Policy Act (G.S. 113A-1 et seq.). Shall be deemed
incomplete until a complete environmental document is available for review. The
erosion control officer shall promptly notify the person submitting the plan
that the 30-day time limit for review of the plan pursuant to this article
shall not begin until a complete environmental document is available for
review.
      (5)   Content. The plans required by this section shall contain specific
information as needed to adequately describe the proposed development of the
tract and the measures planned to comply with the requirements of this article.
Plan content may vary to meet the needs of specific site requirements.
         a.   A major plan shall contain the following:
            1.   A location map (showing and identifying nearby roads).
            2.   Either a certified copy of a survey or a copy of the tax maps
showing the actual property which is subject to the application.
            3.   A site plan showing the following:
               (i)   Boundary and topographical surveys of the property
including existing and proposed site conditions (buildings, streets, driveways,
parking lots, utilities, grassed and landscaped areas, number of acres
disturbed, watercourses and other features affecting stormwater runoff and
management, etc.).
               (ii)   Offsite conditions (ownership use, drainage areas, lakes,
and streams).
               (iii)   Lot lines and numbers, road names, easements, flood
zones, utilities, and setbacks.
               (iv)   Stormwater systems (catchbasins, inlets, culverts,
swales, ditches, and channels).
               (v)   Borrow and waste areas, access and haul roads,
construction staging areas, topsoil stockpiles.
               (vi)   Disturbed area (clearly delineated).
               (vii)   Stream crossings.
               (viii)   Temporary and permanent sedimentation and erosion
control measures (locations and dimensions of gravel entrances, diversion
ditches, silt fences, sediment basins, velocity dissipaters, ditch lining,
retaining walls, etc.).
               (ix)   Detailed drawings (sections, elevations, and perspectives
of measures sufficient for construction).
               (x)   Construction sequence (permits, installation of measures,
inspections and approvals, maintenance of measures, ground cover, and removal
of measures after stabilization).
               (xi)   Statements concerning approval to discharge stormwater or
perform off-site construction work.
               (xii)   Scale, legend, orientation (north arrow), seal and
signature.
               (xiii)   Temporary and permanent seeding plans (seed bed
preparation, fertilizer and lime rates, seeding schedule and rates, mulch and
tack materials and rates).
               (xiv)   Underground utilities.
               (xv)   Dust control.
            4.   Calculations sufficient to support design for the entire
stormwater system, including, but not limited to, the following:
               (i)   Temporary devices (sediment storage volumes, Q10
capacities).
               (ii)   Ditches, swales and channels (Q10 velocities and
capacities).
               (iii)   Velocity dissipators (Q10 velocities).
               (iv)   Storm culverts and inlets (Q10 minimum).
            5.   Such other documents as may be requested by the erosion
control officer to ensure compliance with this section.
         b.   A minor plan shall contain the following:
            1.   A location map (showing and identifying roads).
            2.   A sketch plan drawn to scale showing the following:
               (i)   Boundaries and topography of the property including
existing and proposed site conditions (buildings, streets, driveways, parking
lots, utilities, setbacks, watercourses and other features affecting stormwater
runoff and management, etc.).
               (ii)   Offsite conditions (ownership use, drainage areas, lakes,
and streams).
               (iii)   Area to be disturbed (building footprint, access roads,
graded surfaces, cut and fill slopes, etc.).
               (iv)   Stormwater systems (catchbasins, inlets, culverts,
swales, ditches, and channels).
               (v)   Stream crossings.
               (vi)   Temporary and permanent sedimentation and erosion control
measures (locations and dimensions of gravel entrances, diversion ditches, silt
fences, sediment basins, velocity dissipaters, ditch lining, retaining walls,
etc.).
               (vii)   Construction sequence (permits, installation of
measures, inspections and approvals, maintenance of measures, ground cover, and
removal of measures after stabilization).
               (viii)   Temporary and permanent seeding plans (seed bed
preparation, fertilizer and lime rates, seeding schedule and rates, mulch and
tack materials and rates).
            3.   Either a certified copy of a survey or a copy of the tax maps
showing the actual property which is the subject of the application.
            4.   Such other documents as may be requested by the erosion
control officer to ensure compliance with this subsection.
      (6)   Soil and water conservation district comments. The district shall
review the plan and submit any comments and recommendations to the town within
20 days after the district received the plan, or within any shorter period of
time as may be agreed upon by the district and the town. Failure of the
district to submit its comments and recommendations within 20 days or within
any agreed-upon shorter period of time shall not delay final action on the
plan.
      (7)   Timeline for decisions on plans. The erosion control officer will
review the plan and within ten working days of receipt thereof for minor plans
or 30 days for major plans, will notify the person submitting the plan that it
has been approved, approved with modifications, approved with performance
reservations, or disapproved. Failure to approve, approve with modifications,
or disapprove a complete plan within the allocated time of receipt shall be
deemed approval. The erosion control officer will review each revised plan and
within five days of receipt thereof for minor plans or 15 days for major plans,
will notify the person submitting the plan that it has been approved, approved
with modifications, approved with performance reservations, or disapproved.
Failure to approve, approve with modifications, or disapprove a revised plan
within the allocated time of receipt shall be deemed approval.
      (8)   Approval. The erosion control officer shall only approve a plan
upon determining that it complies with all applicable state and local
regulations for erosion and sedimentation control. Approval assumes the
applicant's compliance with the federal and state water quality laws,
regulations and rules. The erosion control officer shall condition approval of
plans upon the applicant's compliance with federal and state water quality
laws, regulations and rules. The erosion control officer may establish an
expiration date, not to exceed three years, for plans approved under this
article.
      (9)   Disapproval for content. The erosion control officer may disapprove
a plan or draft plan based on its content. A disapproval based upon a plan's
content must specifically state in writing the reasons for disapproval.
      (10)   Other disapprovals. The erosion control officer may disapprove a
plan or draft plan if implementation of the plan would result in a violation of
the rules adopted by the environmental management commission to protect
riparian buffers along surface waters. The erosion control officer may
disapprove a plan or disapprove a transfer of a plan under subsection (b)(3) of
this section upon a finding that an applicant, or a parent, subsidiary, or
other affiliate of the applicant:
         a.   Is conducting or has conducted land disturbing activity without
an approved plan, or has received notice of violation of a plan previously
approved by the town or the commission pursuant to the Act and has not complied
with the notice within the time specified in the notice;
         b.   Has failed to pay a civil penalty assessed pursuant to the Act or
a local ordinance adopted pursuant to the Act by the time the payment is due;
         c.   Has failed to substantially comply with state rules or local
ordinances and regulations adopted pursuant to the Act;
         d.   Has been convicted of a misdemeanor pursuant to G.S. 113A-64(b)
or any criminal provision of a local ordinance adopted pursuant to the Act.
   In the event that a plan or a transfer of a plan is disapproved pursuant to
this subsection, the town shall notify the director of the division of energy,
mineral, and land resources of such disapproval within ten days. The town shall
advise the applicant or the proposed transferee and the director in writing as
to the specific reasons that the plan was disapproved. Notwithstanding the
provisions of section 22-35, the applicant may appeal the town's disapproval of
the plan to the commission. For purposes of this subsection, an applicant's
record or the proposed transferee's record may be considered for only the two
years prior to the application date.
      (11)   Notice of activity initiation. No person may initiate a land
disturbing activity before notifying the erosion control officer that issued
the plan approval of the date that land disturbing activity will begin.
      (12)   Preconstruction conference. When deemed necessary by the erosion
control officer, a preconstruction conference may be required.
      (13)   Display of plan approval. A plan approval issued under this
article shall be prominently displayed until all construction is complete, all
permanent sedimentation and erosion control measures are installed and the site
has been stabilized. A copy of the approved plan shall be kept on file at the
job site.
      (14)   Required revisions. After approving a plan, if the erosion control
officer, either upon review of such plan or on inspection of the job site,
determines that a significant risk of accelerated erosion or off-site
sedimentation exists, the erosion control officer shall require a revised plan.
Pending the preparation of the revised plan, work shall cease or shall continue
under conditions outlined by the erosion control officer. If following
commencement of a land disturbing activity pursuant to an approved plan, the
erosion control officer determines that the plan is inadequate to meet the
requirements of this section, the erosion control officer may require any
revision of the plan that is necessary to comply with this section.
      (15)   Amendment to a plan. Applications for amendment of an erosion
control plan in written and/or graphic form may be made at any time under the
same conditions as the original application. Until such time as said amendment
is approved by the erosion control officer, the land disturbing activity shall
not proceed except in accordance with the erosion control plan as originally
approved.
      (16)   Failure to file a plan. Any person engaged in land disturbing
activity who fails to file a plan in accordance with this article, or who
conducts a land disturbing activity except in accordance with provisions of an
approved plan shall be deemed in violation of this article.
      (17)   Self inspections. The landowner, the financially responsible
party, or the landowner's or the financially responsible party's agent shall
perform an inspection of the area covered by the plan after each phase of the
plan has been completed and after establishment of temporary ground cover in
accordance with G.S. 113A-57(2). The person who performs the inspection shall
maintain and make available a record of the inspection at the site of the land
disturbing activity. The record shall set out any significant deviation from
the approved erosion control plan, identify any measures that may be required
to correct the deviation, and document the completion of those measures. The
record shall be maintained until permanent ground cover has been established as
required by the approved erosion and sedimentation control plan. The
inspections required by this subsection shall be in addition to inspections
required by G.S. 113A-61.1.
      (18)   Inspection required. Where inspections are required by subsection
(b)(17) of this section and G.S. 113A- 54.1(e), the following apply:
         a.   The person who performs the inspection shall make a record of the
site inspection by documenting the following items:
            1.   All of the erosion and sedimentation control measures,
practices and devices, as called for in a construction sequence consistent with
the approved erosion and sedimentation control plan, including, but not limited
to, sedimentation control basins, sedimentation traps, sedimentation ponds,
rock dams, temporary diversions, temporary slope drains, rock check dams,
sediment fence or barriers, all forms of inlet protection, storm drainage
facilities, energy dissipaters, and stabilization methods of open channels,
have initially been installed and do not significantly deviate, as defined in
subsection (18)a.5 of this section, from the locations, dimensions and relative
elevations shown on the approved erosion and sedimentation plan. Such
documentation shall be accomplished by initialing and dating each measure or
practice shown on a copy of the approved erosion and sedimentation control plan
or by completing, dating, and signing an inspection report that lists each
measure, practice or device shown on the approved erosion and sedimentation
control plan. This documentation is required only upon the initial installation
of the erosion and sedimentation control measures, practices and devices as set
forth by the approved erosion and sedimentation control plan or if the
measures, practices and devices are modified after initial installation;
            2.   The completion of any phase of grading for all graded slopes
and fills shown on the approved erosion and sedimentation control plan,
specifically noting the location and condition of the graded slopes and fills.
Such documentation shall be accomplished by initialing and dating a copy of the
approved erosion and sedimentation control plan or by completing, dating, and
signing an inspection report;
            3.   The location of temporary or permanent ground cover, and that
the installation of the ground cover does not significantly deviate, as defined
in subsection (18)a.5 of this section, from the approved erosion and
sedimentation control plan. Such documentation shall be accomplished by
initialing and dating a copy of the approved erosion and sedimentation control
plan or by completing, dating and signing an inspection report;
            4.   That maintenance and repair requirements for all temporary and
permanent erosion and sedimentation control measures, practices and devices
have been performed. Such documentation shall be accomplished by completing,
dating and signing an inspection report (the general stormwater permit
monitoring form may be used to verify the maintenance and repair requirements);
and
            5.   Any significant deviations from the approved erosion and
sedimentation control plan, corrective actions required to correct the
deviation and completion of the corrective actions. Such documentation shall be
accomplished by initialing and dating a copy of the approved erosion and
sedimentation control plan or by completing, dating and signing an inspection
report. A significant deviation means an omission, alteration or relocation of
an erosion or sedimentation control measure that prevents the measure from
performing as intended.
         b.   The documentation, whether on a copy of the approved erosion and
sedimentation control plan or an inspection report, shall include the name,
address, affiliation, telephone number, and signature of the person conducting
the inspection and the date of the inspection. Any relevant licenses and
certifications may also be included. Any documentation of inspections that
occur on a copy of the approved erosion and sedimentation control plan shall
occur on a single copy of the plan and that plan shall be made available on the
site. Any inspection reports shall also be made available on the site.
         c.   The inspection shall be performed during or after each of the
following phases of a plan:
            1.   Installation of perimeter erosion and sediment control
measures;
            2.   Clearing and grubbing of existing ground cover;
            3.   Completion of any phase of grading of slopes or fills that
requires provision of temporary or permanent ground cover pursuant to G.S. 113-
57(2);
            4.   Completion of storm drainage facilities;
            5.   Completion of construction or development; and
            6.   Quarterly until the establishment of permanent ground cover
sufficient to restrain erosion or until the financially responsible party has
conveyed ownership or control of the tract of land for which the erosion and
sedimentation control plan has been approved and the town has been notified. If
the financially responsible party has conveyed ownership or control of the
tract of land for which the erosion and sedimentation control plan has been
approved, the new owner or person in control shall conduct and document
inspections quarterly until the establishment of permanent ground cover
sufficient to restrain erosion.
(Code 1989, § 96.05; Ord. of 6-12-2007; Ord. of 5-8-2018)
Sec. 22-24. Objectives.
   It is the intent of this section that the following objectives shall be met
in the planning, permitting and execution of all land disturbing activities:
      (1)   Identify critical areas. On-site areas which are subject to severe
erosion, off-site areas which are especially vulnerable to damage from erosion
and/or sedimentation, and areas of environmental concern must be identified and
receive special attention.
      (2)   Limit time of exposure. All land disturbing activity must be
planned and conducted to limit exposure to the shortest feasible time.
      (3)   Limit exposed areas. All land disturbing activity is to be planned
and conducted to minimize the size of the area to be exposed at any one time.
      (4)   Control surface water. Surface water runoff originating upgrade of
exposed areas must be controlled to reduce erosion and sediment loss during the
period of exposure.
      (5)   Control sedimentation. All land disturbing activity must be planned
and conducted so as to prevent off-site sedimentation damage.
      (6)   Manage stormwater runoff. When the increase in the velocity of
stormwater runoff resulting from a land disturbing activity is sufficient to
cause accelerated erosion of the receiving watercourse, plans must include
measures to control the velocity to the point of discharge so as to minimize
accelerated erosion of the site and increased sedimentation of the stream.
(Code 1989, § 96.06; Ord. of 6-12-2007)
Sec. 22-25. Standards for land disturbing activity.
   The following standards shall be met when undertaking any land disturbing
activity:
      (1)   Buffer zone.
         a.   Standard buffer. No land disturbing activity during periods of
construction or improvement to land shall be permitted in proximity to a lake
or natural watercourse unless a buffer zone is provided along the margin of the
watercourse of sufficient width to confine visible siltation within the 25
percent of the buffer zone nearest the land disturbing activity. Unless
otherwise provided, the width of a buffer zone is measured from the edge of the
water to the nearest edge of the disturbed area. The 25 percent of the strip
nearer the land disturbing activity shall contain natural or artificial means
of confining visible siltation.
         b.   Trout buffer. Waters that have been classified as trout waters by
the environmental management commission shall have an undisturbed buffer zone
25 feet wide or of sufficient width to confine visible siltation within the 25
percent of the buffer zone nearest the land disturbing activity, whichever is
greater; provided, however, that the commission may approve plans which include
land disturbing activity along trout waters when the duration of said
disturbance would be temporary and the extent of said disturbance would be
minimal.
            1.   Projects on, over or under water. This subdivision shall not
apply to a land disturbing activity in connection with the construction of
facilities to be located on, over, or under a lake or natural watercourse.
            2.   Trout buffer measurement. The 25-foot minimum width for an
undisturbed buffer zone adjacent to designated trout waters shall be measured
horizontally from the top of the bank.
            3.   Limit on land disturbance. Where a temporary and minimal
disturbance is permitted as an exception to the trout buffer, land disturbing
activities in the buffer zone adjacent to designated trout waters shall be
limited to a maximum of ten percent of the total length of the buffer zone
within the tract to be disturbed such that there is no more than 100 linear
feet of disturbance in each 1,000 linear feet of the buffer zone. Larger areas
may be disturbed with the written approval of the director.
            4.   Limit on temperature fluctuations. No land disturbing activity
shall be undertaken within a buffer zone adjacent to designated trout waters
that will cause adverse temperature fluctuations, as set forth in 15 NCAC
2B.0211.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c141ac2780daea4288dd157975992950c90da25b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1284.png]
 
   Buffer Zone Near or Not Near Trout Waters
      (2)   Graded slopes and fills. The angle for graded slopes and fills
shall be no greater than the angle which can be retained by vegetative cover or
other adequate erosion control devices or structures. In any event, slopes left
exposed will be planted or otherwise provided with ground cover, devices, or
structures sufficient to restrain erosion upon completion of any phase of
grading, within 21 calendar days. The angle for graded slopes must be
demonstrated as stable. Stable is the condition where the soil remains in its
original configuration, with or without mechanical constraints.
      (3)   Fill material. Unless a permit from the department's division of
waste management to operate a landfill is on file for the official site,
acceptable fill material shall be free of organic or other biodegradable
materials, masonry, concrete, and brick in sizes exceeding 12 inches, and any
materials which could cause the site to be regulated as a landfill by the
state.
      (4)   Ground cover. Whenever land disturbing activity is undertaken which
uncovers more than 100 square feet of land, the person conducting the land
disturbing activity shall install such sedimentation and erosion control
devices and practices as are sufficient to retain the sediment generated by the
land disturbing activity within the boundaries of the tract during construction
upon and development of said tract, and shall plant or otherwise provide a
permanent ground cover sufficient to restrain erosion after completion of
construction or development. Except as provided in section 22-26(b)(5),
provisions for a permanent ground cover sufficient to restrain erosion must be
accomplished within 15 working days or 90 calendar days following completion of
any phase of grading, whichever period is shorter.
      (5)   Prior plan approval. No person shall initiate any land disturbing
activity on a tract if more than 100 square feet is to be uncovered unless a
plan is filed prior to initiating the activity and approved by the erosion
control officer. If the area to be disturbed is one acre or less, a minor plan
should be filed ten or more days prior to initiating the land disturbing
activity. If the area to be disturbed is greater than one acre, a major plan
should be filed 30 or more days prior to initiating the land disturbing
activity. The erosion control officer shall forward to the director of the
division of water quality a copy of each plan for a land disturbing activity
that involves the utilization of ditches for the purpose of de-watering or
lowering the water table of the tract.
      (6)   Approved erosion and sedimentation plan. The land disturbing
activity shall be conducted in accordance with the approved erosion and
sedimentation control plan.
(Code 1989, § 96.07; Ord. of 5-8-2018)
Sec. 22-26. Design and performance standards.
   (a)   Calculated runoff rate. Erosion and sedimentation control measures,
structures, and devices shall be so planned, designed, and constructed as to
provide protection from the calculated maximum peak rate of runoff from the
ten-year storm or 25-year storm when projects will discharge into a lake or
natural watercourse. Runoff rates shall be calculated using the procedures in
the USDA, Soil Conservation Service's "National Engineering Field Manual for
Conservation Practices," or other acceptable calculation procedures.
   (b)   HQW zones. In High Quality Water (HQW) zones, the following standards
shall apply:
      (1)   Limit on uncovered area. Uncovered areas in HQW zones shall be
limited at any time to a maximum total area of 20 acres within the boundaries
of the tract. Only the portion of the land disturbing activity within an HQW
zone shall be governed by this section. Larger areas may be uncovered within
the boundaries of the tract with the written approval of the director.
      (2)   Maximum peak rate of runoff protection. Erosion and sedimentation
control measures, structures, and devices within HQW zones shall be planned,
designed and constructed to provide protection from the runoff of the 25-year
storm which produces the maximum peak rate of runoff as calculated according to
procedures in the USDA, Soil Conservation Service's "National Engineering Field
Manual for Conservation Practices" or according to procedures adopted by any
other agency of the state or the United States or any generally recognized
organization or association.
      (3)   Settling efficiency. Sediment basins within HQW zones shall be
designed and constructed such that the basin will have a settling efficiency of
at least 70 percent for the 40 micron (0.04 millimeter) size particle
transported into the basin by the runoff of that two-year storm which produces
the maximum peak runoff as calculated according to procedures in the USDA Soil
Conservation Service's "National Engineering Field Manual for Conservation
Practices" or according to procedures adopted by any other agency of the state
or the United States or any generally recognized organization or association.
      (4)   Grade. Newly constructed open channels in HQW zones shall be
designed and constructed with side slopes no steeper than two horizontal to one
vertical if a vegetative cover is used for stabilization unless soil conditions
permit a steeper slope or where the slopes are stabilized by using mechanical
devices, structural devices or other acceptable ditch liners. In any event, the
angle for side slopes shall be sufficient to restrain accelerated erosion.
      (5)   Ground cover. Ground cover sufficient to restrain erosion must be
provided for any portion of a land disturbing activity in a HQW zone within 15
working days or 60 calendar days following completion of construction or
development, whichever period is shorter.
(Code 1989, § 96.08; Ord. of 6-12-2007)
Sec. 22-27. Stormwater outlet protection.
   (a)   Intent. Stream banks and channels downstream from any land disturbing
activity shall be protected from increased degradation by accelerated erosion
caused by increased velocity of runoff from the land disturbing activity.
   (b)   Performance standard.
      (1)   Persons shall conduct land disturbing activity so that the post
construction velocity of the 25-year storm runoff in the receiving watercourse
to the discharge point does not exceed the greater of:
         a.   The velocity established by the Maximum Permissible Velocities
Table set out within this subsection (b); or
         b.   The velocity of the 25-year storm runoff in the receiving
watercourse prior to development.
      (2)   If conditions set forth in subsection (b)(1)a or b of this section
cannot be met, then the receiving watercourse to and including the discharge
point shall be designed and constructed to withstand the expected velocity
anywhere the velocity exceeds the prior to development velocity by ten percent.
   The following is a table for maximum permissible velocity for stormwater
discharges in feet per second (F.P.S.) and meters per second (M.P.S.):
   Maximum Permissible Velocities Table*
Material Feet per Second (F.P.S.) Meters per Second (M.P.S)
Material                     Feet per Second (F.P.S.) Meters per Second (M.P.S)
Fine sand (noncolloidal)     2.5                      0.8
Sandy loam (noncolloidal)    2.5                      0.8
Silt loam (noncolloidal)     3.0                      0.9
Ordinary firm loam           3.5                      1.1
Fine gravel                  5.0                      1.5
Stiff clay (very colloidal)  5.0                      1.5
Graded, loam to cobbles      5.0                      1.5
(noncolloidal)
Graded, silt to cobbles      5.5                      1.7
(colloidal)
Alluvial silts               3.5                      1.1
(noncolloidal)
Alluvial silts (colloidal)   5.0                      1.5
Coarse gravel (noncolloidal) 6.0                      1.8
Cobbles and shingles         5.5                      1.7
Shales and hard pans         6.0                      1.8
 
*Source adapted from recommendations by Special Committee on Irrigation
Research, American Society of Civil Engineers, 1926, for channels with straight
alignment. For sinuous channels, multiply allowable velocity by 0.95 for
slightly sinuous, by 0.9 for moderately sinuous channels, and by 0.8 for highly
sinuous channels.
   (c)   Acceptable management measures. Measures applied alone or in
combination to satisfy the intent of this section are acceptable if there are
no objectionable secondary consequences. The town recognizes that the
management of stormwater runoff to minimize or control downstream channel and
bank erosion is a developing technology. Innovative techniques and ideas will
be considered and may be used when shown to have the potential to produce
successful results. Some alternatives, while not exhaustive, are to:
      (1)   Avoid increases in surface runoff volume and velocity by including
measures to promote infiltration to compensate for increased runoff from areas
rendered impervious;
      (2)   Avoid increases in stormwater discharge velocities by using
vegetated or roughened swales and waterways in place of closed drains and high
velocity paved sections;
      (3)   Provide energy dissipators at outlets of storm drainage facilities
to reduce flow velocities to the point of discharge;
      (4)   Protect watercourses subject to accelerated erosion by improving
cross sections and/or providing erosion- resistant lining; and
      (5)   Upgrade or replace the receiving device structure, or watercourse
such that it will receive and conduct the flow to a point where it is no longer
subject to degradation from the increased rate of flow or increased velocity.
   (d)   Exceptions. This rule shall not apply where it can be demonstrated to
the town that stormwater discharge velocities will not create an erosion
problem in the receiving watercourse.
(Code 1989, § 96.09; Ord. of 6-12-2007)
Sec. 22-28. Borrow and waste areas.
   When the person conducting the land disturbing activity is also the person
conducting the borrow or waste disposal activity, areas from which borrow is
obtained and which are not regulated by the provisions of the Mining Act of
1971, and waste areas for surplus materials other than landfills regulated by
the department's division of solid waste management shall be considered as part
of the land disturbing activity where the borrow material is being used or from
which the waste material originated. When the person conducting the land
disturbing activity is not the person obtaining the borrow and/or disposing of
the waste, these areas shall be considered a separate land disturbing activity.
(Code 1989, § 96.10; Ord. of 5-8-2018)
Sec. 22-29. Access and haul roads.
   Temporary access and haul roads, other than public roads, constructed or
used in connection with any land disturbing activity shall be considered a part
of such activity.
(Code 1989, § 96.11)
Sec. 22-30. Operations in lakes or natural watercourses.
   Land disturbing activity in connection with construction in, on, over, or
under a lake or natural watercourse shall be planned and conducted in such a
manner as to minimize the extent and duration of disturbance of the stream
channel. The relocation of a stream, where relocation is an essential part of
the proposed activity, shall be planned and executed so as to minimize changes
in the stream flow characteristics. A permit from the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers and state division of water resources may be required prior to
undertaking any such activity.
(Code 1989, § 96.12; Ord. of 6-12-2007; Ord. of 5-8-2018)
Sec. 22-31. Responsibility for maintenance.
   During the development of a site, the person conducting the land disturbing
activity shall install and maintain all temporary and permanent erosion and
sedimentation control measures as required by the approved plan or any
provision of this article or the Act or any order adopted pursuant to this
chapter or the Act. After site development, the landowner or person in
possession or control of the land shall install and/or maintain all necessary
permanent erosion and sediment control measures, except those measures
installed within a road or street right-of-way or easement accepted for
maintenance by a governmental agency.
(Code 1989, § 96.13; Ord. of 6-12-2007)
Sec. 22-32. Additional measures.
   Whenever the erosion control officer determines that significant
sedimentation is occurring as a result of land disturbing activity, despite
application and maintenance of protective practices, the person conducting the
land disturbing activity will be required to and shall take additional
protective action. The erosion control officer shall have the authority to
suspend the land disturbance permit and any certificate of zoning compliance
until such protective action is taken.
(Code 1989, § 96.14)
Sec. 22-33. Existing uncovered areas.
   (a)   All uncovered areas existing on the effective date of the ordinance
from which this section is derived which resulted from land disturbing
activity, are subject to continued accelerated erosion, and are causing off-
site damage from sedimentation, shall be provided with a ground cover or other
protective measures, structures, or devices sufficient to restrain accelerated
erosion and control off-site sedimentation.
   (b)   The erosion control officer will serve upon the landowner or other
person in possession or control of the land a written notice to comply with the
Act, this article, a rule or order adopted or issued pursuant to the Act by the
commission or by the town. The notice to comply shall be sent by registered or
certified mail, return receipt requested, or other means provided in G.S. 1A-1,
rule 4. The notice will set forth the measures needed to comply and will state
the time within which such measures must be completed. In determining the
measures required and the time allowed for compliance, the erosion control
officer shall take into consideration the economic feasibility, technology, and
quantity of work required, and shall set reasonable and attainable time limits
of compliance.
   (c)   The town reserves the right to require preparation and approval of an
erosion control plan in any instance where extensive control measures are
required.
   (d)   This rule shall not require ground cover on cleared land forming the
future basin of a planned reservoir.
(Code 1989, § 96.15; Ord. of 5-8-2018)
Sec. 22-34. Fees.
   (a)   The town may establish a fee schedule for review and approval of
plans.
   (b)   In establishing the fee schedule, the town shall consider the
administrative and personnel costs incurred for reviewing the plans and for
related compliance activities.
(Code 1989, § 96.16)
Sec. 22-35. Appeals.
   (a)   The disapproval or modification of any proposed erosion control plan
by the erosion control officer may be appealed to the town council if the
person submitting the plan submits written request for such appeal within 15
days after receipt of written notice of disapproval or modifications.
   (b)   The appeal held pursuant to this section shall be heard by the town
council within 30 days after the date of the appeal upon which the town council
shall render its final decision.
   (c)   If the town council upholds the disapproval or modification of a
proposed plan following the hearing, the person submitting the plan shall then
be entitled to appeal the town's decision to the commission as provided in G.S.
113A-61(c) and 15A NCAC 4B .0118(d).
(Code 1989, § 96.17)
Sec. 22-36. Inspections and investigations.
   (a)   Inspection. The erosion control officer or other qualified persons
authorized by the town will periodically inspect land disturbing activities to
ensure compliance with the Act and this section, or rules or orders adopted or
issued pursuant to this article, and to determine whether the measures required
in the plan are effective in controlling erosion and sediment resulting from
land disturbing activity. Notice of the right to inspect shall be included in
the certificate of approval of each erosion control plan.
   (b)   Willful resistance, delay or obstruction. No person shall willfully
resist, delay, or obstruct an authorized representative, employee, or agent of
the town while that person is inspecting or attempting to inspect a land
disturbing activity under this section.
   (c)   Notice of violation. If it is determined that a person engaged in land
disturbing activity has failed to comply with the Act or this section, or
rules, or orders adopted or issued pursuant to this article, a notice of
violation shall be served upon that person. The notice may be served by any
means authorized under G.S. 1A-1, rule 4. The notice shall specify a date by
which the person must comply with the Act or this section, or rules, or orders
adopted pursuant thereto, and inform the person of the actions that need to be
taken to comply with the Act or this section, or rules or orders adopted
pursuant thereto. However, no time period for compliance need be given for
failure to submit an erosion control plan for approval or for obstructing,
hampering or interfering with an authorized representative while in the process
of carrying out his official duties. Any person who fails to comply within the
time specified is subject to the civil and criminal penalties provided in this
article.
   (d)   Investigation. The erosion control officer shall have the power to
conduct such investigation as may reasonably be deemed necessary to carry out
the duties prescribed in this section, and for this purpose to enter at
reasonable times upon any property, public or private, for the purpose of
investigating and inspecting the sites of any land disturbing activity.
   (e)   Statements and reports. The town shall also have the power to require
written statements, or filing of reports under oath, with respect to pertinent
questions relating to land disturbing activity.
(Code 1989, § 96.18; Ord. of 6-12-2007; Ord. of 5-8-2018)
Sec. 22-37. Injunctive relief.
   (a)   Whenever the town council has reasonable cause to believe that any
person is violating or threatening to violate this article or any rule or order
adopted or issued pursuant to this article, or any term, condition, or
provision of an approved erosion control plan, it may, either before or after
the institution of any other action or proceeding authorized by this article,
institute a civil action in the name of the town for injunctive relief to
restrain the violation or threatened violation. The action shall be brought in
the superior court of the county.
   (b)   Upon determination by a court that an alleged violation is occurring
or is threatened, the court shall enter any order or judgment that is necessary
to abate the violation, to ensure that restoration is performed, or to prevent
the threatened violation. The institution of an action for injunctive relief
under this section shall not relieve any party to the proceedings from any
civil or criminal penalty prescribed for violations of this article.
(Code 1989, § 96.19)
Sec. 22-38. Restoration of areas affected by failure to comply.
   The town council may require a person who engaged in a land disturbing
activity and failed to retain sediment generated by the activity, as required
by G.S. 113A-57(3), to restore the waters and land affected by the failure so
as to minimize the detrimental effects of the resulting pollution by
sedimentation. This authority is in addition to any other civil or criminal
penalty or injunctive relief authorized under this article.
(Code 1989, § 96.20)
Sec. 22-39. Penalty.
   (a)   Generally. This article may be enforced by any one, all, or a
combination of the remedies authorized and prescribed by G.S. 160A-175.
   (b)   Criminal penalties. Any person who knowingly or willfully violates any
provision of this article, or rule or order adopted or issued pursuant to this
article, or who knowingly or willfully initiates or continues a land disturbing
activity for which a plan is required except in accordance with the terms,
conditions, and provisions of an approved plan, shall be guilty of a Class 2
misdemeanor which may include a fine not to exceed $5,000.00 as provided in
G.S. 113A-64.
      (1)   Failure to receive a land disturbance permit, as required by this
article, for any form of land disturbance prior to commencement of said land
disturbance shall subject both the owner of the property and any contractor
engaged for the purpose of performing the work to a fine not to exceed
$5,000.00. If the illegal land disturbance meets all requirements of this
article, a permit shall be issued upon payment of the fine and submittal of a
completed application, including erosion control plan, if required, and fee. If
the illegal land disturbance does not meet said requirements, the disturbed
property shall either be restored or be brought into compliance prior to
receipt of the permit.
      (2)   Failure to comply with the provisions of a land disturbance permit
and the representations submitted as part of the application for the permit,
including any erosion control plan, shall be cause for the erosion control
officer to place a stop order on the work for which the permit was issued until
such time as the land disturbance is altered to comply or until a revised land
disturbance permit is approved. If the land disturbance is not brought into
conformance or a revised land disturbance permit meeting the standards of this
article, the owner of the property and the contractor shall each be subject to
a fine not to exceed $5,000.00, assessed from the date of the violation.
      (3)   Any property owner or contractor previously found to be in
violation of this article who is found in violation again shall be considered a
repeat offender and shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $5,000.00.
   (c)   Civil penalties.
      (1)   Civil penalty for a violation. Any person who violates any of the
provisions of this section, or rule or order adopted or issued pursuant to this
article, or who initiates or continues a land disturbing activity for which a
plan is required except in accordance with the terms, conditions, and
provisions of an approved plan, is subject to a civil penalty. The maximum
civil penalty amount that the town may assess per violation is $5,000.00. A
civil penalty may be assessed from the date of violation. Each day of a
continuing violation shall constitute a separate violation.
      (2)   Civil penalty assessment factors. The erosion control officer shall
determine the amount of the civil penalty based upon the following factors:
         a.   The degree and extent of harm caused by the violation;
         b.   The cost of rectifying the damage;
         c.   The amount of money the violator saved by noncompliance;
         d.   Whether the violation was committed willfully; and
         e.   The prior record of the violator in complying or failing to
comply with this article.
      (3)   Notice of civil penalty assessment. The erosion control officer
shall provide notice of the civil penalty amount and basis for assessment to
the person assessed. The notice of assessment shall be served by any means
authorized under G.S. 1A-1, rule 4, and shall direct the violator to either pay
the assessment or contest the assessment, by written demand for a hearing.
      (4)   Hearing. A hearing on a civil penalty shall be conducted by the
town council within 31 days after the date of the written demand for the
hearing. The decision of the town council shall be final.
      (5)   Appeal of final decision. Appeal of the final decision of the town
council shall be to the superior court of the county. Such appeals must be made
within 30 days of the final decision of the town council.
      (6)   Collection. If payment is not received within 30 days after it is
due, the town may institute a civil action to recover the amount of the
assessment. The civil action may be brought in the superior court of the county
or the location of the violator's residence or principal place of business.
Such civil actions must be filed within three years of the date the assessment
is due. An assessment that is not contested is due when the violator is served
with a notice of assessment. An assessment that is contested is due at the
conclusion of the administrative and judicial review of the assessment.
      (7)   Credit of civil penalties. Civil penalties collected pursuant to
this article shall be credited to the civil penalty and forfeiture fund. Case
law indicates that penalties assessed by local governments pursuant to a state
delegation must be remitted to the civil penalty and forfeiture fund for the
benefit of the local school boards pursuant to the state constitution's
provision on state penalties, fines, and forfeitures.
   (d)   Court jurisdiction. Any provision of this section that makes unlawful
a condition existing upon or use made of any property may be enforced by
injunction and order of abatement, and the general court of justice shall have
jurisdiction to issue such orders. When a violation of such a provision occurs,
the town may apply to the appropriate division of the general court of justice
for a mandatory or prohibitory injunction and order of abatement commanding the
defendant to correct the unlawful condition upon or cease the unlawful use of
the property. The action shall be governed in all respects by the laws and
rules governing civil proceedings, including the rules of civil procedure in
general and rule 65 in particular. In addition to an injunction, the court may
enter an order of abatement as a part of the judgement in the cause. An order
of abatement may direct that the property shall be restored to its original
condition prior to disturbance, or that any other action be taken that is
necessary to bring the property into compliance with this policy or such
ordinance. If the defendant fails or refuses to comply with an injunction or
with an order of abatement within the time allowed by the court, such defendant
may be cited for contempt, and the town may execute the order of abatement. The
town shall have a lien on the property for the cost of executing an order of
abatement in the nature of mechanic's and materialman's lien. The defendant may
secure cancellation of an order of abatement by paying all costs to the town of
the proceedings and posting a bond for compliance with the order. The bond
shall be given with sureties approved by the clerk of the superior court in an
amount approved by the judge before whom the matter is heard and shall be
conditioned on the defendant's full compliance with the terms of the order of
abatement within a time fixed by the judge. Cancellation of an order of
abatement shall not suspend or cancel an injunction issued in conjunction
therewith.
   (e)   Violations. Except as otherwise specifically provided, each day's
continuing violation of any provision of this article shall be a separate and
distinct offense.
(Code 1989, § 96.999; Ord. of 6-12-2007; Ord. of 5-8-2018)
Secs.22-40—22-60. Reserved.
ARTICLE III.
DAM RESTRICTIONS
Sec. 22-61. Permit required for water impoundment facilities.
   All persons, firms, or corporations which now own or operate an impoundment
of water which lies in whole or in part within the corporate limits of the
town, or any person wishing to construct facilities for the impoundment of
water, when such impoundment will lie in whole or in part within the corporate
limits of the town, shall obtain a permit from the town prior to taking any of
the following actions:
   (a)   In the event of new construction.
      (1)   A building permit shall be required prior to construction;
      (2)   An additional permit shall be required prior to impoundment of any
water;
      (3)   In the event permission is granted for the filing of said
impoundment, a permit shall be required prior to the release of the impounded
water other than what would normally be discharged over a spillway or other
overflow device.
   (b)   For impoundments now in existence.
      (1)   If water is now impounded a permit shall be required prior to
release of the impounded water, other than water which would normally be
discharged over a spillway or other overflow device;
      (2)   If waters are not now impounded in said facility, a permit shall be
required prior to reactivating the facility and impounding water.
   (c)   Requirements. Granting of a permit to do any of the above stated acts,
shall be considered a permit to do that specific act alone, and on a specific
occasion, and shall not constitute a permit required under the other
subsections of this chapter at a later date. Penalty, see § 93.99
(Ord. of 10-11-77)
Sec. 22-62. Proposal to be submitted to the town.
   All persons, firms, or corporations which desire a permit under this chapter
shall submit to the town a detailed proposal stating all the pertinent
information regarding said impoundment or release of water, including, among
other things:
   (a)   The location of the impoundment;
   (b)   The reasons for the request for the permit;
   (c)   The date or dates upon which the occurrence is to take place;
   (d)   The person or persons who will be in direct control of the facilities
at that time;
   (e)   A request that the Town Board issue the permit at its next regular
meeting.
(Ord. of 10-11-77)
Sec. 22-63. Decision of town board.
   The Town Board at its next regular meeting, following the request for a
permit, may:
   (a)   Approve the request and authorize the Clerk to issue a permit;
   (b)   Deny the request;
   (c)   The Board may, after consideration, grant the request, subject to
certain restrictions, and/or, conditions which the Board deems necessary.
(Ord. of 10-11-77)
Sec. 22-64. Penalty.
   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of this chapter,
shall upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished in
accordance with G.S. 14-4. Each and every day or portion thereof that action
has been taken in violation of this chapter shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Ord. of 10-11-77)
Chapter 23
RESERVED
Chapter 24
SOLID WASTE
ARTICLE I.   IN GENERAL
Secs. 24-1–24-18.   Reserved.
ARTICLE II.   GARBAGE AND REFUSE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
24-19.   Definitions.
24-20.   Approved containers.
24-21.   Burning or burying garbage.
24-22.   Accumulation of garbage and refuse prohibited.
24-23.   Containers required.
24-24.   Pre-collection practices.
24-25.   Collection schedule.
24-26.   Unlawful to displace containers.
24-27.   Special or bulk collections regulated.
24-28. Penalty.
Secs. 24-29–24-57.   Reserved.
ARTICLE III.   LITTERING
24-58.   General prohibition.
24-59.   Thrown or deposited from vehicles.
24-60.   Maintenance of public areas.
24-61.   Receptacles.
24-62.   Penalty.
ARTICLE I.
IN GENERAL
Secs. 24-1—24-18. Reserved.
ARTICLE II.
GARBAGE AND REFUSE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL  1
 
Notes
  State law reference(s)—Regulation of trash and garbage, G.S. 160A-303.1;
1 municipal power to require use of solid waste services and to regulate
  accordingly, G.S. 160A-317(b).
Sec. 24-19. Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
Building material scraps means building material from the construction,
reconstruction, remodeling, or repair of a building, walkway, driveway, sign,
and other structure, including, but not limited to, excavated earth, tree
stumps, rocks, gravel, bricks, plaster, concrete, lumber, or any other similar
material used in construction or the containers or wrappings therefor.
Garbage means all putrescible wastes, including animal and vegetable matter,
animal offal and carcasses, and recognizable industrial byproducts but
excluding sewage and human wastes.
Refuse means all nonputrescible wastes.
Solid waste means garbage, refuse, rubbish, trash, and other discarded solid
materials, including solid waste materials resulting from homes, businesses,
industrial, commercial, and agricultural operations, and from community
activities, but does not include solids or dissolved materials in domestic
sewage or other significant pollutants in water resources, such as silt,
dissolved or suspended solids in industrial wastewater effluents , dissolved
materials in irrigation return flows or other common water pollutants.
Tree trimmings or grass means tree limbs, leaves, shrubbery, weeds, and plants.
(Code 1989, § 41.01)
Sec. 24-20. Approved containers.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, place, or deposit any garbage
or refuse of any kind on any public or private property except in approved
containers or as otherwise provided in this article.
(Code 1989, § 41.02)
Sec. 24-21. Burning or burying garbage.
   It shall be unlawful to burn or set fire to any garbage for the purpose of
disposal. In addition, it shall be unlawful to bury any refuse for the purpose
of disposal unless a permit therefor has been granted by the fire chief.
(Code 1989, § 41.03)
Editor's note(s) —Extensive state regulations are in effect with respect to the
open burning of trash and refuse; see department of environmental management;
regulations governing the control of air pollution.
Sec. 24-22. Accumulation of garbage and refuse prohibited.
   All garbage and refuse shall be collected and placed in containers as
required by this article, and it shall be unlawful for any person to permit
garbage or refuse to accumulate or remain on any premises longer than is
reasonably necessary to remove and deposit same in approved containers as
required herein.
(Code 1989, § 41.04)
Sec. 24-23. Containers required.
   (a)   The occupant of every building or premises where garbage and refuse
does or may exist shall provide containers made of substantial galvanized iron,
plastic, rubber, or other nonrusting material in which shall be deposited all
garbage and refuse existing at such building or premises. Each container shall
be provided with handles or bails and with a tightfitting cover made of the
same material as the container.
   (b)   All containers shall be watertight and they shall be of a size that
can be conveniently handled by the collectors, and no container shall be more
than 30 gallons in capacity nor measure over 22 inches in diameter or 30 inches
in height. All containers shall be kept in a reasonably clean condition.
(Code 1989, § 41.05)
Sec. 24-24. Pre-collection practices.
   All garbage and refuse shall have the liquid drained therefrom and shall be
wrapped in paper or other like material before it is placed in the container
for collection. Ashes and cinders shall be placed in a separate container
provided for that purpose and no ashes shall be deposited in any container
until they are cold. Containers which fail to have a cover as required in
section 24-23 or which have become rusted or broken and therefore are unable to
contain garbage and refuse in a satisfactory manner shall not be used.
(Code 1989, § 41.06)
Sec. 24-25. Collection schedule.
   Garbage and refuse will be collected by the town according to a collection
schedule maintained in the clerk's office. Such schedule may be periodically
revised and amended by action of the council.
(Code 1989, § 41.07)
Sec. 24-26. Unlawful to displace containers.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to damage, displace, otherwise interfere
with garbage containers or their contents the owner or on permission or at the
request of the owner.
(Code 1989, § 41.08)
Sec. 24-27. Special or bulk collections regulated.
   (a)   No bulk trash, tree limbs, shrubbery cuttings, leaves, and other
refuse will be collected without special charge unless such refuse can be
placed in regulation type garbage cans.
   (b)   Any property owner desiring special bulk collections of loose matter
not in closed containers or tied in bundles may request a special collection
for which a special charge will be made. If sufficient manpower and equipment
are available, town personnel are authorized to make such special collections,
provided that person making the request agrees to pay for the labor and
equipment used at the rate specified by the town.
   (c)   No collection shall be made from vacant lots nor shall any large
rocks, tree trunks, tree stumps, tree limbs of more than six feet in length, or
other heavy objects be collected by the town. No waste building materials or
lot clearings shall be collected from houses or other structures under
construction or recently completed.
   (d)   Material to be collected by special placed in neat piles and so
located that such loaded on trucks for disposal.
(Code 1989, § 41.09)
Sec. 24-28. Penalty.
   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of this article
shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished in
accordance with G.S. 14-4. In addition, violations of this article may subject
the violator to civil penalties as set forth in section 1-10.
(Ord. of 6-14-2022)
Secs.24-29—24-57. Reserved.
ARTICLE III. LITTERING 2
 
Notes
2 State law reference(s)—Littering, G.S. 14-399.
Sec. 24-58. General prohibition.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw or deposit on any street or
sidewalk, or around the lake area, or on any private property, except with
written permission of the owner or occupant of the private property, any trash,
refuse, garbage, building material, cans, bottles, broken glass, paper, or any
type of litter.
(Code 1989, § 82.01)
Sec. 24-59. Thrown or deposited from vehicles.
   It shall be unlawful for any person while a driver or a passenger in a
vehicle to throw or deposit litter on any street or other public place within
the town, or on private property.
(Code 1989, § 82.02)
Sec. 24-60. Maintenance of public areas.
   Every owner, lessee, tenant, occupant, or other person in charge of any
commercial establishment or premises which maintains any paved or unpaved areas
for the use of the public, either for parking or as access areas and incident
to the carrying on of the principal business of any commercial establishment or
premises and which parking or access areas abut or lie within ten feet of any
public street or other public way, shall keep and maintain the areas clean and
free from trash, litter, rubbish, and any materials liable to be blown,
deposited, or cast on the street or other public way.
(Code 1989, § 82.03)
Sec. 24-61. Receptacles.
   Suitable receptacles may be provided in parking or access areas within the
meaning of section 24-60. The receptacles shall be plainly marked and
constructed to prevent scattering of any trash, litter, rubbish, or other
materials deposited therein.
(Code 1989, § 82.04)
Sec. 24-62. Penalty.
   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of this article
shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished in
accordance with G.S. 14-4.
(Code 1989, § 82.99)
Chapter 25
RESERVED
Chapter 26
STREETS, SIDEWALKS, AND OTHER PUBLIC PROPERTIES  1
ARTICLE I.   IN GENERAL
26-1.   Construction of public and private streets; acceptance by council.
26-2.   Excavations Permit required.
26-3.   Excavations Application; fees.
26-4.   Excavations Street, sidewalk repair.
26-5.   Excavations Leaving unprotected.
26-6.   Streets not to be damaged by tractors or other construction equipment.
26-7.   Sidewalk construction.
26-8.   Heavy/oversize loads, moving of houses or modular/manufactured housing.
26-9.   Damage to town property.
26-10.   Driveways; permit required.
26-11. Penalty.
Secs. 26-12–26-38.   Reserved.
ARTICLE II.   STREET NAMING AND ADDRESSING
26-39.   Purpose and intent.
26-40.   Definitions.
26-41.   Street names.
26-42.   Signage.
26-43.   House/building numbering.
26-44.   Boathouse numbering.
26-45.   General requirements.
26-46.   Enforcement.
26-47.   Penalty.
26-48.   Amendment procedure.
 
Notes
1 State law reference(s)—Establishment and control over town streets, G.S. l60A-
  296.
ARTICLE I.
IN GENERAL
Sec. 26-1. Construction of public and private streets; acceptance by council.
   (a)   All public and private streets (see section
28-6 for definitions) constructed in the town shall meet the development
standards set forth in section
28-105.
   (b)   Before any new street offered for dedication to the town is accepted
as such and officially recognized as a town-maintained street, the council must
give its approval, finding that the street complies with engineering standards
set by the council, provided that any street constructed prior to April 9,
2002, shall have a minimum width along its entire course of not less than l6
feet, and that the best interests of the town would be served by accepting the
street as a town street.
(Code 1989, § 40.01; Ord. of 4-9-2002)
Sec. 26-2. Excavations—Permit required.
   No person shall make any excavation or opening or dig any ditch, trench,
tunnel, or hole in, along, across, or under any street, sidewalk, or other
public place for the purpose of laying or placing therein any pipe, wires, or
poles or for any other purposes unless a written permit therefor has been
issued by some officer of the town vested with proper authority, provided that
a permit shall not be required where the work is performed under a contract
with the town, but in the event the work requires a sidewalk or street to be
wholly or partially obstructed, the party performing the work shall notify the
town at least two hours before obstructing the sidewalk or street, unless
prevented by sudden emergency.
(Code 1989, § 40.15)
Sec. 26-3. Excavations—Application; fees.
   All persons desiring a permit to make an opening in any street or sidewalk,
as set forth in section
26-2, shall make written application therefor, which application shall show the
location of the proposed opening, the purpose therefor and the approximate
number of square yards of surface to be cut. A fee may be required by the
council for such permit.
(Code 1989, § 40.16)
Sec. 26-4. Excavations—Street, sidewalk repair.
   When any part of any street, sidewalk, alley, or other public place of the
town shall be torn or dug up for any purpose, the person making the excavation
or opening shall have the duty of refilling the excavation or opening, and the
refilling shall be done in accordance with the standards and specifications of
the town.
(Code 1989, § 40.17)
Sec. 26-5. Excavations—Leaving unprotected.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation who obtains a
permit under the sections of this chapter to do any excavation of any kind
which may create or cause a dangerous condition in or near any street, alley,
sidewalk, or public place of the town without placing and maintaining proper
guard rails three feet from the ground and signal lights or other warnings at,
in or around the same, sufficient to warn the public of the excavation or work,
and to protect all persons using reasonable care from injuries on account of
the excavation or work.
(Code 1989, § 40.18)
Sec. 26-6. Streets not to be damaged by tractors or other construction
equipment.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to drag or
run, or cause to be dragged or run, any implement, engine, machine, or tool on
any asphalt or other type of permanently paved street of the town which shall
be likely in any way to injure or cut the surface thereof.
   (b)   Any person violating subsection (a) of this section shall be liable to
the town for the cost of repairing any and all damage caused.
(Code 1989, § 40.19)
Sec. 26-7. Sidewalk construction.
   No sidewalk of any description shall be built by any individual, firm, or
corporation of any brick, wood, or other material without a written permit from
the town.
(Code 1989, § 40.20)
Sec. 26-8. Heavy/oversize loads, moving of houses or modular/manufactured
housing.
   (a)   Heavy loads, houses, modular homes or any other large load (as
determined by the administrator) shall require a road closure permit to be
issued by the town code enforcement officer.
   (b)   General requirements of the town are as follows, pursuant to G.S. 20-
368:
      (1)   A road closure permit, issued by the town, shall be required.
      (2)   All applications for a road closure permit must be accompanied by
an Acord® General Liability Insurance Policy (original) in the amount of
$2,000,000.00 with the town named as the certificate holder.
      (3)   An NCDOT/Division of Highways oversize/overweight permit is
required; if applicable, see G.S. 20-360.
      (4)   Transport of manufactured housing shall follow the guidance of
Publication MH-2 as issued by the state department of transportation.
      (5)   A pre-transport meeting is required with the community development
director or assigns, the chief of police, the fire chief, and the public works
director.
      (6)   Any living trees or branches deemed as obstructions and requiring
removal within the public right-of-way will be flagged in advance of removal
and will be cleaned up by the transportation company within two business days.
Any cutting of trees or branches on private property shall require the written
approval of the property owner in advance of the trip. There are no exceptions
to this requirement.
      (7)   The applicant shall provide a route map, illustrating and naming
the roads through the town where the trip is proposed to take place. This route
shall be followed on the day and date proposed only, unless a route change is
authorized (see G.S. 20-364).
      (8)   The transportation company is responsible for the removal and
replacement of any fixed obstacles, at their expense (see G.S. 20-363).
      (9)   The use of a pilot vehicle are required.
      (10)   Flagging crews are required at both ends of roadway (town owned
roadways) and/or 100 yards before and behind structure.
      (11)   No application will be accepted any closer than 14 business days
from the proposed move date.
   (c)   The town code enforcement officer has the authority to rescind the
permit before or during the move if deemed necessary due to the applicant
failing to comply with any requirement as listed in this section or if
instructed to do so by the town chief of police for reasons of public safety.
(Code 1989, § 40.21; Ord. of 4-1-2015; Ord. of 5-14-2019)
Sec. 26-9. Damage to town property.
   No person shall injure, tamper with, remove, paint on, or deface any bridge,
culvert, ditch and drain, sign, signpost, streetlight, traffic signal, bulletin
board, or other town property on the streets and sidewalks or elsewhere except
employees of the town in the performance of their duties.
(Code 1989, § 40.22)
Sec. 26-10. Driveways; permit required.
   No person shall begin to construct, reconstruct, repair, alter, or grade any
driveway on the public streets, unless a written permit therefor has been
issued by the town.
(Code 1989, § 40.23)
Sec. 26-11. Penalty.
   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of this artcle
shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished in
accordance with G.S. 14-4. In addition, violations of this article may subject
the violator to civil penalties as set forth in section
1-10.
(Ord. of 6-14-2022)
Secs. 26-12—26-38. Reserved.
ARTICLE II.
STREET NAMING AND ADDRESSING
Sec. 26-39. Purpose and intent.
   The purpose and intent of this article is to ensure a uniform system of
addressing for all buildings in the town in order to facilitate provision of
adequate public safety and to minimize difficulty for emergency services and
the general public in locating any building in town.
(Code 1989, § 42.1)
Sec. 26-40. Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
Building means a structure having a roof supported by columns or walls for the
shelter, support or enclosure of persons, animals, chattels, or equipment. When
separated by divider walls from the ground up without openings, each portion of
such building may be deemed a separate building. For the purpose of this
article, the term "building" may also include other manmade structures.
Developer means any person, firm, trust, partnership, association or
cooperation engaged in the development of purposed development of a
subdivision, commercial complex, mobile home park, or planned unit development.
House/building number means a number assigned to any house, business, structure
or other structure or property in a sequential manner.
Mobile home park means any premises where two or more mobile homes are parked
for living and sleeping purposes, or any premises used or set apart for the
purpose of supplying to the public parking space for two or more mobile homes
for living and sleeping purposes, and which include any building, structures,
vehicles or enclosures used or intended for as part of such mobile home park.
Roadway means any road, street, drive, land, easement, right-of-way, access
area, thoroughfare, highway, boulevard, or any other corridor used for or
having the potential use as a means of conveyance by a motor vehicle.
Rutherford county E911 department means the official department of the county
charged with the administration of countywide addressing.
Street name means the official name of any roadway, approved by the town and
the county E911 department.
Street sign/signage means signage placed at the roadway intersection, which
indicates the street name, direction, and where appropriate, the state road
number and block number.
(Code 1989, § 42.2)
Sec. 26-41. Street names.
   (a)   Every street in the town is assigned an official name and is entered
in the county E911 department's database by the county addressing department.
New street names or requested name changes inside the town will be reviewed and
approved by the town before approval by the county E911 department. The review
by town will be by a committee appointed by the town manager.
   (b)   New street names shall not be the same as or sound similar to existing
street names in the county. Names recommended by property owners will be given
consideration first if no conflicting street names exist.
   (c)   Request to change an existing street name must take the following
issues into consideration:
      (1)   At least 75 percent or more of property owners on this road must
sign a petition to change the road name.
      (2)   Suggested street name must not conflict with existing street names.
      (3)   Reason to change name must outweigh the fact that changing name
will make all existing maps inaccurate and could severely delay emergency
services locating anyone on that street.
      (4)   If name is changed, property owners must bear cost of changing
street signs, including labor. The town shall notify all emergency agencies
responding in the town of the name change.
(Code 1989, § 42.3)
Sec. 26-42. Signage.
   (a)   The developers of new subdivisions shall erect signage consistent with
town street signs.
   (b)   Existing signs installed by the town will be maintained by the town.
Signs installed in new developments by the developer will be the responsibility
of the property owners' association of that community. The property owners'
association shall replace damaged or stolen signs within 60 days of receiving
written notification from the town.
   (c)   Street signs and post shall be of aluminum construction to resist
corrosion. Signs shall be green with white reflective letters. Letters shall be
minimum of 3 inches tall with minimum of one-half inch stroke letters. Optional
color signs may be considered by town but shall have white letters.
(Code 1989, § 42.4)
Sec. 26-43. House/building numbering.
   This article requires the owner of any residential, commercial, or other
structure to post numbers on said structure for the health, safety, and general
welfare of the citizens of the town. In the posting of numbers on structures
the following standards shall be used:
      (1)   The height of the number for a one- or two-family dwelling shall be
a minimum of three inches with a one-half stroke. The building number for
multifamily dwellings and commercial structures shall be a minimum of six-
inches with three-fourth-inch stroke. The number shall be placed facing the
roadway, within three feet of the entrance, when the building is easily seen
from the roadway. For buildings not visible or more than 75 feet from roadway
centerline, numbers shall be posted at the roadway adjacent to the drive.
Numbers shall also be posted on the structure to be visible as you travel along
the driveway.
      (2)   For mobile home parks or properties having only one address and
individual lots the entrance shall have six-inch numbers and each lot shall
have three-inch numbers. The lot numbers shall be marked uniformly and easily
visible from driveway.
      (3)   Numbers shall be mounted on contrasting background to be easily
visible, and reflective numbers are recommended.
      (4)   The town may approve an alternate method of displaying address
numbers on a case-by-case basis when these standards cannot be reasonably met.
(Code 1989, § 42.5)
Sec. 26-44. Boathouse numbering.
   (a)   All boathouses shall have the address assigned to the property posted
on the boathouse.
   (b)   Boathouse addresses shall include the name of the street to which the
property has access and number, due to the inability to determine the road from
the lake (for example: 123 Charlotte Drive). Approved boathouse signs must be
ordered through the town.
   (c)   Boathouse address signs will be aluminum construction with black
finish, four-inches high and as short as the address allows. The letters and
numbers shall be a minimum of three-inches tall and reflective.
   (d)   The address sign shall be posted on the boathouse a minimum of six
feet above normal water level. For boathouses on the main channels, the sign
must be on the side facing the channel. For boathouses in coves, the sign must
face the main body of water in the cove.
   (e)   Signs shall be in place before the annual boat permit is obtained
beginning in 2004 for existing structures. For new structures the sign must be
in place before final inspection by the zoning official.
   (f)   The owner shall be responsible for maintaining this sign.
(Code 1989, § 42.6)
Sec. 26-45. General requirements.
   It shall be unlawful without the written consent of the town for any person
to:
      (1)   Name or designate the name of any public road, neighborhood public
road, private subdivision street or private mobile home park road in the town.
      (2)   Erect any street sign on any public road, neighborhood public road,
private subdivision street or private mobile home park road in incorporated
areas of the town, without approval of the town.
      (3)   Erect any street sign on any roadway, public or private, in the
town, which does not meet the current town street sign specifications.
      (4)   Remove, deface, damage, or obstruct a street sign.
      (5)   Number or assign a number to any structure without the approval of
the town.
      (6)   Name a private street or road that duplicates or is substantially
similar to the name of an existing street or road within the county.
(Code 1989, § 42.7)
Sec. 26-46. Enforcement.
   (a)   The fire inspector may withhold certificates of occupancy for new
commercial structures until proper numbers are posted.
   (b)   The county building inspector or town zoning inspector may withhold
certificates of occupancy for structures until proper addresses are posted.
   (c)   Owners or occupants of buildings already constructed which do not
comply with this article will be notified and requested to meet the
requirements within 60 days from the date of the notification. A warning notice
will be issued after 60 days if the requirements have not been met. If the
owner or occupant does not comply voluntarily with this article within 30 days
of delivery of a warning notice by registered mail or by hand delivery to the
building in violation, enforcement action pursuant to G.S. 160A-175 may be
initiated.
(Code 1989, § 42.8)
Sec. 26-47. Penalty.
   (a)   Any person violating the provisions of this article shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine of not more than $50.00 or
imprisonment not more than 30 days, as provided by G.S. 14-4.
   (b)   Any violation of this article may be subject to civil remedies as set
forth in G.S. 160A-175.
(Code 1989, § 42.9)
Sec. 26-48. Amendment procedure.
   This article may be amended from time to time by the town as specified in
section 1-8.
(Code 1989, § 42.10)
Chapter 27
RESERVED
Chapter 28
SUBDIVISIONS 1
ARTICLE I.   IN GENERAL
28-1.   Short title.
28-2.   Authority.
28-3.   Purpose.
28-4.   Approval of plats.
28-5.   Certificates of zoning compliance.
28-6.   Definitions.
Secs. 28-7–28-30.   Reserved.
ARTICLE II.   PROCEDURE FOR REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF SUBDIVISION PLATS
28-31.   Approval.
28-32.   Sketch plan.
28-33.   Preliminary plat.
28-34.   Begin development.
28-35.   Final plat.
28-36.   Recording of the final plat.
28-37.   Effect of plat approval on dedications.
28-38.   Minor subdivisions.
28-39.   Planned unit development.
Secs. 28-40 28-66.   Reserved.
ARTICLE III.   GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
28-67.   Conformity to existing maps or plans.
28-68.   Continuation of adjoining street system.
28-69.   Access to adjacent properties.
28-70.   Large tracts or parcels.
28-71.   Alleys.
28-72.   Private drives.
28-73.   Street names.
28-74.   Surveying and placement of monuments.
28-75.   Preparation of plans by a registered surveyor or engineer.
28-76.   Preservation of water areas.
28-77.   Conservation design.
28-78.   Common amenities.
28-79.   Easements.
28-80.   Permanent open space lots.
Secs. 28-81–28-103.   Reserved.
ARTICLE IV.   IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED; MINIMUM STANDARDS OF DESIGN
28-104.   Suitability of land.
28-105.   Streets and roads.
28-106.   Water and sewer systems.
28-107.   Stormwater drainage.
28-108.   Sedimentation control.
28-109.   Tree protection.
28-110.   Lots.
28-111.   Building setback lines.
Secs. 28-112–28-135.   Reserved.
ARTICLE V.   AMENDMENTS
28-136.   Amendment procedures.
Secs. 28-137–28-155.   Reserved.
ARTICLE VI.   LEGAL PROVISIONS
28-156.   Separability.
28-157.   Abrogation.
28-158.   Penalty.
Secs. 28-159–28-189.   Reserved.
ARTICLE VII.   ATTACHMENTS
28-190.   Attachment A.
28-191.   Attachment B.
28-192.   Attachment C.
28-193.   Attachment D.
 
Notes
1 State law reference(s)—Regulation of subdivision of land, G.S. 160D-801.
ARTICLE I.
IN GENERAL
Sec. 28-1. Short title.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the "Subdivision Regulations
of the Town of Lake Lure, North Carolina."
(Code 1989, § 91.01; Ord. of 3-22-1994)
Sec. 28-2. Authority.
   The town council, pursuant to the authority conferred by an Act of the
general assembly of the state (G.S. ch. 160D), does hereby ordain and enact
into law these articles and sections.
(Code 1989, § 91.02; Ord. of 3-22-1994; Ord. No. 21-05-11A, 5-11-2021)
Sec. 28-3. Purpose.
   The purpose of these regulations is to establish procedures and standards
for the land clearing, land disturbance, development and subdivision of real
estate within the jurisdiction of the town in an effort to, among other things,
ensure proper legal description, identification, monumentation and recordation
of real estate boundaries; further the orderly layout and appropriate use of
the land; prevent the excessive removal of trees and native shrubs; minimize
land disturbance; provide safe, convenient and economic circulation of
vehicular traffic; provide suitable building sites which are readily accessible
to emergency vehicles; assure the proper installation of streets and utilities;
promote the eventual elimination of unsafe or unsanitary conditions arising
from undue concentration of population; and help conserve and protect the
physical and economic resources of the town.
(Code 1989, § 91.03; Ord. of 3-22-1994; Ord. of 10-10-2006; Ord. of 6-10-2008)
Sec. 28-4. Approval of plats.
   All plats for the subdivision of land shall be submitted to the town's
community development department for review by the zoning and planning board or
by the subdivision administrator, as appropriate, and shall conform to the
requirements of these regulations, and shall be submitted in accordance with
the procedures and specifications established herein and shall be accompanied
by fees as established by the schedule of fees adopted by resolution of the
town council. No plat of a subdivision of land within the town shall be filed
or recorded by the county register of deeds until it has been submitted and
given final approval as provided herein, and until such approval is entered on
the face of the final plat by the zoning and planning board or by the
subdivision administrator, as appropriate.
(Code 1989, § 91.04; Ord. of 3-22-1994; Ord. of 10-10-2006)
Sec. 28-5. Certificates of zoning compliance.
   No certificate of zoning compliance shall be issued for any building
construction in any subdivision (except minor subdivisions) for which a plat is
required to be approved until the final plat has been approved by the zoning
and planning board. No certificate of zoning compliance shall be issued for any
building construction in any minor subdivision for which a plat is required to
be approved until the final plat has been approved by the subdivision
administrator.
(Code 1989, § 91.05; Ord. of 3-22-1994; Ord. of 10-10-2006)
Sec. 28-6. Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
Arterial street means a major roadway serving as the primary artery through the
town.
Buffer strip means an area of land, whether landscaped or in its natural state,
consisting of evergreen trees and shrubs used to physically separate or screen
one use, structure, or property from another so as to visually shield or block
noise, light, or other nuisances. Any width that may be specified for such a
buffer strip shall be measured in the horizontal plane.
Building and grading envelope (BGE) means the limits of disturbance affected by
the establishment of a building and grounds. All buildings, walls, lawns,
driveways, site amenities, septic fields, and associated disturbance from
construction activity shall be confined within this zone. The BGE may be sited
in one mass or apportioned into several smaller compounds connected by walks or
drives. Provided, however, alternative septic systems shall not be included
within the BGE where it is demonstrated that any disturbance associated with
them is minimal.
Building setback line means a line delineating the minimum allowable distance
between the property line and a building on a lot, within which no building or
other structure shall be placed except as otherwise provided. Whenever the
front, side or rear portion of a lot abuts a street right-of-way, setback lines
shall be measured perpendicularly from said right-of-way line, or where no
right-of-way exists, from a point 16 feet from the centerline of the street.
Caliper means the diameter measurement of small tree trunks, taken at six
inches above the average ground level.
Canopy coverage means the area of the subject property that is covered by the
foliage of trees.
Clearcutting means the removal of over 70 percent of the existing trees on a
property.
Collector street means a street that collects traffic from minor streets and
lanes and provides access to arterial streets.
Common amenities means clubhouses, gazebos, tennis courts, swimming pools,
amphitheater parks, or other facilities or structures accessory to one or more
residential developments, intended to provide recreational, cultural or social
enrichment to people residing in a residential subdivision and/or the general
public.
Corner lot means a lot abutting upon two or more streets at their intersection.
Cul-de-sac means a street permanently terminated by a turn around.
Dbh means the diameter of a tree trunk measured at breast height, 4½ feet above
the average ground level.
Development means the construction, reconstruction, conversion, structural
alteration, relocation, or enlargement of any structure, any mining,
excavation, landfill; or any use or extension of the use of land.
Double frontage lot means a continuous lot of the same depth as the width of a
block containing two tiers of lots and which is accessible from both of the
streets upon which it fronts.
Easement means a grant by the property owner for use, by the public, a
corporation, or person, of a strip of land for specified reasons.
Excessive removal of trees means the removal, by any means, of all or
substantially all the trees and/or woody shrubs from one acre or 25 percent of
the acreage of a lot or tract of land, whichever is greater.
Final significant tree density means the significant tree density following
land clearing, land disturbance, and/or development. In terms of subdivision
development, the term "final significant tree" means the significant tree
density following completion of roads, utilities and common areas.
Forest coverage. The forest coverage of a piece of property refers to the
extent of forestation on the property. The term "forest coverage" may be
quantified by any of the following means:
      (1)   By analysis of the canopy coverage as seen in aerial photography;
      (2)   By calculation of the significant tree density on the property; or
      (3)   By other means deemed suitable by the tree protection officer.
Girdle means to inflict a cut or other damage to the bark such that the wound
encircles the tree to sufficient depth and extent that the likely result will
be the death of that tree.
Green area means an area of land designated for conservation, preservation,
landscaping, or reforestation.
Impervious material means any material that prevents absorption of stormwater
into the ground.
Improvements guarantee means an agreement between the subdivider and the town,
secured by a letter of credit or other security placed with the town, that
improvements described in an approved subdivision plat will be carried out
according to that plat, that tree and/or environmental protection measures
shown on the plat will be properly installed and maintained, that trees and/or
forest areas designated as protected on the plat will be undamaged at the
conclusion of land clearing, land disturbance and/or development, that areas
indicated on the plat as requiring grading will be graded as specified, and
that areas indicated on the plat to be left ungraded will be untouched and
undamaged at the conclusion of land clearing, land disturbance and/or
development.
Independent community water system means a privately owned central water system
constructed to town and state standards consisting of a source of potable
water, a distribution system and, where needed, a water storage facility.
Independent community water systems shall be operated and maintained by the
owners of the area to be served or by a private entity with whom the owners
shall contract for said service.
Individual sewer system means any septic tank, privy or other facility serving
a single source or connection and approved by the county sanitarian.
Individual water system means any well, spring, stream, or other source used to
supply a single connection.
Initial significant tree density means significant tree density at the time of
initial inspection and platting.
Land clearing means tree removal, underbrushing, grubbing, or any activity that
removes live woody plants such as trees and shrubs.
Land disturbance means any use of the land by any person in residential,
industrial, educational, institutional, or commercial development, highway and
road construction and maintenance or other construction or maintenance
activity, including chemical applications or other techniques, that results in
a change in the natural cover or topography and that may cause or contribute to
sedimentation.
Lane means a private street serving as primary access to not more than four
lots and meeting a lessor standard than minor streets.
Lot means a portion of a subdivision or any other parcel of land intended as a
unit for transfer of ownership, for land clearing, for land disturbance, for
development, or for all three. The term "lot" includes the term "plot" or
"parcel."
Major subdivision means any subdivision of a tract of land into more than five
lots, or any subdivision requiring the extension of public utilities and/or
development or dedication of new streets.
Minor street means a public or private street serving as primary access to five
or more lots.
Minor subdivision means any subdivision of a tract of land into five or fewer
lots and involving no new public or private streets or roads, rights-of-way
dedication, easements, or utility extensions.
Natural watercourse means any perennial or intermittent surface water
approximately shown on either the most recent version of the soil survey map
prepared by the Natural Resources Conservation Service of the U.S Department of
Agriculture or the most recent version of the 1:24,000 scale (7.5 minute)
quadrangle topographic maps prepared by the United States Geologic Survey
(USGS). Notwithstanding the foregoing, the subdivision administrator may
determine that a water body does or does not qualify as a natural watercourse
depending upon the presence of surface waters in accordance with the provisions
of 15A NCAC 2B.0233(3)(a) or other methods approved by the North Carolina
Division of Water Quality. For purposes of these regulations, the term "natural
watercourse" shall not include Lake Lure.
Official maps or plans means any maps or plans officially adopted by the town
council as a guide for land clearing, for land disturbance and/or for the
development of the town.
Open space means any area of land or water essentially unimproved and set
aside, designated, or reserved for conservation, preservation and/or passive
recreation.
Passive recreation means recreational activities that have minimal impact to
the natural environment such as hiking, running, biking, wildlife observation,
photography, fishing, swimming, picnicking, lake access and other similar uses.
Planned unit development means a development where more than one principal
building is proposed to be constructed on a single tract, or any residential
complex containing nine or more dwelling units on a single tract, or any
building with a gross floor area of 25,000 square feet or more.
Private drive (driveway) means a private access not intended to be a public
ingress or egress. Private drives are intended to provide direct access from
one lot or building site to a publicly or privately dedicated and maintained
street. However, a private drive may provide access for up to three residential
lots provided it meets the requirements of section 28-72. Private drives shall
be excluded from the definition of the term "street." The term "private drive"
shall include the term "driveway."
Private street means a street which has not been dedicated to and accepted by
the town but is instead owned and maintained by any other party.
Protected forest area means a green area consisting of existing forest
designated for protection on a subdivision plat and in the associated tree
protection plan. All significant trees within such an area are protected trees.
Protected tree means any tree marked for protection, or any significant tree
not expressly marked for removal, in a tree protection plan.
Protective boundary means a substantial visual screen, such as an orange
barrier fence, sufficient to clearly identify and set apart a protected tree or
protected forest area and the associated root protection zones.
Public street means a street which has been dedicated to and accepted by the
town and which is maintained by the town.
Qualified licensed professional means a licensed professional in a discipline
relevant to the task at hand, whose knowledge and capability to successfully
carry out that task have been amply demonstrated through his certified
practical experience in that discipline and in successful completion of
previous tasks similar to the one at hand.
Root protection zone (RPZ) means the area that encompasses the entire system of
a tree's major and minor roots, 24 inches deep and extending from the trunk of
the tree a radial distance equal to one foot for each inch of trunk diameter or
to the drip line of the tree, whichever is greater.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c141ac2780daea4288dd157975992950c90da25b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1286.png]
 
   Root Protection Zone: Trunk, Drip line (Canopy)
Sensitive natural area means any area, which is sensitive or vulnerable to
physical or biological alteration, as identified now or hereafter by the state
natural heritage program and which contains one or more of the following:
      (1)   Habitat, including nesting sites, occupied by rare or endangered
species;
      (2)   Rare or exemplary natural communities;
      (3)   Significant landforms, hydroforms, or geological features; or
      (4)   Other areas so designated by the state natural heritage program,
which are sensitive or vulnerable to physical or biological alteration.
Significant tree means any stable, healthy tree with a dbh equal to or greater
than the dbh noted as significant for that species in the table shown in
section 28-193, or a tree of any other species with a dbh of six inches or
greater.
Significant tree density means the number of significant trees per acre. For
example, a one-acre lot with ten significant trees has a significant tree
density of ten; a three-acre lot with 30 significant trees also has a
significant tree density of ten.
Single tier lot means a lot which backs upon a limited access highway, a
physical barrier, or a nonresidential use and to which access from the rear of
the lot is usually prohibited.
Stream buffer means the strip of land in its natural state or restored to a
suitably vegetated state, of specified width, lying adjacent to any stream,
river, creek, brook, run, branch, wetland, or waterway, or any reservoir, lake,
or pond, natural or impounded. (See also the discussion of buffer zones in
section 22-25(1).)
Street means a right-of-way intended for vehicular traffic which affords the
principal means of access to abutting properties.
Subdivider means any person, firm or corporation who subdivides or develops any
land deemed to be a subdivision as herein defined.
Subdivision means all divisions of a tract or parcel of land into two or more
lots, building sites, or other divisions, for the purpose of sale or building
development, whether immediate or future, and shall include all divisions of
land involving the dedication of a new street or a change in existing streets;
but the following shall not be included within this definition nor be subject
to the regulations of this chapter:
      (1)   The combination or recombination of portions of previously
subdivided and recorded lots where the total number of lots is not increased
and the resultant lots are equal to or exceed the standards of the town as
required by this chapter.
      (2)   The division of land into parcels greater than ten acres where no
street right-of-way dedication is involved.
      (3)   The public acquisition by purchase of strips of land for the
widening or opening of streets.
      (4)   The division of a tract of land in single ownership whose entire
area is no greater than two acres into not more than three lots, where no
street right-of-way dedication is involved, and where the resultant lots are
equal to or exceed the standards of the town as required by this chapter.
Subdivision administrator means the official responsible for the overall
administration and enforcement of these regulations. Such individual shall be
the community development director and/or such other person specifically
designated as subdivision administrator by the community development director.
The subdivision administrator may delegate duties under these regulations;
however, the subdivision administrator shall remain responsible for their
overall administration and enforcement.
Temporary construction road means a private access to a construction project or
logging operation intended to be removed at the completion of the project or
operation.
Tree means a woody plant with a well-developed main trunk of at least ten cm
(almost four inches) dbh at maturity.
Tree protection officer means a duly authorized town official whose function or
scope of authority includes enforcing the tree protection provisions of this
chapter.
Tree protection plan means information provided as part of a sketch plan,
preliminary plat, and/or final plat regarding protections provided to trees
during land clearing, land disturbance, and/or development as well as the
extent and condition of both the initial and final tree cover of the affected
parcel.
Viewshed means the totality of near, medium, and long-distance views of lakes,
streams, forests, ridgelines, mountains, or any combination thereof, as seen
from the lakes, roadways, public areas, and homes, encompassing all the natural
beauty of the area.
Zoning administrator means an official or designated person of the town charged
with administering this chapter. For purposes of this chapter, the office of
the zoning administrator is designated a planning agency as referred to in G.S.
160-373.
Zoning and planning board means the town's zoning and planning board.
(Code 1989, § 91.06; Ord. of 11-26-1996; Ord. of 11-13-2001; Ord. of 4-9-2002;
Ord. of 10-10-2006; Ord. of 11-14- 2006; Ord. of 10-9-2007; Ord. of 6-10-2008;
Ord. of 11-18-2008; Ord. of 3-10-2009; Ord. of 5-10-2011; Ord. of 4-10- 2012;
Ord. No. 21-05-11A, 5-11-2021)
Secs. 28-7—28-30. Reserved.
ARTICLE II.
PROCEDURE FOR REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF SUBDIVISION PLATS
Sec. 28-31. Approval.
   No final plat of a subdivision within the town shall be recorded by the
county register of deeds until it has been approved as provided herein. To
secure such approval of a final plat, the subdivider shall follow the procedure
established in this article. Furthermore, no street shall be maintained by the
town nor street dedication accepted for ownership and maintenance, nor shall
water, sewer or other public facilities or services be extended to or connected
with any subdivision for which a final plat is required to be approved unless
and until such approval has occurred as provided herein.
(Code 1989, § 91.15)
Sec. 28-32. Sketch plan.
   (a)   General. The subdivider may submit a sketch plan prior to submitting a
preliminary plat. The purpose of submitting the sketch plan is to afford the
subdivider an opportunity to obtain the advice and assistance of the town
planning staff in order to facilitate the subsequent preparation and approval
of the preliminary plat. This procedure does not require formal application or
fee.
   (b)   Suggested information. It is suggested that the sketch design plan
depict or contain the following information:
      (1)   A sketch vicinity map showing the location of the subdivision in
relation to neighboring tracts, subdivisions, roads, and waterways;
      (2)   The boundaries of the tract and the portion of the tract to be
subdivided;
      (3)   The total acreage to be subdivided;
      (4)   The existing and proposed uses of the land within the subdivision
and adjoining it;
      (5)   The proposed street and lot layout and whether public or private;
      (6)   The name, address, and telephone number of the owner;
      (7)   Streets and lots of adjacent developed or platted properties;
      (8)   The zoning classification of the tract and adjacent properties, if
applicable;
      (9)   The proposed water and sewer system; and
      (10)   Depiction of all forested areas proposed to be protected plus
individual significant trees outside protected forest areas. Clear
identification of those forest areas and individual trees proposed to be
protected and those forest areas and individual trees proposed to be removed.
(Code 1989, § 91.16; Ord. of 10-10-2006; Ord. of 11-14-2006)
Sec. 28-33. Preliminary plat.
   (a)   General. For all major subdivisions, the subdivider shall submit seven
copies of a preliminary plat containing all required information to the
subdivision administrator.
   (b)   Contents required. The preliminary plat shall be clearly and legibly
drawn at a scale sufficient to clearly indicate the necessary details. The
preliminary plat shall be executed by a registered land surveyor and shall
contain the following information:
      (1)   Vicinity map.
      (2)   Boundaries of the tract.
      (3)   Existing and proposed uses.
      (4)   Name, address and telephone number of owner.
      (5)   Streets and lots of adjacent properties.
      (6)   Zoning classification and adjacent zoning.
      (7)   Proposed water and sewer line location.
      (8)   Boundaries with bearings, distances and closures.
      (9)   Drainage channels.
      (10)   Any public or private easements.
      (11)   Setback lines, all shall comply with minimum requirements of
chapter 36.
      (12)   Title, date, name and location of subdivision.
      (13)   Name of subdivider, registered surveyor and seal.
      (14)   Plans for water and sewer accompanied by written recommendations
from the town engineer after thorough review.
      (15)   Location of any areas of environmental concern: wooded areas,
steep slopes, or watercourses such as wetlands, marsh, trout streams, lakes,
tributaries, etc.
      (16)   Copy of any covenants or deed restrictions that will affect land
clearing, land disturbance and/or development standards.
      (17)   Tree protection plan. (See section 28-109.)
      (18)   Erosion control plans accompanied by written recommendations from
the town erosion control officer after thorough review.
   (c)   Subdivision plat requirements. The following items shall be required
information for review of a minor subdivision plat, in conjunction with any
applicable standards referenced in section 28-35:
      (1)   Vicinity map showing location of subdivision in relation to
neighboring tracts.
      (2)   Boundaries of tract and portion to be divided.
      (3)   Total acreage to be divided.
      (4)   Existing and proposed uses within the subdivision and existing uses
of adjacent land.
      (5)   Existing street layout and right-of-way width, lot delineation and
size.
      (6)   Name, address and telephone number of owner.
      (7)   Name of subdivision.
      (8)   All setback lines.
      (9)   Streets and lots of adjacent developed or platted property.
      (10)   Zoning classification of tract and adjacent tracts.
      (11)   Date of preparation, township, county and state.
      (12)   Proof of sewer and water utility permits.
      (13)   Tree protection plan. (See section 28-109.)
   (d)   Town staff review procedure.
      (1)   Upon submission of a preliminary plat to the subdivision
administrator in accordance with subsection (a) of this section, the
subdivision administrator shall circulate one copy of said plat to appropriate
town staff for review of streets, utilities, and zoning.
      (2)   Within 14 days of receipt of a copy of the preliminary plat, the
appropriate town staff shall submit written approval or disapproval to the
subdivision administrator as follows:
         a.   The public works director shall approve or disapprove plans for
the sanitary sewer and water distribution systems.
         b.   The public works director shall approve or disapprove plans for
streets and drainage within the proposed subdivision.
         c.   The subdivision administrator shall approve or disapprove the
preliminary plat based on conformity or nonconformity with all applicable
elements of chapter 36.
      (3)   Any disapprovals submitted to the subdivision administrator shall
be accompanied by a list of actions necessary to eliminate the reasons for such
disapproval. Upon receipt of any disapproval from town staff, the subdivision
administrator shall notify the subdivider in writing of such disapproval and
the actions necessary to eliminate the reasons for such disapproval. The
subdivision administrator and the staff member indicating any disapproval shall
be available to work with the subdivider as he takes steps necessary to
eliminate reasons for such disapproval.
   (e)   Zoning and planning board review procedure. When the subdivision
administrator receives written approval from all staff as required in this
section, he shall notify the chairperson of the zoning and planning board or
his designee. At that time, copies of the preliminary plat shall be distributed
to members of the zoning and planning board. First consideration of the
preliminary plat shall be at the next regularly scheduled meeting of the zoning
and planning board that follows at least seven days after the chairperson or
his designee has received said notification from the subdivision administrator.
The zoning and planning board shall approve or deny the preliminary plat at its
first consideration or within 35 days of its first consideration. Failure to
take official action within this timeframe shall constitute approval by the
zoning and planning board unless the board extends its review time for reasons
specified below.
      (1)   Before taking action on the preliminary plat, the zoning and
planning board may refer copies of the plat and any accompanying material to
those public and any private agencies concerned with new land clearing, land
disturbance and/or development, provided that the zoning and planning board may
extend the 35-day review period if within said time period it has not received
information it deems necessary for a thorough review of the plat.
      (2)   If the zoning and planning board approves the preliminary plat,
such approval shall be indicated in its minutes and such approval shall be
shown on each copy of the plat by the following signed certificate:
   Certificate of Approval
   I certify that the preliminary plat shown hereon complies with the Lake Lure
subdivision regulations and is approved by the Town of Lake Lure zoning and
planning board.
 
Date Chairman, Zoning and Planning Board
 
      (3)   If the preliminary plat is disapproved by the zoning and planning
board, the reasons for such disapproval shall be stated in writing, specifying
the provisions of this Code with which the preliminary plat does not comply.
One copy of the reasons and one copy of the plat shall be retained by the
zoning and planning board; one copy of the reasons and the remaining copies of
the plat shall be transmitted to the subdivider. If the preliminary plat is
disapproved, the subdivider may make such changes as will bring the plat into
compliance and resubmit same for reconsideration by the zoning and planning
board as provided in this article.
      (4)   Approval of the preliminary plat shall be valid for one year unless
a written extension is granted by the zoning and planning board on or before
the one-year anniversary of said approval. If the final plat is not submitted
for approval within said one-year period or any period of extension, the said
approval of the preliminary plat shall be null and void.
   (f)   Erosion control plans. No person shall initiate any land disturbing
activity which disturbs more than one contiguous acre within the proposed
subdivision without having an erosion control plan approved by the land quality
section of the State Department of Natural Resources and Community Development
and the subdivision administrator, as required by chapter 22. Written
documentation shall accompany the preliminary plat.
   (g)   Deposit of compliance. A deposit of compliance that is refundable when
all infrastructure has been approved by the subdivision administrator shall be
required. In the event that any damages occur to town infrastructure and/or
property, these funds may be seized to cover any costs associated with
correcting said damages. The deposit of compliance shall be a certified or
cashier's check in the amount set by the zoning and planning board. The zoning
and planning board shall establish the amount of the deposit based on the
degree of risk to town infrastructure and/ or property. This amount shall be no
less than $1,000.00, and no more than $10,000.00.
(Code 1989, § 91.17; Ord. of 3-22-1994; Ord. of 11-13-2001; Ord. of 10-10-2006;
Ord. of 11-14-2006; Ord. of 6-10- 2008; Ord. of 11-10-2009)
Sec. 28-34. Begin development.
   (a)   Generally. Upon approval of the preliminary plat by the zoning and
planning board, the subdivider may proceed with preparation of the final plat,
the land clearing, the land disturbance and/or the installation of or
arrangements for roads, utilities, and other improvements as specified in the
approved portion of the preliminary plat that will be submitted for final
approval.
   (b)   Improvements guarantees.
      (1)   Agreement prior to final plat approval. In lieu of requiring the
completion, installation and dedication of all improvements prior to final plat
approval, the town may enter into an agreement with the subdivider whereby the
subdivider shall agree to complete all required improvements as specified on
the approved preliminary plat for that portion of the subdivision to be shown
on the final plat within a reasonable time to be determined in said agreement.
The guarantees under such an agreement shall include the following:
         a.   That water supply and distribution systems and sewer collection
systems are installed in accordance with the Town Standard Specifications and
Details for Construction;
         b.   That streets and the stormwater collection network are installed
as specified in these regulations;
         c.   That soil erosion control measures are installed and maintained
as specified in chapter 22;
         d.   That tree and/or environmental protection measures shown on the
plat shall be properly installed and maintained throughout land clearing, land
disturbance and/or development;
         e.   That areas of the subdivision specified on the plat to be graded
shall be graded as specified or shall be so graded at the expense of the
subdivider;
         f.   That areas of the subdivision specified on the plat to be left
ungraded shall be left ungraded as specified or shall be returned as far as
possible to the original condition at the expense of the subdivider;
         g.   That any significant trees cut without appropriate approvals, or
damaged to an extent likely to cause the death of those trees, shall be
replaced by healthy trees at the expense of the subdivider;
         h.   That any areas exceeding 100 square feet in size from which
native shrubbery and their stumps and roots have been removed without approval
as part of a tree protection plan, or damaged to an extent likely to cause the
death of those shrubs, shall be replanted with healthy shrubbery at the expense
of the subdivider; and
         i.   That replacement trees and shrubbery shall be of species
recommended in the Lake Lure Tree Protection Handbook, and at the "minimum dbh
for replanting" sizes appropriate to the species as shown in section 28-193.
They shall be planted in sufficient numbers to equal the total inches in dbh of
the trees so damaged or removed, and/or to fully replant the area of shrubbery
so damaged or removed.
      (2)   Breaking final plat into phases. The town may require that the
final plat be broken into smaller phases when the required security exceeds
$500,000.00, or when the town's interest (as determined by town council) would
be served by an alternate phasing plan. The extent of the smaller phases shall
be established by the applicant in cooperation with the subdivision
administrator.
   (c)   Preliminary plat approval requirements. Once said agreement is signed
by both parties and security required herein is provided, the final plat may be
approved by the zoning and planning board provided it meets with the
requirements of section 28-35. To secure this agreement, the subdivider shall
provide, following the preliminary plat approval of the zoning and planning
board, either one or a combination of the following guarantees not exceeding
1.75 times the entire cost as approved by the subdivision administrator, of
installing required improvements, replanting, and repairs, as specified in
subsection (b)(1) of this section, on the approved preliminary plat for that
portion of the subdivision to be shown on the final plat.
      (1)   Surety performance bond. The subdivider shall obtain a performance
bond with supporting references relative to our region from a surety bonding
company authorized to do business in the state, and having a secure financial
strength rating from the A.M. Best Company or an equivalent rating from a firm
acceptable to the town. No bond in excess of $100,000.00 shall be accepted from
any single surety bonding company with a rating from the A.M. Best Company
lower than A- (or an equivalent rating from a firm acceptable to the town). The
bond shall be payable to the Town Of Lake Lure. The duration of the bond shall
be until such time as the improvements are approved by the town council.
      (2)   Cash or equivalent security. The subdivider shall deposit cash or
other instrument readily convertible into cash at face value, either with the
town or in escrow with a financial institution designated as an official
depository of the town. The use of any instrument other than cash shall be
subject to the approval of the town council. If cash or other instrument is
deposited in escrow with a financial institution as provided in this
subsection, then the subdivider shall file with the town council an agreement
between the financial institution and himself guaranteeing the following:
         a.   That said escrow account and any accumulated interest shall be
held in trust until released by the town council and may not be used or pledged
by the subdivider in any other matter during the term of the escrow; and
         b.   That in the case of a failure on the part of the subdivider to
complete any improvements or any required replantings or repairs, the financial
institution shall, upon notification by the town council and submission by the
town council to the financial institution of the subdivision administrator's
determination of the amount needed to complete the improvements, replantings,
or repairs, immediately either pay to the town the funds determined to be
needed to complete the improvements, replantings, or repairs up to the full
balance of the escrow account, or deliver to the town any other instruments
fully endorsed or otherwise made payable in full to the town.
      (3)   Letter of credit. When a letter of credit is submitted, it shall be
approved by the town attorney and the town council and deposited with the
subdivision administrator; the following information shall be contained in said
letter:
         a.   It shall be entitled "Irrevocable letter of credit."
         b.   It shall indicate that the town is the sole beneficiary.
         c.   The amount (of the letter of credit) as approved by the
subdivision administrator.
         d.   The account number and/or credit number that drafts may be drawn
on.
         e.   A list of improvements that shall be built that the letter is
guaranteeing.
         f.   A list of conditions to be met with regard to tree and/or native
shrub health and safety at the conclusion of land clearing, land disturbance
and/or development, including replanting any replaced trees and/or shrubs not
found in good health for the period specified in subsection (b)(1)i of this
section.
         g.   Terms in which the town may make drafts on the account.
         h.   Expiration date of the letter.
   (d)   Default. Upon default, meaning failure on the part of the subdivider
to complete the required improvements, replantings, and/or repairs in a timely
manner as spelled out in the agreement in subsection (b)(1) of this section,
the surety, or the financial institution holding the escrow account shall, if
requested by the town council, pay all or any portion of the bond or escrow
fund to the town up to the amount needed to complete the improvements,
replantings, and/or repairs based on the subdivision administrator's
determination. Upon payment, the town council, in its discretion, may expend
such portion of said funds as it deems necessary to complete all or any portion
of the required improvements, replantings, and/or repairs. The town shall
return to the surety or escrow account any funds not spent in completing the
improvements, replantings, and/or repairs.
   (e)   Release of guarantee security. The town council may release a portion
of any security posted as the improvements, replantings, and/or repairs are
completed and recommended for approval by the subdivision administrator. Prior
to release of all or any portion of the security posted, the subdivider shall:
      (1)   Submit signed and sealed statements from a licensed engineer and/or
the tree protection officer that the improvements, replantings, and/or repairs
for which the developer seeks release of funds have been installed in
accordance with all applicable state and local specifications and according to
the approved plans and that the property is properly stabilized.
      (2)   Obtain a two-year extension of the letter of credit in cases where
trees and/or shrubs were required to be replaced, to assure replanting of any
such trees and/or shrubs not found to be in good health at the end of the
period specified in subsection (b)(1)i this section. This deposit shall be in
an amount equal to 1.75 times the determined cost of replanting the failed
replacement trees, as determined by the subdivision administrator.
   (f)   Release of security. At such time as these requirements have been met,
and the subdivision administrator approves all improvements, replantings, and/
or repairs placed in the subdivision as set forth by the zoning and planning
board, then all security posted shall be immediately released.
(Code 1989, § 91.18; Ord. of 5-23-1995; Ord. of 10-10-2006; Ord. of 11-14-2006;
Ord. of 1-9-2007; Ord. of 6-10- 2008; Ord. of 11-10-2009; Ord. of 11-17-2009)
Sec. 28-35. Final plat.
   (a)   General. No final plat for a major subdivision shall be considered
unless it has been preceded by a preliminary plat approved by the zoning and
planning board. The final plat shall constitute only that portion of the
preliminary plat which the subdivider proposes to record and develop at the
time of submission. No final plat shall be considered unless and until the
subdivider shall have installed in that area represented on the final plat all
improvements required by this section as specified in the approved preliminary
plat, or financial guarantees of said improvements have been arranged in
accordance with section 28-34. No final plat shall be considered until any and
all damages (caused as a result of the development of the subdivision) to
public infrastructure and/or property has been corrected to the satisfaction of
the town. The subdivider shall submit seven copies and one original of the
final plat to the subdivision administrator. At the time of submission of the
final plat, the subdivider shall pay such fee as established by the town and
any fees incurred by the town during the plat review process.
   (b)   Contents required. The original of the final plat shall be at a scale
of not more than 100 feet to one inch, on a sheet of a size and material that
will be acceptable to the county register of deeds, and shall conform
substantially to the preliminary plat as approved. The plat shall conform to
the provisions of the G.S. 47-30, as amended. The final plat shall be executed
by a registered land surveyor and shall show the following information:
      (1)   Subdivision name, north arrow, scale denoted graphically and
numerically, date of plat preparation, and township, county and state in which
the subdivision is located; and the name of the owner and the registered
surveyor (including the seal and registration number).
      (2)   The exact boundary lines of the tract to be subdivided fully
dimensioned by lengths and bearings, and the location of intersecting boundary
lines of adjoining lands.
      (3)   The names and deed references (when possible) of owners of
adjoining properties and adjoining subdivisions of record (proposed or under
review).
      (4)   All visible and apparent rights-of-way, watercourses, utilities,
roadways, and other such improvements shall be accurately located where
crossing or forming any boundary line of the property shown.
      (5)   Sufficient engineering data to determine readily and reproduce on
the ground every straight or curved boundary line, street line, lot line,
right-of-way line, easement line, and setback line, including dimensions,
bearings or deflection angles, radii, central angles, and tangent distances for
the centerline of curved streets and curved property lines that are not the
boundary of curved streets.
      (6)   The accurate locations and descriptions of all monument markers and
control points.
      (7)   The blocks numbered consecutively throughout the entire subdivision
and the lots numbered consecutively throughout each block.
      (8)   Minimum building setback lines.
      (9)   Street names and right-of-way lines of all streets, and the
location and width of all adjacent streets and easements.
      (10)   The location and dimensions of all rights-of-way, utilities, or
other easements.
      (11)   Forms for final certifications. The following certificates shall
be lettered or rubber stamped on the final plat in such a manner as to ensure
that said certificates will be legible on any prints made therefrom. Prior to
final plat approval, the certificates referred to in subsections (b)(11)a
through d of this section (if applicable) shall be signed by the appropriate
person.
         a.   Certificate of ownership.
I (We) hereby certify that I am (we are) the owner(s) of the property shown and
described hereon, and that I (we) hereby adopt this plan of subdivision with my
(our) free consent, establish minimum building lines and minimum standards for
all streets, sewers, water lines, alleys, walks, parks, and other sites.
Further, I (we) certify the land as shown hereon is within the platting
jurisdiction of the Town of Lake Lure, North Carolina.
 
Date  Owner
Owner
 
         b.   Certificate of accuracy.
(As required under G.S. 47-30 as amended.)
 
Date Registered Surveyor
 
         c.   Certification of approval of the installation and construction of
streets, utilities and other required improvements, and of the protection and/
or replacement of trees.
I hereby certify that streets, utilities, and other required improvements have
been installed, and that existing trees have been successfully protected and/or
have been replaced with trees of acceptable species, health, and size,
according to an approved tree protection plan, or that a guarantee of such
installation has been arranged as authorized in section 28-34, in accordance
with the preliminary plat approved by the zoning and planning board, and
according to town specifications and standards in the subdivision entitled
 
 
 
Date Subdivision Administrator
 
         d.   One of the following certificates regarding ownership and
maintenance of street rights-of-way in the subdivision must be lettered or
stamped on the final plat indicating whether streets are to be private or
dedicated to the public.
            1.   Certificate of ownership and maintenance of private streets.
I hereby certify that the streets shown on this plat of the subdivision
entitled ___________ are private streets, and the responsibility for
maintenance shall not be with the Town of Lake Lure.
 
Date Owner
 
            2.   Certificate of dedication to the public.
I hereby certify that the rights-of-way and design of all streets represented
on this plat have been approved by the Town of Lake Lure and that said streets
have been or will be constructed in accordance with town requirements for
public streets. I hereby dedicate said rights-of-way to the town for use as
public streets. Further, until such time that the town, by resolution, accepts
said dedication, the responsibility for maintenance shall rest with .
 
Date Owner
 
            3.   Certificate of dedication to the public.
I hereby certify that I dedicate to the public use all areas shown on this plat
as streets, alleys, walks, parks, open space, and easements, except those
specifically indicated as private. I hereby certify that the rights-of-way and
design of all streets represented on this plat have been approved by the Town
of Lake Lure and that said streets have been or will be constructed in
accordance with town requirements for public streets. All property shown on
this plat as dedicated for public use shall be deemed to be dedicated for any
public use authorized by law when such other use is approved by the Town of
Lake Lure Town Council in the public interest. Further, until such time that
the town, by resolution, accepts said dedication, the responsibility for
maintenance shall rest with .
 
Date Owner
 
   (c)   Subdivision administrator review and approval. Upon receipt of the
final plat in accordance with subsection (a) of this section, the developer
shall submit a signed and sealed statement from a licensed engineer that all
streets and water and sewer utilities have been installed in accordance with
all applicable state and local specifications and according to the approved
plans, unless a guarantee of such installations has been arranged in accordance
with section 28-34. The subdivision administrator shall certify that the
subdivision complies with all applicable elements of chapter 36. The
subdivision administrator shall also receive approval of the water and/or sewer
plans and/or installation as required in section 28-106. Upon receipt of said
written approvals, the subdivision administrator shall approve the final plat
and sign the certificate of approval of the installation and construction of
streets, utilities and other required improvements as required in subsection
(b)(11)c of this section.
   (d)   Zoning and planning board review and approval. When the final plat is
approved by the subdivision administrator, he shall submit the plat to the
zoning and planning board for final approval. The zoning and planning board
shall consider the final plat at the next regularly scheduled meeting that
follows at least seven days after submission by the subdivision administrator.
The zoning and planning board shall take action on the final plat at its first
consideration or at any regular or special meeting within 35 days of the plat's
first consideration. The zoning and planning board may extend the review period
if it deems necessary in order to obtain additional information necessary for a
thorough review of the plat.
   (e)   Disposition of copies. If the final plat is approved by the zoning and
planning board, the original tracing and one print shall be retained by the
subdivider, and one print shall be filed with the subdivision administrator.
   (f)   Certificate of approval. After approval by the zoning and planning
board, the following certificate shall be lettered or rubber stamped on the
final plat in such a manner as to ensure that said certificate will be legible
on any prints made therefrom:
   Certificate of approval
I certify that the final plat shown hereon complies with the town subdivision
regulations and is approved by the zoning and planning board for recording in
the county register of deeds office.
 
Date Chairman, Zoning and Planning Board
 
(Code 1989, 91.19; Ord. of 9-27-1994; Ord. of 5-23-1995; Ord. of 10-10-2006;
Ord. of 11-14-2006; Ord. of 11-10- 2009)
Sec. 28-36. Recording of the final plat.
   Within 60 days after the final plat has been approved by the zoning and
planning board, it shall have been recorded with the county register of deeds.
Should the 60-day time limit expire before the plat is recorded, it must be
resubmitted in accordance with the provisions of this article. Upon adoption of
this article, the county register of deeds shall not thereafter file or record
a plat of a subdivision located within the town until said plat has been
approved by the zoning and planning board. Without the approval of the zoning
and planning board, the filing or recording of a subdivision plat shall be null
and void.
(Code 1989, § 91.20)
Sec. 28-37. Effect of plat approval on dedications.
   The approval of a final plat shall not be deemed to constitute or effect the
acceptance by the town of the dedication of any street, public utility line, or
other public facility as shown on the plat. The town council shall pass a
resolution in order to accept any dedication made to the public of lands or
facilities for streets, parks, public utility lines, or other public purposes.
(Code 1989, § 91.21)
Sec. 28-38. Minor subdivisions.
   (a)   No preliminary plat is required for minor subdivisions. Final plat for
a minor subdivision must contain all information required by section 28-35(b)
and shall be presented to the subdivision administrator at least three working
days prior to offering any portion for recording in the office of the register
of deeds. Additional information may be needed by zoning staff in order to
evaluate the proposed subdivision to see if the subdivision meets the
requirements of this section. Once the additional information is received by
zoning staff, the three-day review period will begin. If the minor subdivision
complies with the following standards, the subdivision administrator shall
provide the approval in writing on the face of the deed or plat. Once the deed
or plat has been approved, the owner or the owner's agent may record the deed
or plat in the office of the register of deeds.
   (b)   The following are the standards for approval of minor subdivisions:
      (1)   Minor subdivisions may be approved, provided that the subdivision:
         a.   Does not violate any adopted plan, policy, or ordinance of the
town;
         b.   Does not create any new public streets;
         c.   Does not block or impede the extension of a public street located
within a subdivision recorded on a final plat in the office of the register of
deeds or a public street shown on a preliminary subdivision which is on file in
the zoning office;
         d.   Does not leave an implied division of property which would not
meet the requirements of chapter 36 or any other land regulatory ordinances; or
         e.   Does not land lock any tract of land.
      (2)   If a minor subdivision lies within a preliminary subdivision which
has been approved by the zoning and planning board, then official action must
be taken by the zoning and planning board to withdraw the subdivision or any
portion thereof before a minor subdivision can be approved.
      (3)   There may be only one minor subdivision in one tract of land, or
contiguous tracts of land owned by an individual, group of individuals, or
partnership or a company or any combination thereof. All minor subdivisions
shall be reviewed in accordance with the provisions in this article. However,
if the owner leases, holds an option on or holds any legal or equitable
interest in any property to be subdivided, the subdivision shall not qualify
under the abbreviated minor plat procedure. Furthermore, the abbreviated
procedure may not be used a second time within three years on any property less
than 1,500 feet from the original property boundaries by anyone who owned, had
an option on or any legal interest in the original subdivision at the time the
subdivision received preliminary or final plat approval.
(Code 1989, § 91.22; Ord. of 11-13-2001)
Sec. 28-39. Planned unit development.
   Non-traditional subdivisions may be developed as planned unit developments
as described in section 36-104. Planned unit developments are permitted as a
special use in most zoning districts.
(Code 1989, § 91.23; Ord. No. 21-05-11A, 5-11-2021)
Secs. 28-40—28-66. Reserved.
ARTICLE III.
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
Sec. 28-67. Conformity to existing maps or plans.
   The location and width of all proposed streets, trails, and paths, and the
location of proposed green areas shall be in conformity with official plans and
maps of the town.
(Code 1989, § 91.35; Ord. of 3-22-1994; Ord. of 10-10-2006)
Sec. 28-68. Continuation of adjoining street system.
   The proposed street layout shall be coordinated with the street system of
the surrounding area. Where possible, existing principal streets shall be
extended.
(Code 1989, § 91.36)
Sec. 28-69. Access to adjacent properties.
   Where, in the opinion of the zoning and planning board, it is desirable to
provide for street access to an adjoining property, proposed streets shall be
extended by dedication to the boundary of such property and a temporary turn
around shall be provided.
(Code 1989, § 91.37)
Sec. 28-70. Large tracts or parcels.
   Where land is subdivided into larger parcels than ordinary building lots,
such parcels shall be arranged so as to allow for the opening of future
streets, trails, paths, and green areas, and logical further resubdivision.
(Code 1989, § 91.38; Ord. of 3-22-1994; Ord. of 10-10-2006)
Sec. 28-71. Alleys.
   Alleys shall be provided to the rear of all lots used for other than
residential purposes. All dead-end alleys shall be provided with a turn around.
(Code 1989, § 91.39)
Sec. 28-72. Private drives.
   No private drives shall serve more than one lot, except that driveways may
be permitted to serve up to three residential lots provided each lot fronts a
public or private street and after a determination by the subdivision
administrator that reasonable access from the street to said lots cannot be
achieved due to topography or natural features. Driveways shall have a
travelway width of not less than ten feet and shall be surfaced with gravel or
pavement. Driveways which intersect with a state road shall require a permit
from the state department of transportation. Private drives will not be
maintained by the town.
(Code 1989, § 91.39A; Ord. of 11-26-1996; Ord. of 4-9-2002)
Sec. 28-73. Street names.
   Proposed streets which are obviously in alignment with existing streets
shall bear the assigned name of the existing streets. Streets shall be named
under the procedure found in section 26-41.
(Code 1989, § 91.40; Ord. of 11-26-1996)
Sec. 28-74. Surveying and placement of monuments.
"The Manual of Practice for Land Surveying," as adopted by the state board of
registration for professional engineers and land surveyors, under provisions of
G.S. ch. 89C, shall apply when conducting surveys.
(Code 1989, § 91.41; Ord. of 11-26-1996)
Sec. 28-75. Preparation of plans by a registered surveyor or engineer.
   (a)   All plans for streets and drainage as required in this article shall
be executed by a registered engineer or a registered surveyor. The engineer's
or surveyor's seal shall be affixed to such plans.
   (b)   All plans for water and sewer (except individual water or sewer
systems) as required in this article shall be executed by a registered
engineer. The engineer's seal shall be affixed to such plans.
(Code 1989, § 91.42; Ord. of 11-26-1996)
Sec. 28-76. Preservation of water areas.
   (a)   Intent. It is the intent of these regulations both to safeguard
existing and potential land clearing, land disturbance and/or development in
appropriate locations and to preserve and promote a desirable ecological
balance. Insofar as is reasonably practicable, subdivisions shall, therefore,
be located, designed and improved to accomplish the following:
      (1)   Preserve important natural water areas and related vegetation and
wildlife habitats;
      (2)   Avoid creation of upstream impoundments or downstream runoff
harmful to such complexes or to existing or potential development in
appropriate locations; and
      (3)   Maintain desirable groundwater levels.
   (b)   Maintenance of natural watercourses. Standards for maintenance of
natural watercourses are as provided herein.
      (1)   Where a proposed subdivision is traversed by or includes in whole
or in part a natural watercourse, as defined herein, the following requirements
shall apply:
         a.   Such natural watercourse shall be maintained in its natural state
except for those vehicular or utility crossings which are necessary and deemed
unavoidable by the approving authority.
         b.   Bordering lands within 25 feet of the edge of any natural
watercourse shall be maintained in a naturally vegetated and unaltered state.
         c.   Bordering lands likely to be inundated at the period of high
water during periods of rainfall of ten-year return frequency shall be
maintained in a naturally vegetated and unaltered state.
      (2)   The subdivision administrator, as a condition for plat approval,
may make such requirements as are reasonable for the protection of such areas,
including the following:
         a.   The subdivision administrator may require that streets and/or
parkways shall border such areas, setting them apart from residential or other
intensive uses; or
         b.   The subdivision administrator may require that all or part of
such area shall be platted as part of residential or other lots.
      (3)   In making decisions concerning such requirements, the subdivision
administrator shall consider topography, drainage patterns, soil types,
character of existing and potential upland uses, ground cover, erosion control
requirements, character of the area to be protected, the adequacy of proposed
filter areas, and the like.
   (c)   Minor incursions for recreational purposes. Minor incursions into
areas protected under this section may be permitted for the purpose of
providing pedestrian and bicycle access for passive recreational activities.
Such incursions shall be permitted only if shown on the preliminary and final
plats and approved by the subdivision administrator.
(Code 1989, § 91.43; Ord. of 10-9-2007; Ord. of 6-10-2008)
Sec. 28-77. Conservation design.
   The requirements in this section are intended to provide for a subdivision
design that is more efficient and better suited to the natural features of the
land. Conservation design allows smaller and less costly networks of roads and
utilities, encourages closer-knit and potentially safer neighborhoods,
preserves sensitive farmland, woodlands, scenic views and open space, and
reduces the amount of impervious surface and resulting stormwater runoff. The
open space provided by conservation design can be used to provide recreational
opportunities for the subdivision's residents or employees, to conserve and
protect significant natural areas and environmentally sensitive areas, to
conserve important historic resources, and/or to conserve productive farming
and forestry uses.
      (1)   Compliance required. Subdivisions containing 20 or more acres shall
utilize conservation design in accordance with the requirements of this
section. Notwithstanding the foregoing, subdivisions of land situated entirely
within the R-1 zoning classification containing at least five contiguous acres
may utilize conservation design but are not required to do so.
      (2)   Contiguous subdivisions. It is the intent of this section to
preclude any attempt to avoid conservation design by the sequential subdivision
of land into two or more subdivisions containing less than 20 acres. To that
end, two or more subdivisions shall be aggregated and treated as a single
subdivision under this article when they are contiguous to property owned or
controlled by person owning or controlling the land to be subdivided.
      (3)   General design requirements. In addition to the other standards
contained in these regulations, conservation design subdivisions shall comply
with the following design requirements:
         a.   Minimum conservation design subdivision site size. The minimum
land area within a parcel to create a conservation design subdivision shall be
at least five contiguous acres.
         b.   Maximum number of lots in conservation design subdivision. The
maximum number of lots allowed within a conservation design subdivision shall
be determined by dividing the total acreage in the tract, excluding state road
and town street rights-of-way and primary conservation areas, by the lot size
requirement for zoning classification of the property contained in section 36-
70.
         c.   Lot design and dimensional requirements for subdivisions. Lots
shall be clustered in one or more contiguous areas. Furthermore, provided the
arrangement, design and shape of lots is such that lots provide satisfactory
and desirable sites for building and contribute to the overall preservation of
open space and all other requirements in this section and applicable local,
state and federal requirements are met, the minimum lot area, lot width and
yard requirements as shown in section 36-70 for the applicable zoning
classification may be reduced as stated herein. Any reduction in the yard
requirements as shown in section 36-70 shall be approved by the zoning and
planning board during the preliminary and final plat process and clearly stated
on the final plat for the approved conservation subdivision. If the reduced
setback is not stated on the final plat, the standard setbacks noted in section
36-70 shall apply.
            1.   The minimum lot area shall not be less than 75 percent of the
lot area required in the underlying zoning district, or 10,000 square feet,
whichever is greater.
            2.   The minimum lot width requirement at the building site may be
reduced by 50 percent, but shall not be less than 45 feet.
            3.   The minimum front yard requirement may be reduced by 40
percent.
            4.   The minimum rear yard requirements may be reduced by 40
percent, but shall be no less than ten feet.
            5.   The minimum side yard requirements may be reduced to zero
feet.
            6.   When buildings are separated, they shall be separated a
minimum of 20 feet.
            7.   Yards abutting the perimeter boundaries of a conservation
subdivision shall be no less than the minimum requirements contained in section
36-70.
      (4)   Required open space. Land within the subdivision site that is not
contained in lots or in rights-of-way or parcels devoted to accommodating
necessary streets and utilities shall be in one or more connected parcels
dedicated or reserved as permanent open space as specified herein. Lands
identified as primary conservation areas pursuant to subsection (5)a of this
section shall be deemed permanent open space in accordance with this article.
In addition to primary conservation areas, 25 percent of the remaining land
area of the subdivision shall be included in permanent open space. Secondary
conservation areas shall be included in open space to the extent they do not
exceed 25 percent of the remaining land area. In the event secondary
conservation areas do not equal or exceed 25 percent of the remaining land area
of the subdivision, additional open space shall be designated so that at least
25 percent of the remaining land area of the subdivision is made permanent open
space.
      (5)   Open space use, location and design. Design requirements for open
space use, location and design are contained in this section.
         a.   Primary conservation areas. The following areas are considered
primary conservation areas and shall be designated as open space on the plat of
any major subdivision:
            1.   Natural watercourses and any adjoining areas required to be
maintained in a natural vegetated and unaltered state by this article.
            2.   Any identified sensitive natural area as defined herein.
            3.   Other areas specified in section 28-76(a)(1).
         b.   Secondary conservation areas. The following areas are considered
secondary conservation areas and should be considered for designation as open
space on the plat of any conservation design subdivision:
            1.   Any environmentally sensitive areas where land clearing, land
disturbance and/or development might threaten water quality or ecosystems
(e.g., stream buffers, groundwater recharge areas).
            2.   Any identified important historic resources (e.g., homesteads,
mills, barns, archeological sites) identified from a local archeological or
architectural survey or an individual site survey.
            3.   Productive farmland or forest land intended for continued
agricultural and/or forestry use.
            4.   Steep slopes (those exceeding 30 percent).
         c.   Open space which is not situated within a primary conservation
area may be used to provide active and/or passive outdoor recreation
opportunities (e.g., ballfields, playgrounds, tennis courts, swimming pools,
basketball courts, bikeways, walking trails, nature trails, and picnic areas),
either for the general public or for the subdivision's residents or employees
and their guests. Note: This does not preclude a membership requirement or
monetary charge for use of recreation facilities, such as a swim or tennis
club, as long as subdivision residents have an opportunity to join the club or
pay to use club facilities. No more than ten percent of such additional open
space shall be covered with impervious surfaces.
         d.   Open space situated within a primary conservation area may be
used for limited passive recreational activities, such as nature trails, so
long as such activities do not impair the functionality of the area.
         e.   Sidewalks may be provided by the developer, if approved by the
subdivision administrator, as leading to a pedestrian destination point, such
as a school, park, etc., and may constitute part of the open space
requirements.
         f.   The location, size, character, and shape of required open space
shall be appropriate to its intended use (e.g., open space proposed to be used
for recreation, particularly active recreation, shall be located and designed
so as to be conveniently and safely reached and used by those persons it is
intended to serve, and open space proposed to be used for ballfields, playing
fields, or other extensive active recreational facilities should be located on
land that is relatively flat and dry).
         g.   Phasing. When a conservation design subdivision is developed in
phases, it shall be designed and developed in such a manner that total open
space is never less than 25 percent of the total land area in any such phase
and all previously approved phases.
         h.   No portion of any required primary or secondary areas may be used
for septic drain fields.
      (6)   Open space dedication or reservation. Open space shall be dedicated
or reserved in accordance with the standards contained herein.
         a.   Subdivision occupants shall be ensured direct access to and use
of the subdivision's open space, by conveying that portion of open space to a
homeowners' association, property owners' association, or similar legal entity
or to a public agency or nonprofit organization that is organized for, capable
of, and willing to accept responsibility for managing the open space for its
intended purpose and that will ensure subdivision occupants direct access to
and use of the open space. Any other open space provided may be conveyed to
such organizations or to any agency, organization, person, or other legal
entity that is organized for, capable of, and willing to accept responsibility
for managing the open space for its intended purpose, provided such conveyance
is restricted to ensure continued open space use and maintenance.
         b.   Each dedicated or reserved open space parcel shall be shown on
all subdivision plans and on a record plat recorded with the county register of
deeds, with a notation of its area and its intended open space use, as
identified herein. The owner of an open space parcel may rededicate or re-
reserve the parcel for another open space use allowed under this subsection by
recording a record plat showing the parcel and its new intended open space use.
         c.   The land clearing, land disturbance and/or development area for
any lot in a conservation design subdivision shall be delineated on subdivision
plats. Those areas described in subsection (4) of this section shall not be
included in the area of any lot intended for development and shall be set aside
for the common use and enjoyment of occupants of the subdivision, and
arrangements for maintenance by a homeowners' association, management group or
other acceptable arrangement shall be made. These areas shall be designated for
permanent protection on the subdivision plat and recorded deeds, with
appropriate recorded deed restrictions for the use and protection of these
areas stipulated, and all management responsibilities set forth in homeowners'
association bylaws or other appropriate and binding documents for the
development.
      (7)   Open space maintenance. The owner of the open space shall be
responsible for maintaining the open space so that it continues to effectively
function for its intended use, and any dedication or conveyance of an open
space parcel shall provide for such responsibility. Where the subdivision is
located within a watershed protection district, retention of undeveloped open
space in a vegetated or natural state shall be ensured by maintenance
provisions filed with the county register of deeds, either as part of recorded
documentation providing for establishment of a homeowners' association or
similar legal entity that is to be responsible for maintenance and control of
open space or in a maintenance agreement recorded with the property deeds.
      (8)   Design procedure. The following conservation design procedures
shall be used in evaluating conservation design subdivision applications:
         a.   Existing features/site analysis. An existing features/site
analysis map shall be submitted to the planning director. The map shall
indicate all features that exist on the subject site as described in this
subsection (8).
         b.   Identification of open space conservation areas. Open space areas
shall be identified. Guidance as to which parts to classify as open space areas
shall be based upon the following three factors:
            1.   On-site visits by the subdivision administrator, the
subdivider and the site designer.
            2.   The open space standards contained in this section.
            3.   The evaluation criteria as shown in subsection (9) of this
section.
         c.   Principal structure setback from open spaces. Any principal
structures must be set back a minimum of 30 feet from all open space lot lines.
Provided, however, the planning director may reduce this setback requirement
when, due to soil types, topography or other site considerations, strict
compliance would result in practical difficulty or unnecessary hardship and
when adequate assurances have been given for the protection of the open space.
         d.   Street, trail and sidewalk locations and alignments. All streets,
sidewalks and trails shall be located and aligned on the site in the most
reasonable, economical, and environmentally protective manner. Trails shall be
provided from housing clusters to the designated open space.
      (9)   Evaluation criteria. For any given site, resources may vary widely
by importance. Likewise, for each type of resource, there should be examples of
greater or lesser significance. In evaluating the layout of a site, the
following evaluation criteria will be considered in determining the site's
features and allowing for site design flexibility:
         a.   The open space shall be reasonably contiguous and shall abut
existing open space on adjacent sites.
         b.   Wetlands, flood hazard areas and natural watercourses with
associated stream buffers shall not be cleared, filled or graded except as
authorized by state, federal and other applicable regulations and as may be
approved by the planning director. Water features shall constitute no more than
50 percent of the open space area.
         c.   Dwellings shall be located in unwooded parts of the site to
prevent unnecessary clearing practices. Exceptions may be made when a site
investigation reveals all or part of wooded areas are not worth saving due to
tree decay/disease or unsightly overgrowth.
         d.   The impacts on larger woodlands over two acres shall be minimized
as much as practical.
         e.   Where farmland preservation is the goal of a site design,
dwellings shall be located away from active farming areas, as is practical.
         f.   Where preserving scenic views is the goal of a site design, such
scenic views shall remain unblocked and uninterrupted. In wooded areas, where
enclosure (i.e., a tree canopy) is a feature to be maintained, a no-cut and no-
build buffer strip shall be considered along the public roadway.
         g.   Where historic or archeological preservation is the goal of a
site design, new streets, driveways, fences and/or utilities shall not
interfere with the historic site. Building designs of the new homes shall
reflect the qualities and designs of the historic buildings, as much as is
practical.
         h.   Where power line rights-of-way are proposed to be included as
part of the open space, the right-of-way shall not exceed 50 percent of the
required permanent open space.
      (10)   Estate lot subdivisions. Estate lot subdivisions exist as an
alternative to conservation design subdivisions as regulated herein. In
addition to other applicable standards of this article and other applicable
regulations, estate lot subdivisions shall comply with the standards contained
in this subsection.
         a.   Minimum lot size. Each lot within an estate lot subdivision shall
contain at least five acres of land area.
         b.   Maximum disturbed area. No more than 25 percent of the area of a
lot within an estate lot subdivision may be cleared of natural vegetation or
otherwise disturbed.
         c.   Maximum impervious surface. No more than ten percent of the area
of a lot within an estate lot subdivision may be covered with impervious
surfaces.
         d.   Protection of primary conservation areas. Primary conservation
areas, as specified in subsection (5)a of this section shall be protected in
accordance with the standards of this article with the exception that such
areas need not be included within the open space of the subdivision and may be
included within the boundaries of an estate lot.
         e.   Plats and restrictive covenants. The plat of an estate lot
subdivision shall bear a notation concerning the maximum disturbed area, the
maximum impervious surface and the protection of primary conservation areas,
and restrictive covenants so limiting the use, land clearing, land disturbance
and/or development of any such lot shall be recorded in the office of the
county register of deeds. The restrictive covenants shall be reviewed and
approved by the town prior to recordation.
(Code 1989, § 91.44; Ord. of 10-9-2007; Ord. of 6-10-2008)
Sec. 28-78. Common amenities.
   When common amenities are intended for subdivisions, they shall be placed in
the interior of the development. When it is impractical to locate such places
in the interior of the development, they shall be separated from adjacent
properties by a wooded buffer at least 50 feet in width. Such buffer shall not
be required for common amenities adjacent to, and functionally associated with,
that body of water known as Lake Lure. This requirement shall not apply to golf
courses.
(Code 1989, § 91.45; Ord. of 8-12-2008)
Sec. 28-79. Easements.
   Easements shall be provided for all utilities if they are outside the
dedicated street right-of-way. Access to open or piped storm drainage channels
shall be guaranteed to the town by granting an easement no less than 20 feet
wide (to be shown on plat).
(Code 1989, § 91.46; Ord. of 1-13-2009)
Sec. 28-80. Permanent open space lots.
   In some instances, property owners may wish to permanently designate land as
open space for conservation and preservation purposes. It is the intent of this
section to allow for subdivision of permanently restricted open space lots
while relaxing specific standards, provided that a plat note is added to the
plat and a deed restriction or a conservation easement is recorded with the
county register of deeds that prohibits development of the property in
perpetuity. The plat note, deed restriction and conservation easement may allow
limited passive recreational activities. In conjunction with these activities,
development on the property is limited to trails, walkways, steps, foot
bridges, parking areas and retaining walls necessary for erosion control,
provided that said development does not exceed five percent of the lot area. A
copy of the recorded deed restriction or conservation easement shall be
submitted to the subdivision administrator. Provided that the open space lot
complies with the above provisions, evidence of adequate water and sewer
services is not necessary.
(Code 1989, § 91.47; Ord. of 4-10-2012)
Secs. 28-81—28-103. Reserved.
ARTICLE IV.
IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED; MINIMUM STANDARDS OF DESIGN
Sec. 28-104. Suitability of land.
   (a)   Where land to be subdivided is found by the zoning and planning board
to be subject to the conditions of flooding, or improper drainage, or of severe
erosion or slides, particularly on steep slopes or to have other
characteristics which pose an ascertainable danger to health, safety or
property, the subdivider shall take measures necessary to correct said
conditions and to eliminate said dangers.
   (b)   It should, however, be noted that due to severe topographic
conditions, inadequate road access, distance from services, sensitive natural
areas, soils that do not easily support soil drainage systems, or the proximity
to existing and incompatible land uses, all land may not be suited to be
subdivided for the purpose of dense development.
   (c)   Steep slopes.
      (1)   No residential lot shall be created pursuant to this article unless
the average slope of such lot is less than 30 percent or, in the alternative,
unless such lot contains a building and grading envelope with an average slope
of less than 30 percent.
      (2)   The preliminary plat shall demonstrate compliance with this
subsection (c) in the following manner:
         a.   A note indicating the topographic survey confirms all lots in the
proposed subdivision have average slopes of less than 30 percent;
         b.   A note, based on the topographic survey, identifying which lots
have average slopes of 30 percent or greater and confirming that all other lots
have average slopes of less than 30 percent; or
         c.   Lots with average slopes of 30 percent or greater shall have
depicted thereon a building and grading envelope meeting the requirements of
chapter 36, article XII.
      (3)   No development activities shall take place outside the bounds of
any such building and grading envelope except as authorized by chapter 36,
article XII.
      (4)   For the purpose of demonstrating compliance with this subsection
(c), the formula contained in section 36-398(7) shall be used to determine
slope.
(Code 1989, § 91.55; Ord. of 3-22-1994; Ord. of 10-10-2006; Ord. of 6-10-2008;
Ord. of 11-18-2008)
Sec. 28-105. Streets and roads.
   (a)   All lots to be platted shall have access to a street, and all proposed
streets shall be installed or financially guaranteed as provided in section 28-
34, and in accordance with the requirements below, prior to final plat
approval.
   (b)   All streets shall be designated as either public or private on both
the preliminary and final plats. If streets are designated as private, the
developer shall submit a written statement with the preliminary plat specifying
plans for ownership and maintenance of said streets. In addition, said
statement shall appear on the original of the final plat in such a manner that
it will be legible on any copies made therefrom. If streets are designated as
public, the town may, by resolution, in accordance with section 28-37, accept
said streets for ownership and maintenance. If requested by the developer and
at the option of the town council, streets may be accepted by the town for
ownership and maintenance in stages as planned by the developer in order to
save undue expense to the developer as well as the town. The town council may,
at its option, delay acceptance of a street for up to one year from completion
to establish the quality of the construction. In no case will the streets be
accepted for ownership and maintenance by the town until the following minimum
standards have been met or financially guaranteed as provided in section 28-34
(b). All public and private streets shall meet the following minimum standards:
      (1)   Development standards.
 
Street Type                 Right-of-Way Travelway Width Surface Material
Temporary construction road None         12'             Gravel
Lane                        30'          16'             Gravel
Minor street                40'          18'             Pavement
Collector street            50'          20'             Pavement
Arterial street             60'          Per state D.O.T. standards
 
      (2)   All grading and ditching shall be done to meet town specifications.
      (3)   All drainage pipe shall be installed at the expense of the
developer. The pipe size shall be determined by the town, but in no case will
anything less than 15-inch pipe be permitted.
      (4)   The amount of right-of-way to be graded may vary depending on the
drainage method selected by the developer. For standard double-ditch drainage,
it will be necessary to clear a minimum of 32 feet from ditch to ditch. When
alternative drainage methods are used (i.e., curb and gutter, drainage to one
side of the road, inverted crown road, etc.) grading of less than 32 feet may
be possible. See section 28-190 for illustrations of drainage methods.
      (5)   Curb and gutter is optional, but the town would encourage that it
be installed. Total cost of curb and gutter is to be paid by the developer.
      (6)   All classes of streets except temporary construction roads shall
have stabilized shoulders of at least three feet in width on each side of the
travelway.
      (7)   Within 14 days after road grading and excavation work has been
completed, all banks, shoulders (if grass) and ditches created shall be seeded
by the developer to prevent erosion and to cover ecological scars.
      (8)   On any banks or shoulders seeded in subsections (b)(6) and (7) of
this section, continued effort must be made by the developer to establish a
good growth of grass and to take any action necessary to prevent erosion until
a good grass growth is established.
   (c) (1) An approved turn around shall be provided where access is a dead-
end. The town encourages use of a cul- de-sac for such a turn around. Minimum
paved radius for a cul-de-sac is 40 feet to allow for adequate turning room for
emergency vehicles. Alternative turn around styles, including T-shaped and Y-
shaped turn arounds, will be considered but must be approved by the town fire
coordinator.
      (2)   A temporary turn around, temporary for no more than 12 months,
shall be installed on any street which will later be extended. The 12-month
period may be extended upon request of the developer and approval of the
subdivision administrator. If permission to extend this period is not sought or
is not given, the turn around must be converted to a permanent turn around
which meets the minimum requirements. At a minimum, the temporary turn around
shall consist of six inches of compacted stone and shall provide adequate
turning room for emergency vehicles. See section 28-191 for examples and
dimensions of permanent and temporary turn arounds.
      (3)   Where the combined width of paving and stabilized shoulders
required by this section is determined to be impractical due to topographical
or other extreme physical conditions, the zoning and planning board may
authorize a lesser width after special review.
      (4)   Street paving shall consist of a six-inch compacted stone base and
two-inch I-2 bituminous plant mix. Lanes shall have not less than two inches of
compacted gravel. Temporary construction roads shall have not less than four
inches of compacted ballast stone.
      (5)   The total cost of paving shall be paid by the developer. The paving
may be arranged by the developer, with the contract being approved by the town,
or, should the developer request, paving may be arranged by the town.
      (6)   The grade of roads shall not exceed 15 percent because of the
difficulty of operating vehicles on such a steep road and the high potential
for erosion of the travelway and ditches. Provided, however, roads may exceed a
15 percent grade only after review by the fire coordinator and approval of the
zoning and planning board. Where possible, to avoid environmental impact, yet
commensurate with safety, roads should be constructed along the contour of the
land to avoid steep grades.
      (7)   At the option of the town council, streets and roads may be
accepted as part of the town's street system provided they have been paved to
the standards in this section or the developer has submitted funds to the town
for such paving as part of the improvements guarantee in accordance with
section 28-34(b).
(Code 1989, § 91.56; Ord. of 7-26-1994; Ord. of 1-24-1995; Ord. of 5-23-1995;
Ord. of 4-9-2002)
Sec. 28-106. Water and sewer systems.
   The preliminary subdivision plat must be accompanied by satisfactory
evidence as to the proposed method and system of water supply and sanitary
sewage collection and disposal. The installation of all said systems except
wells or septic tanks serving only one connection shall be required prior to
final plat approval unless financially guaranteed according to section 28-34
(b). Said systems may be owned and operated by a public or private entity. Any
well or septic tank or alternative sewer disposal system serving only one
connection shall be approved by the county health department prior to final
plat approval. For all new systems or expansion of existing systems serving two
or more connections, approval shall be according to state statutes. All major
subdivisions shall install water lines of six inches or greater to be able to
serve property owners when water service becomes available. Subdivisions having
ten or more lots of under two acres in area shall be connected to the town
water system or shall be served by an independent community water system. Said
system shall be designed to provide minimum fire protection as required by the
town manager. Where access to the town water distribution system is available
within one-half mile of any new subdivision or the extension of an existing
subdivision, said subdivision or extension of an existing subdivision shall be
connected to the town system. Where an independent community water system is
established, such system shall be connected to the town system and dedicated to
the town at such time as the town is able to provide service to the
subdivision. The preliminary plat shall be accompanied by written assurance
from the developer that plans for said new or expansion of existing systems
have been submitted for approval to the appropriate state and/or local
agencies. If the developer wishes to install said new or expanded systems prior
to final plat approval, then submission of the final plat shall be accompanied
by written approval of the installation of said systems by the appropriate
state and/or local agencies. Prior to final plat approval, if the developer
wishes to financially guarantee the installation of said systems, then
submission of the final plat shall be accompanied by written approval of plans
for said systems from the appropriate state and/or local agencies. In addition,
the town will require that all water and sewer installations meet the following
requirements. Whenever any conflict occurs between these requirements and those
of the appropriate state and/or local agency, the stricter of the two
requirements shall apply.
      (1)   Water lines.
         a.   All contractors must be approved by the town, and approval shall
not be unreasonably withheld, and if total cost of the project exceeds
$30,000.00, the contractor must be licensed by the state.
         b.   The size and material of water lines to be installed will be
determined by the town manager, subdivision administrator, and public works
director.
         c.   The subdivider will be responsible for all costs of water pipe,
fittings, fire hydrants, and installation. All fittings and fire hydrants must
be approved by the town for installation. Where a water line six inches or
greater in diameter is required in a public system, and the system has been
designed and approved by the division of health services of the state
department of human resources to provide fire protection, fire hydrants shall
be installed on said line. The hydrants shall be spaced so that coverage to all
building sites along said line may be provided with not more than 500 feet of
hose, and shall be located to facilitate access, hose laying, and drainage. The
developer or his contractor shall contact the fire coordinator so that he may
inspect fire hydrants during and after installation.
         d.   If the water system is to be connected to the town water system,
then when all water line installation has been completed and water connection
fees paid, the town's water department will make the water connections and set
water meters on each of the building lots. (Copy of current water connection
fees available.)
         e.   Main water line is to be installed 16 feet from center of the
road or five feet from the edge of pavement, or at other distances approved by
the public works director and shall include a connector line to serve each
building lot, extending across the road where needed, prior to paving the road.
         f.   Warranty. The contractor will be responsible for material and
workmanship for a period of 12 months from the date accepted by the town.
         g.   Water lines will not be extended until permits for such
extensions have been obtained in order to comply with state law.
         h.   No work shall be covered up before being inspected by the town's
representative.
         i.   Minimum cover on water lines shall be 36 inches or as otherwise
required by the public works director.
         j.   Compaction shall be approved by the public works director.
         k.   In a situation where the subdivision is located along an existing
road and an existing water main, it will be the responsibility of the new lot
owner to decide whether to have a well or pay to connect and tap on to the
existing water system pursuant to the other ordinances and policies of the town
in existence at that time.
      (2)   Sewer lines. Where collector sewer mains are available, the
following requirements must be met:
         a.   All contractors must be approved by the town, and approval shall
not be unreasonably withheld, and if the total cost of the project exceeds
$30,000.00, the contractor must be licensed by the state.
         b.   The size and material of sewer pipe to be used will be determined
by the town manager, subdivision administrator, and public works director.
         c.   The cost of sewer pipe, manholes, materials, and cost of
installation will be borne by the developer. All sewer lines should be laid in
the center of the roadway with stub outs at every manhole to each side of the
road. The minimum cover shall not be less than 36 inches measured from finished
grade. Grades shall be such that the lowest lot in the subdivision can receive
adequate sewer service on the ground floor and shall be established by transit
levels. In no case shall the grades be less than four-tenths of one percent.
         d.   Sewer lines will not be extended until permits have been obtained
for such extension in order to comply with state law.
         e.   No work shall be covered up before being inspected by the town's
representative.
      (3)   Utility improvements outside town limits. Any extension of water
and sewer lines outside the town limits must be under contract between the town
and the developer. The developer must provide all right-of-way easements in
providing utility services to the subdivision, and provide the following
requirements:
         a.   The developer must purchase water and sewer pipe and have it
installed at his cost.
         b.   Water pipe size and material are to be determined by the town
manager, subdivision administrator, and public works director.
         c.   Sewer line size and material are to be determined by the town
manager, subdivision administrator, and public works director.
         d.   Water and/or sewer lines will not be extended until permits have
been obtained for such extension in order to comply with state law.
         e.   It will be necessary to have a profile of water and/or sewer
lines to submit to the state for permit application.
         f.   The cost for profile sheets will be borne by the developer.
(Code 1989, § 91.57; Ord. of 1-24-1995; Ord. of 5-23-1995; Ord. of 1-14-2002)
Sec. 28-107. Stormwater drainage.
   (a)   It shall be the responsibility of the developer to provide a drainage
system which is designed to meet the following objectives:
      (1)   Connect onto an existing storm sewer system, where feasible.
      (2)   Provide for adequate drainage from all roads, parking lots, and
other developed areas.
      (3)   Prevent both the unnecessary impoundment of natural drainageways
and the creation of areas of standing water.
      (4)   Ensure that existing drainageways serving adjacent properties are
maintained.
      (5)   Ensure that natural runoff levels are not substantially increased
in order to prevent harmful flooding downstream and to maintain desirable
groundwater levels.
      (6)   Prevent inundation of surface water into the sanitary sewer system.
      (7)   Protect all roads, driveways, utilities and other types of land
clearing, land disturbance and/or development from damages caused by improper
drainage control.
   (b)   The drainage system shall be executed by a registered engineer or
registered surveyor in conjunction with the street plans and shall be installed
or financially guaranteed as provided in section 28-34(b) prior to final plat
approval.
(Code 1989, § 91.58; Ord. of 6-10-2008)
Sec. 28-108. Sedimentation control.
   In order to prevent soil erosion and sedimentation pollution of streams,
springs, flat water bodies or other drainage networks, and when there are plans
for a land disturbing activity of one acre or more, the subdivider shall show
proof with the preliminary plat of an erosion and sedimentation control plan
which has been approved by the state agency having jurisdiction in accordance
with the North Carolina Administrative Code, Title 15, as adopted by the state
sedimentation commission, January 11, 1978, as amended.
(Code 1989, § 91.59)
Sec. 28-109. Tree protection.
   (a)   Prohibited cutting. Any cutting of trees in excess of the percentages
permitted by the Forest Coverage Table (see section 28-192) is prohibited
unless such excess cutting is shown in the approved tree protection plan in
subsection (c) of this section and compensated for by replacing such trees, as
described in subsection (b) of this section. Land clearing for subdivision
development is prohibited except as permitted under the provisions of these
regulations and
chapter 22.
   (b)   Land clearing and use. Land clearing permitted under these subdivision
regulations shall be limited to the minimum necessary for the construction of
roads, utilities, and structures or open green areas intended for common use of
residents, and shall not include clearing for individual lots, whether for home
sites, structures, driveways, individual wells or septic systems, landscaping,
or development of views. One exception shall be that in cases where it is
determined by the subdivision administrator that two or three homesites can
reasonably be served by a single driveway, such driveway may be platted,
approved, and constructed subject to all the usual provisions of town
regulations. Structures or open green areas intended for common use of
residents shall, to the extent that is possible, utilize preexisting open
spaces for this purpose. Clearing in common areas intended to be maintained in
a forested state shall be limited to the development of trails, bicycle paths,
small picnic areas, and other common amenities.
   (c)   Replacement trees. Any significant tree cut in excess of the number
allowed by the Forest Coverage Table (see section 28-192), or without an
approved tree protection plan, or in violation of an approved tree protection
plan, or that is damaged during land clearing, land disturbance and/or
development to the extent that the tree is likely to die, shall be replaced by
healthy trees at the expense of the owner of the property or his agent, as
follows: Such trees shall be replaced by species recommended in the Lake Lure
Tree Protection Handbook, at the "minimum dbh for replanting" sizes appropriate
to the species as shown in section 28-193, and in sufficient numbers to equal
the total inches in dbh of the trees damaged or unlawfully removed. Any areas
exceeding 100 square feet in size from which native shrubbery and their stumps
and roots have been removed without approval as part of a tree protection plan,
or that are damaged to an extent likely to cause the death of those shrubs,
shall be replanted with healthy shrubbery at the expense of the subdivider.
Such replacement trees and/or shrubs shall be planted in the approximate
location of the originals that were damaged or unlawfully removed, or in areas
specified by the tree protection officer, and shall be inspected at intervals
by the tree protection officer. Any replanted trees or shrubs not continuing in
good health for a minimum of two years shall be replanted at the expense of the
owner or his agent.
   (d)   Tree protection plan. Overall land clearing shall be governed by the
forest coverage existing on the site prior to development (see section 28-192).
To this end, a tree protection plan shall be prepared as part of any
subdivision plat, and shall include at least the information listed below
regarding the trees and/or shrubs to be removed for the purposes approved in
subsection (c) of this section, and the protection of all other trees on the
property. Estimated forest coverage both before and after tree removal shall be
provided by a survey provided by a qualified licensed professional for
individual forested areas as well as for the subdivision as a whole. Plans
shall include:
      (1)   Location and extent of all forested areas.
         a.   Forest areas intended for later sale as building lots shall be
designated on the plat and shall not be developed in any way, except for
driveways that serve two or three homesites as provided in subsection (b) of
this section, until certificates of zoning compliance have been issued.
         b.   Forest areas intended to be maintained as common forest areas
shall be marked as protected on the plat except for those areas marked to be
cleared for trails, paths, and the like.
         c.   All forest areas not marked for construction of roads, common
utilities, or common areas, or future sale as building sites except as noted in
subsection (b) of this section, shall be marked as protected on the plat.
      (2)   Location and extent of all areas proposed for tree removal and/or
land clearing.
      (3)   Location and nature of tree protection measures to be installed.
      (4)   Location, size, and species of any trees and/or shrubs to be
planted at the direction of the tree protection officer.
      (5)   Estimated significant tree density of each individual forested area
as well as of the subdivision as a whole, both before and after permitted land
clearing and replanting.
      (6)   Location of any steep slopes, or other areas that may not be suited
for land clearing, land disturbance, and/or dense development, and any
specifications for their particular management, as discussed in section 28-104.
      (7)   Any additional documentation that the tree protection officer may
require.
   (e)   Trout buffer. An undisturbed stream buffer, as defined and illustrated
in the town land disturbance regulations, that is required for the protection
of waters that have been classified as trout waters by the environmental
management commission. Any removal of vegetation, including the removal of
living branches, is prohibited within such areas.
   (f)   Protective boundaries. Protective boundaries shall be shown on the
plat surrounding individual protected trees and their root protection zones and
lying along the boundaries of all protected forest areas, especially where
areas marked for tree removal abut areas where trees are to be protected,
unless physical characteristics of the area render additional protections
unnecessary. Such barriers shall be installed prior to any land clearing, land
disturbance and/or development activity and maintained until such development
is complete. All workers in the area shall be clearly informed that trees and
forest areas so marked are to be protected from cutting, girdling, any damage
by construction equipment, and any disruptions of their root protection zones
including trenching, dumping of excavated soil, spilling of toxic materials,
vehicle parking or drive-over, the storage of equipment or materials, and
addition of any impervious material.
   (g)   Inspections and remedies. The tree protection officer shall inspect
all subdivision projects prior to any permit approvals and at intervals
throughout land clearing, land disturbance and/or development. In the course of
these visits said officer may provide assistance with estimates of forest
coverage and the steepness of slopes, assist in evaluating the suitability of
steep slopes for land clearing and development, and approve the entire tree
protection plan, including protective boundaries and any required replanting.
   (h)   Tree protection officer. The tree protection officer is authorized to
issue a stop-work order at any time that any of the following is determined:
      (1)   Tree removal has commenced prior to obtaining subdivision plat
approvals.
      (2)   A significant deviation from pre-approved plans/permits has
occurred.
      (3)   Systematic or habitual removal of or damage to protected trees or
their root protection zones.
   (i)   Approved methods. Following a stop-work order the tree protection
officer shall provide the property owner and/or subdivider with detailed
descriptions of approved methods, protective barriers, and the repairs and/or
replantings needed to correct the damage. The tree protection officer shall
verify that those measures have been implemented before work is allowed to
resume.
   (j)   Forestry lands. Where the land to be subdivided was previously taxed
on the basis of present-use value as forestry land under G.S. ch. 105, art. 12
(G.S. 105-274 et seq.), or has been logged under a forestry plan prepared or
approved by a registered forester, the town may deny a certificate of zoning
compliance or refuse to approve a site or subdivision plan for a period of
three years after harvest if the land has been cleared in violation of these
regulations; five years if the land clearing was a willful violation. Reference
G.S. 160D of the General Assembly of North Carolina.
(Code 1989, § 91.59; Ord. of 10-10-2006; Ord. of 11-14-2006; Ord. of 6-10-2008;
Ord. No. 21-05-11A, 5-11-2021)
Sec. 28-110. Lots.
   The requirements of
chapter 36 shall govern lot size and standards.
(Code 1989, § 91.60)
Sec. 28-111. Building setback lines.
   The requirements of
chapter 36 shall govern the location of the minimum building setback lines.
(Code 1989, § 91.61)
Secs. 28-112—28-135. Reserved.
ARTICLE V.
AMENDMENTS
Sec. 28-136. Amendment procedures.
   (a)   This chapter may be amended from time to time by the town council as
herein specified, but no amendment shall become effective unless it shall have
been proposed by or shall have been submitted to the zoning and planning board
for review and recommendation. The zoning and planning board shall have 35 days
from the date of presentation to the zoning and planning board within which to
submit its report. If the zoning and planning board fails to submit a report
within the specified time, it shall be deemed to have approved the amendment.
   (b)   Before enacting an amendment to this chapter, the town council shall
hold a public hearing. A notice of such public hearing shall be published in a
newspaper of general circulation in the county once a week for two successive
weeks; the first publication shall not appear less than ten days nor more than
25 days prior to the fixed date of the public hearing. In computing such
period, the day of the publication is not to be included, but the day of the
hearing shall be included. The notice shall include the time, place, and date
of the hearing, and include a description of the property or nature of the
change or amendment.
(Code 1989, § 91.70; Ord. of 11-26-1996)
Secs. 28-137—28-155. Reserved.
ARTICLE VI.
LEGAL PROVISIONS
Sec. 28-156. Separability.
   Should any section or provision of this chapter be decided by a court of
competent jurisdiction to be unconstitutional or invalid, such decision shall
not affect the validity of the chapter as a whole or any part thereof other
than the part so declared to be unconstitutional or invalid.
(Code 1989, § 91.80)
Sec. 28-157. Abrogation.
   This section shall neither repeal, abrogate, annul, impair nor interfere
with any existing subdivision, the plats of which are properly recorded in the
office of the register of deeds prior to the effective date of the ordinance
from which this chapter is derived nor with the existing easements, covenants,
deed restrictions, agreements or permits previously adopted or issued pursuant
to law prior to the effective date of the ordinance from which this chapter is
derived.
(Code 1989, § 91.81)
Sec. 28-158. Penalty.
   (a)   After the effective date of the ordinance from which this chapter is
derived, any person who, being the owner or agent of the owner of any land
located within the territorial jurisdiction of these regulations, thereafter
subdivides his land in violation of these regulations or transfers or sells
land by reference to, exhibition of, or any other use of a plat showing a
subdivision of the land before the plat has been properly approved under the
terms of these regulations and recorded in the office of the county register of
deeds, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. The description by metes and bounds in
the instrument of transfer or other document used in the process of selling or
transferring land shall not exempt the transaction from this penalty. The town
may bring an action for injunction of any illegal subdivision, transfer,
conveyance or sale of land, and the court shall, upon appropriate findings,
issue an injunction and order requiring the offending party to comply with the
subdivision regulations.
   (b)   This chapter may be enforced by any one, all, or a combination of the
remedies authorized and prescribed by G.S. 160A-175.
   (c)   Fines.
      (1)   Failure to receive plat approvals as required by this chapter prior
to commencement of any form of land clearing, land disturbance and/or
development shall subject the subdivider to a civil fine not to exceed $500.00
per day of violation, for each occurrence of such a violation. The fine shall
be payable immediately upon notification and shall be assessed from the date of
violation. Each day of a continuing violation shall constitute a separate
violation. If, following the appropriate inspections, the illegal land
clearing, land disturbance and/or development is found to meet all requirements
of this chapter, plat approvals shall be issued upon payment of the fine and
submittal of the appropriate documents, including fees. If the land clearing,
land disturbance and/or development does not meet said requirements, the
development shall either be returned as far as possible to its original state,
or be brought into compliance prior to receipt of plat approvals.
      (2)   Failure to comply with the provisions of an approved plat and the
representations submitted as part of the application for the plat shall be
cause for the subdivision administrator to place a stop-work order on the land
clearing, land disturbance and/or development for which the plat was approved
until such time as the land clearing, land disturbance and/or development is
altered to comply or until a revised plat is approved. If the land clearing,
land disturbance and/or development is not brought into conformance, or a
revised plat meeting the standards of this chapter is not submitted within 30
days of the original notice of violation, the subdivider shall be subject to a
fine not to exceed $500.00 for each day of delay beyond the 30-day period.
      (3)   In addition to the details in subsection (c)(2) of this section,
the removal of significant trees, or native shrubbery with their stumps and
roots, without prior inspection of the site and an approved tree protection
plan, as required by this chapter, shall subject the subdivider to fines of
$500.00 for each significant tree illegally removed and $500.00 for each 100
square feet of native shrubbery, with their stumps and roots, illegally
removed. If the number of significant trees and/or extent of native shrubbery
previously existing on the property is not known, fines shall be levied on
estimates based upon the average densities of significant trees and/or native
shrubbery on nearby undeveloped properties. In addition to these fines,
illegally removed significant trees and shrubs shall be replaced at the expense
of the owner and/or subdivider as set forth in section 28-109.
   (d)   Violation of any provision of this chapter may subject the offender to
a civil penalty which would be determined, assessed and recovered by the town
in a civil action in the nature of debt if the offender does not pay the
penalty within a reasonable period of time prescribed by an administrative
officer of the town after such offender has been cited for such violation.
   (e)   Any provision of this chapter that makes unlawful a condition existing
upon or use made of any property may be enforced by injunction and order of
abatement, and the general court of justice shall have jurisdiction to issue
such orders. When a violation of such a provision occurs, the town may apply to
the appropriate division of the general court of justice for a mandatory or
prohibitory injunction and order of abatement commanding the defendant to
correct the unlawful condition upon or cease the unlawful use of the property.
The action shall be governed in all respects by the laws and rules governing
civil proceedings, including the rules of civil procedure in general and G.S.
1A-1, rule 65 in particular. In addition to an injunction, the court may enter
an order of abatement as a part or the judgment in the cause. An order of
abatement may direct that improvements or repairs be made and/or trees and/or
shrubs be replanted as specified herein; or that any other action be taken that
is necessary to bring the property into compliance with this policy or such
ordinance. If the defendant fails or refuses to comply with an injunction or
with an order of abatement within the time allowed by the court, such defendant
may be cited for contempt, and the town may execute the order of abatement. The
town shall have a lien on the property for the cost of executing an order of
abatement in the nature of a mechanic's and material man's lien. The defendant
may secure cancellation of an order of abatement by paying all costs to the
town of the proceedings and posting a bond for compliance with the order. The
bond shall be given with sureties approved by the clerk of the superior court
in an amount approved by the judge before whom the matter is heard and shall be
conditioned on the defendant's full compliance with the terms of the order of
abatement within a time fixed by the judge. Cancellation of an order of
abatement shall not suspend or cancel an injunction issued in conjunction
therewith.
   (f)   Except as otherwise specifically provided, each day's continuing
violation of any provision of this chapter shall be a separate and distinct
offense.
(Code 1989, § 91.99; Ord. of 10-10-2006; Ord. of 11-14-2006; Ord. of 6-10-2008)
Secs. 28-159—28-189. Reserved.
ARTICLE VII.
ATTACHMENTS
Sec. 28-190. Attachment A.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c141ac2780daea4288dd157975992950c90da25b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1288.png]
 
   Typical Street Drainage Methods
(Code 1989, ch. 91, attach. A)
Sec. 28-191. Attachment B.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c141ac2780daea4288dd157975992950c90da25b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1290.png]
 
   Minimum Dimensions for Cul-de-Sacs and Alternate Turn Around Arrangements
(Code 1989, ch. 91, attach. B)
Sec. 28-192. Attachment C.
   Forest coverage can be estimated in one of the following methods, depending
on the size and topography of the property, the number of trees on the
property, and the availability of suitable aerial photographs. The table below
shall be used to determine the minimum forest coverage that must be retained
during land clearing, land disturbance, and/or development or achieved through
replanting with trees and shrubs recommended in the Lake Lure Tree Management
Handbook. Copies of all materials used to arrive at tree density or canopy
coverage estimates must be presented with the site plan.
   The ground survey significant tree density. With this method, a qualified
licensed professional shall visit the area on foot (at the owner's expense),
count or (if necessary) estimate the number of significant trees before
clearing, and report the significant tree density. Significant trees, and/or
significant forest areas, shall be marked on the plat for protection or removal
as described in section 28-109. Estimates of significant tree densities that
will remain after land clearing, land disturbance and/or development shall be
based on the number of significant trees to be removed. Where this density
falls below that required on the Forest Coverage Table, the tree protection
officer shall direct the replanting of trees to make up the deficit.
   The aerial survey canopy coverage. A property with steep topography or
significant forest coverage might best be managed by a canopy coverage estimate
involving analysis of existing aerial photographs. This analysis shall be
carried out by a qualified licensed professional, at the owner's expense, by
the method described under aerial survey-canopy coverage method at the end of
this attachment.
   The combined ground and aerial survey. When an area to be evaluated by
aerial survey also includes pockets of forest that are to be left for
greenspace or common areas, or small undisturbed forest areas (less than one
acre and less than 50 percent canopy coverage) that will be disconnected from
larger undisturbed forest areas, these isolated areas shall be evaluated by a
ground survey, with the significant tree density figure to be shown on the plat
for each such isolated area. This method will improve accuracy in calculating
overall forest coverage, particularly where common areas and greenspace are so
designated. The significant tree density method shall also be used when
planning tree thinning on a portion of the property or for other special
purposes needing particular accuracy.
   Other methods. Property owners wishing to compute the pre-land clearing/land
disturbance/development forest coverage estimate by their own methods shall
provide their calculations to the tree protection officer with sufficient
clarity and accuracy that the tree protection officer can duplicate and
validate their results.
   The Forest Coverage Table. This table computes the minimum significant tree
density or canopy coverage that shall remain on a property after land clearing,
land disturbance, and/or development, based on the significant tree density or
canopy coverage on the property prior to land clearing, land disturbance, and/
or development. Where these values fall below those required on the Forest
Coverage Table, the tree protection officer shall direct the replanting of
trees to make up the deficit.
   Forest Coverage Table
 
Pre-Land Clearing/Land    Pre-Land Clearing/Land  Post-Land Clearing/Land
Disturbance/Development   Disturbance/Development Disturbance/Development
Significant Tree Density  Canopy Coverage         Significant Tree Density Or
(Significant Trees per    (Percentage of Total    Canopy Coverage
Acre)                     Property Area)
0 to 10                   0% to 10%               1.0 x initial value
11 to 20                  11% to 20%              0.90 x initial value
21 to 50                  21% to 50%              0.80 x initial value
50 or more                50% or more             0.70 x initial value
 
   Examples
   Tree density example. For a 200-acre subdivision development with an average
initial significant tree density of 25 significant trees per acre, the final
significant tree density (after accounting for roads, facilities, homes and
driveways) shall average 20 significant trees per acre (.80 x 25).
   Canopy coverage example. For a 200-acre subdivision development with an
initial canopy coverage of 25 percent, the minimum final canopy coverage (after
accounting for roads, facilities, homes and driveways) shall be 20 percent of
the 200-acre development (.80 x 0.25).
Aerial survey-Canopy coverage method
   Step 1: Using a clear, 2005 or later aerial photo of the property, draw a
grid overlaying the property. The grid lines shall be spaced at one-half inch
intervals. Count the total number of squares in the grid, then study the
squares and estimate each square's coverage level - the percentage (100
percent, 75 percent, 50 percent, 25 percent, or zero percent) of each square
that is covered by forest canopy.
      For squares with 100 percent canopy coverage, a value of 1.0 shall be
assigned.
      For squares with 75 percent canopy coverage, a value of 0.75 shall be
assigned.
      For squares with 50 percent canopy coverage, a value of 0.5 shall be
assigned.
      For squares with 25 percent canopy coverage, a value of 0.25 shall be
assigned.
      For squares with zero percent canopy coverage, a value of 0 shall be
assigned.
   Step 2: Count the number of squares with 100 percent coverage and multiply
by 1. To calculate the percentage of the total property area that the 100
percent coverage squares represent, divide the number of 100 percent squares by
the total number of squares in the grid. Use the following formula to do the
division and convert the results into a percentage:
 
(a x 1) X x 100 = (?)%
 
      x = Total number of squares covering the whole property.
      a = Total number of squares with a 100 percent canopy coverage level.
   Then count the number of squares with 75 percent coverage and multiply by
0.75. Use the same formula to do the division and convert the results into
percentages.
 
(b x 0.75) X x 100 = (?)%
 
      x = Total number of squares covering the whole property.
      b = Total number of squares with a 75 percent canopy coverage level.
   Follow the same steps for the other levels of canopy coverage using the
following values:
   For the 50 percent canopy coverage.
 
(c x 0.50) X x 100 = (?)%
 
      x = Total number of squares covering the whole property.
      c = Total number of squares with a 50 percent canopy coverage level.
   For the 25 percent canopy coverage.
 
(d x 0.25) X x 100 = (?)%
 
   For the 0 percent canopy coverage.
 
(e x 0) X x 100 = (?)%
 
      x = Total number of squares covering the whole property.
      e = Total number of squares with a 0 percent canopy coverage level.
   When the area percentage for each coverage level is known, add the
percentages together for the total estimated canopy coverage as a percentage of
the total property acreage.
   Example problem: A grid is laid over a two-acre tract. The property has been
previously disturbed and shows mixed patches of forest and cleared areas. The
total number of squares covering the parcel is 140. 100 squares are completely
vegetated; ten squares are 75 percent vegetated; 15 squares are 50 percent
vegetated; ten squares are 25 percent vegetated; and five squares no longer
contain any vegetation. Using the above equation, calculate the estimated
canopy coverage for the site.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c141ac2780daea4288dd157975992950c90da25b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1292.png]
 
   Canopy Coverage Estimation of Site
(Code 1989, ch. 91, attach. C)
Sec. 28-193. Attachment D.
   Significant Trees:
   Common Tree Species of Lake Lure and Recommended Diameters
Tree Species Average Diameter at Breast Significant dbh Maximum Caliper for
             Height (dbh)                               Replanting
Tree Species        Average Diameter at Significant dbh Maximum Caliper for
                    Breast Height (dbh)                 Replanting
White Oak           2-3'                12"             3"
Northern Red Oak    3-4'                15"             3"
Scarlet Oak         1-2'                6"              3"
Chestnut Oak        3-4'                15"             3"
Blackjack Oak       1-2'                6"              3"
White Ash           1-2'                6"              3"
Red Maple           1-2'                6"              3"
Flowering Dogwood   12 -18"             4"              3"
Black Locust        2-3'                12"             3"
Black Walnut        2-4'                12"             3"
Bitternut Hickory   18-24"              10"             3"
Pignut Hickory      2-3'                12"             3"
Mockernut Hickory   18-24"              10"             3"
Yellow Poplar       2-6'                12"             3"
Sycamore            3-4'                15"             3"
Basswood*           2-3'                12"             3"
Beech               2-3'                12"             3"
Slippery Elm*       1-2'                6"              3"
Sweet Birch         2-3'                12"             3"
Black Cherry        2-3'                12"             3"
American Holly      6-24"               6"              3"
Sourwood            18-20"              6"              3"
Carolina Silverbell 6-12"               6"              3"
Persimmon           10-12"              6"              3"
Blackgum            1-2'                6"              3"
Cucumber Magnolia*  1-2'                6"              3"
Fraser Magnolia     10-12"              6"              3"
Redbud              10-12"              6"              3"
Yellow Buckeye*     To 3'               12"             3"
Eastern Hemlock     2-3'                12"**           3"
Carolina Hemlock    2-3'                12"**           3"
Shortleaf Pine      3-4'                6"              3"
Virginia Pine       1-2'                6"              3"
Pitch Pine          1-2'                6"              3"
White Pine          2-3'                12"             3"
 
*Species that may or may not occur in the town but do occur in the region.
**It may become necessary to preserve all these trees, regardless of dbh, due
to potential loss of the species due to mortality from invasive species.
(Code 1989, ch. 91, attach. D)
Chapter 29
RESERVED
Chapter 30
TRAFFIC AND VEHICLES
ARTICLE I.   IN GENERAL
Secs. 30-1–30-18.   Reserved.
ARTICLE II.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
30-19.   Traffic and parking regulations.
30-20.   Obedience to signs, markers, or devices.
30-21.   Signs as prerequisite to enforcement.
30-22.   Display of unauthorized signs.
30-23.   Interference with official traffic control devices.
30-24.   Authority of police and fire department officials.
30-25.   Obedience to police and fire department officials.
30-26.   Authorized emergency vehicles.
Secs. 30-27–30-55.   Reserved.
ARTICLE III.   PARKING VIOLATIONS; ENFORCEMENT
30-56.   Unlawful parking.
30-57.   Stopping, standing, or parking prohibited in specified places.
30-58.   Parking parallel to curb.
30-59.   Vehicles backed up to curb.
30-60.   Left side to curb not permitted.
30-61.   Parking within lines where provided.
30-62.   Parking and use of electric vehicle charging stations.
30-63.   Penalty.
Secs. 30-64–30-94.   Reserved.
ARTICLE IV.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
30-95.   Schedule I speed limits.
Secs. 30-96–30-118.   Reserved.
ARTICLE V.   GOLF CARTS
30-119.   Purpose.
30-120.   Policy statement and liability disclaimer.
30-121.   Definitions.
30-122.   Operation on public streets and highways within certain areas;
exceptions.
30-123.   Manner of operation.
30-124.   Required equipment.
30-125.   Registration and fee prior to usage.
30-126.   Denial, revocation and enforcement.
ARTICLE I.
IN GENERAL
Secs. 30-1—30-18. Reserved.
ARTICLE II.
TRAFFIC REGULATIONS 1
 
Notes
  State law reference(s)—Regulation of traffic on streets and public ways, G.S.
1 160A-300; city may remove junked and abandoned motor vehicles, G.S. 160A-303;
  municipality not authorized to regulate or license transportation network
  company regulated pursuant to state law, G.S. 160A-194(c).
Sec. 30-19. Traffic and parking regulations.
   (a)   Town traffic and parking regulations will be established by ordinance
and the council. When a new traffic or parking ordinance is adopted, the chief
of police shall make certain that the appropriate sign, traffic control signal,
or other markings are made to give proper notice of the regulation.
   (b)   A list of all town traffic and parking regulations shall be maintained
in the office of the clerk. The current list of regulations is incorporated by
reference into this chapter.
(Code 1989, § 70.01)
Sec. 30-20. Obedience to signs, markers, or devices.
   Any person failing or refusing to comply with the directions indicated on
any sign, marker, or device for the control of direction of traffic or
regulation of parking erected or placed in accordance with the provisions of
this article, when so placed or erected, shall be guilty of an infraction or
misdemeanor. This section shall not be construed to apply when the driver of a
vehicle is otherwise directed by a police officer, or when an exception is
granted to the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle under section 30-26.
(Code 1989, § 70.02)
Sec. 30-21. Signs as prerequisite to enforcement.
   No provisions of this article for which signs are required shall be enforced
against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the alleged violation,
an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently legible to an
ordinarily observant person.
(Code 1989, § 70.03)
Sec. 30-22. Display of unauthorized signs.
   (a)   No person shall place, maintain, or display on or in view of any
street or highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device which
purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic control
device, sign, or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic,
or which hides from view or interferes with the effectiveness of any official
traffic control device, sign, or signal.
   (b)   No person shall place or maintain nor shall any public authority
permit on any street or highway any traffic sign or signal bearing thereon any
commercial advertising.
(Code 1989, § 70.04)
Sec. 30-23. Interference with official traffic control devices.
   No person shall without lawful authority attempt to or in fact alter,
deface, injure, knock down, or remove any official traffic control device,
sign, or signal or any inscription, shield, or insignia thereon, or any other
part thereof.
(Code 1989, § 70.05)
Sec. 30-24. Authority of police and fire department officials.
   (a)   It shall be the duty of the officers of the police department to
enforce all street traffic laws and all of the state vehicle laws applicable to
street traffic.
   (b)   Officers of the police department are authorized to direct all traffic
by voice, hand, or signal in conformance with traffic laws, provided that, in
the event of a fire or other emergency or to expedite traffic or to safeguard
pedestrians, officers of the police department may direct traffic as conditions
may require notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws.
   (c)   Officers of the fire department, when at the scene of a fire, may
direct or assist the police in directing traffic thereat or in the immediate
vicinity.
   (d)   Officers of the state highway patrol and the county sheriff's
department are authorized to enforce all street traffic laws and all state
vehicle laws within the town.
(Code 1989, § 70.06)
Sec. 30-25. Obedience to police and fire department officials.
   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of a police officer or fire department official.
(Code 1989, § 70.07)
Sec. 30-26. Authorized emergency vehicles.
   The provisions of this chapter regulating the operation, parking, and
standing of vehicles shall apply to authorized emergency vehicles, except as
provided under state law.
(Code 1989, § 70.08)
State Law Reference(s)—Emergency vehicles, exceptions to right-of-way rules,
G.S. 20-156.
Secs. 30-27—30-55. Reserved.
ARTICLE III.
PARKING VIOLATIONS; ENFORCEMENT
Sec. 30-56. Unlawful parking.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle upon any street for the principal
purpose of:
      (1)   Displaying it for sale.
      (2)   Washing, greasing, or repairing such vehicle, except repairs
necessitated by an emergency.
      (3)   Storage of any detached trailer, or van, when the towing unit has
been disconnected or for the purpose of transferring merchandise, or freight,
from one vehicle to another, or parking for any purpose a vehicle of one-ton
capacity or greater for a period longer than two hours.
      (4)   Storage thereof by garages, dealers, or other persons when such
storage is not incident to the bona fide use and operation of such automobile
or other vehicle.
      (5)   Advertising any goods or merchandise for sale.
(Code 1989, § 71.01; Ord. of 7-9-1974)
Sec. 30-57. Stopping, standing, or parking prohibited in specified places.
   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle except when necessary to
avoid conflict with other traffic, or in compliance with the direction of a
police officer or a traffic control device in any of the following places:
      (1)   On the sidewalk.
      (2)   Within an intersection.
      (3)   On a crosswalk.
      (4)   Within 30 feet of any flashing beacon, stop sign, or traffic
control signal located at the side of a street or roadway.
      (5)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction, when
such stopping, or standing, or parking would obstruct traffic.
      (6)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure, or within any
underpass.
      (7)   Within 15 feet in either direction of the entrance to a hotel,
theater, hospital, sanitorium, or other public building.
      (8)   Upon any area designated as a no parking area when said areas are
appropriately marked.
      (9)   Upon any town property between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 8:00
a.m. without permission to do so.
      (10)   Upon any town property at any time for the purpose of camping,
unless prior written permission is secured from the board of commissioners.
      (11)    In a parking space designated for a specific purpose, (e.g.,
“vehicles with trailers only”) unless it is being used for the designated
purpose.
(Code 1989, § 71.02; Ord. of 7-9-1974; Ord. of 7-8-1975)
Sec. 30-58. Parking parallel to curb.
   Where not otherwise directed by law, and where the streets are not marked to
show how vehicles shall park, all vehicles shall park parallel to the curb and
not more than 12 inches therefrom.
(Code 1989, § 71.03; Ord. of 7-9-1974)
Sec. 30-59. Vehicles backed up to curb.
   In no case shall a vehicle remain backed up to a curb, except when loading
or unloading.
(Code 1989, § 71.04; Ord. of 7-9-1974)
Sec. 30-60. Left side to curb not permitted.
   No vehicle shall stop with its left side to the curb, and all vehicles shall
stop, stand, or park so as to be headed in the direction of traffic.
(Code 1989, § 71.05; Ord. of 7-9-1974)
Sec. 30-61. Parking within lines where provided.
   On any street or town owned public vehicular area which is marked with lines
indicating the parking space for vehicles, all vehicles shall be parked within
said lines as indicated.
(Code 1989, § 71.06; Ord. of 7-9-1974; Ord. No. 21-06-08, 6-8-2021)
Sec. 30-62. Parking and use of electric vehicle charging stations.
   (a)   Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this
section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except
where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
      Charging means an electric vehicle parked at an electric vehicle charging
station and is connected to the charging station equipment.
      Electric vehicle means any vehicle that operates, either partially or
exclusively, on electrical energy from the grid, or an off-board source, that
is stored on board for motive purpose.
      Electric vehicle charging station means a public parking space that is
served by battery charging station equipment that has as its primary purpose
the transfer of electric energy (by conductive or inductive means) to a battery
or other energy storage device in an electric vehicle.
   (b)   Electric vehicle charging stations on public property. Public electric
vehicle charging stations that are located on public property are reserved for
parking and charging electric vehicles only. When a sign provides notice that a
space is a designated public electric vehicle charging station, no person shall
park any nonelectric vehicle in that space. Any nonelectric vehicle is subject
to the penalties set forth in section 30-68 and subject to towing at the
owner's expense. Any electric vehicle in any designated public electric vehicle
charging station spaces on public property that is not electrically charging
shall be subject to the penalties as set forth in section 30-68 and subject to
towing at the owner's expense.
   (c)   Signage required. Where public electric vehicle charging stations are
constructed and installed on property owned by the town, the town shall cause
appropriate signs and markings to be placed in and around the parking spaces of
said stations, indicating prominently thereon the parking regulations. The
signs shall state that the parking space is reserved for charging purposes and
that there is a four hour charging limit. A second sign shall provide
information on how owners of towed vehicles may retrieve the same.
   (d)   Enforcement. A violation of this section shall be enforceable pursuant
to the procedures for penalties in section 30-63.
(Code 1989, § 71.07; Ord. of 3-13-2018; Ord. of 10-10-2023)
Sec. 30-63. Penalty.
   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
article, or failing or neglecting or refusing to comply with same, shall be
issued a civil penalty citation in an amount not to exceed $50.00, as set by
the Town Council, payable at the Lake Lure Town Hall within thirty (30) days of
issuance. Each day that any of the provisions of this article are violated
shall constitute a separate offense. Civil penalty citations become past due if
not paid within thirty (30) calendar days of the issuance of the citation, and
the offender shall be assessed an additional penalty of $25.00 and thereafter,
every 30 day period the citation remains will result in an additional
assessment of $50.00. Citations and corresponding late fee(s) that remain
unpaid after 30 days of issuance may be recovered by the Town in a civil action
in the nature of a debt. Parking in violation of any or the provisions of this
article shall make the vehicle and/or other property left thereon subject to
towing.
(Code 1989, § 71.99; Ord. of 7-9-1974; Ord. of 12-13-2022)
Secs. 30-64—30-94. Reserved.
ARTICLE IV.
TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Sec. 30-95. Schedule I speed limits.
   (a)    Based upon an engineering and traffic investigation pursuant to
authority granted by G.S. 20-141(f), the town does hereby declare the following
speed limit modifications on the following described portion of a state highway
system street:
 
Speed Limit Ordinance Number Description
25          1073278          Between a point 0.34 miles east of SR 1304 and a
                             point 0.93 miles east of SR 1304
                             SR 1306 from a point 0.50 miles west of the
35          800200032        eastern corporate limits eastward to the eastern
                             corporate limits
 
   (b)   Streets in town that are not a part of the state highway system:
 
Speed Limit Ordinance Number Description
25                           All streets unless otherwise posted
15
 
   (c)   Nothing in this section shall be interpreted to permit any person to
drive a vehicle at a speed greater than is reasonable and prudent under the
conditions then existing.
(Code 1989, ch. 72, sched. I; Ord. of 4-24-1991; Ord. of 11-13-2018; Ord. of
11-14-2023)
Secs. 30-96—30-118. Reserved.
ARTICLE V. GOLF CARTS 2
 
Notes
2 State law reference(s)—Municipal regulation of golf cart operation, G.S. 160A-
  300.6.
Sec. 30-119. Purpose.
   The purpose of this article shall be to establish a golf cart ordinance to
allow the operation of golf carts within certain areas of the town hereinafter
designated to promote the health, safety and welfare of persons operating golf
cart within the town and to protect the safety of their passengers and other
users of roads.
(Code 1989, § 74.01; Ord. of 8-14-2018)
Sec. 30-120. Policy statement and liability disclaimer.
   Golf carts are not designed or manufactured to be used on public streets,
roads and highways, and the town in no way advocates or endorses their
operation on roads. The town, by regulating such operation is merely trying to
address obvious safety issues, and adoption of this article is not to be relied
upon as a determination that operation on designated roads is safe or advisable
if done in accordance with this article. All persons who operate or ride upon
golf carts on designated roads do so at their own risk and peril and must be
observant of and attentive to the safety of themselves and others, including
their passengers, other motorists, bicyclists, and pedestrians. The town has no
liability and assumes no liability under any theory of liability for permitting
golf carts to be operated on designated public roads pursuant to the statutory
authority of G.S. 160A-300.6. Any person who operates a golf cart must procure
liability insurance sufficient to cover the risks involved in using a golf cart
on the designated roads of the town.
(Code 1989, § 74.02; Ord. of 8-14-2018)
Sec. 30-121. Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
Controlled access facility means a state highway, or section of state highway,
especially designed for through traffic, and over, from or to which highway
owners or occupants of abutting property, or others, shall have only a
controlled right or easement of access.
Driver's license means a valid license to operate a motor vehicle issued by the
state or any other state.
Financial responsibility means liability insurance coverage on a golf cart in
an amount not less than required by state law for motor vehicles operated on
public highways in the state.
Golf cart means a vehicle designed and manufactured for operation on a golf
course for sporting or recreational purposes and that is not capable of
exceeding speeds of 20 mph as set forth in G.S. 20-4.01(12b).
Operator means only persons over 16 years of age and holding a valid driver's
license may operate a golf cart on roads.
(Code 1989, § 74.03; Ord. of 8-14-2018)
Sec. 30-122. Operation on public streets and highways within certain areas;
exceptions.
   (a)   Allowed; registration and authorization required. The operation of
golf carts on the public streets, roads and highways within certain areas of
the town so designated for that purpose and on property controlled by the town,
if so designated, shall be permitted in compliance with the provisions of this
article; however, it shall be unlawful to operate any golf cart that is not
properly registered with the town or to operate any golf cart at any place or
in any manner not authorized herein.
   (b)   Exceptions. The operation of golf carts is not subject to the
provisions of this article under the following circumstances:
      (1)   The operation of golf carts at golf courses, private clubs or on
private property, with the consent of the owner;
      (2)   The operation of golf carts on private streets within gated
communities;
      (3)   The operation of golf carts that complies with and are regulated by
the requirements of state motor vehicle law, which makes it a street legal golf
cart and/or low speed vehicle and is therefore eligible for usage on public
roads as prescribed by law;
      (4)   The operation of golf carts in connection with a parade, festival,
or other special event provided the consent of the event sponsor is obtained
and provided such use only occurs during the event; or
      (5)   The use of golf carts by the town in its official capacity or
business on town-controlled property.
(Code 1989, § 74.04; Ord. of 8-14-2018)
Sec. 30-123. Manner of operation.
   Golf carts shall not be operated on the public streets, roads and highways
of the town except in full compliance with the provisions of this article.
      (1)   Golf carts shall not be operated on or alongside public roads or
streets with a posted speed limit greater than 35 miles per hour.
      (2)   Golf carts may cross a road with a posted speed limit greater than
35 mph. However, once this segment of road has been traversed, the golf cart is
still required to travel only on or along a roadway with a speed limit of 35
mph or less. Golf carts must cross in a manner that is the most direct route in
order to decrease crossing distance, i.e., no riding along a road or crossing
at an angle. Under no circumstance is a golf cart allowed to cross a controlled
access facility other than at bridges which cross over or under a controlled
access facility.
      (3)   Golf carts may be driven on approved public roads and streets so
designated by the town from sunrise until sunset. Golf carts may be driven
after sunset when equipped with operational headlights and taillights. Golf
carts may not be operated when fog, smog, smoke, inclement weather or other
conditions reduce visibility so that the golf cart is not visible for a minimum
distance of 250 feet.
      (4)   Golf carts are authorized for use on the following roads within the
town limits:
         a.   Buffalo Creek Road (State Road 1314) (App. B).
         b.   A portion of Buffalo Creek Road (State Road 1306) (App. B).
         c.   A portion of Buffalo Shoals Road (State Road 1306) (App. B).
         d.   A portion of Cut Away Road (App. A).
         e.   Village Boulevard (App. A).
         f.   Winesap Road (State Road 1308) (App. B).
         g.   Storm Ridge Road (App. C).
         h.   A portion of Charlotte Drive between the two intersections with
Storm Ridge Road (App. C).
   The maps for this article are located in section 30-126.
      (5)   Golf carts authorized for use under the provisions of this article
shall not be operated on any other public streets or roads within the town.
      (6)   Any person who operates a golf cart must be responsible for all
liability associated with operation of the golf cart and must have liability
insurance coverage which will cover the use of a golf cart in an amount not
less than the minimum required by state law for motor vehicles operated on
public highways in the state.
      (7)   Any person who operates a golf cart must be at least 16 years of
age. No person may operate a golf cart unless that person is licensed to drive
upon the public streets, roads and highways of the state and then, only in
accordance with such valid driver's license's restriction. Golf cart operators
must carry their driver's license on their person at all times while operating
a golf cart on public roads. For the purpose of this article, a learner's
permit shall not be considered as a valid driver's license nor shall any
license that has been revoked, temporarily, or otherwise, or suspended for any
reason be considered as a valid driver's license during the period of
revocation or suspension.
      (8)   Any person who operates a golf cart on public streets and roads
must adhere to all applicable state and local traffic laws, regulations and
ordinances, including, but not limited to, those banning the possession and use
of alcoholic beverages, and all other illegal drugs. In addition, no golf cart
containing any open container of alcohol shall be operated on public roads.
      (9)   The operator of the golf cart shall comply with all traffic rules
and regulations adopted by the state and the county/town/city which governs the
operation of motor vehicles.
      (10)   An operator of a golf cart on designated streets may not allow the
number of people in the golf cart at any one time to exceed the maximum
capacity specified by the manufacturer. The operator shall not allow passengers
to ride on any part of a golf cart not designed to carry passengers, such as
the rear of a golf cart designed to carry golf bags.
      (11)   In no instance shall a golf cart be operated at a speed greater
than 20 miles per hour. No golf cart may be operated at a speed greater than
reasonable and prudent for the existing conditions.
      (12)   Golf carts must be operated at the right edge of the roadway and
must yield to all vehicular and pedestrian traffic.
      (13)   Golf carts must park in designated spaces in such a manner that
multiple golf carts can utilize the space. All parking rules and limits apply.
Golf carts shall only park in handicapped parking spaces if the driver or at
least one passenger has a valid handicap parking placard and such placard is
properly displayed in the cart. No parking on sidewalks is allowed.
(Code 1989, § 74.05; Ord. of 8-14-2018)
Sec. 30-124. Required equipment.
   (a)   Golf carts must have the basic equipment supplied by the manufacturer,
including a vehicle identification or serial number. Such equipment must
include all safety devices as installed by said manufacturer, including rear
view mirror and a rear triangle reflector of the same type required by state
law.
   (b)   Golf carts driven after sunset must have a minimum of one operating
headlight, and two operating taillights, one on each side of the rear of the
cart. All lights must be visible from a distance of 250 feet.
   (c)   A low-speed caution triangle, with a minimum size of 12 inches or
greater on all three sides, that shall be made of reflective material and
mounted on the rear of the vehicle and permanently installed.
   (d)   If a mechanical turn signal indicator is installed, it shall be
operational. If a mechanical turn signal indicator is not installed, then hand
signals are required for turns.
(Code 1989, § 74.06; Ord. of 8-14-2018)
Sec. 30-125. Registration and fee prior to usage.
   (a)   All golf cart owners who intend to operate the golf cart on designated
roads must complete a golf cart registration application and submit to the town
at town hall for approval. Before driving on designated public roads, the
operator of a golf cart must have a valid issued registration.
   (b)   The cost for the registration of the golf cart shall be in accordance
with the fee schedule adopted annually by the town council. Registration fees
are due at the time of registration and registrations must be renewed every
calendar year.
   (c)   Each owner must have proof of ownership, liability insurance, and a
completed waiver of liability releasing the town from liability that may arise
as a result of operation of a golf cart within the town limits. These documents
must be in the golf cart at all times while in operation on public roads or
streets.
   (d)   All golf carts must meet the requirements or minimum standards of
safety equipment as set forth in section 30-124.
   (e)   All golf cart operators must present a valid driver's license while
operating a golf cart on a public street or road.
   (f)   The registration sticker shall be valid for no more than one year and
must be displayed on the lower corner of the driver's side windshield or in
case of no windshield, the driver's side front quarter panel of the golf cart
and easily visible by law enforcement personnel.
   (g)   Lost or stolen permit/stickers are the responsibility of the owner and
must be replaced before the golf cart is operated on a public road.
(Code 1989, § 74.07; Ord. of 8-14-2018)
Sec. 30-126. Denial, revocation and enforcement.
   (a)   If any person shall violate the provisions of this article, he shall
be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor and shall be subject to the remedies and
penalties found in section 1-10.
   (b)   The town may refuse to register and issue a permit for the operation
of a golf cart, or may revoke a previously issued permit, if the application
contains any material misrepresentation; if equipment required by this article,
has been removed from the golf cart; if the liability insurance requirements
have not been met; or the vehicle identification or serial number is removed.
   (c)   The town may refuse to register and issue a permit for the operation
of a golf cart, or may revoke a previously issued permit for cart owners who
have received at least two citations involving the golf cart since their last
registration renewal.
   (d)   Any person who knowingly allows an underage driver to operate a golf
cart shall have their permit revoked. In addition, the town may also refuse to
issue a future permit to someone who allowed an underage driver to operate a
golf cart on public roads or streets.
   (e)   All-terrain vehicles, four-wheeled utility vehicles and other similar
utility vehicles which are not manufactured for operation on a golf course may
not be registered as a golf cart nor shall such vehicles be operated on the
public roads or streets within the town unless such vehicles are otherwise used
in conjunction with and authorized for emergency service operations.
   (f)   Any violation of the motor vehicle laws of the state shall be charged
the same as any other driver of any registered vehicle in the state.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c141ac2780daea4288dd157975992950c90da25b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1294.png]
   In accordance with the Town of Lake Lure General Ordinance, Chapter 30
Traffic and Vehicles, Article V, Golf Carts, a Golf Cart Registration may be
issued to operate a golf cart on the designated streets of the Town of Lake
Lure. Golf cart operators shall submit an application in person to the Town of
Lake Lure to obtain its own individual permit/decal to be placed on the front
windshield area of the cart so as to be fully visible when the cart is in
operation. Golf carts shall have all the required equipment listed in the
ordinance. All drivers of the golf cart shall have a valid driver's license.
   A golf cart registration authorizes the operation of a golf cart on approved
public streets or roads within the corporate limits of the Town and whose
posted speed limit is 35 mph or less. It is the responsibility of the golf cart
operator to know what roads are designated as permissible for the operation of
golf carts.
   As with any other form of transportation, all persons who operate golf carts
do so at their own risk and must be observant of and attentive to the safety of
themselves and others. The Town has no liability under any theory of liability
and the Town assumes no liability for permitting golf carts to be operated on
certain designated public streets.
   The owner of the golf cart must provide evidence of liability insurance at
the time of application and must continuously maintain insurance for the entire
time the golf cart is registered in the Town of Lake Lure. A golf cart
registration fee of $15.00 for each cart, as well as $5.00 for each permit/
decal, shall be payable at the time of registration and inspection.
Registration shall expire on December 31st of the year printed on the permit
and will not be prorated due to date of issuance
   Please Print or Type:
   Applicants Name: ___________ Telephone Number: ________
   Address:
 
   Mailing Address if different from above:
 
   Driver's License Number: State Issued:
   Serial Number of Golf Cart: Year: Make/Model:
   Color: _____
   Name of Insurance Company: Policy Number:
   By signing this application below, the applicant acknowledges that he/she
has received, read and understands the provisions of the Golf Cart ordinance
and agrees to abide by all rules and regulations governing the operation of
his/her golf cart in the town. The applicant further declares, under penalties
of perjury, this vehicle is insured with the company named above and he/she
will maintain liability insurance throughout the registration period.
 
Signature of Applicant Date
 
****************************************************************
   For Town Use Only: Fee Paid: Receipt #: Date:
   Registration Sticker # Issued: Date Issued:
   Expiration Date: ___________
   Date Inspected: Approved: Denied:
   If Denied, Reason:
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c141ac2780daea4288dd157975992950c90da25b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1310.png]
Town of Lake Lure
Summary of Golf Cart Regulations
And
Waiver of Liability
   This is a summary of the rules and regulations for the operation of a golf
cart on the streets/roads within the Town of Lake Lure. Additional information
regarding the regulations for operating a golf cart on specified Town streets
along with violation penalties is found in the copy of the Town of Lake Lure
Ordinance Regulating the Operation of Golf Carts on Certain Public Streets.
   •   Golf carts must have the basic equipment supplied by the manufacturer,
including all safety devices installed by the manufacturer.
   •   Golf carts shall not be operated on or alongside public roads or streets
with a posted speed limit greater than 35 miles per hour.
   •   Golf carts may be driven on approved public roads and streets so
designated by the town from sunrise to sunset. A list of the approved roads/
streets authorized for use is found in section 30-123.
   •   Golf cart drivers must adhere to all applicable state and local traffic
laws, regulations, and ordinances.
   •   Golf carts may not be operated when fog, smog, smoke, inclement weather
or other conditions reduce the visibility so that the golf cart is not visible
from a minimum distance of 250 feet.
   •   Golf carts authorized for use under the provisions of this article shall
not be operated on any other public streets or roads within the town.
   •   Golf cart drivers shall have a valid driver's license and in no case be
under the age of 16 years.
   •   Golf cart drivers shall stay on the far right of the road and shall
yield the right-of-way to overtaking vehicles.
   •   Golf carts shall not be operated at a speed greater than 20 miles per
hour.
   •   Golf carts must park in designated spaces.
   •   Golf carts may not be used for the purpose of towing another cart,
trailer, vehicle of any kind, including a person on roller skates, skateboard,
bicycle or similar device.
   •   Lost or stolen permit/stickers are the responsibility of the owner and
must be replaced before the golf cart is operated on a public street or road.
   •   The town may refuse to register and issue a permit for the operation of
a golf cart, or may revoke a previously issued permit for cart owners who have
received at least two citations involving the golf cart since their last
registration renewal.
   •   Any violation of the motor vehicle laws of the state shall be charged
the same as any other driver of any registered vehicle in the state.
   Liability Disclaimer
   Golf carts are not designed or manufactured to be used on public streets,
roads and highways, and the Town of Lake Lure in no way advocates or endorses
their operation on roads. The Town of Lake Lure, by regulating such operation,
is merely trying to address obvious safety issues, and adoption of this
ordinance is not to be relied upon as a determination that operation on
designated roads is safe or advisable if done in accordance with this chapter.
All persons who operate or ride upon golf carts on designated roads do so at
their own risk and peril and must be observant of and attentive to the safety
of themselves and others, including their passengers, other motorists,
bicyclists, and pedestrians. The Town of Lake Lure has no liability and assumes
no liability under any theory of liability for permitting golf carts to be
operated on designated public roads pursuant to the statutory authority of G.S.
160A-300.6. Any person who operates a golf cart must procure liability
insurance sufficient to cover the risks involved in using a golf cart on the
designated roads of the town.
   Serial Number of Golf Cart: Year: Make/Model:
   Color: ___________
   Registration Number: ___________
   Acknowledgement
I have read and understand the above requirements and acknowledge receipt of
the Town of Lake Lure Ordinance Regulating the Operation of Golf Carts on
Certain Public Streets in the Town of Lake Lure. I have paid the registration
fee. I acknowledge that I have liability insurance sufficient to cover the risk
involved in using this cart on the designated streets and roads and am fully
responsible for the operation of the above cart on these streets and roads. I
also acknowledge that the Town of Lake Lure, in providing this privilege, is in
no way endorsing the operation of this cart on streets and roads nor assumes
any liability in the operation of the cart. I agree to indemnify and hold
harmless the Town of Lake Lure for any and all liability arising from the use
of this registered golf cart. I certify that the above identified cart has the
required mirrors, and reflective low speed caution triangle. I will ensure that
copies of the proof of ownership, liability insurance, and this completed
waiver of liability are in the golf cart at all times while in operation on
public roads.
 
Signature of Applicant/Owner Date
                             
 
   Map A
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c141ac2780daea4288dd157975992950c90da25b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1296.png]
 
   Map B
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c141ac2780daea4288dd157975992950c90da25b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1298.png]
 
   Map C
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c141ac2780daea4288dd157975992950c90da25b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1300.png]
 
(Code 1989, § 74.08; Ord. of 8-14-2018)
Chapter 31
RESERVED
Chapter 32
UTILITIES
ARTICLE I.   IN GENERAL
Secs. 32-1–32-18.   Reserved.
ARTICLE II.   WATER SYSTEM
32-19.   Service contracts.
32-20.   Supervision by council.
32-21.   Director of public works; duties.
32-22.   Water connections required; separate connections.
32-23.   Connections to be made under supervision.
32-24.   Applications for connections.
32-25.   Connection charges.
32-26.   Right of entry.
32-27.   Water meters.
32-28.   Connections outside of town.
32-29.   Unauthorized use of water.
32-30.   Leaks.
32-31.   Water for use of consumers only.
32-32.   Water for building purposes.
32-33.   Injury to property and fixtures.
32-34.   Tampering with meters.
32-35.   Continuity of service.
32-36.   Water rates and charges.
32-37.   Meter reading; billing; collecting.
32-38.   Suspension of service.
Secs. 32-39 32-65.   Reserved.
ARTICLE III.   SEWER SYSTEM
32-66.   Sewer service authority.
32-67.   Management and control.
32-68.   Purpose and scope of sewer ordinance.
32-69.   Definitions.
32-70.   Administrative procedures; enforcement; penalties; damaging or
tampering with facilities.
32-71.   Connection to sewer system required.
32-72.   Connections outside of town limits.
32-73.   Application for connection; service agreement/permit.
32-74.   Connections to be made under town supervision.
32-75.   User charges.
32-76.   Deposits.
32-77.   Sewer connection charges.
32-78.   Responsibility for payment of charges.
32-79.   Suspension of service.
32-80.   Permissive use of system.
32-81.   Prohibited discharges.
32-82.   Restricted discharges.
32-83.   Fat, oil and grease (FOG).
32-84.   Limitations on compatible wastes.
32-85.   Compliance with federal and state standards.
32-86.   Accidental discharges.
32-87.   Wastewater monitoring facilities.
32-88.   Wastewater pretreatment facilities.
32-89.   Acceptance of septage from private, corporate, and HOA systems.
32-90.   Private sewage disposal systems.
32-91.   Sewer capacity and allocation.
ARTICLE I.
IN GENERAL
Secs. 32-1—32-18. Reserved.
ARTICLE II.
WATER SYSTEM 1
 
Notes
  State law reference(s)—Acquisition and operation of utilities as public
1 enterprises, G.S. 160A-311 et seq.; local governments providing public water
  service must prepare local water supply plan, G.S. 143-355(l).
Sec. 32-19. Service contracts.
   All pertinent provisions of this chapter shall govern the terms and
conditions of the contracts under which the town furnishes water service to any
person, or whereby the town makes any water connections or performs any work of
any kind in connection with the furnishing of water service.
(Code 1989, § 50.01)
Sec. 32-20. Supervision by council.
   The water system shall be under the supervision of the council, and the duty
of enforcing full compliance with all rules regulations governing all
connections with the mains shall be vested in the director of public works.
(Code 1989, § 50.02)
Sec. 32-21. Director of public works; duties.
   The director of public works shall perform the following duties:
      (1)   He shall have general supervision over all the operations of the
water system.
      (2)   He shall see that all rules and regulations of the town are
enforced.
      (3)   He shall see that water rates and assessments are correctly made.
(Code 1989, § 50.03)
Sec. 32-22. Water connections required; separate connections.
   All owners of improved property located within the corporate limits and on
or within a distance of 200 feet of any town water line shall connect their
premises with the town water system. Nothing in this section shall prohibit the
continued use of water from private wells for any purpose other than domestic
use. There shall be no cross- connection of the town water system with any
private well or any other source of water supply.
(Code 1989, § 50.04)
Sec. 32-23. Connections to be made under supervision.
   The construction of laterals for water connections, and the necessary
excavation therefor, shall be done by the town, or, if done by a licensed
plumber, it shall be done under the supervision of the town.
(Code 1989, § 50.05)
Sec. 32-24. Applications for connections.
   Every application for a water connection shall be made on a form provided by
the town, shall be signed by the applicant, shall be accompanied by the proper
fee for making the connections, and shall be filed with the director of public
works.
(Code 1989, § 50.06)
Sec. 32-25. Connection charges.
   Charges for connection to the town water system will be as established by
the council.
(Code 1989, § 50.07)
Sec. 32-26. Right of entry.
   Whenever it becomes necessary to enter any premises, store, or dwelling, for
the purpose of inspecting water pipes, fixtures, or meters, town employees may
do so during reasonable hours. Should the employee be refused admittance, the
supply of water shall be cut off until the examination is made and the required
information is obtained, or until repairs and alterations are made.
(Code 1989, § 50.08)
Sec. 32-27. Water meters.
   (a)   Any water meters furnished by the town shall remain the property of
the town.
   (b)   At the request of any consumer, the town will test the accuracy of a
water meter alleged to be recording improperly. If the meter is found to be
inaccurate, the consumer's water bill may be adjusted accordingly. If the meter
is found to be accurate, the consumer will be charged a fee that is listed in
the village fee schedule.
(Code 1989, § 50.09)
Sec. 32-28. Connections outside of town.
   No connection of any water line or system outside of the town shall be made
to any part of the town water system without special permission from the
council on such terms as the council shall prescribe.
(Code 1989, § 50.10)
Sec. 32-29. Unauthorized use of water.
   Only authorized town employees may connect or reconnect water service. If
water is found to be in use without being turned on by an authorized town
employee, or if water is used for any other purpose than that paid for, the
consumer of the water shall be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable in accordance
with G.S. 14-4.
(Code 1989, § 50.11, Ord. of 6-14-2022)
Sec. 32-30. Leaks.
   If a break occurs, or a defect is found in any pipe or fixture, causing or
permitting a leakage or waste of water, it shall be the duty of the owner of
the premises or the consumer to have the break or defect repaired.
(Code 1989, § 50.12)
Sec. 32-31. Water for use of consumers only.
   It shall be unlawful for any consumer to permit any person, except the
members of his family or employees living on the premises as a part of the
household, or visitors in the home to remove water from the premises for any
purpose except in case of fire or other emergency. Any person unlawfully
receiving or using water shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and if it is shown
that the unlawful use has been made with the knowledge and consent of the
consumer, the consumer shall be deemed equally guilty.
(Code 1989, § 50.13)
Sec. 32-32. Water for building purposes.
   Any person desiring water for building purposes shall make application to
the town for a permit. He shall state the time when the work will be completed,
and shall pay in advance for the water at the regular rates. At the completion
of the work, the estimate will be revised and any additional amount will be
collected, or surplus refunded, as the case may be. This section shall apply
where the consumption of water is not rated by a meter.
(Code 1989, § 50.14)
Sec. 32-33. Injury to property and fixtures.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to injure, deface, or destroy the
building, machinery, fences, trees, or other property of the town water system,
or in any way to contaminate the town water supply. Violations of the
provisions of this article shall be punishable as a misdemeanor as provided by
G.S. 14-4.
(Code 1989, § 50.15, Ord. of 6-14-2022)
Sec. 32-34. Tampering with meters.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, after the water has been turned off for
failure to pay the water bill, to turn the water on at the meter or to bypass
the meter or in any manner to obtain water at no cost. Violations of the
provisions of this article shall be punishable as a misdemeanor as provided by
G.S. 14-4.
(Code 1989, § 50.16, Ord. of 6-14-2022)
Sec. 32-35. Continuity of service.
   The town will not be liable for any damages that may result to consumers
from the shutting off of water service for any cause whatever, even in cases
where no motive is given, and no deduction from bills will be made in
consequence thereof.
(Code 1989, § 50.17)
Sec. 32-36. Water rates and charges.
   The rates and charges for water service shall be as established by the
council and shall be due and payable monthly. A copy of the current rates and
charges shall be kept on file at all times in the office of the clerk.
(Code 1989, § 50.18)
Sec. 32-37. Meter reading; billing; collecting.
   (a)   Meters will be read and bills rendered monthly, but the town may vary
dates or length of period covered, temporarily or permanently, if necessary or
desirable.
   (b)   Bills for water will be figured in accordance with the rate schedule
then in effect and will be based on the amount consumed for the period covered
by the meter readings, but the amount payable for each billing period shall not
be less than the minimum charge prescribed in the schedule of rates.
   (c)   Charges for service commence when the meter is installed and
connection is made, whether used or not.
   (d)   Bills for water service are due when rendered and are delinquent after
the tenth day of the following month. In the event the bill for water service
is not paid in 15 days after it was rendered, a penalty of ten percent of the
outstanding balance shall be added and shall be paid by the consumer.
   (e)   Delinquent notices will be mailed to the consumer, and if not paid
within five days after date of delinquency mailing, water service may be
discontinued.
   (f)   Failure to receive bills mailed or notices shall not prevent the bills
from becoming delinquent nor relieve the consumer from payment.
(Code 1989, § 50.19)
Sec. 32-38. Suspension of service.
   (a)   Service discontinued for nonpayment of bills will be restored only
after bills are paid in full and payment of a reconnection service fee is made.
   (b)   The town reserves the right to discontinue water service without
notice for any one or more of the following additional reasons:
      (1)   To prevent fraud or abuse;
      (2)   Consumer's willful disregard of the town's rules and regulations;
      (3)   Emergency repairs;
      (4)   Insufficiency of supply due to circumstances beyond the town's
control;
      (5)   Legal process;
      (6)   Direction of public authorities; or
      (7)   Strike, riot, fire, flood, accident, or any unavoidable cause.
   (c)   The town may, in addition to prosecution by law, permanently refuse
service to any consumer who tampers with a meter or other measuring device.
(Code 1989, § 50.20)
Secs. 32-39—32-65. Reserved.
ARTICLE III.
SEWER SYSTEM  2
 
Notes
  State law reference(s)—Authority to operate public enterprises including water
  and sewer regulations, G.S. 160A-311; authority to regulate public utilities,
2 G.S. 160A-312; municipal power to require connections to water or sewer service,
  G.S. 160A-317; local industrial wastewater pretreatment programs, 15A NCAC
  02H.0901.
Sec. 32-66. Sewer service authority.
   The town, by virtue and authority granted by its Charter and by G.S. ch.
160A, art. 16 (G.S. 160A-312 et seq.), is authorized and empowered to acquire,
provide, construct, establish, maintain and operate a sewer system for the town
and to extend the system beyond the corporate limits.
(Code 1989, § 51.00; Ord. of 11-13-2018)
Sec. 32-67. Management and control.
   (a)   Generally. The management and control of the sewer system is vested in
the town manager, to be governed by the provisions of this article and the
policies established and modified from time to time by the town council and all
in compliance with the laws of the state.
   (b)   Collection system. The town manager shall appoint an operator in
responsible charge (ORC) who shall have, or can obtain, state qualifications to
operate the town's sewer collection system under the general supervision of the
town manager.
   (c)   Treatment system. The town manager shall appoint an operator in
responsible charge (ORC) who shall have, or can obtain, state qualifications to
operate the town's wastewater treatment plant (WWTP) under the general
supervision of the town manager.
   (d)   Customer service and financial operations. The town manager shall
appoint a customer service representative and a finance director who are
authorized to administer the daily customer service and financial operations of
the sewer system under the general supervision of the town manager.
   (e)   Ordinance interpretation and grievance. Interpretation of this article
and/or any person aggrieved by a decision of the ORC, the customer service
representative, or the finance director shall have the right of appeal to the
town manager, who shall have authority to make a final decision on any
ordinance interpretation and appeal. The manager may defer such appeal to the
town council for a final decision.
(Code 1989, § 51.01)
Sec. 32-68. Purpose and scope of sewer ordinance.
   (a)   The town's overall operating philosophy for its sewer system starts
with the uniqueness of the collection system itself. The system was installed
prior to the flooding of the lake, and is located on the lakebed, with
perimeter manholes on the lake shore to provide access for sewer customers.
Therefore, the town's basic philosophy is that the town owns, operates and
maintains this underwater sewer system up to and ending at the lake perimeter
manholes. The town does own, operate and maintain some isolated sewer lines
outside the lake, but these are very limited.
   (b)   In all cases, the town does not own, operate or maintain any sewer
laterals or service lines beyond town- owned manholes. Laterals and service
lines that serve one, two or several customers are the full responsibility of
the customers being served. Costs for operation and maintenance of these
laterals and service lines are the shared responsibility of the customers
receiving sewer service. The town may get involved only as a facilitator
between the regulatory authority and customer should a lateral or service line
break or leak results in environmental damage or contamination to the lake.
   (c)   This article is adopted by the town in compliance with the terms and
provisions of public funds used in the construction, installation, operation,
maintenance and capital improvements of the town sewer system, and is intended
to ensure beneficial service to users of such system, the prevention of abuse
thereof, and a manner of equitably distributing the costs of services among the
users thereof, recognizing that the physical facilities of the sewer system,
including the trunk sewers, pump stations and force mains, the treatment plant
and other support appurtenances are intended to transport, convey and treat
domestic sanitary wastewater and compatible industrial wastewater to produce a
treated wastewater and byproduct residuals which may be released into the
environment without adverse environmental impact, all within the regulatory
requirements of permits issued by the state for operation of the sewer system
and WWTP.
   (d)   The objectives of this article and its elements are as follows:
      (1)   Elimination of uncontaminated water, groundwater and stormwater
which do not require extensive treatment from the system.
      (2)   Elimination of waste which will damage the system, or cause
excessive wear, rapid deterioration or depreciation or excessive maintenance
thereof, or which will endanger the safety of maintenance workers or the
general public by its presence, or which cannot be economically treated, and/or
which will cause a malfunction or breakdown of the treatment process and result
in the water effluent and byproduct sludge being an environmental hazard from
the system.
      (3)   To ensure a fair allocation of the cost among the users of the
system based upon voluntary contributions of wastewater of equal strength,
recovery of capital cost contributions of public monies from industrial and
commercial users of the system, and the imposition of a surcharge for loads of
industrial or commercial wastewater which are higher in concentration than
sanitary wastewater.
   No statement contained in this section shall be construed as prohibiting any
special agreement or arrangement between the town and other persons whereby an
industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be admitted into the
system.
(Code 1989, § 51.02)
Sec. 32-69. Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
Action level means the concentration based numeric value that the grease
interceptor effluent, at the device's outlet tee and prior to mixing with any
other wastewater from the contributing establishment's property, are expected
to achieve on a consistent or stipulated basis.
Allocation, sewer allocation, or sewer capacity allocation means conditional
designations of estimated sewer treatment capacity to a specific owner and
project, subject to all of the provisions of this policy and any document of
approval.
Approval authority means the director of the state department of natural
resources and community development, division of environmental management.
BOD (biochemical oxygen demand) means the quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory conditions
for five days at 20 degrees Celsius, expressed in milligrams per liter.
Building drain means that part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of a building and conveys it to a sewer service line,
beginning five feet (1.5 meters) outside the inner face of the building wall.
Common interceptor means one or more interceptors receiving FOG laden
wastewater from more than one establishment. Common interceptors may be located
at shopping centers, malls, entertainment complexes, sporting arenas, hotels,
multi-tenant "flex" spaces, mixed use spaces, and other sites where multiple
establishments are connected to a single grease interceptor. The owner of the
property on which the common grease interceptor is located shall be primarily
responsible for the maintenance, upkeep, and repair of the common interceptor.
Compatible wastewater means wastewaters with only those polluting constituents
which are susceptible to adequate treatment in the treatment system works,
without harm to the sewerage system. The term "compatible constituents" has
like meaning with reference to individual wastewater parameters.
Connecting sewers means public sewers connecting to the public sewer system.
Connection fee means a fee charged to defray the cost of the connection of a
customer's service line to a sewer main.
Contingent allocations means conditional designations of estimated sewer
treatment capacity that become effective only upon the occurrence of specific
events.
Critical, essential, or highly desirable community services means commercial,
institutional, or public services that have been identified by an official
planning document or which are found by the town council to be vital, under-
provided needs for the residents of the town.
Evaluation criteria means the factors and findings by which applications for
sewer capacity allocations are analyzed and evaluated to assist in decisions
regarding allocations.
Fats, oils, and greases means organic polar compounds derived from animal and/
or plant sources that contain multiple carbon chain triglyceride molecules.
These substances are detectable and measurable using analytical test procedures
established in 40 CRF 136, as may be amended from time to time. All are
sometimes referred to herein as "grease" or "greases" or "FOG."
Food service establishments or "FSE" means those establishments primarily
engaged in activities of preparing, serving, or otherwise making available for
consumption foodstuffs and that use one or more of the following preparation
activities: Cooking by frying (all methods), baking (all methods), grilling,
sauteing, rotisserie cooking, broiling (all methods), boiling, blanching,
roasting, toasting, or poaching, and infrared heating, searing, barbecuing, and
any other food preparation or serving activity that produces a consumable food
product in or on a receptacle requiring washing to be reused.
FOG enforcement response plan means the document and written plan and
procedures by which the ORC implements an enforcement strategy applicable to
the FOG control and management program established herein. The plan applies to
FOG program violations and matters of program noncompliance. Stipulated
penalties for specific and programmatic infractions are addressed in the plan
and set forth in the town's annual budget ordinance. The ORC shall make site
and case specific determinations of program non-conformance in accordance with
this article.
Garbage means solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation,
cooking and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of
produce.
Grease trap or interceptor means a device for separating waterborne greases and
grease complexes from wastewater and retaining such greases and grease
complexes prior to the wastewater exiting the trap and entering the sanitary
sewer collection and treatment system. Grease traps also serve to collect
solids that settle, generated by and from activities that subject users to this
section, prior to the water exiting the trap and entering the sanitary sewer
collection and treatment system. Grease traps and interceptors are sometimes
referred to herein as "grease interceptors."
Impact fee means a fee levied to recover past or future capital cost required
to provide increased capacity of water or sewer facilities.
Improved property means any property which has been altered from its natural
state, or its current state, by the construction, erection or rehabilitation of
a structure or facility, located upon the ground; and if such completed
structure has been improved for human habitation and/or use and results in the
generation of wastewater which requires treatment.
Incompatible wastewater means wastewater containing constituents or
characteristics which render it unsuitable for transport or treatment in the
sewerage system. The terms "incompatible constituents" and "incompatible
characteristics" have like meaning with reference to individual wastewater
parameters. Incompatible constituents and characteristics include water
parameters and the elements listed in prohibitions, and may include other
elements so identified by the manager and specified in the user's service
permit.
Industrial wastes and high strength wastes mean the liquid wastes from
industrial manufacturing processes, trade or business, or any high strength
wastewater, as distinct from sanitary wastes. Sanitary wastes are defined as
wastewaters originating from domestic sources.
Infill means building or development that is significantly surrounded by
existing improved property, particularly developed property located within the
town limits.
Infrastructure installations means improvements (such as streets, sidewalks,
water and sewer mains, and stormwater conveyance or mitigation facilities)
required by town subdivision regulations and/or other major facilities
improvements required to prepare the property for building improvements.
Manager means the town manager.
Minimum design capability means the design features of a grease interceptor and
its ability or volume required to effectively intercept and retain greases and
settled solids from grease-laden wastewaters discharged to the public sanitary
sewer.
Municipality means the town.
Natural outlet means any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface water or groundwater.
Non-cooking establishments means those establishments primarily engaged in the
preparation of precooked foodstuffs that do not include any form of cooking,
but that may produce a consumable food product in or on a receptacle requiring
washing to be reused.
Non-municipal means any user of sewer service other than a customer discharging
normal sanitary (domestic) wastewater.
Onsite grease interceptor treatment (sometimes onsite treatment) means
mechanisms or procedures utilized by a user to treat grease interceptor
contents on the user's site, followed by the reintroduction of such treated
wastewater back into the interceptor. Onsite grease interceptor treatment may
only be accomplished by a user if the user or the user's contract service
provider is permitted by the state division of waste management as a septage
management firm or service provider.
ORC means the operator in responsible charge of the town's sewer system.
pH means the logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in
grams per liter of solution.
Public sewer means a sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have
equal rights, and which is controlled by public authority.
Refractory, in reference to chemical wastewater constituents, means resistant
to treatment or difficult to degrade by biochemical processes.
Sanitary sewer means a sewer which carries sewage and to which stormwater,
surface water and groundwater are not intentionally admitted.
Scavenger wastes means contents of privies, septic tanks or cesspools,
industrial wastes, chemical compounds and sludges which are hauled by truck or
other mobile conveyance.
Scheduling means designation of a specific time or time period during which a
sewer capacity allocation is available for use.
Service provider means any third party not in the employment of the user that
performs maintenance, repair, and other services on a user's grease interceptor
at the user's directive.
Sewage means a combination of the water-carried wastes from residences,
business buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with
such groundwater, surface water and stormwater as may be present.
Sewage treatment plant means any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
Sewer means a pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
Sewer service line means the extension from a building drain to the public
sewer or other place of disposal; also, a lateral connection.
Sewerage system means all facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and
disposing of wastewater.
Slug means any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which, in
concentration of any given constituent, or in quantity of flow, exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration of flows during normal operation.
Storm drain and storm sewer means a sewer which carries stormwater and surface
water and drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes other than
unpolluted cooling water.
Surcharge means a monetary charge for treatment of industrial waste loads at
concentrations higher than normal for sanitary wastewaters. The term "hydraulic
surcharge of sewers," meaning overloading, is not used in this article.
Suspended solids means solids that either float on the surface of or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
System means the sewerage system of the town.
Tap means the connection made at the customer's service line (including meter
or cleanout) to a sewer main.
Town means the Town of Lake Lure, Rutherford County, North Carolina.
User means any person using the services of the town for conveyance or
treatment of wastewater.
WWTP means the town wastewater treatment plant.
Wastewater means any waterborne suspension, slurry or solution of any materials
in water which serves the purpose of carrying away unwanted materials from the
source.
Watercourse means a channel in which a flow of water occurs, either
continuously or intermittently.
(Code 1989, § 51.03)
Sec. 32-70. Administrative procedures; enforcement; penalties; damaging or
tampering with facilities.
   (a)   Duties and authority. The duties and authority of town code
enforcement employees and inspectors are as follows:
      (1)   The town manager, his designees, and other duly authorized
employees, hereinafter referred to as inspectors, properly identified by
credentials of appointment and identification shall perform code enforcement
and/or inspections. Inspection shall also be allowed by appropriate state and
federal agencies. It shall be the duty of the inspector to make inspections,
observations, measurements, sampling and testing in accordance with the
provisions of this article. Such inspectors shall have no authority to inquire
into any industrial process or to require or request the disclosure of any
trade secrets beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind or source
of discharge to the sewers or waterways or other facilities of the town.
      (2)   Such inspectors shall have the right to enter upon real property
over and through which the town has acquired an easement for the installation
and maintenance of the sewer lines and facilities, and, in addition, they shall
have, along with proper municipal inspectors, the right to go upon the property
of individuals or industrial users of the system as provided in the utility
service agreement mentioned in this section, for the purpose of determining
compliance with the provisions of this article. All non-municipal sewer users
shall execute, as a requirement for service, an agreement allowing sewer
inspectors to enter upon the premises for the purpose of inspecting individual
sewer collector lines, during reasonable times, so as to verify compliance with
the terms and conditions of such service.
      (3)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred
to in this section, any inspector shall observe all safety rules applicable to
the premises established by any commercial or industrial user.
   (b)   Damaging or tampering with facilities. It shall be unlawful and a
violation of this section for any person to damage, destroy or tamper with any
gauges, meters, lines, manholes and their covers, equipment, pumps, electrical
connections, lift stations, or any appurtenances to the sewer lines of the
town, and, in addition to the civil responsibility for any damage caused or
occasioned by such person, such offender shall be liable for imposition of the
penalties as provided in this article. It shall likewise be a violation of this
section for any person to aid, assist, abet or permit a minor child to violate
the provisions of this article, and such person shall be liable as a principal
and subject to the identical penalties as to which any violator of this article
would be liable.
   (c)   Penalties. If any person shall violate the provisions of this section,
the town manager, his designee or the code enforcement officer shall give
notice to the owner or to any person in possession of the subject property in
writing and served by personal delivery or the most expeditious means possible,
directing that all unlawful conditions existing thereupon be abated within ten
days from the date of such notice; provided, that if, in the opinion of the
town manager, his designee, or the code enforcement officer the unlawful
condition is such that it is of imminent danger or peril to public, the public
services department may, without notice, proceed to abate the same, and the
cost thereof shall be charged against the property. The penalty for the
violation of any provisions of this article shall be as prescribed by G.S. 14-4
(a) Class 3 misdemeanor with a fine not to exceed $500.00. In addition to the
criminal penalty, there shall also be levied a civil penalty (as provided in
the same chapter) per separate offense per day plus any amount the town council
shall find appropriate in case of damage to the system or the environment for
the purpose of repairs or cleanup.
   (d)   Additional rules and regulations. In order to carry out the terms of
this article, the town may promulgate such rules and regulations as deemed
necessary, and the town manager is likewise vested, subject to ratification of
the town council, with authority to act on behalf of the town in providing for
the safety, maintenance, good order and proper function of the facilities of
the town.
(Code 1989, § 51.04; Ord. of 11-13-2018)
Sec. 32-71. Connection to sewer system required.
   (a)   All improved property within the town limits with a structure that
generates wastewater, and such structure is located within 200 feet of a town
owned sewer line, shall be connected therewith, and the property owner shall be
charged the prescribed connection fee for all such connections. Such connection
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of this section within 90 days
after the date of official notice to connect.
   (b)   Improved property served by wells and annexed by the town shall be
connected to the sewer systems, if within 200 feet, within two years of the
effective date of annexation; provided, however, that no connection to the
sewer system shall be permitted without also connecting to the town's water
system.
   (c)   The manager or town council may delay or waive the requirement for
connection where a determination is made that it is impractical to connect due
to topography or other just causes. New construction shall be required to
connect to an existing sewer line prior to receiving a certificate of
occupancy.
   (d)   Except as provided in this article, it shall be unlawful to construct
or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage. If improved property is currently
connected to a town sewer, it shall be unlawful to disconnect.
   (e)   If improved property is connected to a town-owned sewer line, or to a
privately owned line that has access to the public sewer system, it shall be
unlawful to disconnect from public sewer except as allowed for in this section.
(Code 1989, § 51.05; Ord. of 1-10-2017; Ord. of 11-13-2018)
Sec. 32-72. Connections outside of town limits.
   (a)   All improved property outside the town limits that request town water
service and located within 200 feet of a town owned sewer line shall connect to
the town sewer. This shall be a condition to connect to town water. The
property owner shall be charged the prescribed connection fee for all such
connections. Such connection shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
this section within 90 days after the date of official notice to connect.
   (b)   Improved property served by wells, or other water source, outside town
limits may, at the discretion of the property owner, and upon approval of the
ORC, be connected to the town sewer system. The property owner must provide
written documentation that there is legal access for the service line
connecting the improvement to the town sewer.
(Code 1989, § 51.06)
Sec. 32-73. Application for connection; service agreement/permit.
   (a)   Application for connection to the town sewer system shall be made on
the town's form, together with supporting reports and data sufficient to ensure
compliance with relevant terms of this article. The minimum requirement shall
be that all information requested on the application be supplied, and all
irrelevant information blanks be marked as "not applicable." The town manager,
or his designee, may request any additional information deemed necessary,
within the scope and intent of this article. Persons requiring guidance in
making application may consult the town manager. The approval of a sewer
connection application shall constitute the issuance of a service agreement.
   (b)   An approvable service permit or information necessary to support an
approvable application must be submitted to the town manager before approval
will be issued to any person proposing to discharge industrial wastewaters to
public sewers.
   (c)   Service permits shall specify quantities and characteristics of
industrial wastewaters which may be sewered and shall be limiting where so
specified. Service permits may specify special conditions and agreements
between the user and the town. Service permits shall serve as a contract
between the user and the town. If deviation from the terms of a service permit
is anticipated or experienced by the user or the town, each party shall
immediately notify the other, in writing, specifying the nature and extent of
the change in sufficient detail that a new or modified service permit may be
issued, or the service permit cancelled, whichever may be appropriate.
   (d)   Permits for any users, other than normal sanitary wastewater, shall be
issued for a specified time period not to exceed five years. The user shall
apply for permit reissuance a minimum of 180 days prior to expiration.
(Code 1989, § 51.07)
Sec. 32-74. Connections to be made under town supervision.
   (a)   All connections to the town's sewer main lines, or sewer manholes,
shall be performed only by a state- licensed plumber or licensed utility
contractor and/or performed by one of their employees under their direct
supervision.
   (b)   Sewer connections will not be made to any existing vacant substandard
property or any substandard property becoming vacant until such time as the
property has been inspected and brought into compliance with the town, county
and state codes and a certificate of occupancy issued.
   (c)   If an existing sewer connection to a property that for one reason or
another becomes uninhabitable, the sewer service line will be cut and plugged
at the property line by the town and billing stopped and the account will be
closed. If the uninhabitable property is brought into compliance with codes and
a certificate of occupancy is issued, then the sewer service line may be re-
connected to the property, but will be considered as a new account, new tap and
an application with fees shall have to be completed and paid.
   (d)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer, manhole or appurtenance.
   (e)   All required permits (town, county, state or federal), contractor
connection costs, and other expenses incidental to the installation and
connection of a sewer service line shall be borne by the owner. This may
include costs for obtaining road cut permits, road repair, easements, costs of
inspection from third party entities, a pump and storage tank if required for
the service connection and other associated costs.
   (f)   Unless otherwise authorized by the ORC, a separate and independent
sewer service line shall be provided for every building; except, where one
building stands at the rear of another on an interior lot and no private sewer
is available or can be constructed to the rear building through an adjoining
alley, courtyard or driveway. The sewer service line from the front building
may be extended to the rear building and the whole considered as one sewer
service line.
   (g)   Old sewer service lines may be used in connection with new buildings
only when they are found upon examination and test by the ORC to meet all
requirements of this article.
   (h)   The size, slope, alignment and materials of construction of a sewer
service line, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe,
jointing, testing and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the
requirements of the state building and plumbing codes or other applicable rules
and regulations of the town and the state. In the absence of code provisions or
in amplification thereof, the materials and procedures set forth in the town's
utility construction standards shall apply.
   (i)   Whenever possible, the sewer service line shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which
any building sewer drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer,
sanitary sewage carried by such building drain shall be pumped by an individual
pump and discharged to the sewer service line. In such case a pump is required;
a shut off valve shall be installed at the connection point to the town's
sewer. If a pump and storage tank is required, the system shall be pre-approved
by the ORC.
   (j)   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or
groundwater to a sewer service line or building drain which in turn is
connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   (k)   The connection of the sewer service line into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the town and state. All such connections
shall be made watertight. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and
materials must be approved by the town manager or ORC.
   (l)   The applicant for a sewer connection shall notify the ORC or customer
service representative prior to installation of the sewer service line to
schedule a field inspection and approval of the location of service line and
connection point to the town's sewer. The actual connection to the town's sewer
shall be made under the supervision of the ORC. No sewer service pipe or
connection shall be backfilled or covered up without prior inspection from the
ORC or his representatives. In a case where a state road has to be cut for
installation of a sewer service and connection to the town's sewer, the NCDOT
shall be notified and perform an approved inspection.
   (m)   All excavations for sewer service line installation shall be
adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from
hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the
course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the town.
   (n)   If the town discovers through inspections and/or testing an
unauthorized sewer connection, the town shall notify in writing the owner of
the property that the unauthorized connection serves and request the owner to
complete a sewer application form, pay a doubled connection fee and two years
of back charges, or 100 percent of back charges since the owner obtained title
to the property if less than two years. Failure to complete an application may
result in further penalties in accordance with section 32-70. 
(Code 1989, § 51.08)
Sec. 32-75. User charges.
   (a)   Generally. Sewer user charges are based upon the proposition that
costs of service be distributed equitably among users of the services. There
will be two rates for payment for services by users:
      (1)   Basic users rate, generally for all residential and commercial
users.
      (2)   High strength waste surcharges, usually for industrial and
specialty users.
   (b)   Residential sewer customers. Persons discharging only domestic
sanitary wastewater into the town's sewer system will be charged a flat fee per
dwelling unit. Such flat fee rates shall be set forth in the schedule of fees
and charges of the annually adopted budget ordinance for the town.
   (c)   Commercial sewer customers. Commercial customers discharging only
domestic sanitary wastewater into the town's sewer system will be charged a
flat fee per commercial user size. Such user size is based upon the annual
projected flow discharged into the town's sewer system and is determined by the
town based upon the type and size of the commercial customer. flat rate fees
for each user size shall be set forth in the schedule of fees and charges of
the annually adopted budget ordinance for the town.
   (d)   Adjustments. Normally all requests for sewer flat fee rate adjustment
will not be considered. An appeal may be considered if it can be demonstrated
that the flat fee is substantially different from the proposition that costs of
service be distributed equitably among users of the services. The town manager
is authorized to make an adjustment in the flat fee rate.
   (e)   High strength waste surcharge. Persons discharging high strength
wastes, normally industrial, will be charged for loads of BOD and suspended
solids in the wastewater in concentrations in excess of those normal for
domestic sanitary sewage and allowed for in the basic users rate. For purposes
of establishing the lower limits of the user charge surcharges, normal domestic
wastewater shall be characterized according to the following concentrations for
domestic waste parameters:
      (1)   BOD5: 220 mg/L.
      (2)   Suspended solids: 220 mg/L.
   (f)   Surcharge rates. Surcharge rates will be stated in terms of dollars
per pound for each parameter. Quantities of surchargeable materials will be
determined by flow measurements (or estimates), sampling, analyses and
calculations. Sampling and analyses will be done by the town using 24-hour
composite samples, taken during a representative operating day of the user. The
minimum sampling frequency will be one day for each four-month billing period.
Wastewater analyses will be performed according to procedures of the latest
edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater, APHA,
AWWA, WPCF. Average results of sample analyses will be used for calculating
surcharges for each parameter over the billing period according to the
following example calculation:
      (1)   Assume Average Measured BOD = 600 mg/L = (600 lb./106 lb. WW).
      (2)   Assumed measured Volume = 900,000 gal./quarter.
      (3)   Limit of Base Rate BOD 220 mg/L = (220 lb./106 lb. WW).
      (4)   Assume BOD Surcharge = ¢/lb.
      (5)   BOD Surcharge = 600-200 × 0.9 × 8.34 × ¢/lb.
      (6)   106 × 100 = $/quarter.
   (g)   Administration billing. Administration for the high strength waste
monitoring program and billings to such accounts will be made by the town and
will include statements of base rate billings, surcharge billings and the basis
of billings.
   (h)   Alternate method sampling. The town will enter into agreement with
high strength users specifying alternate methods of sewage flow determination
and sampling as conditions of a service permit.
   (i)   Rate schedules. If required, a schedule of surcharge rates to be
charged for the collection and treatment of high strength wastewater shall be
set forth in the schedule of fees and charges. Rate schedules will be revised
from time to time to reflect the changing number of users and the varying
operation costs.
   (j)   Separate rate agreement. The town may negotiate a separate rate
agreement for high volume and/or high strength users.
(Code 1989, § 51.09; Ord. of 11-13-2018)
Sec. 32-76. Deposits.
   Customer deposits shall not be required for sewer service apart from
deposits required for the town's water system. The customer deposits are set
forth in the schedule of fees and charges of the annually adopted budget
ordinance for the town.
(Code 1989, § 51.10)
Sec. 32-77. Sewer connection charges.
   (a)   Applicable sewer connection and capital impact fees shall be paid in
advance of the establishment of any sewer connection, including, but not
limited to, the extension of pipe, the tapping of a sewer main, or the
establishment of a new use on an existing connection. The specific policies and
procedures for the assessment and collection of sewer connection and capital
impact fees shall be established by the schedule of fees and charges in each
year's annual budget ordinance.
   (b)   No water from the town's water system shall be supplied to any person
who has caused a sewer tap to be made until the connection fee has been
received by the town.
   (c)   All residents of areas statutorily annexed to the town, where the town
extends the sewer to the newly annexed area, shall qualify for waiver of the
standard sewer connection fees and charges, provided such residents follow
proper application, installation and complete connections within 12 calendar
months of the date sewer utilities are available for tapping. The town manager
shall provide written certification to town council of the date such utility
lines become available for connection, thereby, fixing the date from which
residents are allowed to connect without payment of connection charges. All
residents who do not connect within the 12-month waiver period must pay all
connection fees and charges as prescribed herein.
   (d)   Sewer connection and impact fees are intended to fund the town's
capital reserve fund. The purpose of the impact fee is to reimburse existing
customers for having to finance expansion-related projects in advance of
growth; recover carrying costs of capacity because capacity must be developed
in advance of growth; and create a fund for the upgrading of the sewer
collection and treatment system required due to obsolescence or increased
regulatory requirements.
   (e)   For purpose of assessing residential sewer capital impact fees, the
assumed usage for a residential unit shall be 375 gallons per day. The term
"residential unit" shall be deemed to be an individual single-family living
unit whether such unit shall be a freestanding house, an apartment, a
condominium or any other residential structure.
   (f)   Nonresidential users will be assessed sewer capital impact fees based
on the number of 375 GPD units of water consumed and will pay the full cost for
any fraction of a residential equivalent. Sewer capital impact fees may be
assessed utilizing the best available information, including, but not limited
to, historical use data for similar uses, and an engineer's signed and sealed
estimate of projected water use. In the absence of such information, the town
manager shall base sewer capital impact such fees upon 15A NCAC 02T.0114,
Wastewater Design Flow Rates.
(Code 1989, § 51.11)
Sec. 32-78. Responsibility for payment of charges.
   (a)   The town bills bi-monthly for sewer service to the address set forth
on the application for service. The person who signs the application for
service is responsible for paying the bi-monthly bills in accordance with the
schedule of rates and fees. Should bills not be paid, the charges for services
remain with the property. If the property's title is transferred, through a
sale, foreclosure, bankruptcy, inheritance, or other means; responsibility for
unpaid balances for service transfer to the new title owner pursuant to the
authority of the town Charter, House Bill 282, ch. 194, ratified May 15, 1987,
which provides in article V, section 5.1 that, "in case any charges for water
or sewerage service due and owing to the town are not paid, then such charges
and any penalties assessed for nonpayment shall become a lien upon the property
served or in connection with which service is used."
   (b)   Where there is not provided a separate service connection for each
building situated on any given lot or parcel of land, the owner of such lot or
parcel of land shall be responsible for the payment of charges for sewer to all
such buildings on the lot or parcel.
   (c)   Where separate service connections are not provided to every occupancy
unit or tenant within a multitenant building, the owner of the building shall
be responsible for the payment of all charges for sewer service to the
building.
   (d)   Where more than one dwelling unit, or separate structures are provided
service through a single service connection, the charges for service shall be
the total number of dwelling units or structures served times the minimum
charge as shown in the current sewer rate plus the total volume rate. The
number of minimum charges is defined as the same number of separate electrical
meters required to serve the dwelling units or structures.
   (e)   Failure to receive bills mailed or notices shall not prevent the bills
from becoming delinquent nor relieve the consumer from payment.
(Code 1989, § 51.13; Ord. of 11-13-2018)
Sec. 32-79. Suspension of service.
   (a)   The town reserves the right to suspend service, with notice, for
nonpayment of bills. Notices and suspension of service shall be in accordance
with the town manager's directives.
   (b)   When it is not practical to disconnect sewer service for nonpayment
(i.e., several customers share a private sewer lateral that connects to the
town's system and one of those customers does not pay their bill), service
cannot be terminated to all customers due to one customer's delinquent actions.
In these and similar cases, the town will allow the delinquent account to
accumulate to a balance of approximately $1,000.00, and then proceed with legal
liens on the property and small claims court to secure a judgment. Costs
associated with liens and small claims court, and all delinquent service fees
will be added to the judgment claim.
   (c)   The town reserves the right to suspend service, without notice, for
the following conditions:
      (1)   To prevent fraud or abuse.
      (2)   Customer's willful disregard of the town's rules and regulations.
      (3)   Emergency repairs.
      (4)   Legal process.
      (5)   Strike, riot, fire, flood, accident or any unavoidable cause.
(Code 1989, § 51.14)
Sec. 32-80. Permissive use of system.
   (a)   Customers in or outside town limits are subject to regulations of the
town, the county department of health, and the state department of
environmental and natural resources (NCDENR) for proper handling of wastes and
wastewaters accepted into the public sewers.
   (b)   Such customers may apply to the town for discharge of sanitary and
compatible wastewaters into the sewerage system, by procedures outlined in this
article.
(Code 1989, § 51.15)
Sec. 32-81. Prohibited discharges.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any incompatible
wastewaters or wastes to any public sewers, including the following:
      (1)   The discharge of sanitary wastewater into a storm sewer system.
This is prohibited without exception.
      (2)   Stormwater, surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface
drainage, uncontaminated cooling water or unpolluted industrial process waters
to any sanitary sewer. Unpolluted cooling waters may, upon written application
and approval by the town manager, be discharged to storm sewers or storm
drains.
      (3)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or removal by the waste treatment processes employed or are amenable
to treatment only to such degree that the waste treatment plant effluent and
residuals outputs cannot meet the requirements of the NCDENR permits applicable
to plant operations.
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, or create a public nuisance.
      (5)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquids, solid or gas.
      (6)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.0, or having any
other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment and personnel of the WWTP.
      (7)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other interference with the
proper operation of the WWTP, such as, but not limited to, ashes, cinders,
sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar, plastic, wood,
un-ground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and fleshings, entrails and
paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either whole or ground by garbage
grinders.
(Code 1989, § 51.16)
Sec. 32-82. Restricted discharges.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following described
prohibited substances, materials, waters or wastes if it appears likely, in the
opinion of the town manager, that such wastes can harm either the sewers,
sewage treatment process or equipment, can have an adverse effect on the
receiving stream, or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or
constitute a nuisance. In forming his opinion as to the acceptability of these
wastes, the manager will give consideration to such factors as quantities of
subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of
construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capital of
the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage
treatment plant, and other pertinent factors. The substances prohibited are as
follows:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 104 degrees
Fahrenheit (40 degrees Celsius).
      (2)   Any wastes or waters containing fats, wax, grease or oil in excess
of 100 mg/L (per NCDENR), as determined by results of the Freon extractable
test, and the reasonable interpretation of test results, and/or auxiliary
tests, to exclude from the measurement values which do not represent fats, wax,
grease and oil.
      (3)   Any garbage other than ground residential garbage from residential
kitchen sinks.
      (4)   Any acidic or alkaline wastewaters having pH values outside the
range of 5.0 to 10.0.
      (5)   Heavy metals and toxic, refractory or organic chemicals in
concentrations or quantities sufficient to limit treatment plant capability or
efficiency, to adversely affect effluent quality by their presence or effects,
or to limit the means of disposal or utilization of treatment plant sludge by
their presence. The manager may issue lists of prohibited metals and toxic
chemicals and guidelines and criteria for limiting their acceptance as required
for operation of the treatment system.
      (6)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed public safety limits or cause the plant effluent or
sludge to exceed any applicable state or federal regulations.
      (7)   Any materials which exert or cause:
         a.   Unusual oxygen demand or chlorine demand in such amounts as to
constitute a significant load or an operating problem.
         b.   Excessive discoloration of treatment plant effluent.
         c.   Unusual odors in the treatment plant effluent or unusual odors in
the sewerage system.
(Code 1989, § 51.17)
Sec. 32-83. Fat, oil and grease (FOG).
   (a)   Scope and purpose. The objective of this section is to aid in
preventing the introduction and accumulation of fats, oils, and greases into
the municipal wastewater system which will or tend to cause or contribute to
sanitary sewer blockages and obstructions. Food service establishments and
other industrial or commercial establishments generating wastewater containing
fats, oils or greases are subject to this section. This section regulates such
users by requiring that grease interceptors and other approved strategies be
installed, implemented, and maintained in accordance with the provisions
hereof.
   (b)   Definitions. See section 32-69.
   (c)   Grease interceptors shall be installed and maintained at the user's
expense, when a user operates a food service establishment. Grease interceptors
may be required in non-cooking or cold dairy and frozen foodstuffs
establishments and other industrial or commercial establishments when the
establishment generates wastewater containing fat or grease and the ORC
determines an interceptor is necessary to prevent contribution or accumulation
of grease to the sanitary sewer collection and treatment system. Upon
notification by the ORC or designee that the user is subject to the terms of an
enforcement action, said user shall not allow wastewater discharge
concentration from subject grease interceptor to exceed an establishment action
level of 100 milligrams per liter, expressed as hexane extractable material.
All grease interceptors shall be of a type, design, and capital approved by the
ORC and shall be readily and easily accessible for maintenance, and repair,
including cleaning and for town inspection. All grease interceptors shall be
serviced and emptied of accumulated waste content as required in order to
maintain minimum design capability or effective volume of the grease
interceptor, but not less often than every 60 days or as permitted in a valid
program modification. Users who are required to pass wastewater through a
grease interceptor shall:
      (1)   Provide a minimum hydraulic retention time of 24 minutes at actual
peak flow between the influent and effluent baffles, with 25 percent of the
total volume of the grease interceptor being allowed for any food-derived
solids to settle or accumulate and floatable grease derived material to rise
and accumulate, identified hereafter as a solids blanket and grease cap
respectively.
      (2)   Remove any accumulated grease cap and solids blanket as required,
but at intervals of no longer than 60 days at the user's expense, or in
accordance with the valid program modification or other ORC's requirements.
Grease interceptors shall be kept free of inorganic solid materials, such as
grit, rocks, gravel, sand, eating utensils, cigarettes, shells, towels, rags,
etc., which could settle into this solids blanket and thereby reduce the
effective volume of the grease interceptor.
   (d)   If the user performs onsite grease interceptor treatment pursuant to a
modification granted below, the user shall:
      (1)   Prior to commencement of onsite treatment, obtain written approval
by and from the ORC of all processes utilized in said onsite treatment.
      (2)   Meet the criteria contained in subsection (d)(3)c of this section
if any pumped wastes or other materials removed from the grease interceptor are
treated in any fashion onsite and reintroduced back into the grease interceptor
as an activity of and after such onsite treatment.
      (3)   Attain and adhere to the criteria listed:
         a.   After 30 minutes of setting time, not more than 3.0 mg/L of
settleable solids, as measured in a one-liter Imhoff cone shall be allowed.
         b.   Within and not more than 24 hours after onsite grease interceptor
servicing, not more the two inches of settable solids and/or grease shall be
allowed to have accumulated therein as a result of said operations.
         c.   Service vehicles and equipment used in onsite grease interceptor
servicing shall be registered with the public works and utilities department,
and as required by the state division of waste management.
         d.   When servicing grease interceptors, service vehicles and
equipment shall have onboard, at all times, a certificate of approval for the
operations and methods used, issued by the ORC.
         e.   Any tanks, tankage, or vessel associated with a modification
shall be empty upon arrival at the initial FSE user site for which this
modification is intended to be applied. Operate and maintain the grease
interceptor to achieve and consistently maintain any applicable grease action
level. Consistent shall mean any wastewater sample taken from such grease
interceptor must meet the terms of numerical limit attainment described in
subsection (d)(3)a of this section. If a user documents that conditions exist
(space constraints) on their establishment site that limit the ability to
locate a grease interceptor on the exterior of the establishment, the user may
request an interior location for the interceptor. Such request shall contain
the following information:
            1.   Location of town sewer main and easement in relation to
available exterior space outside building.
            2.   Existing plumbing layout at or in a site.
            3.   A statement of understanding, signed by the user or authorized
agent, acknowledging and accepting conditions the ORC may place on permitting
an identified interior location. Conditions may include requirements to use
alternative mechanisms, devices, procedures, or operations relative to an
interior location.
            4.   Such other information as may be required by the ORC.
   (e)   The use of biological or other additives as a grease degradation or
conditioning agent is permissible only upon prior written approval of the ORC.
Any user using biological or other additives shall maintain the trap or
interceptor in such a manner that attainment of any grease wastewater, action
level, solids blanket or grease cap criteria, goal or directive, as measured
from the grease interceptor outlet of interior, is consistently achieved.
   (f)   The use of automatic grease removal systems is permissible only upon
prior written approval of the ORC, the lead plumbing inspector of the county,
and the Rutherford Polk McDowell District Health Department or the U.S.
Department of Agriculture. Any user using a grease interceptor located in the
interior of the site shall be subject to any operational requirements set forth
by the state division of waste management. Any user using equipment shall
operate the system in such a manner that attainment of the grease wastewater
discharge limit as measured from the unit's outlet, is consistently achieved as
required by the ORC.
   (g)   The ORC may make determinations of grease interceptor adequacy need,
design, appropriateness, application, location, modification, and conditional
usage based on review of all relevant information regarding grease interceptor
performance, facility site and building plan review by all regulatory reviewing
agencies may require repairs to, or modification or replacement of grease
interceptors. The user shall maintain a written record of grease interceptor
maintenance for three years. All such records will be available for inspection
by the town at all times. These records shall include:
      (1)   FSE name and physical location.
      (2)   Date of grease interceptor service
      (3)   Time of grease interceptor service.
      (4)   Name of grease interceptor service company.
      (5)   Name and signature of grease interceptor service company agent
performing said service.
      (6)   Established service frequency and type of service: full pump-out,
partial pump-out, onsite treatment (type of nature of operations.)
      (7)   Number and size of each grease interceptor serviced at FSE
location.
      (8)   Approximated amount, per best professional judgment of contract
service provider, of grease and solids removed from each grease interceptor.
      (9)   Total volume of waste removed from each grease interceptor.
      (10)   Destination of removed wastes, food solids, and wastewater
disposal.
      (11)   Signature and date of FSE personnel confirming service completion.
      (12)   Such other information as required by ORC.
   No non-grease-laden sources are allowed to be connected to sewer lines
intended for grease interceptor service.
   (h)   Access manholes shall have an installed diameter of 24 inches, a
maximum weight of 50 pounds, and shall be provided over each chamber, interior
baffle wall, and each sanitary tee. The access penetrations, commonly referred
to as risers into the grease interceptor shall also be, at a minimum, 24 inches
in diameter. The access manholes shall extend at least to finished grade and be
designed and maintained to prevent water inflow or infiltration. The manholes
shall also have readily removable covers to facilitate inspection, grease
removal, and wastewater sampling activities.
   (i)   A user may request a modification to the following requirements of
this article. Such request for a modification shall be in writing and shall
provide the information set forth in subsection (j) of this section.
   (j)   The user's grease interceptor pumping frequency. The ORC may modify
the 60 days grease interceptor pump out frequency when the user provides data,
and performance criteria relative to the overall effectiveness of a proposed
alternate and such can be substantiated by the ORC. Proposed alternatives may
include grease interceptor pumping or maintenance matters, bioremediation as a
complement to grease interceptor maintenance, grease interceptor selection and
sizing criteria, onsite grease interceptor maintenance, and specialized ware
washing procedures.
   (k)   Grease interceptor maintenance and service procedures. The ORC may
modify the method or procedure utilized service a grease interceptor when the
user provides data, and performance criteria relative to the overall
effectiveness of a proposed alternate method or procedure and such can be
substantiated by the ORC. If a modification to maintenance and service
procedures is permitted it shall be a conditional discharged permit approval.
   (l)   Any modification must be approved by the ORC in written form before
implementation by the user or the user's designated service provider.
(Code 1989, § 51.18)
Sec. 32-84. Limitations on compatible wastes.
   (a)   No person may discharge large quantities of compatible wastewaters to
public sewers which, by reason of volume, flow rate, concentration or total
load of compatible constituents, are in excess of the capital of a part of the
sewerage system or are inconsistent with the most beneficial use of the system
in the opinion of the manager. In consideration of these factors, the town
manager will limit the following:
      (1)   Volume and flow rate from any individual source to the capital of
sewers, pump stations and force mains and the treatment system, less the
capital committed to serve the general public and other users and the reserve
capital to serve anticipated needs of the general public until the time of a
planned expansion of the facilities.
      (2)   Loads of compatible pollutants, such as BOD, suspended solids,
nitrogen and phosphorus, from any individual source to the capital of the
treatment facilities, less the capital committed to serve the general public
and other users and the reserve capital to serve the anticipated needs of the
general public until the time of a planned expansion of the treatment
facilities.
   (b)   The town manager may require flow equalization or pretreatment for
load reduction as a condition of a service permit or may decline to receive
high loads or highly concentrated wastewaters into the system if in the town
manager's opinion this would not be the most beneficial use of the system, by
reason of the cost of services, technical considerations relating to operation
and maintenance of the system or conflicting alternatives for the provision of
services.
(Code 1989, § 51.19)
Sec. 32-85. Compliance with federal and state standards.
   (a)   Applicability of federal pretreatment standards. Upon the promulgation
of the federal categorical pretreatment standards for a particular industrial
subcategory, the federal standard, if more stringent than limitations imposed
under this article for sources in that subcategory, shall immediately supersede
the limitations imposed under this article.
   (b)   Modification of federal pretreatment standards. Where the town's WWTP
achieves consistent removal of pollutants limited by federal pretreatment
standards, the town may apply to the approval authority for modification of
specific limits in the federal pretreatment standards. For purposes of this
section, The term "consistent removal" means a reduction in the amount of a
pollutant or alteration of the nature of the pollutant by the wastewater
treatment system to a less toxic or harmless state in the effluent which is
achieved by the system in 95 percent of the samples taken when measured
according to the procedures set forth in 40 CFR 403, "General Pretreatment
Regulations for Existing and New Sources of Pollution," section 403.7(b)(2),
promulgated pursuant to the act. The town may then modify pollutant discharge
limits in the federal pretreatment standards if the requirements contained in
40 CFR 403.7 are fulfilled and prior approval from the approval authority is
obtained.
   (c)   Applicability of state requirements. State requirements and
limitations on discharges shall apply in any case where they are more stringent
than federal requirements and limitations or those in this article.
   (d)   Dilution of discharge. No user shall ever increase the use of process
water or in any way attempt to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete
substitute for adequate treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations
contained in the federal categorical pretreatment standards, or in any other
pollutant-specific limitation improved by the town or the state.
(Code 1989, § 51.20)
Sec. 32-86. Accidental discharges.
   (a)   Facilities and procedures. Each user shall provide protection from
accidental discharge of prohibited materials or other substances regulated by
this article. Facilities to prevent accidental discharge of prohibited
materials shall be provided and maintained at the owner's or user's own cost
and expense. Detailed plans showing facilities and operating procedures to
provide this protection shall be submitted to the town for review, and shall be
approved by the town before construction of the facility. All existing users,
if applicable, shall complete such a plan within 180 days of adoption of this
article. No user who commences contribution to the system after effective date
of the ordinance from which is section is derived shall be permitted to
introduce pollutants into the system until accidental discharge procedures have
been approved by the town. Review and approval of such plans and operating
procedures shall not relieve the industrial user from the responsibility to
modify the user's facility as necessary to meet the requirements of this
article. In the case of accidental discharge, it is the responsibility of the
user to immediately telephone and notify the treatment plant of the incident.
The notification shall include location of discharge, type of waste,
concentration and volume, and corrective actions.
   (b)   Written notice to manager. Within five days following an accidental
discharge, the user shall submit to the manager a detailed written report
describing the cause of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the user
to prevent similar future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve the
user of any expense, loss, damage or other liability which may be incurred as a
result of damage to the system, fish kills or any other damage to person or
property; nor shall such notification relieve the user of any fines, civil
penalties or other liability which may be imposed by this article or other
applicable law.
   (c)   Notice to employees. A notice shall be permanently posted on the
user's bulletin board or other prominent place advising employees whom to call
in the event of an accidental or dangerous discharge. Employers shall ensure
that all employees who may cause or suffer such a dangerous discharge to occur
are advised of the emergency notification procedure.
(Code 1989, § 51.21)
Sec. 32-87. Wastewater monitoring facilities.
   All persons discharging or proposing to discharge industrial wastewaters to
the public sewer shall provide facilities for access to the sewer service line
carrying industrial wastewater for the purposes of flow measurement and
sampling by the town, as required by the town manager. A person discharging
industrial wastes shall install a suitable control manhole, together with such
necessary meters and other appurtenances, in the sewer service line to
facilitate observation, sampling and measurements of the wastes. Such manhole,
when required, shall be accessibly and safely located, and shall be constructed
in accordance with plans approved by the town manager. The manhole shall be
installed by the owner at his expense, and shall be maintained by the owner so
as to be safe and accessible at all times.
(Code 1989, § 51.22)
Sec. 32-88. Wastewater pretreatment facilities.
   (a)   Persons desiring to discharge to the public sewer industrial
wastewaters which are incompatible with the system shall construct and operate
pretreatment facilities to bring the wastewater to a condition and quality
which is compatible with the sewerage system prior to discharge to the sewer.
Facilities such as grease and oil interceptors, grit traps, and flow
equalization basins and controls shall be considered pretreatment facilities,
as well as all other facilities designated to eliminate incompatible
characteristics and/or reduce wastewater loads of compatible characteristics.
   (b)   The user shall obtain approval from the manager of the plans and
specifications for the pretreatment facilities prior to construction of
pretreatment facilities, shall construct such facilities at his expense, and
shall operate and maintain such facilities to meet conditions of his approved
sewer connection service permit.
(Code 1989, § 51.23)
Sec. 32-89. Acceptance of septage from private, corporate, and HOA systems.
   The town does not own, or have access to, facilities for pre-treatment of
scavenger wastes (a.k.a. septage). These wastes from private, corporate
wastewater companies, an HOA, or any other source and hauler shall not be
accepted for disposal into the town's system. Any discharge of such wastewater,
or scavenger wastes, as defined by this article, into the town's system shall
constitute a violation of this article and be subject to such penalties as
described in this article.
(Code 1989, § 51.24)
Sec. 32-90. Private sewage disposal systems.
   (a)   When vacant property is to be improved, or existing improvements
upgraded, and sewer service is required, and a town sanitary sewer is not
available, the sewer service line shall be connected to a private sewage
disposal system complying with the regulations of the state and county.
   (b)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private sewage disposal system, as provided in this section, a direct
connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with this section at
the time of the first malfunction of the private system; and any septic tanks,
cesspools and similar private sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned and
filled with suitable material.
   (c)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the town.
Sec. 32-91. Sewer capacity and allocation.
   (a)   Background. The town owns and operates a wastewater collection system
and a treatment plant. The town desires to ensure that any available wastewater
treatment capacity is allocated and utilized in a manner that best serves the
interests of the citizens of the town. Thus, when new residential, commercial
or industrial planned developments are submitted to the town's planning
department and a sewer extension is required, a sewer allocation shall have to
be obtained as part of the development approval process. Infill residential
improvements located where sewer is available are exempt from obtaining a sewer
allocation. The form for requesting a sewer allocation, is the NCDENR Flow
Tracking/Acceptance for Sewer Extension Applications, (FTSE 08-13) is available
on the NCDENR website.
   (b)   Purpose. This sewer capacity allocation policy is designed to utilize
a valuable and limited resource to achieve the following:
      (1)   Protection of public health, elimination of failing septic tanks,
and protection of the environment.
      (2)   To encourage the development and availability of essential and
desirable community services.
      (3)   To promote the financial health and stability of the town
government.
      (4)   To ensure the orderly growth and development of the community.
      (5)   To encourage high quality, attractive development.
      (6)   To avoid committing large amounts of allocation to projects which
are phased over several years or which will not likely result in utilization of
services in a timely manner.
   (c)   Evaluation criteria. Requests for the allocation of sewer capacity
shall be evaluated on the following criteria (in descending order of
preference):
      (1)   Location of the project within the town's corporate boundaries.
      (2)   Location of the project near the lake or other water source.
      (3)   The project's provision of critical, essential, or highly desirable
community services.
      (4)   A high ratio of added property tax base in relation to the
estimated cost of town services.
      (5)   Significant generation of other, additional revenues to help
support town services.
      (6)   Location of the project on a site that promotes needed infill,
compact growth of the town boundaries, and efficient, cost-effective provision
of municipal services.
      (7)   Consistency with and/or advancement of the town's comprehensive
plan.
      (8)   The provision of desirable, high-quality community amenities.
      (9)   The provision of desirable public facilities, easements, or rights-
of-way.
      (10)   Agreement to develop the property in a specific fashion that
exhibits high quality site, building, and landscaping design.
      (11)   Preservation of key resources or structures that are part of the
unique character of the town.
      (12)   Preservation and/or protection of natural resources, such as water
quality or vegetation.
      (13)   Evidence of the project's ability to utilize the requested
allocation in an expeditious manner.
      (14)   Mitigation of significant, identified public health or
environmental problems.
      (15)   A demonstrated history of high quality development by the owner or
developer.
      (16)   A demonstrated history of expeditious project completion by the
owner or developer.
      (17)   Willingness to furnish performance bonds or other substantial
guarantees of any promises and commitments contained in the application.
      (18)   The availability of and/or investment in significant
infrastructure required to support building, occupancy, and use. To be
considered, any investments must be pursuant to approval of required plans and
permits by the town or other appropriate agency.
   (d)   Applications.
      (1)   General. All applicants are encouraged to carefully review the
criteria set forth in this policy and the application requirements before
submitting an application.
      (2)   Form. The owner of any project or property who desires to apply for
an allocation of sewer capacity shall submit a written application, in the
form: NCDENR Flow Tracking/Acceptance for Sewer Extension Applications, (FTSE
08-13), (is available on the NCDENR website), which provides key ownership,
property, and project information, which indicates the amount of capacity being
requested, which sets forth the proposed timetable for the project, and which
provides sufficient factual information to address the evaluation criteria set
forth in this policy. All applications and any approvals shall be subject to
the standard terms and conditions set forth in this policy. No letters or other
communications may be substituted for submission of a proper and complete
application.
      (3)   Fees. Sewer allocation applications shall be accompanied by
nonrefundable allocation fees, based on a schedule of fees set by the town
council from time to time.
      (4)   Review. Applications will be reviewed and evaluated by the town
staff to ensure completeness of needed information and to determine the extent
to which the application addresses the evaluation criteria.
      (5)   Approval or denial. After required application information and the
initial evaluation are complete, applications shall be considered for approval
or denial as follows:
         a.   Town council reviews. The town council shall review and make
decisions on all applications with the following characteristics:
            1.   Projects which require or may require a daily flow allocation
of over 1,000 gallons.
            2.   Projects located outside the corporate boundaries of the town.
            3.   Projects that are subject to special zoning or development
review requirements, such as special uses, planned unit developments, or
projects located in overlay or conditional zones.
         b.   Management reviews. The town manager may review and make
decisions on applications located within the corporate boundaries of the town
that require a daily flow allocation of 1,000 gallons or less. In considering
such minor applications, the town manager shall keep in view the evaluation
criteria set forth in this policy, but such minor allocations may not be
required to have evaluation ratings as high as major projects. Denials of minor
applications may be appealed, as a new application, to the town council.
      (6)   Re-application. Applications which are denied may not normally be
re-submitted for at least 90 days and should submit evidence of significant
changes in their applications that may justify reconsideration.
   (e)   Terms and conditions. All approvals of sewer capacity allocation shall
be subject to the following conditions and any other conditions set forth in
the action of approval:
      (1)   Form of approval. Any approved allocations shall be issued in
writing and shall be subject to all of the terms, conditions, and provisions of
this policy, as well as any specific conditions related to project that are
stipulated by the town council. Such conditions may include requirements for
expeditious completion of projects or other requirements which, if not
fulfilled, will cause the allocation to become null and void.
      (2)   Annexation. All approvals of sewer capacity allocations for
properties outside of town limits will be conditioned upon submission of an
irrevocable petition for voluntary annexation.
      (3)   Nature of allocations. Approved allocations of sewer capacity are
conditional distributions based on estimated or expected plant capacity, but
are not unconditional guarantees or rights to service capacity. All allocations
made by the town are contingent on the actual availability of capacity at the
time of property improvement and connection. All rights to sewer capacity
subject to distribution by the town shall remain at all times the property of
the town, and no person shall acquire any interest in property as a result of a
sewer capacity allocation. The town may, in some circumstances, elect to
approve allocations that are explicitly contingent upon the availability of
future capacity, the expiration, lapse, or release of existing allocations,
and/or the occurrence of other events.
      (4)   Order of service. If limited actual capacity is available at the
time of proposed connection, the approval of actual connections, among those
owners or projects with approved allotments, shall be on a first-come, first-
served basis.
      (5)   Expeditious completion. In order to ensure that other potentially
worthwhile projects are not unreasonably prevented from obtaining allocations
of this scarce resource, allocations will be made with the expectation that
capacity will be utilized in a timely manner. All approved allocations require
vigorous and expeditious prosecution of the proposed project. Allocations may
not be "banked" for use beyond the duration of the allocation.
      (6)   Partial or limited allocations. In considering applications for
multi-unit projects or developments, sewer allocations may be limited to and
made for a portion of the total amount requested, in order to:
         a.   Encourage expeditious utilization of allocated capacity;
         b.   Encourage demonstration of project completion ability; and
         c.   Protect available capacity against over-allocation and non-
utilization.
      (7)   Scheduled availability. Sewer allocations may also be made on a
scheduled basis, in which the availability of capacity, especially in projects
with multiple units or phases, is scheduled for specific dates or periods of
time. Allocations that are not accompanied by scheduling shall be for a
specific period of time (see subsection (e)(13) of this section) beginning at
the date of approval.
      (8)   Other permits and approvals. Approval of a sewer capacity
allocation does not confer or imply any other approvals required by the town,
county, state, or other agencies (such as the health department or state
department of environment and natural resources). The town shall bear no cost,
liability, or responsibility if other needed approvals for a project are denied
or withheld.
      (9)   Vested rights. The approval of a sewer capacity allocation is, as
indicated herein, conditional and does not imply or create a vested right. All
applications for sewer capacity allocations shall be based on this
understanding and condition, and all applicants shall agree that no claim of a
vested right, guarantee, or property interest may be made based on any
allocation of sewer capacity.
      (10)   Agreements. Any specific promises or commitments made by the
applicant and considered in the evaluation process shall be set forth, if an
allocation is approved, in specific agreements between the town and the
applicant.
      (11)   Transferability. Applications are evaluated based on information
and commitments provided by a specific applicant with regard to a specific
property and project. Approved allocations of sewer capacity may not be
transferred by the applicant to any other person, owner, entity, organization,
corporation, property, project, or location. Allocations are valid only for the
named applicant and project. If the recipient of an approved allocation desires
to request transfer of an approved allocation to any other person or entity, an
updated application must be presented for evaluation and consideration by the
same reviewer (town council or town manager) that conducted the original
review. In a residential subdivision, sale of individual lots to an individual
builder or owner for the purpose of construction of homes is not considered a
transfer up to a maximum of five lots, but any associated capacity allocation
remains subject to the duration and conditions of the original allocation.
      (12)   Changes in use, design, or location. Allocations are limited to
the project use, design, and location described in an approved allocation.
Proposed changes in use, design, or location require submission of and
evaluation of a new application.
      (13)   Duration and expiration. All approved allocations shall be for a
period of 24 months from the date of approval (unless availability is scheduled
for a specific date or period of time in the future). After the standard
allocation duration or other time period specified in the approval, the
allocation will expire (unless extended) and the allocation will be subject to
re-allocation.
      (14)   Extensions. Updated applications are required to consider any
extensions of allocations, and requests for extensions will be based on updated
conditions at the time of the request. All requests for extensions shall be
based on substantial justification of the need for the extension and a
substantial explanation of the applicant's failure to complete the project in
an expeditious manner. The reviewer (town council or town manager) may, if such
extensions are approved, make approvals conditional on terms or conditions
different from those in the original approval. Extensions, if approved, shall
normally be for a period of six months only.
      (15)   Capacity accounting. Calculation of availability of sewage
treatment capacity is, by its nature, an inexact science, due to the dynamic
nature of wastewater flow and treatment, weather, seasonal use, the regulatory
environment, and other factors. The town will make its best efforts to track
the amount of capacity that may be available for allocation, but any
calculations or reports shall not be construed as a policy statement,
commitment, or guarantee of the amount of capacity available for allocation.
      (16)   Actions adversely affecting capacity. Any allocation approvals are
subject to potential actions of legislative bodies or regulatory agencies that
may affect the actual availability of capacity. Wastewater treatment capacity
may also be adversely affected by operational practices, severe storms, other
acts or God, and acts of intentional or unintentional damage to facilities. The
town assumes no responsibility for actions or events beyond its control that
have an adverse effect on actual treatment capacity.
      (17)   Cancellation. Failure to comply with the specific terms and
conditions of any allocation and/or of this policy shall render an allocation
null and void.
   (f)   Previous allocations.
      (1)   In consideration of any requested extensions, it is the intent of
the town to give priority to projects or portions of projects for which
infrastructure installations are complete at the time of allocation expiration.
Portions of planned projects for which infrastructure is not complete will be
fully subject to the terms, conditions, and criteria of this policy and may, if
re-approved, be subject to:
         a.   Scheduling of any re-approved allocations; and/or
         b.   Reapproval as contingent allocations.
      (2)   The town fully intends to honor all allocations of record for two
years effective the date of the ordinance from which this section is derived is
passed. Allocations not used by the end of this two-year period shall self-
terminate. If the owner of the allocation desires to extend the unused
allocation, a new allocation submission shall be required.
(Code 1989, § 51.25)
Chapter 33
RESERVED
Chapter 34
VEHICLES FOR HIRE
ARTICLE I.   IN GENERAL
Secs. 34-1–34-18.   Reserved.
ARTICLE II.   TAXICABS
34-19.   Permit required for taxicabs.
34-20.   Definitions.
34-21.   Application.
34-22.   Investigation.
34-23.   Conditions of permit; issuance and fee.
34-24.   Revocation.
34-25.   Grounds for refusal or revocation.
34-26.   Display of permit; schedule of fares; driver's photograph.
34-27.   Signs identifying vehicle as taxi.
34-28.   Nontransferability of permit.
34-29.   Penalties.
ARTICLE I.
IN GENERAL
Secs. 34-1—34-18. Reserved.
ARTICLE II.
TAXICABS 1
 
Notes
1 State law reference(s)—Municipal regulation of taxis, G.S. 160A-304.
Sec. 34-19. Permit required for taxicabs.
   All drivers and operators of taxicabs engaged in the business of
transporting passengers for hire over the public streets within the corporate
limits of the town shall be required to obtain a permit from the town prior to
engaging in said business activity. Excepted from this article are taxicabs
licensed by other municipalities based and operating in that municipality.
(Code 1989, § 73.01)
Sec. 34-20. Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
Chief of police means the chief of police or his designee.
Permit means a permit for the operation of a taxicab issued to a driver in
accordance with the provisions of this article, unless otherwise defined
herein.
Taxicab means any motor vehicle seating nine or fewer passengers operated on
any street or highway on call or on demand, accepting or soliciting passengers
indiscriminately for hire between such points along streets or highways as may
be directed by the passenger so being transported.
(Code 1989, § 73.02)
Sec. 34-21. Application.
   The application required of applicants to drive a taxicab shall be made upon
forms furnished by the town for such purposes and shall, among other things,
state the name, address, physical condition, physical description, former
employer, court record, and state chauffeur's license number, for each driver.
Such application shall be signed and sworn to by the applicant and all of his
drivers. The applicant and all of his drivers shall further appear at the
office of the police department for the purpose of having their fingerprints
taken and photograph made, both of which shall constitute a part of the
application.
(Code 1989, § 73.03)
Sec. 34-22. Investigation.
   The chief of police is hereby charged with the duty of investigating the
facts stated in such application, and shall report his findings and
recommendations to the town council.
(Code 1989, § 73.05)
Sec. 34-23. Conditions of permit; issuance and fee.
   (a)   If the town council finds that the applicant has not been convicted of
a felony; a violation of any federal and state statutes relating to the use,
possession, or sale of intoxicating liquors; any federal or state statute
relating to prostitution; any federal or state statute relating to the use,
possession or sale of narcotic drugs; and has not been a habitual violator of
traffic laws, the town council may issue a permit to the applicant to drive a
taxicab upon receipt of an annual fee listed in the village fee schedule, which
shall be renewed each year thereafter.
   (b)   No permit shall be issued unless the applicant first files with the
town proof of financial responsibility as required by G.S. 20-280.
(Code 1989, § 73.06)
Sec. 34-24. Revocation.
   At any time after the issuance of a permit to any person to drive a taxicab,
the town council may revoke such permit, if the person holding such permit, or
any driver employed by such person is convicted of:
      (1)   A felony;
      (2)   A violation of any federal or state statute relating to use,
possession or sale of intoxicating liquors;
      (3)   A violation of any federal or state statute relating to the use,
possession or sale of narcotic drugs;
      (4)   Repeated violations of traffic laws and ordinances;
      (5)   A violation of any state or federal statute relating to
prostitution; or if the person holding such permit, or any driver employed by
such person;
      (6)   Becomes a habitual user of intoxicating liquors or narcotic drugs;
or
      (7)   Fails to maintain a policy of liability insurance as required as
G.S. 20-280.
(Code 1989, § 73.07)
Sec. 34-25. Grounds for refusal or revocation.
   (a)   The following factors shall be grounds to refuse to issue a permit or
to revoke a permit already issued:
      (1)   Conviction of a felony against the state or conviction of any
offense in another state which would have been a felony if committed in the
state.
      (2)   Violation of any federal or state law relating to the use,
possession or sale of alcoholic beverages or narcotic or barbiturate drugs.
      (3)   Addiction to or habitual use of alcoholic beverages or narcotic or
barbiturate drugs.
      (4)   Violation of any federal or state law relating to prostitution.
      (5)   Non-citizenship in the United States.
      (6)   Habitual violation of traffic laws or ordinances.
      (7)   Failure to obtain and maintain a policy of liability insurance as
required by G.S. 20-280.
   (b)   These factors apply to the person requesting the permit, any drivers
to be employed by such person, the person holding the permit, and any drivers
employed by such person.
(Code 1989, § 73.08)
Sec. 34-26. Display of permit; schedule of fares; driver's photograph.
   All drivers and operators of taxicabs shall prominently display in each
taxicab, so as to be visible to the passengers, the town taxi permits, the
schedule of fares, and a photograph of the driver.
(Code 1989, § 73.09)
Sec. 34-27. Signs identifying vehicle as taxi.
   Every person operating taxicabs shall have permanent signs at conspicuous
places on each taxicab showing that it is a taxi.
(Code 1989, § 73.10)
Sec. 34-28. Nontransferability of permit.
   A permit is not transferable without the consent of the town council.
(Code 1989, § 73.11)
Sec. 34-29. Penalties.
   A violation of any provision herein shall be a misdemeanor, punishable on
conviction by a fine not exceeding $50.00 and/or by imprisonment not exceeding
30 days. Each day's continuing violation shall be a separate and distinct
offense.
(Code 1989, § 73.12)
Chapter 35
RESERVED
Chapter 36
ZONING 1
ARTICLE I.   IN GENERAL
36-1.   Title.
36-2.   Authority and enactment.
36-3.   Jurisdiction.
36-4.   Word interpretation.
36-5.   Definitions.
Secs. 36-6–36-28.   Reserved.
ARTICLE II.   ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAP
36-29.   Use districts.
36-30.   Establishment of district boundaries.
36-31.   Establishment of zoning map.
36-32.   Rules governing district boundaries.
36-33.   Conditional districts (CD).
Secs. 36-34–36-54.   Reserved.
ARTICLE III.   USE REQUIREMENTS
36-55.   Intent.
36-56.   R-1 Residential District.
36-57.   R-1A, R-1B and R-1C Residential Districts.
36-58.   R-1D Residential District.
36-59.   R-2 General Residential District.
36-60.   R-3 Resort Residential District.
36-61.   R-4 Residential/Office District.
36-62.   CN Commercial Neighborhood District.
36-63.   CTC Commercial Town Center District.
36-64.   CG Commercial General District.
36-65.   CSC Commercial Shopping Center District.
36-66.   L-1 Lake District.
36-67.   M-1 Reserved Mountainous District.
36-68.   S-1 Scenic Natural Attraction District.
36-69.   GU Governmental Institutional Use District.
36-70.   Building site minimum dimensional requirements.
36-71.   Protected mountain ridge overlay zones.
36-72.   Special requirements for certain uses.
Secs. 36-73–36-100.   Reserved.
ARTICLE IV.   SPECIAL USES
36-101.   Purpose.
36-102.   Special use permit review procedure and application.
36-103.   Application.
36-104.   Special use standards and requirements for PUDs.
36-105.   Special use standards and requirements for gasoline service or
filling stations.
36-106.   Special use standards and requirements for camps.
36-107.   Design standards for commercial buildings.
36-108.   Definitions for commercial building design standards.
36-109.   Design standards for commercial buildings less than 15,000 square
feet.
36-110.   Additional design requirements for commercial buildings 15,000 square
feet or greater.
36-111.   Special use outdoor lighting standards and requirements.
36-112.   Special use landscaping requirements.
Secs. 36-113–36-137.   Reserved.
ARTICLE V.   ADMINISTRATION, ENFORCEMENT, APPEALS
36-138.   General administrative process.
36-139.   Administrative duties.
36-140.   Certificate of zoning compliance required; applications.
36-141.   Infrastructure not to be damaged during construction.
36-142.   Building permit required.
36-143.   Foundation survey required.
36-144.   Certificate of occupancy required.
36-145.   Construction progress.
36-146.   Compliance.
36-147.   Appeal from the zoning administrator.
Secs. 36-148–36-163.   Reserved.
ARTICLE VI.   SITE SPECIFIC VESTING PLANS
36-164.   Site-specific vesting plans.
36-165.   Process for submittal, approval, and amendment of a site-specific
vesting plan.
36-166.   Limits of site-specific vesting plans.
36-167.   Application completeness review.
Secs. 36-168–36-177.   Reserved.
ARTICLE VII.   BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
36-178.   Establishment.
36-179.   Alternate members.
36-180.   Rules of conduct.
36-181.   General proceedings.
36-182.   Meetings.
36-183.   Powers and duties.
36-184.   General requirements for quasi-judicial hearings and decisions.
36-185.   Appeals.
36-186.   Variances.
36-187.   Fees for variances, special uses and appeals.
36-188.   Judicial review of decisions of the board.
Secs. 36-189–36-214.   Reserved.
ARTICLE VIII.   NONCONFORMANCE; OFF-STREET PARKING
AND LOADING; GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
36-215.   Zoning affects every building and use.
36-216.   Nonconforming uses.
36-217.   Off-street parking and loading requirements.
36-218.   Off-street parking required.
36-219.   Off-street loading and unloading space required.
36-220.   Corner visibility.
36-221.   Required yards not to be used by another building.
36-222.   One principal building on a lot.
36-223.   Reduction of lot and yard area.
36-224.   Street access.
36-225.   Corner lots.
36-226.   Junkyards and outdoor privies.
36-227.   Mobile homes.
36-228.   Mobile home tie-downs.
36-229.   Travel trailers (motor homes).
36-230.   Rights-of-way.
36-231.   Fences, walls and hedges.
36-232.   Home occupations.
36-233.   Fabric and metal structures.
36-234.   Existing nonconforming commercial lighting.
36-235.   Gatehouses, guardhouses and security gates.
Secs. 36-236–36-261.   Reserved.
ARTICLE IX.   LAND CLEARING AND GRADING
36-262.   Land clearing and grading associated with development.
36-263.   Land clearing and grading not associated with an application for
development authorization.
36-264.   Special administrative and enforcement provisions for land clearing
and grading activities.
Secs. 36-265–36-291.   Reserved.
ARTICLE X.   EXCEPTIONS
36-292.   Lot of record.
36-293.   Front yard setbacks for dwellings.
36-294.   Lots not served by public water and/or sewer.
36-295.   Exceptions to required yards.
36-296.   Lake structures.
36-297.   Exceptions to 36-140 (b) (5).
Secs. 36-298–36-323.   Reserved.
ARTICLE XI.   SIGN REGULATIONS
36-324.   Intent and application.
36-325.   Purpose of article.
36-326.   Definitions.
36-327.   Area of sign defined.
36-328.   Method of attachment defined.
36-329.   Height of freestanding detached signs.
36-330.   Value of signs.
36-331.   Administration.
36-332.   Permits required.
36-333.   Signs exempt from regulations.
36-334.   Signs exempt from permit requirements.
36-335.   Signs prohibited.
36-336.   Signs permitted and regulated.
36-337.   Special signs.
36-338.   Sign maintenance and abandoned signs.
36-339.   Noncommercial messages.
36-340.   Permits, fees, nonconforming signs, and enforcement.
Secs. 36-341–36-368.   Reserved.
ARTICLE XII.   AMENDMENTS
36-369.   Amendment procedure.
36-370.   Application.
36-371.   Application fee.
36-372.   Zoning and planning board action.
36-373.   Public hearing.
36-374.   Decision.
Secs. 36-375–36-391.   Reserved.
ARTICLE XIII.   MOUNTAIN AND HILLSIDE DEVELOPMENT
36-392.   Applicability.
36-393.   Goals.
36-394.   Lots of record.
36-395.   Exemptions.
36-396.   Application requirements for all land disturbing activity other than
that associated with a single-family dwelling.
36-397.   Application requirements for land disturbing activity associated with
a single-family dwelling.
36-398.   General regulations for all land disturbing activity.
36-399.   Requirements for construction of buildings.
Secs. 36-400–36-426.   Reserved.
ARTICLE XIV.   LEGAL PROVISIONS
36-427.   Severability.
36-428.   Conflict with other laws.
36-429.   Violations.
36-430.   Remedies.
36-431.   Enforcement and penalties.
Secs. 36-432–36-460.   Reserved.
ARTICLE XV.   APPENDICES
36-461.   Appendix A, Significant trees: Common tree species of Lake Lure and
recommended diameters.
36-462.   Appendix B, Forest coverage table: Significant tree density and
canopy coverage.
 
Notes
  Federal law references—Preservation of local zoning authority concerning
  wireless telecommunications facilities, 47 USC 322(c)(7); limited federal
  preemption of state and local zoning laws affecting amateur radio facilities,
  Memorandum Opinion and Order, PRB-1, 101 FCC 2d 952 (1985) and 47 CFR 97.15(b);
1 Religious Land Use and Institutionalized Persons Act, 42 USC 2000cc et seq.
  State law reference(s)—Grant of zoning powers to local governments, G.S. 160D-
  702; regulation of particular uses and areas, G.S. 160D-901 et seq.; floodplain
  regulations, G.S. 160D-923; adoption of stormwater control regulations, G.S.
  160D-925; wireless telecommunication facilities, G.S. 160D-930 et seq.; historic
  preservation, G.S. 160D-940 et seq.
ARTICLE I.
IN GENERAL
Sec. 36-1. Title.
   This chapter shall be known as the "Zoning Regulations of the Town of Lake
Lure, North Carolina."
(Code 1989, § 92.001; Ord. of 1-22-1991)
Sec. 36-2. Authority and enactment.
   The town council, in pursuance of the authority granted by G.S. 160D, hereby
ordains and enacts into law the following articles and sections for the purpose
of promoting the health, safety, morals and general welfare of the community.
(Code 1989, § 92.002; Ord. of 1-22-1991; Ord. No. 21-05-11, 5-11-2021)
Sec. 36-3. Jurisdiction.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be applicable to all land within the
corporate limits of the town, as established on the map entitled "Official
Zoning Map, Town of Lake Lure." No building or land shall hereafter be used and
no building or part thereof shall be erected, moved or altered except in
conformity with the regulations herein specified for the district in which it
is located, except as provided in this chapter.
(Code 1989, § 92.003; Ord. of 1-22-1991)
Sec. 36-4. Word interpretation.
   (a)   Words used in the present tense include the future tense. Words used
in the singular include the plural, and words used in the plural include the
singular.
   (b)   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter,
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the
context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Board of adjustment means the town board of adjustment, and shall include both
regular and alternate members.
Building includes the term "structure."
Chapter means the zoning ordinance of the town.
Lot includes the term "plot" or "parcel."
May is permissive.
Person or applicant includes a firm, association, organization, partnership,
corporation, company, trust, individual, or governmental unit.
Shall is mandatory.
Street includes the terms "road" and "highway."
Town council means the Lake Lure town council.
Used or occupied, as applied to any land or structure, includes the words
"intended, arranged, or designed to be used or occupied."
Zoning and planning board means the town zoning and planning board.
Zoning map means the official zoning map of the town.
(Code 1989, § 92.004; Ord. of 1-22-1991)
Sec. 36-5. Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
Access structure means a uncovered staircase, walkway or handicap access way no
greater than four feet in width and constructed above grade at an elevation no
greater than reasonably required by topography to connect the principal
structure to the street or shoreline.
Accessory building means a detached building subordinate to the principal
building on a lot and used for purposes customarily incidental to the principal
building and located on the same lot.
Accessory commercial event venue means an event venue that is considered an
accessory use for the following primary uses:
      (1)   Bed and breakfasts (if expressly permitted in the special use
permit);
      (2)   Common amenities (if expressly permitted in the special use
permit);
      (3)   Inns;
      (4)   Churches;
      (5)   Conference and meeting facilities;
      (6)   Restaurants;
      (7)   Hotels;
      (8)   Lodges;
      (9)   Motels;
      (10)   Outdoor recreational facilities; and
      (11)   Commercial recreational facilities.
   No additional permit is required for this accessory use.
Accessory residential event venue means a single-family home or a residential
vacation rental that is leased or operated for profit as an accessory use for
special events that are typically private in nature, including, but not limited
to, weddings, reunions, corporate retreats, and religious or political
gatherings.
Accessory use means a use customarily incidental and subordinate to the
principal use and located on the same lot with such principal use.
Adult entertainment establishment means any business or other activity which,
in order to comply with G.S. 14- 190.14 or 14-190.15, and amendments or
supplements thereto, is required to limit its patronage or attendance to
persons over the age of 18 years.
Apartment means part of a building consisting of a room intended, designed or
used as a residence by an individual or single family.
Arterial street means a major roadway serving as a primary street through the
town.
Bed and breakfast establishment means a residence which provides temporary
lodging and a morning meal to transients for compensation.
Board of adjustment means a committee of citizens appointed by the town council
to hear quasi-judicial zoning matters such as variance and special use permit
petitions, as well as appeals from a decision of the zoning administrator, or
his duly authorized representative, during a evidentiary hearing.
Boardinghouse means any building or portion thereof containing not more than
five guest units where rent is paid and guests are transient. The term
"boardinghouse" is used interchangeably with the term "roominghouse."
Brewery means a facility that brews and packages beer or other fermented malt
beverage for distribution locally and/or regionally. A brewery may include
areas for demonstration, education, tasting and other uses permitted in the
district, in accordance with state and local laws.
Brewpub means a restaurant-brewery that brews small quantities of craft beer,
ale, porter or other fermented malt beverages and sells at least 75 percent of
it on-site along with food in accordance with state and local laws.
Buffer strip means an area of land, whether landscaped or in its natural state,
consisting of evergreen trees and shrubs used to physically separate or screen
one use, structure, or property from another so as to visually shield or block
noise, light, or other nuisances.
Building means any structure constructed for the shelter, or enclosure of
persons, animals, or property of any kind, including, but not limited to,
sheds, carports, guest cottages, and other outbuildings, and also including any
extension or extrusion of the structure such as balconies, decks, porches, roof
overhangs, and foundations. The connection of two buildings by means of an open
porch, breezeway, passageway, carport, or other such open structure, with or
without a roof, shall not be deemed to make them one building.
Building and grading envelope (BGE) means the limits of disturbance affected by
the establishment of a building and grounds. All buildings, walls, lawns,
driveways, site amenities, septic fields, and associated disturbance from
construction activity shall be confined within this zone. The BGE may be sited
in one mass or apportioned into several smaller compounds connected by walks or
drives. Provided, however, alternative septic systems shall not be included
within the BGE where it is demonstrated that any disturbance associated with
them is minimal.
Building coverage area means the total area under a building, including any
extension or extrusion of the building such as decks, porches, roof overhangs,
and foundations.
Building footprint means the total area directly beneath a building as measured
from the exterior faces of exterior walls, excluding roofless wooden decks,
roof overhangs, and uncovered walkways extending from the building, but
including uncovered porches of masonry construction, whether roofed or not, and
all porches with roofs.
Building height means the vertical distance measured from the average finished
grade at the building foundation line to the highest point of the roof
ridgeline.
Building mass means the building height multiplied by the building width and
building length.
Building scale means the relationship of a particular building, in terms of
building mass, to the building mass of other nearby and adjacent buildings.
Caliper means the diameter measurement of small tree trunks, taken at six
inches above the average ground level.
Camp means an establishment which provides simple group lodging accommodations
such as cabins, group eating facilities such as a dining hall, accessory
buildings, and organized religious, recreational or educational programs for
groups of children or adults and families in mostly an open air, out-of-doors
setting where the natural environment is used to contribute to the occupants'
mental, physical, social, and spiritual growth. The term "camp" shall include,
but shall not be limited to, camps with special program emphasis, such as
horseback riding, conservation, music, sports, and religious instruction.
Campground means a plot of ground upon which two or more campsites are located,
established, and maintained for occupancy by camping units as temporary living
quarters for recreation, education or vacation purposes.
Campground, tent, means a campground designed for use of tents by persons in
vehicles. This shall not include the camping of persons in vehicles not
designed for camping purposes. Such campgrounds are dependent upon a service
building for toilet and lavatory facilities.
Campground, walk-in, means a camping area designed exclusively for those
persons which walk, bicycle, or use some other non-motorized means of access.
Such areas shall contain only service roads for maintenance of campground
facilities and shall not be used for parking associated with camping. This
shall be a tent use area only. Such campgrounds are dependent upon a service
building for toilet and lavatory facilities.
Canopy coverage means the area of the subject property that is covered by the
foliage of trees.
Child care center means a use of land and buildings to provide group care for
children as defined and regulated by the state department of health and human
services (NCDHHS). A family child care home, as defined and regulated by the
NCDHHS, is not included in this definition.
Clearable area means an area representing the maximum extent of disturbance
resulting from construction, including the following:
      (1)   A zone that extends a maximum of 15 feet from the boundary of any
structures (buildings, deck, etc.), defined by an outer clearable area line.
      (2)   A utility easement zone no more than eight feet in width and no
longer than the required length of the easement, defined by an outer clearable
area line. Clearable areas may extend into setback areas. See Figure 1.
Clearcutting means the removal of any significant trees in excess of the
numbers allowed by the provisions of this chapter, and/or in locations other
than those allowed by the provisions of this chapter.
Commercial building means any building or proposed building with a primary use
other than a residential use, as defined herein, or any building or proposed
building using "Type I" or "Type II" construction, as defined per the state
building code, or any building required to have an internal fire suppression
system, such as a sprinkler system, per the state building code.
Commercial shopping center means two or more commercial uses planned,
constructed, and managed as a single entity, sharing common sidewalks, driveway
entrances, and signage; and where customer and employee parking is provided on-
site as well as provisions for goods delivery entrances separate from customer
access entrances.
Commercial use means activity involving the sale or rental of goods, services,
or accommodations such as guest units for compensation.
Common amenities means clubhouses (not to include lodging facilities), gazebos,
tennis courts, swimming pools, amphitheaters, parks, or other facilities or
structures accessory to one or more residential developments, intended to
provide recreational, cultural or social enrichment solely to persons residing
within the residential development and their guests and not to the general
public.
Community Theatre an establishment owned and operated by a bona fide nonprofit
organization that is engaged solely in the business of sponsoring or presenting
performing arts events to the public.
Community character means the qualities of the protracted area within the
corporate limits such as the natural environment relative to topography,
hydrology, flora, open space, and green area; the built environment relative to
architectural style, building mass, and type of housing; and the public
facilities, infrastructure, and services.
Community development director means the person charged with administration of
this chapter. Also, sometimes referred to herein as "director." Unless
specified otherwise, the terms "community development director" and "director"
include the designee thereof.
Construction boundary means on a site plan the area bounded by the outline of
the proposed structure, including the building foundation, decks, septic field
and driveway, but not including stairs or walkways associated with paths,
boardwalks, ramps, and the like. See Figure 1.
Convention Center a publicly owned or operated establishment that is engaged in
the business of sponsoring or hosting conventions and similar large gatherings,
including auditoriums, civic centers, convention centers, and coliseums.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c141ac2780daea4288dd157975992950c90da25b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1302.png]
 
   Figure 1: Individual Lot Parameters
Dbh means the diameter of a tree trunk measured at breast height, 4½ feet above
the average ground level.
Density means the number of dwelling units or guest units per land area.
Design standards means defined parameters to be followed in site development
and/or building construction.
Development means the construction, reconstruction, conversion, structural
alteration, relocation, or enlargement of any structure; any mining,
excavation, landfill; or any use or extension of the use of land.
Development review committee (DRC) means a group consisting of town staff and
professional consultants, such as an engineer or landscape architect, selected
by the community development director on an as needed basis to review and make
recommendations regarding developments such as commercial developments,
commercial planned unit developments, residential planned unit developments,
subdivisions, land clearing, land disturbance, and/or development of any kind
on steep slopes.
Diseased tree means a tree in which fungi, bacteria, mycoplasms, and/or viruses
have invaded and infected causing poor growth and weak appearance, disruption
of plant processes, distortion of certain tree parts and strain or death of the
tree.
Distillery means a facility that manufactures and distributes spirituous
beverages. A distillery may include areas for demonstration, education, tasting
and other uses permitted in the district, in accordance with state and local
laws.
Duplex means a building or portion thereof used or designed as two separate
dwelling units.
Dwelling means any building, structure, manufactured home or mobile home, or
part thereof, used and occupied for human habitation or intended to be so used,
and includes any outhouses and appurtenances belonging thereto or usually
enjoyed therewith, except that it does not include any manufactured home,
mobile home, or recreational vehicle, which is used solely for a seasonal
vacation purpose.
Dwelling unit A single unit providing complete, independent living facilities
for one or more persons, including permanent provisions for living, sleeping,
eating, cooking, and sanitation.
Dwelling unit density means the number of dwelling units per land area.
Easement means a grant by a property owner of a strip of land for specified
purpose and use by the public, a corporation or persons.
Erosion control measures means any measures designed to prevent, retard, or
mitigate accelerated erosion and subsequent sedimentation of streams, lakes,
and other natural watercourses.
Event venue means a site or facility that is leased or operated for profit for
special events that are typically private in nature, including, but not limited
to, weddings, reunions, corporate retreats, and religious or political
gatherings.
Excavation means a land disturbing activity involving the mechanical removal of
earth material.
Excessive removal of trees means the removal, by any means, of all or
substantially all the trees and/or woody shrubs from one acre or 25 percent of
the acreage of a lot or tract of land, whichever is greater.
Family means one or more persons occupying a dwelling unit, provided that,
unless all members are related by blood or marriage or adoption, no such family
shall contain over five persons, but further provided that domestic servants
whose primary employment is on the premises may be housed on the premises
without being counted as a family.
Family care home means a home with support and supervisory personnel that
provides room and board, personal care and habilitation services in a family
environment for not more than six resident handicapped persons.
Fill material means a deposit of earth or other natural or manmade material
placed by artificial means.
Filling means a land disturbing activity involving the placement of fill
material, including the temporary stockpiling of fill material.
Fire hazard means a condition or set of conditions conducive to the unintended
initiation and/or rapid spread of fires. On forested and/or brushy land such
conditions include, but are not limited to, the accumulation of woody and other
inflammable debris and overgrown underbrush.
Flammable species means any species of tree identified as such in the Lake Lure
Tree Management Handbook.
Floor area ratio (FAR) means the gross floor area per gross lot area.
Forest area means a green area consisting of existing forest shown on a site
plan and designated either for protection, for thinning, or for removal. When
such a forest area is designated on any site plan as protected, all significant
trees within it are considered protected trees.
Forest coverage. The forest coverage of a piece of property refers to the
extent of forestation on the property. This coverage may be quantified by any
of the following means:
      (1)   By analysis of the canopy coverage as seen in aerial photography;
      (2)   By calculation of the significant tree density on the property; or
      (3)   By other means deemed suitable by the tree protection officer. See
Appendix B to this chapter.
Forestry activity means logging, timbering, and related forest maintenance
activities undertaken on property that is taxed on the basis of its present-use
value as forestland under G.S. ch. 105, art. 12 (G.S. 105-274 et seq.). The
term "forestry activity" also refers to activity that is conducted in
accordance with a forestry plan prepared or approved by a registered forester.
Forestry lands means lands that have been taxed previously on the basis of
present-use value as forestry land under G.S. ch. 105, art. 12 (G.S. 105-274 et
seq.) or that have been logged under a forestry plan prepared or approved by a
registered forester.
Garage apartment means a part of a building in which a garage is located
consisting of a room designed or used as a dwelling unit by an individual or
single family.
Garden means a plot of ground where herbs, fruits, flowers, ornamentals or
vegetables are cultivated.
Gardening means the cultivation of plants in any zoning district on lots solely
for the use and/or consumption of the lot owner. No permit is required for this
activity if the cultivated area is 2,000 square feet or less and located 50
feet or more from a body of water.
Gatehouses, guardhouses and security gates refers to structures, generally
associated with resorts or subdivisions, for the purpose of controlling access
to a private property, development, resort or subdivision, usually located in
or across a road.
General development plan means a plan showing general land use, all individual
uses and associated structures, building sites, land clearing, land
disturbance, impacts of uses and structures, vehicular and pedestrian
circulation, open space, green area, common areas, natural features, community
facilities and utilities, and phasing for the tract of land to be developed.
Girdle means to inflict a cut or other damage to the bark of a tree such that
the wound encircles the tree to sufficient depth and extent that the likely
result will be the death of that tree.
Grading means any scraping, excavating or filling of the earth's surface or
combination thereof.
Green area means an area of land designated on a site plan for conservation,
preservation, landscaping, or reforestation.
Gross floor area means the total floor area enclosed within a building as
measured from the exterior faces of exterior walls.
Gross lot area means the total area of land before rights-of-way, or any common
areas, have been deducted from the overall area of land.
Group care facility means an establishment qualified for a license by the state
which provides resident services to individuals of whom one or more are
unrelated. The individuals are handicapped, aged or disabled, are undergoing
rehabilitation or extended care, and are provided services to meet their needs.
The term "group care facility" includes group homes for all ages, half-way
houses, and foster homes, but excludes family care homes.
Guest unit means a room in a boardinghouse, hotel, motel, inn, bed and
breakfast, tourist court, residence hall, roominghouse, or lodge containing
provisions for sleeping and sanitation and occupied, or intended to be
occupied, by transients on a rental basis.
Guest unit density means the number of guest units per land area.
Handicapped person means a person with a temporary or permanent physical,
emotional, or mental disability, including, but not limited to, mental
retardation, cerebral palsy, epilepsy, autism, hearing and sight impairments,
emotional disturbances and orthopedic impairments, but not including mentally
ill persons who are dangerous to others as defined in G.S. 122-58.2(11)b [now
see G.S. 122C-3(11)b].
Hazardous tree means a tree that meets one or more of the following criteria:
      (1)   It has a structural defect which predisposes it to fall or drop
limbs (e.g., it is a dead tree, has trunk decay, dead branches, or V-crotches),
and it is located dangerously near a target such as a structure, road, walkway,
campsite or other area where property exists or people reside.
      (2)   Though structurally sound, it is of a species prone to flammability
in dry weather, and is located within 30 feet of a flammable structure where
property exists or people reside. See the Lake Lure Tree Management Handbook.
      (3)   Though structurally sound, it interferes with the routine
activities of people, such as obstructing visibility for motorists or
interfering with utilities.
Historic structures means structures listed on an official state or federal
register recognizing the structure as historically significant.
Home occupation means any profession or occupation conducted entirely within a
dwelling and/or a building which is customarily accessory thereto, by a family
member or occupant permanently residing on the premises, that is incidental to
the primary use of the dwelling as a residence.
Hospice home means a state-licensed establishment which provides medical
services to terminally ill individuals residing therein.
Hotels and motels.
      (1)   The term "hotels and motels" means a building or group of buildings
occupied as a temporary abiding place for individuals in which the rooms are
usually occupied singularly for hire and in which rooms no provisions for
cooking are made. Hotel or motel may include a restaurant and/or on premise
consumption of alcohol, including spirituous liquors with a valid NC ABC
license.
      (2)   A hotel or motel may include structures located on separate parcels
so long as:
         a.   They are contiguous and interconnected by means of one or more
viable pedestrian walkways;
         b.   There are common amenities; and
         c.   The entire campus functions as a single enterprise.
      (3)   An on-site management is required for all hotels and motels.
      (4)   The term "hotels and motels" includes inns, but does not include
lodges, bed and breakfast establishments or residential vacation rentals which
are otherwise defined herein.
Impact analysis means a study to determine the potential direct or indirect
effects of proposed uses and/or structures of a proposed development on
utilities, surrounding and adjacent uses, community facilities and services,
traffic and pedestrian circulation, and the natural environment of the
community or neighborhood in which to be located.
Impervious area means a portion of a lot covered with material that prevents
absorption of stormwater into the ground.
Impervious material means any material that prevents absorption of stormwater
into the ground.
Improvements means any permanent structure that becomes part of or affixed to
real estate, whether placed above or below land or water.
Individual sewer system means any septic tank, ground absorption system, privy
or other facility serving a single source or connection and approved by the
county health department.
Individual water system means any well, spring, stream or other source used to
supply a single connection.
Institution means an organization, establishment, foundation, society, or the
like, devoted to the promotion of a particular cause or program of public,
educational, or charitable character.
Institutional use means a non-profit, religious, or public use, such as a
church, library, public or private school, hospital, or government owned or
operated building, structure, or land used for public purpose.
Junkyard means any land or land and structure in combination used for the
storage, baling, packing, sorting, handling, disassembling, purchase or sale of
any materials which are used, salvaged, scrapped or reclaimed, but are capable
of being reused in some form, including, but not limited to, metals, bones,
rags, fibers, paper, cloth, rubber, rope, bottles, machinery, tools,
appliances, fixtures, utensils, lumber, boxes, crates, pipe, pipe fittings,
tires, motor vehicles, and motor vehicle parts.
Lake structure means anything constructed or erected within the lake boundary
including any pier, dock, boathouse, slip, ramp, swimming float, sea wall, or
similar facility whether fixed or floating or a combination thereof, used
primarily as a stationary facility for the mooring or housing of watercraft and
associated items; and, used for lake access and related recreational
activities. Lake structures shall not be used as living quarters. Lake
Structures built within the boundary of the waters of Lake Lure at full pond
will be regulated by the Town’s Lake Structure Regulations. Lake Structures
built within the boundary of other lakes or navigable waters will be regulated
by the Town’s Zoning Regulations.
Land clearing means tree removal, underbrushing, grubbing, or any activity that
removes live woody plants such as trees and shrubs.
Land clearing authorization means authorization granted by the tree protection
officer allowing a property owner to perform specified land clearing, grading,
and/or other related activities which have neither been exempted from
regulation nor previously approved under appropriate town regulations.
Land disturbance means any use of the land by any person in residential,
industrial, educational, institutional, or commercial development, highway and
road construction and maintenance or other construction or maintenance
activity, including chemical applications or other techniques, that results in
a change in the natural cover or topography and that may cause or contribute to
sedimentation.
Land disturbing activity means any grading of land, any clearing of vegetation,
and any construction or rebuilding of a building or structure. The term "land
disturbing activity" shall not include activities such as ordinary maintenance
and landscaping operations, individual home gardens, the upkeep of yard and
grounds, repairs, and the cutting of firewood for personal use.
Live-work unit means a building or space within a building that is used jointly
for office/business uses allowed in the applicable zoning district and for
residential use.
Lodge.
      (1)   The term "lodge" means a group of attached or detached buildings
containing individual living or sleeping units, designed or used temporarily by
automobile tourists or transients. Cooking facilities may be included within
living units.
      (2)   A lodge may include structures located on separate parcels so long
as:
         a.   They are contiguous and interconnected by means of one or more
viable pedestrian walkways;
         b.   There are common amenities; and
         c.   The entire campus functions as a single enterprise.
      (3)   An on-site management is required for all lodges.
      (4)   The term "lodge" includes auto courts and motor lodges, but does
not include hotels and motels, bed and breakfast establishments or residential
vacation rentals which are otherwise defined herein.
Loft means an upper floor above a dwelling unit or hotel guest room having its
only access from within that unit.
Lot means a parcel of land whose boundaries have been established by some legal
instrument such as a recorded deed or a recorded map and which is recognized as
a separate entity for the transfer of title.
Lot depth means the average horizontal distance between front and rear lot
lines as measured along the side lot lines.
Lot of record means any lot for which a plat has been recorded in the register
of deeds office of the county, or described by metes and bounds, the
description of which meets the standards of the town's regulations.
Lot width means the distance between side lot lines measured at and parallel to
the front setback line.
Marina means an establishment with a lake front location for the rental of boat
slips or dock space; rental, sale or repair of boats, boat motors and
accessories; and the sale of marine fuel and lubricants, bait and fishing
equipment and the like.
Marine sales and service facility means an establishment for the sales, rental
and repair of boats, boat motors and accessories, including fishing equipment
and supplies, and open or enclosed storage of boats and boat trailers.
Micro-brewery means an independently owned facility that brews craft beer, ale,
porter or other fermented malt beverages in quantities up to 15,000 barrels per
year with at least 75 percent of its product sold on-site. A micro- brewery may
include areas for demonstration, education, tasting and other uses permitted in
the district, in accordance with state and local laws.
Micro-distillery means an independently owned artisan facility that produces up
to 30,000 gallons of craft spirituous beverages per year. A micro-distillery
may include areas for demonstration, education, tasting and other uses
permitted in the district, in accordance with state and local laws.
Micro-winery means an independently owned artisan facility that produces up to
30,000 gallons of craft wine, cider, or other fermented fruit beverage per
year. A micro-winery may include areas for demonstration, education, tasting
and other uses permitted in the district, in accordance with state and local
laws.
Mobile Food Vendor means a readily movable trailer or motorized wheeled
vehicle, with a valid DMV license tag, equipped to serve food. It shall not be
considered as a restaurant.
Mobile home means a factory-assembled portable housing unit, or a portion
thereof, built on a chassis and intended for use as a dwelling unit, and not
constructed in accordance with the standards of the state building code for
one- and two-family dwellings. A mobile home is designed to be transported on
its own chassis and has a measurement of 40 feet or more in length and eight
feet or more in width. A mobile home shall be construed to remain a mobile home
whether or not wheels, axles, hitch, or other appurtenances of mobility are
removed, and regardless of the nature of the foundation provided. All vehicles
which are designated mobile homes by the Uniform Standards Code for Mobile
Homes Act shall be considered mobile homes. A mobile home shall not be
construed to be a travel trailer or other form of recreational vehicle.
Mobile home park means any premises where two or more mobile homes are parked
for living and sleeping purposes, or any premises used or set apart for the
purpose of supplying to the public parking space for two or more mobile homes
for living and sleeping purposes, and which include any buildings, structures,
vehicles or enclosures used or intended for use as part of such mobile home
park.
Modular housing means a form of manufactured housing that meets the
construction standards of the state building codes for one- and two-family
dwellings regardless of how the unit or its components are transported to the
site.
Multifamily dwelling means a building, or portion thereof, containing three or
more dwelling units used or designed so that each unit is a separate residence
for one family.
Nano-brewery means an independently owned facility that brews craft beer, ale,
porter, or other fermented malt beverages in quantities up to 1,000 barrels per
year in accordance with state and local laws for on-site consumption and where
food is not necessarily provided.
Natural ground surface means the ground surface in its original state before
any land disturbing activity.
Neighborhood character means the qualities of the zoning district and all
adjoining zoning districts such as the natural environment relative to
topography, hydrology, flora, open space, and green area; the built environment
relative to architectural style, building mass, historic structures, and type
of housing; and the public facilities, infrastructure, and services.
Net density means the maximum number of dwelling units or guest units permitted
on a lot after access areas such as road rights-of-way have been subtracted
from the land area.
Net floor area means the total floor area enclosed within a building, including
interior balconies and mezzanines, exclusive, however, of stairways, elevator
shafts, and enclosed parking areas, as measured from the exterior faces of
exterior walls.
Nonconforming use means any parcel of land, or use of land, building or
structure existing at the time of adoption of the ordinance from which this
chapter is derived, or any amendment thereto, that does not conform to the use
or dimensional requirements of the district in which it is located.
Notice means a formal legal notification of either a public hearing on a
proposed zoning amendment, whether a map or text amendment, or a quasi-judicial
hearing on a variance, special use permit, or appeal petition.
Nursing home means an institution, however named, which is advertised,
announced or maintained for the express or implied purpose of providing nursing
or convalescent care for three or more persons unrelated to the licensee. A
nursing home is a home for chronic or convalescent patients who do not usually
require special facilities, such as an operating room, X-ray facilities,
laboratory facilities, and obstetrical facilities. A nursing home provides care
for persons who have remedial ailments or other ailments, for which medical and
nursing care is indicated.
Open space means any area of land or water essentially unimproved and set
aside, designated, or reserved for conservation, preservation and/or passive
recreation.
Parking area means any public or private area, inside, under, or outside a
building or structure, designed and used for temporary or permanent storage of
motor vehicles, including parking lots, garages, private driveways, and legally
designated areas of public streets.
Parking space means an area for parking a vehicle plus the necessary access
space located outside the dedicated street right-of-way and providing vehicular
access to a street or alley.
Parks means an area developed either for passive or active recreational
activities, including, without limitation, walkways, benches, preserved natural
areas, open fields, multi-use courts, swimming and wading pools, amphitheaters,
etc. The term "park" shall not include zoos, travel trailer parks, amusement
parks, or vehicle, equestrian or dog racing facilities.
Passive recreation means recreational activities that have minimal impact to
the natural environment, such as hiking, running, biking, wildlife observation,
photography, fishing, swimming, picnicking, lake access and other similar uses.
Permitted use means any use allowed in a zoning district by right and subject
to the restrictions applicable to that zoning district as specified in the
zoning regulations of this chapter as interpreted by the zoning administrator.
Planned unit development means a development where more than one principal
residential building is to be constructed on a single tract, or any residential
complex containing nine or more dwelling units on a single tract, or any
residential building with a gross floor area of 15,000 square feet or more.
Primary event venue means a commercial event venue for which hosting commercial
events is not considered an accessory to any other use.
Primary use means the legal predominate activity or function of a structure, or
the intended predominate activity or function of a structure.
Principal building means a building in which the principal use of the lot is
conducted.
Principal use means the legal predominate use of a lot.
Private Club a club establishment that qualities under Section 501(c) of the
Internal Revenue Code, as amended, 26 U.S.C. §501(c).
Private drive (driveway) means a private access not intended to be a public
ingress or egress. Private drives are intended to provide direct access from
one lot or building site to a publicly or privately dedicated and maintained
street. However, a private drive may provide access for up to three residential
lots provided it meets the requirements of section 28-72. Private drives shall
be excluded from the definition of the term "street." The term "private drive"
shall include the term "driveway."
Produce stand means a retail establishment that offers for sale items limited
to regionally produced fruits, vegetables, preserves, relishes, jams and/or
jellies, handmade crafts, and similar products, but shall not include foods
canned in metal containers. Merchandise for sale shall not be displayed outside
the building.
Protected forest area means a green area consisting of existing forest
designated for protection on a site plan. All significant trees within such an
area are protected trees.
Protected tree means any tree marked for protection, or any significant tree
not expressly marked for removal in a tree protection plan.
Protective boundary means a substantial visual screen, such as an orange
barrier fence, sufficient to clearly identify and set apart a protected tree or
protected forest area and the associated root protection zones.
Public hearing means a gathering of elected or duly appointed town officials
announced in advance by public notice and open to the public for participation.
Public meeting means a gathering of elected or duly appointed town officials
announced by public notice and open to the public.
Published notice means the advertisement of a public hearing or public meeting
in a paper of general circulation indicating the time, place, and nature of
said hearing or meeting where the application and pertinent documents may be
inspected.
Qualified licensed professional means a licensed professional in a discipline
relevant to the task at hand, whose knowledge and capability to successfully
carry out that task have been amply demonstrated through his certified
practical experience in that discipline and in successful completion of
previous tasks similar to the one at hand.
Recreation facility means a place designed and equipped for the conduct of
sports and leisure time activities.
Recreation vehicle (RV) means a vehicular unit, which is designed as a
temporary dwelling for travel, recreational, and vacation use, and which is
either self-propelled, mounted on, or pulled by another vehicle. The term
"recreation vehicle" includes, but is not limited to, a travel trailer, camping
trailer, truck camper, motor home, fifth-wheel trailer, or van.
Recreational vehicle, dependent, means a recreational vehicle which is
dependent upon a service building for toilet and lavatory facilities.
Recreational vehicle, independent, means a recreational vehicle which can
operate independently of connections to sewer, water and electric systems. An
independent recreational vehicle may contain a water flushed toilet, lavatory,
shower and kitchen sink, all of which are connected to water storage, greywater
storage, and sewage holding tanks located within the RV.
Regional brewery means a facility that brews beer, ale, porter, or other
fermented malt beverages in quantities up to 60,000 barrels per year.
Residential development means a subdivision or planned unit development. The
term "residential development" is provided as a means of grouping the
aforementioned uses into a category of uses, and is not intended to define a
new use under the zoning regulations. Use of the term "residential development"
shall not be deemed to add any uses to a zoning district which are not
specifically listed as permitted uses or special uses within said district.
Residential use means the activity that actually takes place or is intended to
take place on a lot where the principal use consists of operating and
maintaining one or more dwelling units and the associated accessory uses.
Residential vacation rental means the rental of any single-family dwelling, or
duplex, or any portion thereof, for occupancy, dwelling, lodging or sleeping
purposes for any period of time less than 30 days. For purposes of this
chapter, the term "residential vacation rental" does not include multifamily
dwellings nor does it apply to duplexes other than those situated within the R-
1, R-1A, R-1B, R-1C, R-1D, R-2 and M-1 zoning districts. The term "residential
vacation rental" also does not include other transient lodging such as hotels
and motels, lodges, and bed and breakfast establishments, which are otherwise
authorized under these regulations and which have been duly permitted or which
are legal nonconforming uses.
Residential vacation rental operator (operator) means the owner of a
residential vacation rental or a responsible party designated by the owner to
act for and on behalf of the owner in managing the property. If the operator is
not the owner, the actions, undertakings and certifications of the operator
shall be binding on the owner.
Residential vacation rental property means real property used or intended to be
used for residential vacation rental purposes.
Restaurant means an establishment substantially engaged in the business of
preparing and serving meals, and shall have a kitchen and inside dining area
with seating for at least ten (10) people. Additional outside serving areas may
be permitted on the establishment’s premises, including on lake structures. A
restaurant may include on premise consumption of alcohol, including spirituous
liquors with a valid NC ABC license. Mobile Food Vendors and/or food trucks
shall not be considered as a restaurant.
Retail business means establishments selling commodities directly to the
consumer.
Retaining wall means a structure erected between lands of different elevations
to protect structures and/or to prevent erosion or land subsidence.
Rock outcropping means the part of a rock formation that appears above the
surface of the surrounding land.
Roominghouse means any building or portion thereof containing not more than
five guest units where rent is paid and guests are transient. The term
"roominghouse" is used interchangeably with the term "boardinghouse."
Root protection zone (RPZ) means the area that encompasses the entire system of
a tree's major and minor roots, 24 inches deep and extending from the trunk of
the tree a radial distance equal to one foot for each inch of trunk diameter or
to the drip line of the tree, whichever is greater. See Figure 2.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c141ac2780daea4288dd157975992950c90da25b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1304.png]
 
   Figure 2: Root Protection Zone
Scenic view means an area visible from a specified position that provides
vistas over water, across expanses of land, or from mountain tops or ridges.
Screening means a method of visually shielding or obscuring an abutting or
nearby structure or use from view by fencing, walls, berms, densely planted
vegetation, or a combination of the aforementioned.
Secondary use means a use of a portion of a structure customarily incidental
and subordinate to the primary use of the structure and located in the same
structure with the primary use.
Sensitive natural area means any area which is sensitive or vulnerable to
physical or biological alteration, as identified now or hereafter by the state
natural heritage program and which contains one or more of the following:
      (1)   Habitat, including nesting sites, occupied by rare or endangered
species;
      (2)   Rare or exemplary natural ecological communities;
      (3)   Significant landforms, hydroforms, or geological features; or
      (4)   Other areas so designated by the state natural heritage program,
which are sensitive or vulnerable to physical or biological alteration.
Setback means the minimum allowable distance measured on the horizontal plane
between a property line, water's edge, right-of-way, or street centerline and
specified improvements such as a building or parking area. No building or other
structure may be placed within the setback area except as provided. (See
definition of the term "yard" and section 36-295.) Whenever the front, side, or
rear portions of a lot abut a street right-of-way, setback lines shall be
measured from said right-of-way. Where no street right-of-way exists, setback
lines shall be measured from the center of the traveled way.
Setback area means the area between the property lines and the setback lines
(front, back and sides, including all yards) designated by the lot's zoning
classification. The setback area is intended to create a buffer zone of natural
vegetation between properties. See Figure 1.
Shoreline means the line where the land and water meet, which is the elevation
of 990 feet mean sea level.
Shrub means a woody plant, commonly with multiple stems, whose mature growth is
smaller than a tree, usually less than four meters (13.12 feet) tall and less
than ten centimeters in diameter. See the Lake Lure Tree Management Handbook.
Shrubbery means a collection of shrubs, of one or more species.
Significant tree means any stable, healthy tree with a dbh equal to or greater
than the dbh noted as significant for that species in the table shown in
Appendix A to this chapter, or a tree of any other species with a dbh of six
inches or greater.
Significant tree density means a formula based on the number of significant
trees per acre. For example, a one-acre lot with ten significant trees has a
significant tree density of ten. A three-acre lot with 30 significant trees
also has a significant tree density of ten.
Single-family dwelling means a detached dwelling unit; a building arranged or
designed to be occupied by one family.
Site means any plot or parcel of land or combination of contiguous lots or
parcels of land.
Sketch plan means a general concept site plan of a proposed development of
sufficient accuracy to depict vicinity map; tract boundaries; total acreage;
existing and proposed uses of land; building coverage areas for principal
buildings and accessory buildings; street layout; water and sewer system
location; bodies of water and waterways; drainage channels; areas of
environmental concern; neighboring tracts and corresponding zoning
classifications; parking areas; common areas; driveway entrances; sign
location; and name, address, and telephone number of owner.
Sleeping unit means room or space in which people sleep, which can also include
permanent provisions for living, eating, and either sanitation or kitchen
facilities but not both. Such rooms and spaces that are also part of a dwelling
unit are not sleeping units.
Slope means an inclined earth surface, the inclination of which is expressed as
the ratio of horizontal distance to vertical distance. In this chapter, slopes
are generally expressed as a percentage; percentage of slope refers to a given
rise in elevation over a given run in distance. A 50 percent slope, for
example, refers to a 100-foot rise in elevation over a distance of 200 feet. A
50 percent slope is expressed in engineering terms as a 2:1 slope.
Special use means an activity, structure, or development permitted in a
particular zoning district upon providing evidence that such use, structure, or
development complies with all requirements and specifications for the zoning
district in which it is proposed and authorized by the board of adjustment.
Special use permit means a permit issued by the board of adjustment stating
that the specified use meets all requirements and specifications set forth in
these regulations. Formerly referred to as a Conditional Use Permit.
Stairway means one or more flights of stairs, either exterior or interior, with
the necessary landings and platforms connecting them to form a continuous and
uninterrupted passage from one level to another in or attached to a building or
structure.
Steep slope means a slope exceeding 40 percent, on average.
Steep slope plan means information prepared as part of a site plan by a
qualified licensed professional to a scale sufficient to clearly indicate the
necessary details, including, without limitation, the following: topographical
information on the steepness of the property and the slope providing access to
the property; the means by which the property can best be developed for the
proposed purposes, for proper management of the property during development,
and for stabilizing the property once construction is complete; and any other
information the zoning administrator may determine to be necessary in order to
determine the specifics of the plan.
Stream buffer means the strip of land, in its natural state or restored to a
suitably vegetated state, of specified width, lying adjacent to any stream,
river, creek, brook, run, branch, wetland, or waterway, or any reservoir, lake,
or pond, natural or impounded. (See also the discussion of buffer zones in
section 22-25(1).)
Street (road) means a right-of-way for vehicular traffic which affords the
principal means of access to abutting properties.
Street, primary. For the purpose of this chapter, the following streets shall
be considered primary streets:
      (1)   U.S. Highway 64/74A (Memorial Highway);
      (2)   N.C. Highway 9;
      (3)   Island Creek Road;
      (4)   Girls Scout Camp Road;
      (5)   Buffalo Shoals Road; and
      (6)   Buffalo Creek Road.
Street, secondary. For the purpose of this chapter, all public streets other
than primary streets, and all private streets, shall be considered secondary
streets.
Street line means the right-of-way line for a street.
Structure means a combination of materials to form a permanent construction for
use, occupancy or ornamentation, whether installed on, above or below the
surface of the land or water.
Tall building means any building with a vertical distance greater than 35 feet
as measured from the average finished grade at the building foundation line to
the highest point of the roof ridgeline.
Telecommunications facility means the equipment and structure designed to
support antennae used for transmitting or receiving communications and data
transmissions. The term "telecommunication facility" also includes accessory
buildings and related equipment required for the telecommunications facility.
Telecommunications tower means a structure on which there are electronic
facilities for receiving or transmitting communication signals.
Telecommunications towers less than 15 feet above the roofline, when secured to
a building, are exempt. Telephone poles carrying telephone and cable TV lines
are also exempt from this definition. Examples of telecommunications towers
include monopoles, lattice construction and stealth structures.
Tract. The term "tract" is used interchangeably with the term "lot."
Travel trailer means any vehicle, self-propelled or otherwise, which is
designed for transient, nonpermanent living, including structures mounted on
auto or truck bodies that are referred to as campers.
Traveled way means part of the roadway provided for the movement of vehicles,
exclusive of shoulders and auxiliary lands.
Tree means a woody plant with a well-developed main trunk of at least four
inches dbh at maturity.
Tree density. See Significant tree density.
Tree protection officer means a duly authorized town official whose function or
scope of authority includes enforcing the tree management provisions of this
chapter.
Tree protection plan means information provided as part of a site plan
regarding protection provided to trees during land clearing, land disturbance,
and/or development, as well as the extent and condition of both the pre-
development and post-development forest coverage of the property in question.
Tree thinning means the removal of a few selected trees and/or selected minor
branches from selected trees for purposes of developing views and/or permitting
more sunlight to reach the ground.
Tree topping means the damaging practice of cutting back its main leader stem
and/or limbs larger than three inches in diameter within the crown, to such a
degree as to remove the normal canopy and disfigure the tree.
Trout buffer means an undisturbed strip of land of specified width as measured
in the horizontal plane and as defined and illustrated in the land disturbance
regulations, that is required for the protection of waters that have been
classified as trout waters by the environmental management commission. Any
removal of vegetation, including the removal of living branches, is prohibited
within such areas.
Undisturbed means the natural ground surface remains in its natural state; no
land disturbing activity occurs; no vegetation is removed except as exempted by
this chapter; and no impervious surface is constructed thereon.
Unimproved area means the portion of a lot without improvements.
Unity of title means a document in the official property records of the county
stipulating that a lot, lots or parcels of land shall be held under single
ownership, shall not be eligible for further subdivision, and shall not be
transferred, conveyed, or sold in any unit other than in its entirety.
Use means the activity that actually takes place or is intended to take place
on land, water, or a structure thereon.
Vacation rental operating permit means the permit needed to operate a
residential vacation rental as defined herein.
Variance means a relaxation of the terms of this chapter where such variance
will not be contrary to the public interest and where, owing to special
conditions peculiar to the property and not the result of the actions of the
applicant, a literal enforcement of this chapter would result in unnecessary
and undue hardship. (See section 36- 183(3).)
View protection means requirements to assure that improvements do not interfere
with scenic views.
Viewshed means the totality of near, medium, and long-distance views of lakes,
streams, forests, ridgelines, mountains, or any combination thereof, as seen
from the lakes, roadways, public areas, and homes of the town.
Wholesale business means the sale of goods in large quantities usually for
resale.
Winery means a facility where wine, cider or other fermented fruit beverages
are produced and distributed. A winery may include areas for demonstration,
education, tasting and other uses permitted in the district, in accordance with
state and local laws.
Yard means a space on the same lot with a principal building, open, unoccupied
and unobstructed by buildings or structures from 30 inches above the general
ground level of the graded lot upward; provided, however, that driveways;
walkways; stairs; fences; walls and hedges (subject to section 36-231); poles;
posts; children's play equipment; and other customary yard accessories,
ornaments, statuary and furniture may be permitted in any yard subject to the
provisions of section 36-295.
Yard, front, means an open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a principal
building, extending the full width of the lot, and situated between the street
right-of-way line and the front line of the building, projected to the side lot
lines of the lot. The lake side yard of a lake front lot shall be a front yard.
Yard, lake front, means an open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a
principal building extending the full width of the lot and situated between the
shore of a lake and the line of the building projected to the side lines of the
lot.
Yard, rear, means an open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a principal
building, extending the full width of the lot and situated between the rear
line of the lot and the rear line of the building projected to the side lines
of the lot.
Yard, side, means an open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a principal
building, situated between the building and the side lot line and extending
from the rear line of the front yard to the front line of the rear yard.
Zoning administrator means an official or designated person of the town charged
with enforcing and administering this chapter.
Zoning and planning board means a citizen committee appointed by the town
council per chapter 2 to assist as an advisory body in the land use planning
and zoning process.
Zoning district means a specifically delineated area on the official zoning map
of the town within which uniform regulations and requirements govern the use,
placement, spacing and size of lots and structures.
(Code 1989, § 92.005; Ord. of 1-25-1994; Ord. of 11-8-1994; Ord. of 11-26-1996;
Ord. of 1-28-1997; Ord. of 2-9- 1999; Ord. of 4-13-1999; Ord. of 12-14-1999;
Ord. of 1-9-2001; Ord. of 7-10-2001; Ord. of 4-9-2002; Ord. of 5-11- 2004; Ord.
of 7-12-2005; Ord. of 11-15-2005; Ord. of 4-10-2007; Ord. of 6-12-2007; Ord. of
1-8-2008; Ord. of 6-10- 2008; Ord. of 11-18-2008; Ord. of 3-10-2009; Ord. of
10-13-2009; Ord. of 1-1-2010; Ord. of 4-13-2010; Ord. of 12- 14-2010; Ord. of
2-8-2011; Ord. of 6-14-2011; Ord. of 4-10-2012; Ord. of 10-9-2012; Ord. of 6-
11-2013; Ord. of 4-8- 2014; Ord. of 10-14-2014; Ord. of 12-9-2014; Ord. of 3-
10-2015; Ord. of 7-14-2015; Ord. of 9-13-2016; Ord. No. 21- 05-11, 5-11-2021,
Ord. of 12-12-2023)
Secs.36-6—36-28. Reserved.
ARTICLE II.
ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAP
Sec. 36-29. Use districts.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the town is hereby divided into the
following use districts:
      (1)   R-1 Residential District.
      (2)   R-1A Residential District.
      (3)   R-1B Residential District.
      (4)   R-1C Residential District.
      (5)   R-1D Residential District.
      (6)   R-2 General Residential District.
      (7)   R-3 Resort Residential District.
      (8)   R-4 Residential/Office District.
      (9)   CN Commercial Neighborhood District.
      (10)   CTC Commercial Town Center District.
      (11)   CG Commercial General District.
      (12)   CSC Commercial Shopping Center District.
      (13)   L1 Lake District.
      (14)   M1 Reserved Mountainous District.
      (15)   S1 Scenic Natural Attraction District.
      (16)   GU Government Use District.
(Code 1989, § 92.015; Ord. of 1-22-1991; Ord. of 8-18-1998; Ord. of 2-9-1999)
Sec. 36-30. Establishment of district boundaries.
   The boundaries of these districts are hereby established as shown on the
town's official zoning map.
(Code 1989, § 92.016; Ord. of 1-22-1991)
Sec. 36-31. Establishment of zoning map.
   A zoning map entitled the "Official Zoning Map of the Town of Lake Lure"
setting forth all approved use districts and their respective boundaries is
hereby made a part of this chapter and shall be maintained in the office of the
zoning administrator. This map and prior zoning maps shall be available for
inspection by interested persons during normal business hours of the zoning
administrator. It shall be the duty of the zoning administrator to maintain the
said map and post any changes thereto as they may be made.
   When zoning district boundaries reference maps such as flood insurance rate
maps, watershed boundary maps, or other maps officially adopted or promulgated
by State and federal agencies, the most current version of said maps shall be
maintained for public inspection.
(Code 1989, § 92.017; Ord. of 1-22-1991; Ord. No. 21-05-11, 5-11-2021)
Sec. 36-32. Rules governing district boundaries.
   Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of any of the
aforesaid districts as shown on the zoning map, the following shall apply:
      (1)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerlines of
streets, highways, alleys, streams, rivers or other bodies of water shall be
construed to follow such lines.
      (2)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot lines
shall be construed as following such lot lines.
      (3)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following town limit lines
shall be construed as following such town limit lines.
      (4)   Where district boundaries are so indicated that they are
approximately parallel to the centerlines of streets, highways or railroads, or
rights-of-way of same, such district boundaries shall be construed as being
parallel thereto and at such distance therefrom as indicated on the zoning map.
If no distance is given on the map, such dimension shall be determined by the
use of the scale shown on said zoning map.
      (5)   Where physical features existing on the ground are at variance with
those shown on the official zoning map, or in other circumstances not covered
by subsections (1) through (4) of this section, the board of adjustment shall
interpret the district boundaries only upon appeal from a decision of the
zoning administrator.
(Code 1989, § 92.018)
Sec. 36-33. Conditional districts (CD).
   Conditional districts are districts with conditions voluntarily added by the
applicant and approved in a legislative procedure by the town council in
accordance with G.S. 160D. Conditional districts provide for orderly and
flexible development under the general policies of this chapter without the
constraints of some of the prescribed standards guiding by-right development.
Conditional districts may be associated with any land development district and
shall be designated by adding the suffix "CD" to the land development district
with which they are associated. Conditional districts are not intended to
relieve hardships that would otherwise be handled using a variance procedure.
      (1)   Application to establish district.
         a.   Applicant and property. Conditional district classification shall
only be considered upon the request of the owners and/or the representatives of
the owners of all the property to be included. A conditional district shall
consist of land under unified control which may be planned and developed as a
single development or as an approved programmed series of development phases by
multiple developers. The term "unified control" means that all land to be
included within a conditional district shall be owned or otherwise under the
legal control of the person or legal entity which has applied for a conditional
district. Such person or entity shall be legally capable of providing a
commitment to the town that the conditional district development will comply
with all documents, plans, standards and conditions approved by the town.
         b.   Standards of district to be met. Within an approved conditional
district, no use shall be permitted except pursuant to the conditions imposed
by the applicant on the conditional district in the approval of the rezoning.
In general, the development standards for the associated land development
district, as well as general standards contained in this chapter, shall govern
development within the conditional district. However, within a conditional
district, petitioners may place additional requirements or standards onto
themselves and their property or ask that certain uses identified in the
associated district be decreased. In addition, specific development standards
(except those involving use) may be varied if specifically requested by the
petitioner as part of a conditional district application. If no specific
request is made by the petitioner to change the applicable development
standards or if the petition is silent on the point, it shall be understood
that all applicable development standards shall govern the development and use
of the property.
         c.   Contents of application. A conditional district application shall
consist of the environmental survey and general development plan, as provided
for herein, as well as any other plans, drawings, renderings, elevations, maps
and documents specifically included as development documents for approval by
the town council. The general development plan, as a site-specific conditional
zoning plan, is itself a condition of the conditional district rezoning.
            1.   Existing conditions survey. An existing conditions survey is
intended to document the existing conditions of the property so that the town
and the applicant can fully evaluate the impacts of the proposed development.
Furthermore, identification of environmental conditions on a site prior to the
advanced preparation of development plans enables the reasonable and practical
planned preservation of existing and environmentally sensitive areas. This
requirement provides the town and the applicant the ability to evaluate the
proposed development in order to preserve vegetation, to improve the appearance
of the development proposed and to satisfy other requirements of this chapter.
The existing conditions survey shall include the following (where applicable):
               (i)   Existing property boundaries and dimensions of existing
lots, including acreage of the entire area to be rezoned.
               (ii)   Existing buildings and other structures, including fences
and retaining walls.
               (iii)   Existing roads, driveways, and parking areas, including
any existing rights-of-way and easements.
               (iv)   Existing utilities, including any utility easements.
               (v)   A topographic survey is required. However, a topographic
survey may be waived by the administrator if the slope of the property is
determined to be less than ten percent and/or if no physical improvements to
the site are proposed (i.e., strictly change of use).
               (vi)   Existing watercourses, including perennial streams and
wetlands.
               (vii)   Floodplains.
               (viii)   Previously documented endangered species habitats.
               (ix)   Location of forest stands or trees of a uniform size and
species; specimen trees of varying sizes and species, particularly freestanding
or open-grown or field-grown trees; distinctive tree lines or forest edges.
               (x)   Significant historical and archaeological resource areas
as defined by the National Register of Historic Place or other federal and/or
state agencies.
            2.   General development plan.
               (i)   The general development plan is intended to provide a
detailed two-dimensional drawing that illustrates all of the required site
features, including buildings, parking areas, street locations, street
sections, rights-of-way, property lines and setbacks, required or proposed
watercourse buffers, site landscaping and lighting (in conceptual form), and
all related development calculations (e.g., density, proposed building areas,
number of parking spaces, estimated impervious surface) in sufficient detail to
show compliance with this chapter. Detailed engineering drawings such as
subsurface utilities (e.g., water and sewer) and on-site stormwater facilities
are not required for general development plans. All plans shall be submitted at
a scale not less than one inch equals 50 feet (for site plans) or one inch
equals 200 feet (for subdivisions) unless otherwise authorized by the zoning
administrator and shall, at a minimum, consist of the following:
                  A.   The overall boundary and acreage of the area to be
rezoned, including underlying zoning districts.
                  B.   The general location, orientation and size of principal
structures and associated parking areas; landscape and buffer areas; open space
areas; the location, size and general treatment of environmentally sensitive
areas; the general location and size of existing and proposed water mains and
sewer trunk lines required to service the development; and general traffic
routes (external and internal) to and from the development with major access
points identified.
                  C.   Tabular data, including the range and scope of proposed
land uses, proposed densities, floor area ratios or impervious surface ratios
as applicable to development type; and land areas devoted to each type of
general land use and phase of development.
                  D.   A full list of proposed uses consistent in character
with the underlying zoning district. Such use classifications may be selected
from any of the uses, whether permitted, by right or special, allowed in the
general zoning district upon which the conditional district is based. Uses not
otherwise permitted within the general zoning district shall not be permitted
within the conditional district.
                  E.   A proposed development schedule if the project is to be
phased.
                  F.   Conceptual building elevations with materials and facade
color for new commercial structures and additions to commercial structures that
exceed 1,000 square feet to ensure compliance with section
36-107.
                  G.   Applicant's statement as to how the proposal is
consistent with the comprehensive plan and outlining any specific goals or
policies achieved as a result of the proposal.
                  H.   A statement of the proposed design standards or
development requirements that differ from the requirement of the zoning and/or
subdivision regulations, including a narrative explaining the special
circumstances or development or design objectives that justify the varied
standards.
               (i)   General development plans do not necessarily need to
provide the level of detail required for a final site plan; nevertheless, they
should address, at least conceptually, the parameters for special use permit
applications contained in section 36-103, with enough detail to realistically
assess the potential impacts of the proposed development on public
infrastructure, neighboring properties, and the existing natural and built
environment.
      (2)   Formal review. Formal review shall be in accordance with the
procedures for amending this chapter contained in section 36-369, except as
modified herein.
         a.   Preapplication conference. The town strongly recommends that
persons intending to apply for the creation of a conditional district schedule
a preapplication meeting with the zoning administrator. The purpose of this
meeting is to afford the applicant an opportunity to obtain the advice and
assistance of the community development department in formulating the
application in compliance with town regulations.
         b.   Completeness review. Once an application to establish a
conditional district has been received by the town, the zoning administrator
will promptly review it to determine if it is complete, which is to say, the
requisite fee has been provided, the application itself is complete, and all
required supporting documentation, including any additional information which
the administrator deems necessary for the town to have an adequate
understanding of the proposed project, has been provided. If the administrator
determines the submittal is incomplete, he shall notify the applicant in
writing of the deficiencies found therein. An applicant has the right to refuse
to provide the additional information requested and to demand that the
application be processed in accordance with this section.
         c.   Development review committee. Once the zoning administrator is in
possession of a complete application, or once the applicant has refused to
provide additional information and has demanded the processing of the
application, the zoning administrator shall submit such application to the
development review committee for technical review and recommendation.
         d.   Neighborhood compatibility meeting. This section provides a
process whereby affected property owners, residents and developers have an
opportunity to participate in a dialogue as to how development is to be
integrated into their neighborhoods. This is accomplished by a neighborhood
compatibility meeting to be facilitated by the zoning administrator within 14
days of receipt of the recommendation of the development review committee.
            1.   Notification of participants. At least seven calendar days
prior to the meeting, notice of the meeting shall be given in the following
fashion:
               (i)   The developer shall be informed of the meeting by mail.
Failure of the developer, or his authorized agent, to attend this meeting shall
lead to an automatic annulment of the application.
               (ii)   Property owners within 400 feet of any property line of
the proposed sites shall be informed of the meeting by mail.
               (iii)   All other persons shall be informed of the meeting by a
conspicuously placed standardized on-site sign.
            2.   The developer's presentation. During the neighborhood
compatibility meeting, the developer shall explain to the affected property
owners the proposed use for the site. The presentation shall include the
developer's position on the compatibility of the project. It is the developer's
responsibility to propose a compatible project.
            3.   Relevant topics to be discussed. Following the developer's
presentation, affected property owners and residents shall be permitted time to
question the developer about points which remain unclear. Questioning shall
center on the proposal's compatibility as presented, not the question of
whether the site should be developed or its use changed.
            4.   Result of neighborhood compatibility meeting. Following the
exchange of views between the developer and affected property owners/residents,
the zoning administrator shall review orally the points voiced during the
informal compatibility meeting. Included in the review shall be proposals or
counter-proposals to which both parties have agreed in an effort to make the
project compatible, as well as those points where disagreement still exists.
Upon conclusion of the review, the zoning administrator shall ask those
assembled if the positions presented represent an accurate summary of the
opinions expressed by the developer and affected property owners/residents.
When they do, the meeting shall be concluded and the zoning administrator shall
record the opinions in the zoning administrator's report. The neighborhood
compatibility report shall become a part of the application file.
         e.   Zoning and planning board review. The complete application,
accompanied by the report of the development review committee, shall then be
submitted to the zoning and planning board. The zoning and planning board shall
review the application for consistency with the town's comprehensive plan, any
other applicable plans, and with this chapter. The zoning and planning board
may also evaluate and comment upon the issue of whether the proposed
conditional district zoning is designed to promote the public health, safety
and welfare. The recommendations of the zoning and planning board shall be
reported to town council for inclusion in the record of the public hearing.
         f.   [Public hearing of town council.] The town council shall conduct
a public hearing on the application within 35 days of receipt of the report of
the zoning and planning board. Said hearing shall be noticed and conducted in
accordance with section 36-373.
            1.   Decisions. Decisions by the town council shall be by majority
vote, unless a valid protest petition has been filed, in which case, a three-
fourths majority vote of eligible members shall be required for approval.
            2.   Fair and reasonable conditions. The provisions of the
conditional district general development plan shall replace all conflicting
development regulations set forth in this chapter which would otherwise apply
to the development site. The town council may attach reasonable and appropriate
conditions, including, but not limited to, the location, nature, hours of
operation, and extent of the proposed use; provided, however, only those
conditions mutually approved by the town and the applicant may be incorporated
into the zoning regulations or permit requirements for the conditional
district. Conditions and site-specific standards shall be limited to those that
address conformance of the development and use of the site to the zoning
regulations and officially adopted plans and those standards and conditions
that address the impacts reasonably expected to be generated by the development
and use of the site. The applicant will have a reasonable opportunity to
consider and respond to any additional requirements proposed by either the
zoning and planning board or the town council prior to final action.
            3.   Recordation of notice of conditional district zoning. Within
30 days of the enactment of an ordinance creating a conditional district, the
applicant shall cause a notice of conditional district zoning to be recorded in
the county registry. Such notice shall reference the name of the owner of the
property, the parcel identification number (PIN) of the property, the
instrument by which title was obtained by the owner, and the ordinance number
adopted by town council approving the conditional zoning district.
      (3)   Effect of approval/changes. The development and use of all land
within the conditional district shall be in keeping with the approved general
development plan and all applicable provisions therein. The applicant may
proceed with development only after approval of the conditional district
general development plan by the town council, followed by approval of any
necessary site plans or subdivision plats, except that all subsequent approvals
shall be completed by the appropriate review authority. An approved conditional
district containing one or more uses listed as special uses in the associated
zoning district shall not require a special use permit, and no further review
by the board of adjustment is required.
         a.   Final approval by stages. If so reflected on the general
development plan, the town council may allow the staging of final development.
Each phase of development shall adhere to all applicable provisions and
standards of this section and the applicable conditional district general
development plan.
         b.   Substantial changes. Any substantial change to a general
development plan as noted below shall be reviewed by the zoning and planning
board and approved or denied by the town council as an amended conditional
district. The following changes to a conditional district general development
plan shall be deemed to constitute a substantial change requiring approval by
the town council:
            1.   Land area being added or removed from the conditional
district.
            2.   Modification of special performance criteria, design
standards, or other requirements specified by the enacting ordinance.
            3.   A change in land use or development type beyond that permitted
by the approved general development plan.
            4.   When there is introduction of a new vehicular access point to
an existing street, road or thoroughfare not previously designated for access.
            5.   When there is an increase in the total number of residential
dwelling units originally authorized by the approved general development plan.
            6.   When the total floor area of a commercial or industrial
classification is increased, in the aggregate, more than ten percent beyond the
total floor area last approved by the town council.
         c.   Additional changes. All other changes to a conditional district
general development plan shall receive approval by the zoning and planning
board. However, if, in the judgment of the zoning and planning board, the
requested changes alter the basic development concept of the conditional
district, the zoning and planning board may require concurrent approval by the
town council.
         d.   Rescission of conditional districts. The applicant shall secure a
valid building or construction permit within a 12-month period from date of
approval of the conditional district unless otherwise specified. If such
project is not complete or a valid building or construction permit is not in
place at the end of the 12-month period, the zoning administrator shall notify
the applicant of such finding. Within 60 calendar days of notification, the
zoning administrator shall make a recommendation concerning the rescission of
the conditional district to the town council. The town council may then rescind
the conditional district or extend the life of the conditional district for a
specified period of time. The rescission of a conditional district shall follow
the same procedure as used for approval.
(Code 1989, § 92.019; Ord. of 7-12-2011; Ord. of 8-9-2011; Ord. No. 21-05-11,
5-11-2021)
Secs.36-34—36-54. Reserved.
ARTICLE III.
USE REQUIREMENTS
Sec. 36-55. Intent.
   It is the intent of this article that if any use or class of use is not
specifically permitted in a district as set forth below, it shall be prohibited
in that district. Special uses shall comply with article IV of this chapter and
all other applicable sections of these regulations.
(Code 1989, § 92.025; Ord. of 1-22-1991; Ord. of 4-10-2007; Ord. No. 21-05-11,
5-11-2021)
Sec. 36-56. R-1 Residential District.
   (a)   Intent. The R-1 Residential District is established as a district in
which the principal use of land is for single- family dwellings. It is the
intention of these regulations to discourage any use which would be detrimental
to the low density, single-family residential nature of the areas included
within the district.
   (b)   Permitted uses. Within the R-1 Residential District, a building or
land shall be used only for the following purpose:
      (1)   Single-family dwellings, excluding mobile homes.
      (2)   Family care homes.
      (3)   Customary accessory buildings, including private garages, storage
buildings, and noncommercial workshops, shall be allowed for home occupations
subject to all provisions of section
36-232.
      (4)   Residential vacation rentals subject to special requirements
contained in section
36-72(1).
      (5)   Telecommunications facilities and antennae (see section
36-72(4)).
   (c)   Special use permit. The following uses require a special use permit
subject to a finding by the board of adjustment that all applicable provisions
of article IV of this chapter have been met:
      (1)   Basement or garage apartments, one per lot.
      (2)   Duplexes.
      (3)   Non-customary accessory uses.
      (4)   Public utility buildings and facilities if such use is essential
for the service of the immediate area and provided that:
         a.   All buildings shall be located at least 35 feet from any lot
line.
         b.   Fences and/or other appropriate safety devices are installed to
protect the public safety and welfare.
         c.   No vehicles or equipment are stored, maintained or repaired on
the premises.
         d.   All structures are in keeping with the residential character of
the neighborhood.
         e.   Adequate landscaping, screening and/or buffering shall be
provided to ensure compatibility with the neighborhood.
      (5)   Home occupations as defined in section 36-5 and subject to all
conditions stated therein.
      (6)   Planned unit developments. No building located in a planned unit
development shall contain more than two dwelling units.
      (7)   Bed and breakfast establishments. There shall not be any type of
cooking instrument provided to any room in these structures. The number of
rooms allowed in these uses in this district shall be limited to four per
dwelling unit. The owner/proprietor shall maintain their primary residence on
the property. One parking space is mandated for each room, and one parking
space for each employee of the facility, as provided in
section 36-218.
      (8)   Accessory residential event venue. In issuing a special use permit
for an accessory residential event venue, the board of adjustment may impose
reasonable conditions, including a maximum number of events per year and a
maximum number of attendees which shall be based on the availability of
parking, safe ingress and egress, sanitary facilities, potential impacts to
adjacent properties and similar site-specific conditions.
(Code 1989, § 92.026; Ord. of 1-22-1991; Ord. of 9-27-1994; Ord. of 1-28-1997;
Ord. of 7-10-2001; Ord. of 4-10- 2012; Ord. of 2-12-2019; Ord. No. 21-05-11, 5-
11-2021)
Sec. 36-57. R-1A, R-1B and R-1C Residential Districts.
   (a)   Intent. The R-1A, R-1B and R-1C Residential Districts are established
as districts in which the principal use of land is for single-family dwellings.
Large lot size and low density residential land use are encouraged in this
area. It is the intention of these regulations to discourage any use which
would be detrimental to the low density, single- family residential nature of
the area included within the district.
   (b)   Permitted uses. Within the R-1A, R-1B and R-1C Residential Districts,
a building or land shall be used only for any of the permitted uses listed in
the R-1 Residential District.
   (c)   Special use permit. The following uses require a special use permit
subject to a finding by the board of adjustment that all applicable provisions
of article IV of this chapter have been met:
      (1)   All special uses listed in the R-1 Residential District.
      (2)   Common amenities for residential developments provided that they
are situated within the residential development so as not to adversely impact
existing and/or reasonably foreseeable uses on adjoining properties. Such
amenities shall be set back a minimum of 30 feet from such adjoining properties
and a minimum of 60 feet from Lake Lure. Buffering may be utilized to ensure
compatibility with adjoining uses.
      (3)   Accessory residential event venue. In issuing a special use permit
for an accessory residential event venue, the board of adjustment may impose
reasonable conditions, including a maximum number of events per year and a
maximum number of attendees which shall be based on the availability of
parking, safe ingress and egress, sanitary facilities, potential impacts to
adjacent properties and similar site-specific conditions.
   (d)   Large estate lots. Lots that are in the R-1A or R-1B zoning district
that are ten acres or more shall be allowed two single-family principal
buildings (see section 36-222), provided the owner executes and records a unity
of title satisfactory to the town. Furthermore, garage apartments located on
lots in the R-1A or R-1B zoning district that are ten acres or more in size
shall be considered a permitted use, and the application for a certificate of
zoning compliance permit shall be processed as such.
(Code 1989, § 92.027; Ord. of 1-22-1991; Ord. of 1-8-2008; Ord. of 4-10-2012;
Ord. of 4-8-2014; Ord. No. 21-05-11, 5-11-2021)
Sec. 36-58. R-1D Residential District.
   (a)   Intent. The R-1D Residential District is established as a district in
which the principal use of land is for single-family dwellings.
   (b)   Permitted uses. Within the R-1D Residential District, a building or
land shall be used only for the following purposes:
      (1)   Single-family dwellings, excluding mobile homes.
      (2)   Family care homes.
      (3)   Customary accessory buildings, including private garages, storage
buildings, and noncommercial workshops, shall be allowed for home occupations
subject to all provisions of section
36-232.
      (4)   Residential vacation rentals subject to special requirements
contained in section
36-72(1).
      (5)   Telecommunications facilities and antennae (see section
36-72(4)).
   (c)   Special use permit. The following uses require a special use permit
subject to a finding by the board of adjustment that all applicable provisions
of article IV of this chapter have been met:
      (1)   Non-customary accessory uses.
      (2)   Common amenities for residential developments provided that they
are situated within the residential development so as not to adversely impact
existing and/or reasonably foreseeable uses on adjoining properties. Such
amenities shall be set back a minimum of 30 feet from such adjoining properties
and a minimum of 60 feet from Lake Lure. Buffering may be utilized to ensure
compatibility with adjoining uses.
      (3)   Accessory residential event venue. In issuing a special use permit
for an accessory residential event venue, the board of adjustment may impose
reasonable conditions, including a maximum number of events per year and a
maximum number of attendees which shall be based on the availability of
parking, safe ingress and egress, sanitary facilities, potential impacts to
adjacent properties and similar site-specific conditions.
(Code 1989, § 92.028; Ord. of 1-22-1991; Ord. of 9-27-1994; Ord. of 5-11-2004;
Ord. of 1-8-2008; Ord. of 10-13- 2009; Ord. of 4-10-2012; Ord. No. 21-05-11, 5-
11-2021)
Sec. 36-59. R-2 General Residential District.
   (a)   Intent. The R-2 General Residential District is established as a
district in which the principal use of land is for residential purposes. A
greater coverage of lot area and densities of land use are permitted in this
district. It is the intention of these regulations to discourage any use which
would be detrimental to the residential nature of the areas included within
this district.
   (b)   Permitted uses. Within the R-2 General Residential District, a
building or land shall be used only for the following purposes:
      (1)   Single-family dwellings.
      (2)   Duplexes.
      (3)   Family care homes.
      (4)   Customary accessory buildings, including private garages, storage
buildings, and noncommercial workshops, shall be allowed for home occupations
subject to all provisions of section 36-232.
      (5)   Residential vacation rentals subject to special requirements
contained in section 36-72(1).
      (6)   Telecommunications facilities and antennae (see section 36-72(4)).
   (c)   Special use permit. The following uses require a special use permit
subject to a finding by the board of adjustment that all applicable provisions
of article IV of this chapter have been met:
      (1)   Non-customary accessory uses.
      (2)   Home occupations as defined in section 36-5 and subject to all
conditions stated therein.
      (3)   Cemeteries.
      (4)   Churches or similar places of worship, including convents and
dormitories.
      (5)   Child care centers.
      (6)   Golf courses, parks, playgrounds, swimming pools, community
centers, country clubs, civic clubs, private social clubs, lodges, travel
trailer parks and other recreational uses.
      (7)   Public elementary and high schools, trade schools, and private
schools having similar curricula.
      (8)   Public utility buildings and facilities if such use is essential
for the service of the immediate area, provided that:
         a.   All buildings shall be located at least 35 feet from any lot
line.
         b.   Fences and/or other appropriate safety devices are installed to
protect the public safety and welfare.
         c.   No vehicles or equipment are stored, maintained or repaired on
the premises.
         d.   All structures are in keeping with the residential character of
the neighborhood.
         e.   Adequate landscaping, screening and/or buffering shall be
provided to ensure compatibility with the neighborhood.
      (9)   Radio and television transmitting stations and studios, provided
that:
         a.   Such facilities shall be housed in structures which are in
keeping with the character of the residential neighborhood.
         b.   No structure shall be located within 35 feet of any lot line.
         c.   Adequate landscaping, screening and/or buffering shall be
provided to ensure compatibility with the neighborhood.
      (10)   Mobile home parks, provided that:
         a.   The location shall be suitable for residential use. It shall not
be subject to hazards such as insect or rodent infestation, objectionable
smoke, noxious odors, unusual noise, subsidence, or the probability of flooding
or erosion. No part of any park shall be used for nonresidential uses, except
such uses that are required for the maintenance of the park to include laundry
facilities and storage buildings.
         b.   The soil, groundwater level, drainage, rock formations, and
topography shall not create hazards to the property or to the health and safety
of occupants.
         c.   The minimum area for any mobile home park shall be two acres.
         d.   The minimum lot size for individual mobile home sites shall be
4,000 square feet, with a width of at least 40 feet, exclusive of common
driveways. The minimum lot size for a double wide mobile home shall be 4,700
square feet, with a width of at least 40 feet, exclusive of common driveways.
         e.   The maximum density shall be nine mobile home sites per acre.
         f.   Each mobile home space shall abut a driveway within the park.
Said driveway shall be graded and surfaced with not less than four inches of
crushed stone or other suitable material on a well compacted sub-base to a
continuous width of 25 feet, exclusive of required parking space.
         g.   Two off-driveway parking spaces with not less than four inches of
crushed stone or other suitable material on a well-compacted sub-base shall be
provided for each mobile home space. Required parking spaces may be included
within the 4,000 square feet required for each mobile home space and 4,700
square feet for each double- wide mobile home.
         h.   No mobile homes or other structures within a mobile home park
shall be closer to each other than 20 feet, except that storage or other
auxiliary structures for the exclusive use of the mobile home may be closer to
that mobile home than 20 feet.
         i.   No mobile home shall be located closer than 20 feet to the
exterior boundary of the park or a bounding street or highway right-of-way.
Buildings used for laundry or recreation purposes shall be located no closer
than 40 feet to the exterior boundary of the park or the right-of-way of a
bounding street or highway.
         j.   Proposed water supply and waste disposal facilities for each
mobile home in the park shall be approved in writing by the appropriate state
and/or local agency.
         k.   Not less than five percent of the gross site area shall be
devoted to open space, which may be devoted to recreation facilities, generally
provided in a central location.
         l.   All mobile home units must comply with HUD's minimum housing
standards.
         m.   Every mobile home park owner or operator shall maintain an
accurate register. The register shall be on file with the zoning administrator.
The register shall contain the following information on forms provided by the
zoning administrator: name of owner and/or occupant; make, model and
registration number of the mobile home; and date of arrival and departure of
the mobile home. These records shall be available for inspection and shall be
maintained for three years.
         n.   The storage, collection and disposal of solid waste in the mobile
home park shall be conducted so as to create no health hazards, rodent
harborage, insect breeding areas, accident hazards, fire hazards, and
pollution.
         o.   Plans clearly indicating the developer's intention to comply with
the provisions of this chapter concerning mobile home parks shall be submitted
to and approved by the zoning administrator prior to submission to the board of
adjustment for consideration of granting a special use permit. Plans shall
include the areas to be used for the mobile home park; the ownership and use of
neighboring properties; all proposed entrances, exits, driveways, open space
areas, and service buildings; the proposed plan for water supply and sewage
disposal; and the location and size of individual mobile home lots.
         p.   Any expansion of mobile home parks in existence as of the
effective date of the ordinance from which is section is derived shall comply
with the provisions concerning mobile home parks so described in this chapter.
         q.   A densely planted buffer strip, consisting of evergreen trees or
shrubs, shall be located along all sides of the mobile home park, but shall not
extend beyond the established setback line along any street. Such buffer strip
shall be not less than ten feet in width and shall be composed of trees or
shrubs of a type which at maturity shall be not less than 12 feet in height.
This planting requirement may be modified by the board of adjustment where
adequate buffering exists in the form of vegetation and/or terrain.
      (11)   Planned unit developments.
      (12)   Nursing homes.
      (13)   Hospitals, but not animal hospitals.
      (14)   [Repealed by Ordinance 19-02-12.]
      (15)   Multifamily dwellings.
      (16)   Common amenities for residential developments provided that they
are situated within the residential development so as not to adversely impact
existing and/or reasonably foreseeable uses on adjoining properties. Such
amenities shall be set back a minimum of 30 feet from such adjoining properties
and a minimum of 60 feet from Lake Lure. Buffering may be utilized to ensure
compatibility with adjoining uses.
      (17)   Accessory residential event venue. In issuing a special use permit
for an accessory residential event venue, the board of adjustment may impose
reasonable conditions, including a maximum number of events per year and a
maximum number of attendees which shall be based on the availability of
parking, safe ingress and egress, sanitary facilities, potential impacts to
adjacent properties and similar site-specific conditions.
      (18)   Campgrounds.
(Code 1989, § 92.029; Ord. of 5-11-2004; Ord. of 1-9-2007; Ord. of 1-8-2008;
Ord. of 10-13-2009; Ord. of 4-10- 2012; Ord. of 6-12-2012; Ord. of 7-14-2015;
Ord. of 2-12-2019; Ord. No. 21-05-11, 5-11-2021)
Sec. 36-60. R-3 Resort Residential District.
   (a)   Intent. The R-3 Resort Residential District is established as a
district in which the principal use of land is for residential and commercial
hospitality purposes to include multifamily structures, hotels, motels, and
lodges. Uses in conjunction with hotels, motels, and lodges may also be allowed
when approved as a special use.
   (b)   Permitted uses. Within the R-3 Resort Residential District, a building
or land shall be used only for the following purposes:
      (1)   Single-family dwellings, excluding mobile homes.
      (2)   Multifamily dwellings, including duplexes.
      (3)   Family care homes.
      (4)   Hotels, lodges, motels, boardinghouses, roominghouses, bed and
breakfast establishments, private clubs to provide lodging, services and board
for the general public.
      (5)   Customary accessory buildings, including private garages, storage
buildings, and noncommercial workshops, shall be allowed for home occupations
subject to all provisions of section
36-232.
      (6)   Residential vacation rentals subject to special requirements
contained in section
36-72(1).
      (7)   Basement or garage apartments, one per lot.
      (8)   Telecommunications facilities and antennae (see section
36-72(4)).
   (c)   Special use permit. The following uses require a special use permit
subject to a finding by the board of adjustment that all applicable provisions
of article IV of this chapter have been met:
      (1)   Non-customary accessory uses.
      (2)   Home occupations as defined in section
36-5 and subject to all conditions stated therein.
      (3)   Public utility buildings and facilities as previously described in
section
36-56(c)(4).
      (4)   Planned unit developments.
      (5)   Restaurants, golf courses, and other uses designed in response to
the unique natural setting of the area, when in conjunction with a hotel, motel
or lodge.
      (6)   All telecommunications tower requirements listed in section
36-72(4).
      (7)   Camps.
      (8)   All new commercial buildings; new building additions with a gross
floor area of 1,000 square feet, or more, to an existing commercial building;
or any new addition to an existing commercial building where the building
facade length, as existing in December 2005, will be increased by more than 50
percent as a result of an addition or multiple additions.
      (9)   Common amenities for residential developments provided that they
are situated within the residential development so as not to adversely impact
existing and/or reasonably foreseeable uses on adjoining properties. Such
amenities shall be set back a minimum of 30 feet from such adjoining properties
and a minimum of 60 feet from Lake Lure. Buffering may be utilized to ensure
compatibility with adjoining uses.
      (10)   Accessory residential event venue. In issuing a special use permit
for an accessory residential event venue, the board of adjustment may impose
reasonable conditions, including a maximum number of events per year and a
maximum number of attendees which shall be based on the availability of
parking, safe ingress and egress, sanitary facilities, potential impacts to
adjacent properties and similar site-specific conditions.
      (11)   Primary event venue. In issuing a special use permit for a primary
event venue, the board of adjustment may impose reasonable conditions,
including a maximum number of events per year and a maximum number of attendees
which shall be based on the availability of parking, safe ingress and egress,
sanitary facilities, potential impacts to adjacent properties and similar site-
specific conditions.
      (12)   Campgrounds.
(Code 1989, § 92.029; Ord. of 1-22-1991; Ord. of 9-27-1994; Ord. of 1-28-1997;
Ord. of 11-15-2005; Ord. of 1-8- 2008; Ord. of 10-13-2009; Ord. of 4-10-2012;
Ord. of 7-14-2015; Ord. of 11-10-2015; Ord. No. 21-05-11, 5-11-2021)
Sec. 36-61. R-4 Residential/Office District.
   (a)   Intent. The R-4 Residential/Office District is established along U.S.
64/74A from the western town limit line to the intersection of N.C. Highway 9
with U.S. Highway 64/74A, excluding those areas currently zoned R-2 and R-3, to
provide limited nonresidential uses which will have little impact on the
neighboring residential areas. In many cases nonresidential uses may occupy
buildings which have been used as residences. If new buildings are constructed,
the town recommends that they be of a residential character design.
   (b)   Permitted uses. Within the R-4 Residential/Office District, a building
or land shall be used only for the following purposes:
      (1)   Any of the permitted uses listed in the R-1 Residential District.
      (2)   Business and professional offices limited to licensed practice of
law, property appraisal and surveying, building contractor, real estate,
insurance, accountancy, financial advisement, architecture and building, land
development, and notary. Buildings occupied by such uses may not exceed 3,000
square feet total heated area.
      (3)   No more than two accessory buildings with a total combined area not
to exceed 600 square feet.
      (4)   Customary accessory buildings, including private garages, storage
buildings, and noncommercial workshops, shall be allowed for home occupations
subject to all provisions of section
36-232.
      (5)   Residential vacation rentals subject to special requirements
contained in section
36-72(1).
      (6)   Telecommunications facilities and antennae (see section
36-72(4)).
   (c)   Prohibited uses. Outside storage of any type including the parking or
storage of heavy trucks, machinery, or equipment is prohibited in the R-
4 district.
   (d)   Special use permits. The following uses require a special use permit
subject to a finding by the board of adjustment that all applicable provisions
of article IV of this chapter have been met:
      (1)   All special uses listed in the R-1 Residential District, except
that planned unit developments (PUDs) may include any uses permitted in this
district.
      (2)   Bed and breakfast establishments; provided the owner/proprietor
maintains a permanent, primary residence on site. Number of rooms available for
rent at any time shall be limited to five.
      (3)   Lodges.
      (4)   All new commercial buildings; new building additions with a gross
floor area of 1,000 square feet, or more, to an existing commercial building;
or any new addition to an existing commercial building where the building
facade length, as existing on December 2005, will be increased by more than 50
percent as a result of an addition or multiple additions.
      (5)   Produce stands.
      (6)   Accessory residential event venue. In issuing a special use permit
for an accessory residential event venue, the board of adjustment may impose
reasonable conditions, including a maximum number of events per year and a
maximum number of attendees which shall be based on the availability of
parking, safe ingress and egress, sanitary facilities, potential impacts to
adjacent properties and similar site-specific conditions.
   (e)   Site requirements. All sites must have a minimum of 10,000 square
feet. Lots which abut the street must have 50 feet of frontage on the street.
   (f)   Front, rear, and side yard requirements.
      (1)   For lots which abut the street, the building setback shall be not
less than 35 feet from the street right-of- way.
      (2)   For lots which abut the lake, the building setback shall be not
less than 35 feet from the lake shoreline.
      (3)   Side yards shall be not less than 12 feet in depth.
      (4)   Rear yards shall be not less than 15 feet in depth.
      (5)   When the lot is used for any nonresidential use, a buffer strip
shall be provided along the side and/or rear lot line of any abutting
residential use. If a fence or wall is used, such fence or wall shall be opaque
and not less than eight feet in height. If a planted buffer is used, such
buffer strip shall be composed of evergreen trees or shrubs which at planting
will be at least four feet high and at maturity will be not less than eight
feet high. This requirement may be modified by the board of adjustment where
sufficient natural buffering exists.
   (g)   Ingress/egress. All nonresidential uses in this district shall be
allowed only one means of ingress/egress for each 150 feet of frontage or
fraction thereof. All ingress/egress openings for both one-way or two-way
traffic shall be a minimum of 20 feet wide and a maximum of 50 feet wide unless
otherwise required by the state department of transportation. Landscaped
traffic delineators are required between the street and the front yard of the
nonresidential use extending the full width of the front yard excepting to
allow for entrances and exits. Delineators shall begin at the edge of the
right-of-way or six feet from the edge of the pavement, whichever is greater,
and shall extend a minimum of two feet toward the front of the structure. The
area should be filled with grass, flowers, and/or shrubs not high enough to
obstruct a driver's view of traffic. The zoning administrator may modify this
requirement where warranted by safety considerations.
   (h)   Frontage. For purposes of this section, all sites that are double
frontage lots or corner lots shall be deemed to have frontage on all such
streets. All fronts must adhere to ingress/egress requirements.
   (i)   Parking. All parking and loading must be in compliance with sections
36-217 through
36-219.
(Code 1989, § 92.030; Ord. of 12-12-1995; Ord. of 7-10-2001; Ord. of 5-11-2004;
Ord. of 11-15-2005; Ord. of 2-13- 2009; Ord. of 4-13-2010; Ord. of 12-14-2010;
Ord. of 4-10-2012; Ord. of 2-12-2019; Ord. No. 21-05-11, 5-11-2021)
Sec. 36-62. CN Commercial Neighborhood District.
   (a)   Intent. The CN Commercial Neighborhood District is intended to apply
to areas where selected businesses may be appropriately located to serve one or
more residential neighborhoods within convenient traveling distance. CN
districts are not highway-oriented commercial districts; therefore, gasoline
service or filling stations, vehicle repair or sales, and the like are
prohibited. Because these commercial districts are located within or adjacent
to residential neighborhoods and are subject to the public view, which is a
matter of important concern to the whole community, they should provide an
appropriate appearance, ample parking, controlled traffic movement and suitable
landscaping.
   (b)   Permitted uses. Within the CN Neighborhood Commercial District,
buildings or land shall be used only for the following purposes:
      (1)   Medical and dental services or clinics.
      (2)   Real estate, financial institutions, business and professional
offices.
      (3)   Post offices and libraries.
      (4)   Retail sales such as grocery stores, drug stores, gift shops,
convenience stores, video sales and rentals, and the like.
      (5)   Consumer services such as restaurants, dry cleaning drop-off and
pick-up stores, coin laundries, tailoring shops, barber and beauty shops, and
the like.
      (6)   Live-work units.
      (7)   Residential vacation rentals subject to special requirements
contained in section
36-72(1).
      (8)   Child care centers.
      (9)   Brewpubs and nano-breweries subject to special requirements
contained in section
36-72(2).
      (10)   Telecommunications facilities and antennae (see section
36-72(4)).
   (c)   Special use permit. The following uses require a special use permit
subject to a finding by the board of adjustment that all applicable provisions
of article IV of this chapter have been met:
      (1)   Convenience stores with accessory sale of motor vehicle fuels and
lubricants.
      (2)   Produce stands.
      (3)   Primary event venue. In issuing a special use permit for a primary
event venue, the board of adjustment may impose reasonable conditions,
including a maximum number of events per year and a maximum number of attendees
which shall be based on the availability of parking, safe ingress and egress,
sanitary facilities, potential impacts to adjacent properties and similar site-
specific conditions.
      (4)   All new commercial buildings; new building additions with a gross
floor area of 1,000 square feet, or more, to an existing commercial building;
or any new addition to an existing commercial building where the building
facade length, as existing on December 2005, will be increased by more than 50
percent as a result of an addition or multiple additions.
      (5)   Micro-breweries, micro-distilleries, and micro-wineries.
   (d)   [Outside display of merchandise.] This section specifically excludes
outside display of merchandise for sale or open storage of vehicles, motorized
equipment, wrecked vehicles, inoperable vehicles, discarded tires, auto parts,
and machinery and construction equipment; boat storage facilities; businesses
which sell, rent, or display obscene materials as defined in this Code; tattoo
parlors; residential uses, including mobile homes; moveable storage facilities;
and manufacturing employing ten or more persons.
   (e)   Site requirements. All lots must have a minimum of 10,890 square feet,
provided the maximum area of all contiguous lots zoned CN shall not exceed two
acres. No neighborhood commercial area (lot or group of contiguous lots zoned
CN) shall be located within one-half mile of any other area so zoned.
   (f)   Front, rear, and side yard requirements.
      (1)   For lots which abut the street, the building setback shall be not
less than ten feet from the street.
      (2)   For lots which abut the lake, the building setback shall be not
less than 35 feet from the lake shoreline.
      (3)   Side yards shall be not less than ten feet in depth, provided the
side yard shall be 20 feet in depth where adjacent to land zoned or, in fact,
used for residential purposes.
      (4)   Rear yards shall be not less than 15 feet in depth, provided the
rear yard shall be 20 feet in depth where adjacent to land zoned or, in fact,
used for residential purposes.
      (5)   Where the lot abuts upon property used for residential purposes, a
buffer strip shall be provided along the side and/or rear lot line of such
abutting residential use. If a fence or wall is used, such fence or wall shall
be opaque and not less than eight feet in height. If a planted buffer is used,
such buffer strip shall be not less than eight feet in width and shall be
composed of evergreen trees or shrubs which at planting will be at least four
feet high and at maturity will be not less eight feet high. This requirement
may be modified by the board of adjustment where sufficient natural buffering
exists.
   (g)   Ingress/egress. All uses in this district abutting the major
thoroughfares, being U.S. Highway 64/74, N.C. Highway 9, or Buffalo Creek Road,
shall have access only from such thoroughfares and shall be allowed only one
means of ingress/egress for each 150 feet of frontage or fraction thereof. All
ingress/egress openings, for both one-way or two-way traffic, shall be a
minimum of 15 feet wide and a maximum of 30 feet wide, measured at the road
right-of-way line, unless otherwise required by the state department of
transportation.
   (h)   Landscaping. Landscaped traffic delineators are required within the
front yard of the commercial site extending the full width of the front yard
excepting to allow for entrances and exits. Delineators shall begin at the edge
of the right-of-way or six feet from the edge of the pavement, whichever is
greater, and shall extend a minimum of two feet toward the front of the
structure. The area shall be planted and maintained with grass, flowers, and/or
shrubs not high enough to obstruct a driver's view of traffic.
   (i)   Frontage. All lots must have 50 feet of frontage on a street. For
purposes of this section, all sites that are double frontage lots or corner
lots shall be deemed to have frontage on all such streets. All fronts must
adhere to ingress/egress requirements.
(Code 1989, § 92.031; Ord. of 2-9-1999; Ord. of 11-15-2005; Ord. of 3-10-2009;
Ord. of 6-14-2011; Ord. of 4-10- 2012; Ord. of 10-14-2014; Ord. of 2-12-2019;
Ord. No. 21-05-11, 5-11-2021)
Sec. 36-63. CTC Commercial Town Center District.
   (a)   Intent. The CTC Commercial Town Center District is intended to apply
to the area bounded by Pool Creek, the lots abutting the west side of Avenue
"C," U.S. Highway 64/74A and Second Street. The CTC district is not a highway-
oriented commercial district; therefore, gasoline service or filling stations,
vehicle repair or sales, and the like are prohibited. Because this commercial
district is the focal point of commerce in the town and is subject to the
public view, which is a matter of important concern to the whole community, it
should provide an appropriate appearance, ample public parking, controlled
traffic movement and suitable landscaping.
   (b)   Permitted uses. Within the CTC Commercial Town Center District,
buildings or land shall be used only for the following purposes:
      (1)   Medical and dental services or clinics.
      (2)   Real estate, financial institutions, business and professional
offices.
      (3)   Post offices, fire stations, libraries, art galleries, museums,
churches, public and private schools, and other similar cultural, civic and
governmental buildings.
      (4)   Retail sales such as appliance stores, florist shops, bookstores,
clothing stores, sporting goods and equipment stores, jewelry stores, hardware
stores, grocery stores, drug stores, musical instruments, and video sales and
rentals, but not excluding other similar uses.
      (5)   Consumer services such as restaurants, dry cleaning stores, coin
laundries, tailoring shops, barber and beauty shops, indoor theaters, indoor
game rooms, and indoor exercise physical fitness facilities, but not excluding
other similar uses.
      (6)   Hotels, motels, and inns.
      (7)   Conference and meeting facilities.
      (8)   Existing (but not new) single-family dwellings.
      (9)   Multifamily dwellings located above the first floor of any
structure.
      (10)   Live-work units.
      (11)   Residential vacation rentals subject to special requirements
contained in section
36-72(1).
      (12)   Child care centers.
      (13)   Brewpubs, micro-breweries, micro-distilleries, micro-wineries, and
nano-breweries subject to special requirements contained in section
36-72(2).
      (14)   Telecommunications facilities and antennae (see section
36-72(4)).
   (c)   Outside display of merchandise. This section specifically excludes
outside display of merchandise for sale or open storage of vehicles, motorized
equipment, wrecked vehicles, inoperable vehicles, discarded tires, auto parts,
and machinery and construction equipment; boat storage facilities; businesses
which sell, rent, or display obscene materials as defined in this Code; tattoo
parlors; mobile homes; moveable storage facilities; and manufacturing employing
ten or more persons.
   (d)   Special use permit. The following uses require a special use permit
subject to a finding by the board of adjustment that all applicable provisions
of article IV of this chapter have been met:
      (1)   Accessory residential event venue. In issuing a special use permit
for an accessory residential event venue, the board of adjustment may impose
reasonable conditions, including a maximum number of events per year and a
maximum number of attendees which shall be based on the availability of
parking, safe ingress and egress, sanitary facilities, potential impacts to
adjacent properties and similar site-specific conditions.
      (2)   Primary event venue. In issuing a special use permit for a primary
event venue, the board of adjustment may impose reasonable conditions,
including a maximum number of events per year and a maximum number of attendees
which shall be based on the availability of parking, safe ingress and egress,
sanitary facilities, potential impacts to adjacent properties and similar site-
specific conditions.
      (3)   All new commercial buildings; new building additions with a gross
floor area of 1,000 square feet, or more, to an existing commercial building;
or any new addition to an existing commercial building where the building
facade length, as existing on December 2005, will be increased by more than 50
percent as a result of an addition or multiple additions.
      (4)   Distilleries, regional breweries, and wineries.
   (e)   Site requirements. All lots must have a minimum of 10,000 square feet.
   (f)   Front, rear, and side yard requirements.
      (1)   Front yards are not required.
      (2)   Side yards may be zero feet with approved firewalls or not less
than ten feet in depth, provided the side yard shall be 20 feet in depth where
adjacent to land zoned or, in fact, used for residential purposes.
      (3)   Rear yards shall be not less than 15 feet, provided the rear yard
shall be 20 feet in depth where adjacent to land zoned or, in fact, used for
residential purposes.
      (4)   Where the lot abuts upon property used for residential purposes, a
buffer strip shall be provided along the side and/or rear lot line of such
abutting residential use. If a fence or wall is used, such fence or wall shall
be opaque and not less than eight feet in height. If a planted buffer is used,
such buffer strip shall be not less than eight feet in width and shall be
composed of evergreen trees or shrubs which at planting will be at least four
feet high and at maturity will be not less eight feet high. This requirement
may be modified by the board of adjustment where sufficient natural buffering
exists.
   (g)   Ingress/egress. All uses in this district abutting U.S. Highway 64/74
shall be allowed only one means of ingress/egress to that highway for each 150
feet of frontage or fraction thereof. All ingress/egress openings, for both
one-way or two-way traffic, shall be a minimum of 15 feet wide and a maximum of
30 feet wide, measured at the road right-of-way line, unless otherwise required
by the state department of transportation.
   (h)   Landscaping. Landscaped traffic delineators are required adjacent to
all rights-of-way excepting to allow for entrances and exits. Delineators shall
begin at the edge of the right-of-way or six feet from the edge of the
pavement, whichever is greater, and shall extend a minimum of two feet toward
the front of the structure. The area shall be planted and maintained with
grass, flowers, and/or shrubs not high enough to obstruct a driver's view of
traffic.
   (i)   Frontage. All lots must have 50 feet of frontage on a street. For
purposes of this section, all sites that are double frontage lots or corner
lots shall be deemed to have frontage on all such streets. All fronts must
adhere to ingress/egress requirements.
   (j)   Parking.
      (1)   All parking and loading must be in compliance with sections
36-217 through
36-219, provided that public on-street and off-street parking spaces may be
counted to meet the number of spaces required so long as such spaces are
located within 900 feet, via pedestrian routing, from the entrance of the
property to be served; and further provided that the number of spaces required
shall be as follows:
 
Building                    Parking Spaces
Multiple-family dwellings   One space for each dwelling unit
Hotels, motels and the like One space for each accommodation
All other uses              One space for each 400 square feet of gross floor
                            area
 
      (2)   Public parking spaces may be used to meet the requirements of more
than one use at the same time.
   (k)   Building height. Notwithstanding the provisions of section
36-70 concerning building height, no structure shall exceed a height of 45 feet
as measured from the average finished grade at building foundation line.
(Code 1989, § 92.031B; Ord. of 2-9-1999; Ord. of 11-15-2005; Ord. of 3-10-2009;
Ord. of 6-14-2011; Ord. of 4-10- 2012; Ord. of 10-14-2014; Ord. of 2-12-2019;
Ord. No. 21-05-11, 5-11-2021)
Sec. 36-64. CG Commercial General District.
   (a)   Intent. The CG Commercial General District is established as districts
in which the principal use of land is for retail sales and services to the
consumer. The districts are intended to be located in high traffic areas along
major thoroughfares. Because these commercial districts are located on the
major thoroughfares of the town and are subject to the public view, which is a
matter of important concern to the whole community, they should provide an
appropriate appearance, ample parking, controlled traffic movement and suitable
landscaping.
   (b)   Permitted uses. Within the CG Commercial General District, buildings
or land shall be used only for the following purposes:
      (1)   Medical and dental services or clinics, animal hospitals, and
veterinary clinics.
      (2)   Real estate, financial institutions, and business and professional
offices, including, but not limited to, insurance broker, travel agent,
stockbroker, attorney, and physician.
      (3)   Post offices, fire stations, police station, rescue squad,
libraries, art galleries, museums, churches, public and private schools, public
utilities and support facilities, and other similar cultural, civic and
governmental buildings.
      (4)   Retail sales such as ABC stores, convenience stores (without
gasoline sales), feed and seed stores, pet supply stores, antique stores,
consignment shops, gift shops, outdoor vending machines, appliance stores,
florist shops, book stores, clothing stores, sporting goods and equipment
stores, jewelry stores, hardware stores (provided open storage of supplies is
screened from public view), grocery stores, drug stores, musical instrument
sales, and video sales and rentals, but not excluding other similar uses.
      (5)   Consumer services such as banks, funeral homes, personal care
services (nails, tanning, weight loss), restaurants, dry cleaning stores, coin
laundries, tailoring shops, barber and beauty shops, indoor theaters, indoor
game rooms, pet grooming establishments, taxidermy operations, bowling alleys,
and health and indoor exercise physical fitness facilities, but not excluding
other similar uses.
      (6)   Hotels, motels, lodges, inns, and bed and breakfast establishments.
      (7)   Single-family and multifamily dwellings.
      (8)   Live-work units.
      (9)   Residential vacation rentals subject to special requirements
contained in section
36-72(1).
      (10)   Child care centers.
      (11)   Brewpubs, micro-breweries, micro-distilleries, micro-wineries, and
nano-breweries subject to special requirements contained in section
36-72(2).
      (12)   Customary accessory buildings incidental to single-family and
multifamily residential buildings, including noncommercial greenhouses,
workshops, and private garages.
      (13)   Temporary structure used in conjunction with the construction of a
permanent building.
      (14)   Telecommunications facilities and antennae (see section
36-72(4)).
   (c)   [Out-of-building display.] This section specifically prohibits out-of-
building display of merchandise for sale, rent and unscreened open storage of
vehicles, motorized equipment, boat storage facilities, construction equipment
and supplies. Wrecked vehicles, inoperable vehicles, discarded tires or auto
parts, and inoperable machinery are prohibited; businesses which sell, rent, or
display obscene materials as defined in this Code are excluded from this
district, in addition to tattoo parlors; mobile homes; moveable storage
facilities; and manufacturing employing ten or more persons. Notwithstanding
the above, one rental boat per commercial property is allowed to be displayed
out of the building as an accessory use.
   (d)   Special use permit. The following uses require a special use permit
subject to a finding by the board of adjustment that all applicable provisions
of article IV of this chapter have been met:
      (1)   Gasoline service or filling stations, including accessory auto
repair in completely enclosed buildings.
      (2)   Produce stands.
      (3)   Automobile and/or boat sales lots for the retail sale of new and
used automobiles and/or boats, but excluding wholesale sales lots of any
description and vehicle fix-up shops.
      (4)   Outdoor recreational facilities, excluding campgrounds.
      (5)   Planned unit developments.
      (6)   All telecommunications tower requirements listed in section
36-72(4).
      (7)   Marinas.
      (8)   Adult entertainment establishments, provided no such use shall be
located on property which lies within:
         a.   1,000 feet, as directly measured, of any property on which there
is any other adult entertainment establishment.
         b.   1,000 feet, as directly measured, of any property used as a
school or place of worship.
         c.   400 feet, as directly measured, of any property zoned for
residential purposes.
      (9)   Marine sales and service facilities, provided any portion of such
facilities which are not fully enclosed shall be separated from any adjacent
land by a solid fence or wall not less than six feet high or an opaque
landscaped buffer not less than six high and ten feet in width. Portions of
such facilities used for the repair of boats and motors shall be located not
less than 50 feet from any adjacent land zoned or used for residential
purposes.
      (10)   Accessory residential event venue. In issuing a special use permit
for an accessory residential event venue, the board of adjustment may impose
reasonable conditions, including a maximum number of events per year and a
maximum number of attendees which shall be based on the availability of
parking, safe ingress and egress, sanitary facilities, potential impacts to
adjacent properties and similar site-specific conditions.
      (11)   Primary event venue. In issuing a special use permit for a primary
event venue, the board of adjustment may impose reasonable conditions,
including a maximum number of events per year and a maximum number of attendees
which shall be based on the availability of parking, safe ingress and egress,
sanitary facilities, potential impacts to adjacent properties and similar site-
specific conditions.
      (12)   All new commercial buildings; new building additions with a gross
floor area of 1,000 square feet, or more, to an existing commercial building;
or any new addition to an existing commercial building where the building
facade length, as existing on December 2005, will be increased by more than 50
percent as a result of an addition or multiple additions.
      (13)   Common amenities for residential developments, provided that they
are situated within the residential development so as not to adversely impact
existing and/or reasonably foreseeable uses on adjoining properties. Such
amenities shall be set back a minimum of 30 feet from such adjoining properties
and a minimum of 60 feet from Lake Lure. Buffering may be utilized to ensure
compatibility with adjoining uses.
      (14)   Distilleries, regional breweries, and wineries.
      (15)   Campgrounds.
      (16)   Carwashes.
      (17)   Pet boarding operations.
   (e)   Site requirements. All sites must have a minimum of 21,780 square
feet.
   (f)   Front, rear, and side yard requirements.
      (1)   For lots which abut the street, the building setback shall be not
less than ten feet from the street.
      (2)   For lots which abut the lake, the building setback shall be not
less than 35 feet from the lake shoreline, provided that buildings for marinas
shall be set back not less than ten feet from the lake shoreline.
      (3)   Side yards shall be not less than 12 feet in depth.
      (4)   Rear yards shall be not less than 15 feet.
      (5)   Where the lot abuts upon property used for residential purposes, a
buffer strip shall be provided along the side and/or rear lot line of such
abutting residential use. If a fence or wall is used, such fence or wall shall
be opaque and not less than eight feet in height. If a planted buffer is used,
such buffer strip shall be not less than eight feet in width and shall be
composed of evergreen trees or shrubs which at planting will be at least four
feet high and at maturity will be not less eight feet high. This requirement
may be modified by the board of adjustment where sufficient natural buffering
exists.
   (g)   Ingress/egress. All uses in this district abutting the major
thoroughfares, being U.S. Highway 64/74, N.C. Highway 9, or Buffalo Creek Road,
shall have access only from such thoroughfares and shall be allowed only one
means of ingress/egress for each 150 feet of frontage or fraction thereof. All
ingress/egress openings, for both one-way or two-way traffic, shall be a
minimum of 15 feet wide and a maximum of 30 feet wide, measured at the road
right-of-way line, unless otherwise required by the state department of
transportation.
   (h)   Landscaping. Landscaped traffic delineators are required within the
front yard of the commercial site extending the full width of the front yard
excepting to allow for entrances and exits. Delineators shall begin at the edge
of the right-of-way or six feet from the edge of the pavement, whichever is
greater, and shall extend a minimum of two feet toward the front of the
structure. The area shall be planted and maintained with grass, flowers, and/or
shrubs not high enough to obstruct a driver's view of traffic.
   (i)   Frontage. All lots must have 100 feet of frontage on a street. Lots
which abut the lake must have 100 feet of frontage on the lake. For purposes of
this section, all sites that are double frontage lots or corner lots shall be
deemed to have frontage on all such streets. All fronts must adhere to ingress/
egress requirements.
   (j)   Parking. All parking and loading must be in compliance with sections
36-217 through
36-219.
(Code 1989, § 92.031C; Ord. of 2-9-1999; Ord. of 4-13-1999; Ord. of 1-9-2001;
Ord. of 11-15-2005; Ord. of 1-8- 2008; Ord. of 3-10-2009; Ord. of 4-13-2010;
Ord. of 6-14-2011; Ord. of 4-10-2012; Ord. of 10-14-2014; Ord. of 7-14- 2015;
Ord. of 6-12-2018; Ord. of 2-12-2019; Ord. No. 21-05-11, 5-11-2021)
Sec. 36-65. CSC Commercial Shopping Center District.
   (a)   Intent. The CSC Commercial Shopping Center District is intended to
encourage the development of planned commercial facilities with depth rather
than strip type commercial development. Commercial activities that have an
adverse effect on adjacent or adjoining properties, or on shopping centers
themselves, are prohibited. Rezoning of additional lands to commercial shopping
center classification requires a showing of public and economic need for the
establishment of new commercial areas outside existing commercial areas. It is
further intended that the district shall be used for the purpose of providing a
variety of goods and services and not used for single purpose activities.
   (b)   Permitted uses. Within the CSC Commercial Shopping Center District,
buildings or lands shall be used only for the following purposes:
      (1)   Retail outlets for sale of food, wearing apparel, home furnishings
and appliances, office equipment, hardware, toys, gift sundries and notions,
flowers, books and stationery, leather goods and luggage, jewelry, art,
cameras, photographic supplies, sporting goods, musical instruments, pets,
garden supplies, pharmaceuticals, and similar products in completely enclosed
buildings.
      (2)   Service establishments such as barbershops or beauty shops, shoe
repair shops, watch repair shops, computer repair shops, radio or television
repair shops, newspaper offices, restaurants, delicatessens, interior decorator
stores, photographic studios, dance studios, music studios, art studios,
laundry or dry cleaner establishments, tailor or dressmakers, radio or
television stations, gymnasiums, indoor motion picture theaters, bowling
alleys, banks and financial institutions, and similar retail service
establishments.
      (3)   Professional and business offices, including those of physicians,
dentists, accountants, attorneys, engineers, architects, contractors, land
surveyors, real estate brokers, insurance agents, and travel agents.
      (4)   Automotive service stations, service centers, and automotive
convenience centers (including facilities for the provision of gasoline, oil,
and other products for the servicing of automobiles) as an accessory use to the
commercial shopping center provided:
         a.   No access for the service station or center shall be directly
from any public street, but shall be from within the shopping center;
         b.   The location within the shopping center shall be such as to
prevent interference with pedestrian traffic;
         c.   No openings for service bays shall face public streets or
adjacent residential property;
         d.   The architectural definition shall be the same as the principal
building within the commercial shopping center;
         e.   All major repair work, if any, shall be conducted within a
completely enclosed building;
         f.   Open storage of wrecked or inoperable automobiles, discarded
tires, auto parts or similar materials shall not be permitted;
         g.   Gasoline pumps and other appliances shall be at least 40 feet
from any street centerline.
      (5)   Brewpubs, distilleries, micro-breweries, micro-distilleries, micro-
wineries, nano-breweries, regional breweries, and wineries subject to special
requirements contained in section
36-72(2).
      (6)   Telecommunications facilities and antennae (see section
36-72(4)).
   (c)   Special use permit. The following uses require special use permits
subject to a finding by the board of adjustment that all applicable provisions
of article IV of this chapter have been met:
      (1)   Garden centers other than in completely enclosed buildings.
      (2)   Primary event venue. In issuing a special use permit for a primary
event venue, the board of adjustment may impose reasonable conditions,
including a maximum number of events per year and a maximum number of attendees
which shall be based on the availability of parking, safe ingress and egress,
sanitary facilities, potential impacts to adjacent properties and similar site-
specific conditions.
   (d)   Site requirements. All commercial shopping centers shall be located on
a single tract of not less than ten acres abutting either an arterial street
and/or a collector street as defined in
chapter 28.
   (e)   Setback requirements.
      (1)   The building setback from the centerline of any arterial street or
collector street shall be equal to the maximum height of the building, but no
closer than 65 feet from the centerline of any arterial street, and no closer
than 60 feet from the centerline of any collector street.
      (2)   The building setback from adjoining property lines to the buildings
(i.e., those sides not abutting the street) shall be not less than 35 feet.
   (f)   Maximum height of structures. No portion of the principal building in
the commercial shopping center shall exceed 35 feet, except that, for each
linear foot of front building facade greater than 250 feet, the height may
increase by one foot, up to a maximum total height of 45 feet. No portion of
any other structure shall be greater than 35 feet.
   (g)   Ingress/egress. All commercial shopping centers in this district must
provide access from an arterial street or collector street. Further, any
commercial shopping center located at the intersection of an arterial street
and a collector street may have ingress and egress from each of the arterial
and collector streets it abuts, not to exceed one entrance per street, except
that, one additional access may be permitted from either the arterial street or
the collector street if used as a service entrance for the commercial shopping
center. In any event, the maximum number of entrances shall not exceed three.
And further, no lot in this district shall be accessed from a minor street as
defined in chapter 28.
   (h)   Plan review. All applications for commercial shopping center (CSC)
developments within the CSC district shall submit a detailed site and
development plan in accordance with section
36-103 to the zoning administrator to initiate administrative review. The town
manager shall set forth the staff review process for administrative review.
Within 30 days of the submittal of all required site and development plans to
the zoning administrator, the zoning and planning board shall make a
recommendation to the town council for approval or denial of the proposed CSC
development. Within 30 days of the recommendation by the zoning and planning
board, the town council shall, at a public meeting, approve the proposed CSC
development if a simple majority of the council finds the following to be true:
      (1)   The commercial shopping center will not materially endanger the
public health or safety if located where proposed and developed according to
the plans as submitted;
      (2)   The commercial shopping center meets the required conditions and
specifications in the town's regulations;
      (3)   The commercial shopping center will not substantially injure the
value of adjoining or abutting property;
      (4)   The location and character of the commercial shopping center, as
developed according to the plans submitted, will be in harmony with the area in
which it is to be located; and
      (5)   The commercial shopping center, if developed in accordance with the
plans and specifications submitted, will serve an economic need of the
community.
(Code 1989, § 92.031D; Ord. of 4-10-2012; Ord. of 10-14-2014; Ord. of 2-12-
2019; Ord. No. 21-05-11, 5-11-2021)
Sec. 36-66. L-1 Lake District.
   The L-1 Lake District is established as a district for recreational
purposes. The construction and use of all structures on the lake are not
governed by this chapter, but rather by the town policy entitled "A policy
regulating the construction and use of structures on Lake Lure," as amended.
(Code 1989, § 92.032; Ord. of 1-22-1991)
Sec. 36-67. M-1 Reserved Mountainous District.
   (a)   Intent. The M-1 Reserved Mountainous District is established as a
district in which the principal use of land is for natural, undeveloped
purposes. The land within this district is topographically restrictive for any
type of land clearing, land disturbance and/or development. It is the intention
to discourage any use which would be detrimental to the natural, open nature of
the areas included within this district.
   (b)   Permitted uses. [Within the M-1 Reserved Mountainous District,
buildings or land shall be used only for the following purposes:]
      (1)   Single-family dwellings.
      (2)   Customary accessory buildings, including private garages, storage
buildings, and noncommercial workshops, shall be allowed for home occupations
subject to all provisions of section
36-232.
      (3)   Residential vacation rentals subject to special requirements
contained in section
36-72(1).
      (4)   Telecommunications facilities and antennae (see section
36-72(4)).
   (c)   Special use permit. [The following uses require special use permits
subject to a finding by the board of adjustment that all applicable provisions
of article IV of this chapter have been met:]
      (1)   [Repealed by Ordinance 19-02-12.]
      (2)   Accessory residential event venue. In issuing a special use permit
for an accessory residential event venue, the board of adjustment may impose
reasonable conditions, including a maximum number of events per year and a
maximum number of attendees which shall be based on the availability of
parking, safe ingress and egress, sanitary facilities, potential impacts to
adjacent properties and similar site-specific conditions.
(Code 1989, § 92.033; Ord. of 5-11-2004; Ord. of 6-10-2008; Ord. of 10-13-2009;
Ord. of 4-10-2012; Ord. of 2-12- 2019; Ord. No. 21-05-11, 5-11-2021)
Sec. 36-68. S-1 Scenic Natural Attraction District.
   (a)   Intent. The S-1 Scenic Natural Attraction District is established as a
district within which unique natural scenic areas are developed for commercial
recreational purposes. The district is intended to encourage development of
facilities and services oriented towards scenic and outdoor recreational
activities, while remaining compatible with adjacent residential areas. Any
land clearing, land disturbance and/or development or use which would be
detrimental to the natural and ecological beauty of the district is prohibited.
   (b)   Permitted uses. Within the S-1 Scenic Natural Attraction District,
structures and land shall be used only for the following purposes:
      (1)   Single-family dwellings, excluding mobile homes.
      (2)   Commercial recreational facilities which may include hiking trails,
nature and wildlife exhibits, picnic facilities, and the like. Support
activities such as ticket sales, information services, gift and craft shops,
food services, pavilions, parking areas and the like are also permitted where
accessory to the primary uses.
      (3)   Utility systems and facilities, including wells, pumping stations,
storage tanks, garages, noncommercial workshops, and the like, as accessory to
the primary uses, provided:
         a.   All buildings and parking areas for such uses shall be set back
not less than 35 feet from any property line.
         b.   Fences and/or other appropriate safety devices are installed to
protect the public.
         c.   All structures are in keeping with the character of the
attraction and any adjacent residential area.
         d.   Any adjacent residential area and/or public and private rights-
of-way shall be buffered from all such facilities by existing or planted
natural vegetated areas to the extent that the utility facilities are screened
from view.
      (4)   Customary accessory buildings, including private garages, storage
buildings, and noncommercial workshops, shall be allowed for home occupations
subject to all provisions of section
36-232.
      (5)   Residential vacation rentals subject to special requirements
contained in section
36-72(1).
      (6)   Telecommunications facilities and antennae (see section
36-72(4)).
   (c)   Special use permit. The following uses require a special use permit
subject to a finding by the board of adjustment that all applicable provisions
of article IV of this chapter have been met:
      (1)   Planned unit developments.
      (2)   Hotels, lodges, motels, boardinghouses, roominghouses, or private
clubs to provide lodging, services and board for the general public.
      (3)   Telecommunication towers, subject to the requirements of section
36-72(4).
      (4)   Accessory residential event venue. In issuing a special use permit
for an accessory residential event venue, the board of adjustment may impose
reasonable conditions, including a maximum number of events per year and a
maximum number of attendees which shall be based on the availability of
parking, safe ingress and egress, sanitary facilities, potential impacts to
adjacent properties and similar site-specific conditions.
      (5)   Primary event venue. In issuing a special use permit for a primary
event venue, the board of adjustment may impose reasonable conditions,
including a maximum number of events per year and a maximum number of attendees
which shall be based on the availability of parking, safe ingress and egress,
sanitary facilities, potential impacts to adjacent properties and similar site-
specific conditions.
(Code 1989, § 92.034; Ord. of 8-18-1998; Ord. of 5-11-2004; Ord. of 6-10-2008;
Ord. of 4-10-2012; Ord. of 2-12- 2019; Ord. No. 21-05-11, 5-11-2021)
Sec. 36-69. GU Governmental Institutional Use District.
   (a)   Intent. The GU Governmental Institutional Use District is intended to
apply to those lands to which national, state, county or municipal governments
or institutions hold title and where public, educational, or charitable
facilities are used for public purpose. Any lawful governmental activity is
permitted in these districts. It is not intended to classify all lands owned by
governments or institutions into this district, but only those lands
particularly and peculiarly related to public usage.
   (b)   Permitted uses. Within the GU Governmental Institutional Use District,
buildings and land shall be used only for the following purposes:
      (1)   Indoor and outdoor recreation facilities such as, but not limited
to, parks, playgrounds, gyms, ball fields, trail networks, and other recreation
areas.
      (2)   Government administrative, meeting, and support facilities.
      (3)   Facilities such as daycares, public or private schools, colleges,
hospitals and libraries and their respective accessory uses and support
facilities.
      (4)   Other public facilities of a like nature.
      (5)   Those uses designated on a master plan adopted by town council for
any publicly owned property.
   (c)   Development criteria. As determined by town council in compliance with
all town regulations.
(Code 1989, § 92.039; Ord. of 6-10-2008)
Sec. 36-70. Building site minimum dimensional requirements.
                                     Setbacks(g)
                         Lot Width                                   Rear Yard
Zoning         Lot Area  at Building Front Yard Side Yard Rear Yard  Open Space
Classification (a)(g)    Site (b)(g) *                    (d)        Percent of
                                                                     Lot (e)
                                   Setbacks(g)
                         Lot Width                                   Rear Yard
Zoning         Lot Area  at        Front Yard             Rear Yard  Open Space
Classification (a)(g)    Building  *          Side Yard   (d)        Percent of
                         Site (b)                                    Lot (e)
                         (g)
R-1            10,000    100 ft.   (c)        10 ft.      10 ft.     30%
               s.f.
R-1A           2 acres   100 ft.   (c)        10 ft.      10 ft.     30%
R-1B           1 acre    100 ft.   (c)        10 ft.      10 ft.     30%
R-1D           0.5 acre  100 ft.   (c)        10 ft.      10 ft.     30%
R-1C           0.5 acre  60 ft.    (c)        10 ft.      10 ft.     20%
R-2/R-3
 Single-family 14,000    60 ft.    (c)        7 ft.       10 ft.     20%
               s.f.
 Two-family    18,000    70 ft.    (c)        8 ft.       10 ft.     20%
               s.f.
 Three-family  24,000    85 ft.    (c)        10 ft.      10 ft.     20%
               s.f.
 Four-family   29,000    100 ft.   (c)        10 ft.      10 ft.     25%
               s.f.
R-4 (f)        10,000              (c)        10 ft.      10 ft.
               s.f.
CN             10,890    50 ft.    10 ft. (c) 10 ft.      15 ft.     none
               s.f.
CTC            10,000    50 ft.    0 ft. (c)  0 ft. or 10 15 ft.     none
               s.f.                           ft.
CG             21,780    100 ft.   10 ft. (c) 12 ft.      15 ft.     none
               s.f.
M-1            2 acres   100 ft.   (c)        12 ft.      15 ft.     none
S-1            25 acres  100       35 (c)     35          35         none
 
   Maximum building height in any district shall be not more than 35 feet as
measured from the average finished grade at building foundation line. The
average finished grade is determined by adding the elevation of the highest
corner of the proposed structure to the elevation of the lowest corner of the
proposed structure and divide by two.
   *See definition of "setback" for streets with no right-of-way in section 36-
5.
   (a)   Plus 2,000 square feet of lot area for each additional dwelling unit
in excess of four.
   (b)   The lot width at the building site minimum dimensional requirements
shall not apply to existing lots of record as of the effective date of the
ordinance from which this chapter is derived. For any residential lot, lot
width at street line shall be not less than 35 feet. For any commercial lot,
lot width at street line shall be not less than 100 feet. Lot width at street
line for the R-4 district shall be not less than 50 feet. Any lot abutting Lake
Lure shall have a frontage along the lake of not less than 100 feet.
   (c)   For primary streets, the front yard setback shall be 40 feet from the
centerline, but not closer than ten feet from any right-of-way line where such
line exists. For secondary streets, the front yard setback shall be 35 feet
from the centerline, but not closer than ten feet from any right-of-way line
where such line exists. In all commercial districts, setbacks shall be measured
from the right-of-way line, or where no right-of-way exists, from a point 15
feet from the centerline of the street. In most situations, the front yard lies
between the building and the street. However, for lots which abut a lake, the
lake side is also considered a front yard. In any zoning district, minimum
setback from the lake is 35 feet measured from the shoreline.
   (d)   From the rear property line to the nearest building on that lot.
   (e)   Excluding any space occupied by an accessory building which may be
located between principal building and rear lot line.
   (f)   Maximum building size for office: 3,000 square feet (heated area).
   (g)   The minimum lot area, lot width and yard requirements may be reduced
in an approved conservation design subdivision provided that the zoning and
planning board approves such reduction in accordance with section
28-77(3)c. The reduced setbacks shall be clearly stated on the final plat. If
the reduced setbacks are not stated on the final plat, the standard setbacks
noted in this section shall apply.
(Code 1989, § 92.040; Ord. of 1-25-1994; Ord. of 12-12-1995; Ord. of 11-26-
1996; Ord. of 2-9-1999; Ord. of 4-10- 2007; Ord. of 8-12-2008; Ord. of 2-8-
2011; Ord. of 12-9-2014; Ord. of 3-10-2015)
Sec. 36-71. Protected mountain ridge overlay zones.
   (a)   Intent. Mountain ridges provide a key sense of place and are a key
economic asset for the people of the town. Certain mountain ridges, by virtue
of their topography, are particularly visible, and, thus, have greater
potential to impact the values listed above. Protected Mountain Ridge Overlay
Zones are intended to protect viewsheds associated with prominent mountain
ridges from development activities which are likely to adversely impact these
assets.
   (b)   Applicability. There are hereby created the Protected Mountain Ridge
Overlay Zones as depicted on the map entitled "Protected Mountain Ridge Overlay
Zone Map," which is attached to the ordinance from which this section is
derived and which is hereby adopted as if fully set forth in this chapter. Said
map shall be attached to the town clerk's copy of this chapter upon adoption
and shall be duly incorporated into the zoning map of the town. In addition to
complying with all applicable standards of the underlying zoning district,
development on lands situated within such overlay zones shall also comply with
the standards contained in this section.
   (c)   Building location. To the extent practicable, each building shall be
located so as to minimize its visual impact.
   (d)   Partial screening. A portion of natural on-site vegetation shall be
retained sufficient to partially screen (along 50 percent of the building face,
or that achieves 50 percent opacity or more along the building face) the
building, structure, use, or activity from views from public roads not serving
the building, or landscaping shall be installed and designed to partially
screen the building, structure, use, or activity from views from public roads,
or other measures have been included in the project and approved by the
director to reduce the visual impacts of such development from views from
public roads. View corridors from the proposed building to surrounding areas
may be provided, but such corridors shall not extend for more than 50 percent
of the width of building face between the view sought and the building face
from which the view is sought.
   (e)   Tree protection. Trees which are part of the tree canopy or required
screening shall not be removed unless they constitute a danger to person or
property and only with written authorization of the tree protection officer.
   (f)   Roofs. Roof forms and rooflines for new structures shall be broken
into a series of smaller building components to reflect the irregular forms of
the surrounding mountain or hillside. The slope of the roof shall be oriented
in the same direction as the natural slope of the lot. Only nonreflective
roofing materials shall be used.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c141ac2780daea4288dd157975992950c90da25b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1306.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c141ac2780daea4288dd157975992950c90da25b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1308.png]
 
   Roof Forms and Roof Lines
(Code 1989, § 92.041; Ord. of 11-18-2008; Ord. of 3-10-2009; Ord. of 10-9-2012;
Ord. of 12-9-2014; Ord. of 3-16- 2015)
Sec. 36-72. Special requirements for certain uses.
   The special requirements contained in this article apply to the named uses
whenever they are identified as special uses or as permitted uses subject to
special requirements. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter,
whenever these regulations provide that a use in a nonresidential zone or a
nonconforming use in a residential zone is permissible with a zoning permit, a
special use permit (see section 36-102) shall nevertheless be required if the
administrator finds that the proposed use would have an extraordinary impact on
neighboring properties or the general public. In making this determination, the
administrator shall consider, among other factors, whether the use is proposed
for an undeveloped or previously developed lot, whether the proposed use
constitutes a change from one principal use classification to another, whether
the use is proposed for a site that poses peculiar traffic or other hazards or
difficulties, and whether the proposed use is substantially unique or is likely
to have impacts that differ substantially from those presented by other uses
that are permissible in the zoning district in question.
      (1)   Residential vacation rentals. Residential vacation rentals are
hereby recognized as a use within the planning jurisdiction of the town. Except
as provided herein, on and after January 1, 2010, it shall be a violation of
these zoning regulations to operate a residential vacation rental without a
vacation rental operating permit from the town.
         a.   Exceptions. The following activities and/or uses shall not be
deemed residential vacation rentals and the requirements of this subsection
shall not apply to them:
            1.   Incidental residential vacation rentals, defined to mean no
more than two such rentals in any calendar year where the total annual rental
period for both rentals does not exceed two weeks.
            2.   Rentals of property in any hotel, lodge, motel, bed and
breakfast establishment, boardinghouse or roominghouse, with a valid
certificate of zoning compliance. For purposes of this regulation, the term
does not include multifamily dwellings nor does it apply to duplexes other than
those situated within the R-1, R-1A, R-1B, R- 1C, R-1D, R-2 and M-1 zoning
districts.
         b.   Vacation rental operating permits. Every residential vacation
rental not excepted as in subsection (1)a of this section shall require a
vacation rental operating permit issued pursuant to the regulations contained
herein. The vacation rental operating permit may also function as a certificate
of zoning compliance for a residential vacation rental. Any vacation rental
operating permit issued prior to February 28, 2012, is recognized as having a
vested status to operate under this chapter as amended on February 28, 2012.
Additionally, anyone that can establish via tourism and development authority
tax records or other suitable proof that they were engaged in vacation rental
activity at their home prior to January 1, 2010, would also have vested status.
Any future revisions and amendments to this chapter shall not apply to those
vested residences. This status is transferable; although, a new vacation rental
operating permit must be obtained in the name of the new owner. This status is
forfeited if there is no vacation rental activity at the home for a period of
five years.
            1.   Application. In order to obtain a vacation rental operating
permit the owner or the operator shall submit an application for each such
residential vacation rental which complies with the requirements of the town's
zoning regulations and the additional requirements as found in subsection (1)c
of this section and shall pay all applicable fees in accordance with the town's
adopted fee schedule.
            2.   Procedure. From and after the effective date of the ordinance
from which this chapter is derived, applications for a residential vacation
rental use shall submit an application for a vacation rental operating permit,
to be processed as a certificate of zoning compliance application with all
additional supporting documentation as per subsection (1)c of this section.
         c.   Contents of application. The application for a vacation rental
operating permit shall contain the following information:
            1.   The address of the property.
            2.   Name and contact information for the owner of the property.
            3.   Name and contact information for the operator if other than
the owner.
            4.   A site plan showing the off-street parking area for the
property. One parking space for every two rental bedrooms shall be required.
Parking areas shall not encroach into any road right-of-way or neighboring
private properties.
            5.   The number of bedrooms on the property intended to be used for
occupancy.
            6.   A copy of the county revenue department property information
card for the subject property.
            7.   If the property is served by the town's sewer system, a
certificate from a qualified licensed professional that the connection to the
town's system is operational and free of detectable leaks.
            8.   If the residential vacation rental includes the use of a boat
on Lake Lure, proof of a valid town commercial boat license.
            9.   Proof that the property is registered with the county tourism
development authority.
            10.   A copy of the standard rental agreement used for the
residential vacation rental which contains information required by this
section.
            11.   An acknowledgment that the applicant is aware of the
occupancy restrictions on the use of the property as a residential vacation
rental and the applicant's agreement to abide thereby.
            12.   A statement by the operator, under oath, that the information
in the application is correct.
         d.   Inspections. In conjunction with an application for a vacation
rental operating permit, the town shall conduct an initial inspection to
confirm compliance with the requirements of this section.
         e.   Operational requirements. The following operational requirements
shall apply to all residential vacation rentals:
            1.   Occupancy limits. On those occasions when the property is
being utilized for vacation rental activity, the overnight occupancy shall not
exceed two persons per bedroom plus four additional persons. For any permits
issued subsequent to February 28, 2012, occupancy shall be the lesser of the
total determined by the foregoing formula or 12 persons. Bedrooms used in
calculating occupancy limits shall be taken from the application as affirmed by
the owner/manager and shall be the same as the number of bedrooms as listed on
the county revenue department's property information card to also assure the
sufficiency of the wastewater system on site.
            2.   Signs. In the R-1, R-1A, R-1B, R-1C, R-1D and M-1 zoning
districts, residential vacation rental properties shall not have any signs
visible from the exterior of the premises which advertise the use of the
property as a residential vacation rental, other than as required by this
section. In the remaining zoning districts, residential vacation rental
properties may have signage as authorized by article X of this chapter.
            3.   Display of contact information. Residential vacation rental
operators shall prominently display on the exterior of the residential vacation
rental property the name and 24-hour per day, 365 days-per-year telephone
number for the residential vacation rental operator who will take and resolve
complaints regarding operation of the residential vacation rental property and
its occupants and guests. The town will prescribe the form of this display
which shall also include a telephone number to report violations of this
section to the zoning administrator.
            4.   Parking. Occupants or guests of any residential vacation
rental property shall not park vehicles on the property other than within
parking areas designated on the application for the residential vacation
rental. Vehicles parked in undesignated areas, or in the street so as to
violate the town's street ordinances, shall be subject to towing at the vehicle
owner's expense.
            5.   Trash disposal. Household trash must be bagged and disposed of
in trash receptacles. Trash receptacles shall be the size and number authorized
by existing refuse contracts and shall be animal resistant.
         f.   Contract addendum. Every residential vacation rental contract
shall contain an addendum, in a form prepared by the town, setting forth the
requirements of this section and other applicable provisions of law. The
operator shall obtain a signed acknowledgment from the renter that they have
received such addendum prior to delivering possession of the residential
vacation rental property. This requirement shall be deemed satisfied if the
provisions of the addendum are included as part of the rental contract.
         g.   Duties of the operator to respond to complaints. To assure prompt
response to complaints and issues concerning a residential vacation rental, the
operator shall comply with the following:
            1.   Maintain a call center that is staffed by a live person and
fully responsive at any time that the property is used as a residential
vacation rental.
            2.   Continuously maintain on file with the town the operator's
current address, telephone number, and facsimile number and/or email address.
         h.   Noncompliance with vacation rental operating permit/residential
vacation rental regulations. Failure to comply with the standards and
regulations as found in this section shall be enforced by the remedies and
penalties as provided in chapter 1 and this chapter.
         i.   Notification to contiguous property owners of the issuance of a
vacation rental operating permit. Upon issuance of the permit, the zoning
official shall, by first-class U.S. Mail, notify all contiguous property owners
of the decision to allow the use of the property as a residential vacation
rental.
      (2)   Breweries, distilleries and wineries. An applicant seeking
authorization to develop and/or operate a brewery, brewpub, distillery, micro-
brewery, micro-distillery, micro-winery, nano-brewery or winery shall obtain a
sewer use permit for the facility prior to issuance of such authorization,
whether it be a certificate of zoning compliance or a special use permit.
      (3)   Campgrounds. Campgrounds shall comply with the general standards
and procedures for special uses contained in section
36-101 as well as the specific standards and procedures contained herein.
         a.   Campground standards for all campgrounds. The following standards
shall apply to all campgrounds containing two or more campsites or camp lots,
including sites for tents, accommodations for backpackers and recreational
vehicles (RVs):
            1.   Size. All proposed campgrounds shall be a minimum of three
acres in size.
            2.   Certificate of compliance required. Any proposed campground
shall not be allowed to open until such campground has met all planning and
building requirements of this chapter for the town and the state.
            3.   Fire prevention and protection. The application for a special
use permit shall include a plan for fire prevention and protection to be
reviewed by the fire [chief]. The applicant shall be provided with a copy of
the fire [chief's] comments and recommendations and shall address those at the
hearing on the special use permit application.
            4.   Other permanent structures. Permanent structures other than
camp platforms and recreational support and sanitary facilities shall be
prohibited unless the developer or owner can demonstrate the necessity or
desirability for such a structure. Structures commonly deemed necessary or
desirable include a gatehouse, office, laundry area, video/amusement area,
common area shelters, picnic table shelters for campsites, and camping cabins.
            5.   Storage of RVs. Storage of all types of recreational vehicles
within campgrounds shall be limited to no more than one stored RV per ten RV
sites. Such storage area shall be buffered and screened, preferably by
vegetation, from the campground or outside areas.
            6.   Number of days permitted to camp. With the exception of
campers who work for the campground, camping shall be restricted to a period of
no more than 90 consecutive days within any one-year period. Tent camping shall
be limited to a period of 30 consecutive days within a 60-day period.
            7.   Access to water for all campsites/RV utility islands. Each
campground shall have reasonable access to a source of potable water approved
by the applicable health authority and building codes.
            8.   Road circulation pattern. The road circulation pattern should
be a one-way paved or gravel reinforced system attached to a main two-way
circular thoroughfare. If a loop system is used, it shall contain a pull-
through site arrangement or back-in site ranging from a 45- to a 90-degree
angle. Parking on all access roads to the entire campground area shall be
prohibited. A turning radius for all emergency vehicles shall be required as
approved by the fire department. The turning radius in loops and turns shall
not be less than those required by the fire department, including those for
parking spurs at individual RV sites.
               (i)   Road width/slope in campground. Road widths on the one-way
loop shall be at least 15 feet wide. Double lane roads shall have a minimum
width of 20 feet. The circulation system shall parallel existing contours as
closely as possible, and shall not exceed a 16-percent slope.
               (ii)   Land disturbance. A soil and erosion sedimentation plan
shall be filed and approved by the town prior to any construction.
            9.   Campfires shall be contained and controlled. Campfires are
permitted only within fire rings, which shall not be placed within ten feet of
a bottled gas container or other combustible source of fuel. The campground
management shall require that no open fire is left unattended.
            10.   Refuse disposal. All campgrounds shall provide fly-proof,
watertight containers for the disposal of refuse. These containers shall also
be constructed and located such that they are not subject to rodent infestation
or dog and bear invasion. Containers shall be provided in sufficient number and
capacity to properly store all refuse. Refuse for camping areas shall be
collected at least once a day.
            11.   Overflow parking area. All campsites shall be limited to a
total of one non-RV parking space. An additional area for parking of such
vehicles shall be provided equal to one parking place for every ten campsites.
Such parking area can be surfaced with gravel. At no time shall parking be
permitted on access roads to the campground.
            12.   Insect control. Owners of such parks shall be responsible for
adequate insect control in the camping area, such as the periodic spraying for
mosquitoes.
            13.   Lighting. Cut-off, overnight lighting for all bathhouses and
centralized water sources shall be required. Reflectors denoting paths to
above-mentioned structures are recommended. Other minimal lighting should be
installed as needed for the safety and comfort of campground residents.
            14.   Floodplains. Campgrounds proposed to be developed in whole or
in part in floodplains shall demonstrate compliance with the flood damage
prevention regulations contained in
chapter 14.
            15.   Emergency evacuation. The application for a special use
permit shall contain an emergency evacuation plan which is adequate to protect
the safety of those utilizing the campground.
         b.   Campsites for accommodation of independent RVs.
            1.   Electricity hook up prohibited. RVs shall not be permitted to
hook up to electricity or water for occupation on individual camp lots unless
as part of an approved campground.
            2.   Density of sites. To prevent intensive site use, and to
maintain an aesthetic camping atmosphere, density shall not exceed 15 sites per
acre.
            3.   RV parking sites material/slope. Each recreational vehicle
site with individual parking shall contain at least five inches of crushed
gravel leveled to not more than three percent slope.
            4.   RV utility islands. Each RV site shall contain, within the
utility island, hookups to water, sewer, and electrical service.
            5.   RV utility islands water/sewer plumbing requirements.
Campgrounds with access to a sewage system shall provide that each campsite
contain a sewer connection with suitable fittings to permit a watertight
junction with the RV outlet. Each sewer connection shall be constructed so that
it can be closed, and when not in use shall be capped to prevent escape of
odors. All water taps or outlets serving RV campsites shall be of a type
compatible with garden hose connections. Sewer and water piping and
installation shall be constructed as specified in the state building code.
            6.   Electrical outlets. Each RV site shall have access to
electrical power. All electrical outlets shall be located in a properly
constructed utility island.
            7.   Parking dimensions RV sites. A parking plan shall be submitted
which is adequate to accommodate the campground's expected clientele. Parking
spurs shall be located so that trailer doors face away from interior roads and
into the site. Parking for all recreational vehicles and any additional vehicle
shall be of a minimum five-inch gravel base.
            8.   RV campsite spacing. RV parking sites shall be at least 20
feet apart (this 20-foot area will include any yard, cooking areas, dining
areas, and utility island for next RV site), edge-to-edge, and the center of
all camping units should be at least ten feet from the edge of the campground
road.
            9.   RV dump station. A sanitary dump station built to the
requirements of the local health department shall be provided at the entrance
to the campground or other location convenient to all campsites. The dump
station shall be located so that the left rear of vehicles will slope slightly
toward the dump station when connected for emptying.
         c.   Sanitary facilities for accommodation of dependent RVs and tent
campsites.
            1.   All campgrounds for the accommodation of dependent RVs and
tents shall provide sanitary facilities connected to a sewerage system.
Whenever possible, these facilities shall be connected to a public sewerage
system.
            2.   Toilets, lavatories, and bathing facilities shall be as
provided under state building code volumes 1C and 2.
            3.   Toilet facilities shall be plainly marked, separate for each
sex, lighted at night, and shall be located no farther than 200 feet from any
camp pad.
            4.   Toilet facilities may be located in a central building or in
two or more buildings according to the size of the campground and location of
the campsites in relation to the facilities.
            5.   Adequate provisions shall be made for the disposal of
dishwater according to the size of the campground. A suggested ratio is one
disposal unit per ten campsites.
         d.   Campsites for tents. Construction of tent pads is not required
for pup tents or other small shelters used by backpackers. Provisions for walk-
in campgrounds are contained in this subsection.
            1.   Each tent site should contain a minimum space of 30 feet by 30
feet. Density shall not exceed 15 sites per acre. Tent sites with individual
parking arrangements shall contain one automobile parking space at least 18
feet by nine feet.
            2.   Each site should contain a reinforced, fairly level tent pad.
The pads shall be approximately 16 feet by 16 feet to provide maximum
flexibility of use, but shall not contain less than an area of 12 feet by 12
feet. The tent pad shall be a minimum of six inches high and constructed of
gravel, crushed aggregate, or equivalent material that will allow run-off from
precipitation to flow through the pad. Pads constructed of tamped earth,
asphalt or other impervious materials are prohibited. Tent pads in excess of
ten percent slope should be leveled. A three-percent slope is preferable.
            3.   Provisions for sanitary facilities are the same as for
dependent RVs set out hereinabove.
         e.   Walk-in campgrounds.
            1.   Camping is prohibited in areas where a source of potable water
and access to sanitary facilities is not provided.
            2.   Walk-in campgrounds shall have access to potable water within
75 feet of all sleeping areas. In locations where a water supply system is not
possible, potable water may be supplied by an approved well with a hand pump or
by water from pickup stations.
            3.   All walk-in campgrounds shall have access to the use of a
toilet facility to be located within 300 feet of each camping space.
         f.   Campsites for mixed uses. Campgrounds may be developed to provide
more than one type of camping site in the same area. When uses are mixed, the
highest, or most strict, standards shall apply to development of the entire
campground with the exception of walk-in camping areas in a campground designed
for mixed uses. In such a development, walk-in camping shall be separated from
other types of campsites so that campfire smoke or noise will not constitute a
nuisance to other campers.
         g.   Campground design. The campground shall be designed in a manner
which is compatible with the natural features and topography of the tract
undergoing development, and in a manner which provides safe, healthful and
convenient camping facilities for campground users consistent with minimum land
disturbance.
            1.   A complete master plan of any new, expanded or altered park
shall be submitted to the town for approval before construction in accordance
with the checklist for campgrounds found in the appendices.
            2.   All campgrounds containing two or more campsites or camp lots,
including sites for tents, accommodations for backpackers and RVs, require a
special use permit.
            3.   Density shall not exceed 15 sites per acre.
            4.   Campgrounds shall be developed to minimize noise, campfire
smoke, or trespassing so as not to create a nuisance to abutting properties.
            5.   Sanitary and bathing facilities shall be provided per the
state building code. Sanitary dump stations built to the requirements of the
local health department shall be provided at the entrance to the campground or
other location convenient to all campsites. The dump station shall be located
so that the left rear of vehicles will slope slightly toward the dump station
when connected for emptying.
            6.   All campsites shall be limited to a total of one non-RV
parking space per site or RV parking space. An additional area for parking of
such vehicles shall be provided equal to one parking place for every ten
campsites in a common location or spread throughout the campground.
      (4)   Telecommunications support facilities and antenna.
         a.   Purpose and intent. The town desires to encourage the orderly
development of wireless communication technologies for the benefit of the town
and its citizens. The town also recognizes the need to protect the character
and appearance of its community. As a matter of public policy, the town desires
to encourage the delivery of new wireless technologies throughout the town
while controlling the proliferation of communication towers. Such development
activities will promote and protect the health, safety, prosperity and general
welfare of persons living in the town. Unless superseded by Session Law 2013-
185, the Cell Tower Deployment Act, or Session Law 2017-159, Wireless
Communication Infrastructure Siting, both of which shall control, the following
provisions shall apply to the erection or replacement or modification of a
wireless facility.
         b.   Severability.
            1.   If any word, phrase, sentence, part, section, subsection, or
other portion of this section or any application thereof to any person or
circumstance is declared void, unconstitutional, or invalid for any reason,
then such word, phrase, sentence, part, section, subsection, or other portion,
or the proscribed application thereof, shall be severable, and the remaining
provisions of this section, and all applications thereof, not having been
declared void, unconstitutional, or invalid, shall remain in full force and
effect.
            2.   Any zoning permit issued pursuant to this section shall be
comprehensive and not severable. If part of a permit is deemed or ruled to be
invalid or unenforceable in any material respect, by a competent authority, or
is overturned by a competent authority, the permit shall be void in total, upon
determination by the town.
         c.   Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in
this subsection (4), shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this
subsection (4)c, except where the context clearly indicates a different
meaning:
         Accessory facility or structure means an accessory facility or
structure serving or being used in conjunction with wireless telecommunications
facilities or complexes, including, but not limited to, utility or transmission
equipment storage sheds or cabinets.
         Amend, amendment and amended mean any change, addition, correction,
deletion, replacement or substitution, other than typographical changes of no
effect.
         Antenna means a system of electrical conductors that transmit or
receive electromagnetic waves or radio frequency or other wireless signals.
         Applicant means any wireless service provider submitting an
application for a zoning permit for wireless telecommunications facilities.
         Application means all necessary and required documentation that an
applicant submits in order to receive a zoning permit and building permit if
applicable for wireless telecommunications facilities.
         Certificate of completion (COC) means a required document issued by
the town that confirms that all work represented in the application:
            1.   Was properly permitted;
            2.   Was done in compliance with and fulfilled all conditions of
all permits, including any final completion deadline;
            3.   Was fully constructed as approved and permitted; and
            4.   A final inspection was requested, conducted and the facility
or complex passed the final inspection.
         Collocation means the use of an approved telecommunications structure
to support antenna for the provision of wireless services.
         Commercial impracticability or commercially impracticable means the
inability to perform an act on terms that are reasonable in commerce, the cause
or occurrence of which could not have been reasonably anticipated or foreseen
and that jeopardizes the financial efficacy of the project. The inability to
achieve a satisfactory financial return on investment or profit, standing alone
and for a single site, shall not deem a situation to be commercially
impracticable and shall not render an act or the terms of an agreement
commercially impracticable.
         Completed application means an application that contains all necessary
and required information and/or data as set forth in this chapter and that is
necessary to enable an informed decision to be made with respect to an
application and action on the application.
         Complex means the entire site or facility, including all structures
and equipment located at the site.
         Distributive access system or DAS means a technology using antenna
combining technology allowing for multiple carriers or wireless service
providers to use the same set of antennae, cabling or fiber optics.
         Eligible facility means an existing wireless tower or base station
that involves collocation of new transmission equipment or the replacement of
transmission equipment that does not constitute a substantial modification. An
eligible facility application shall be acted upon administratively and shall
not require a special use permit, but shall require staff administrative
approval.
         Expert assistance fee means a set fee intended to prevent taxpayer
subsidization for the town's review of an application for telecommunication
support facilities, WTFs, DAS systems, or antennae.
         FAA means the Federal Aviation Administration, or its duly designated
and authorized successor agency.
         Facility means a set of wireless transmitting and/or receiving
equipment, including any associated electronics and electronics shelter or
cabinet and generator.
         FCC means the Federal Communications Commission, or its duly
designated and authorized successor agency.
         Height means the distance measured from the preexisting grade level to
the highest point on the tower or support structure, even if said highest point
is an antenna or lightening protection device. As regards increasing the height
of an existing structure, the term "height" means the height above the top of
the structure prior to any work related to a wireless facility.
         In-kind replacement means replacing a component that is malfunctioning
with a properly functioning component of the same weight and dimensions and
that does not enable an increase in revenue for the service provider or
increase the compensation paid to the owner or manager of the support
structure.
         Maintenance means plumbing, electrical, carpentry or mechanical work
that may or may not require a zoning permit and building permit, if applicable,
but that does not constitute a modification of the WTF.
         Modification or modify means the addition, removal or change of any of
the physical and visually discernable components or aspects of a wireless
facility or complex with identical components, including, but not limited to,
antennae, cabling, equipment shelters, landscaping, fencing, utility feeds,
changing the color or materials of any visually discernable components,
vehicular access, parking and/or an upgrade or change-out of equipment for
better or more modern equipment. Adding a new wireless carrier or service
provider to an existing support structure or tower as a collocation is a
modification, unless the height, profile or size of the compound is increased,
in which case it is not a modification.
         Necessary, necessity, or need means what is technologically required
for the equipment to function as designed by the manufacturer and that anything
less will result in the effect of prohibiting the provision of service as
intended and described in the narrative of the application. The term
"necessary," "necessity" or "need" does not mean what may be desired, preferred
or the most cost-efficient approach and is not related to an applicant's
specific chosen design standards.
         NIER means non-ionizing electromagnetic radiation.
         Person means any individual, corporation, estate, trust, partnership,
joint stock company, association of two or more persons having a joint common
interest, or any other entity.
         Personal wireless facility. See Wireless telecommunications
facilities.
         Personal wireless services or PWS and personal telecommunications
service or PTS shall have the same meaning as defined in the 1996
Telecommunications Act.
         Repairs and maintenance means the replacement or repair of any
components of a wireless facility or complex where the replacement is identical
to the component being replaced, or for any matters that involve the normal
repair and maintenance of a wireless facility or complex without the addition,
removal or change of any of the physical or visually discernable components or
aspects of a wireless facility or complex that will impose new visible burdens
of the facility or complex as originally permitted. Any work that changes the
services provided to or from the facility, or the equipment, is not repairs or
maintenance.
         Stealth or stealth siting technique means a design or treatment that
minimizes adverse aesthetic and visual impacts on the land, property,
buildings, and other facilities adjacent to, surrounding, and in generally the
same area as the requested location of such wireless telecommunications
facilities, which shall mean building the least visually and physically
intrusive facility and complex that is not technologically or commercially
impracticable under the facts and circumstances. Stealth techniques include
such techniques as:
            1.   DAS or its functional equivalent; or
            2.   Camouflage where the tower is disguised to make it less
visually obtrusive and not recognizable to the average person as a wireless
facility complex.
         Structural capability, structural capacity, or structural integrity
means, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other standard, code,
regulation or law, up to and not exceeding a literal 100 percent of the
designed loading and stress capability of the support structure.
         Substantial modification means a change or modification that increases
the existing vertical height of the structure by the greater of:
            1.   More than ten percent; or
            2.   The height of one additional antenna array with separation
from the nearest existing antenna not to exceed 20 feet; or except where
necessary to shelter the antenna from inclement weather or to connect the
antenna to the tower via cable, adding an appurtenance to the body of a
wireless support structure that protrudes horizontally from the edge of the
wireless support structure the greater of:
               (i)   More than 20 feet; or
               (ii)   More than the width of the wireless support structure at
the level of the appurtenance; or increases the square footage of the existing
equipment compound by more than 2,500 square feet.
         Telecommunications means the transmission and/or reception of audio,
video, data, and other information by wire, radio frequency, light, and other
electronic or electromagnetic systems.
         Telecommunications site. See Wireless telecommunications facilities.
         Telecommunications structure means a structure used primarily to
support equipment used to provide wireless communications or was originally
constructed primarily for such purpose.
         Temporary means not permanent in relation to all aspects and
components of this section and that will exist for fewer than 90 calendar days.
         Tower means any structure designed primarily to support an antenna
and/or other equipment for receiving and/or transmitting a wireless signal and
is the lesser of:
            1.   More than ten feet taller than the adjacent buildings or
trees; or
            2.   Taller than 40 feet.
         Wireless telecommunications facility or facilities (WTF or WTFs),
facility, site, complex, telecommunications site and personal wireless facility
site mean a specific location at which a structure that is designed or intended
to be used to house, support or accommodate antennae or other transmitting or
receiving equipment is located. This includes, without limit, towers and
support structures of all types and kinds, including, but not limited to,
buildings, church steeples, silos, water towers, signs or other any other
structure that is used or is proposed to be used as a support structure for
antennae or the functional equivalent of such. It expressly includes all
related facilities and equipment such as cabling, radios and other electronic
equipment, equipment shelters and enclosures, cabinets and other structures
associated with the complex used to provide, though not limited to, radio,
television, cellular, SMR, paging, 911, personal communications services (PCS),
commercial satellite services, microwave services, internet access services and
any commercial wireless telecommunication services whether or not licensed by
the FCC.
         Zoning permit means a permit denoting compliance with this chapter and
other applicable zoning requirements and standards that must be granted as a
prerequisite to applying for and being granted any other required permit.
         d.   General policies and procedures for applications under this
section.
            1.   It shall be unlawful for any person, corporation, partnership
or other entity to erect any wireless facility without first obtaining a zoning
permit from the administrator. A permit shall also be required for the erection
of a replacement wireless support structure or the modification of an existing
wireless support structure.
               (i)   Existing wireless support structures owned by government
agencies and designed for noncommercial emergency communications may be
replaced with a wireless support structure equal in height to the existing
wireless support structure; however, all other chapter provisions are
applicable.
               (ii)   The placement or collocation of wireless facilities on
existing structures, including electrical transmission towers, water towers,
buildings, and other structures capable of structurally supporting the
attachment of wireless facilities, requires a zoning permit in compliance with
requirements of this article.
               (iii)   Wireless support structures are allowed, with standards
as in this article, in all zoning districts.
            2.   The administrator or board of adjustment shall approve or
disapprove the zoning permit based upon the receipt of a completed site plan as
required above and the following provisions:
               (i)   The wireless facility design plan was prepared by a
professional engineer registered in the state, including engineer's signature,
seal and address.
               (ii)   The site plan shall illustrate, with details, the
foundation and base of the wireless support structure, the foundation for all
the guy line anchors and support structures, all proposed buildings, and any
other proposed improvements, including access roads and utility connections,
within and to the proposed site.
               (iii)   In addition to any other materials required for a
standard permit under this section or any other ordinance of the town, all
applicants for permits to construct a telecommunications support facility or
antenna shall submit visual impact demonstrations using photo or similar
graphic simulations of the proposed facility as it would be seen from
residential areas, public rights-of-way, and public parks and other sites.
               (iv)   Location requirements. The applicant shall identify all
possible alternatives considered within the service area for the proposed
wireless facility location and explain why the proposed wireless facility is
necessary and why existing wireless facilities or other structures cannot
accommodate the proposed antenna.
            3.   Wireless support structure height, operational limitations/
requirements, and access infrastructure (for traditional wireless support
facilities).
               (i)   A wireless support structure shall not exceed an overall
height (OAH) of 200 feet, including the height of all antennae and lightning
rods.
               (ii)   A wireless support structure located on any major
mountain ridge shall be monopole and no taller than 30 feet higher than the
vegetative canopies immediately surrounding the base of the tower.
               (iii)   The proposed wireless support structure shall be
designed and constructed for collocation of at least three additional
telecommunication antenna systems. The wireless facility area shall be of
sufficient size to accommodate the accessory equipment for at least three
additional telecommunication providers.
               (iv)   Contingent upon space available, the wireless facility
operator shall also be equitable to allowing government emergency service
communications to collocate on their facility at a reduced industry standard
price.
               (v)   The wireless facility access road must be a minimum of 12
feet in width accommodating, to the satisfaction of the town fire [chief], all
emergency equipment and vehicles; and, if gated, shall employ a Siren Operated
Sensor access system.
            4.   The applicant shall be required to provide written
documentation certifying compliance or, when appropriate, exemption from all
applicable federal and state regulations.
            5.   The applicant shall present to the administrator or board of
adjustment, if applicable, proof of either fee simple ownership, an option to
purchase or lease, a recorded leasehold interest, or an easement, from the
record owner of all property involved and any necessary rights-of-way to the
wireless facility site.
            6.   Signage shall be limited to a sign identifying the owner and
operator of the tower, an emergency telephone number and any other signage as
required by any government agency. Signage shall be placed in a clearly visible
location on the premises of the tower.
            7.   Setback requirements (engineered fall zone facilities).
               (i)   A tower shall be separated from other on-site and off-site
towers and supporting structures such that one tower will not strike another
tower or its support structure if it falls. Towers shall be set back from
property lines in accordance with the twice the setback requirements for the
district or 110 percent of the documented engineered fall zone, whichever is
greater. Additionally, telecommunications towers must set back from any
residential districts or uses a distance equivalent to the fall radius of the
tower being erected times ten percent.
               (ii)   Wireless facilities located within transmission line
easements are not required to meet the requirements of subsection (4)d.7(i) of
this section.
               (iii)   There shall be no setback requirement from structures
located on the same parcel as the proposed wireless facility as long as a
professional engineer, registered in the state, certifies that the fall zone of
the wireless support structure is designed to avoid said structures and the
owner of the structures in question records a legally valid hold harmless
agreement, indemnifying the town from all liability and claims for damages
arising from the performance of the telecommunications facility designer,
contractor and installer; including any subcontractors or consultants
associated with the project.
            8.   The wireless support facility shall be constructed to the
Electronics Industries Association/Telecommunications Industries Association
222 Revision F Standard entitled "Structural Standards for Steel Antenna Towers
and Antenna Support Structures," as the same may be amended from time to time.
Any tower shall also comply with the requirements of the state building code,
National Electrical Code, Uniform Plumbing Code, and Uniform Mechanical Code.
The wireless support structure shall be designed to meet the ANSI/EIA/TIA-222-
G (as minimum) one-half inch of solid radial ice standard.
            9.   The wireless facility and any guy wires shall be surrounded by
a commercial grade chain link secure fence at least eight feet in height, which
may include no more than two feet of barbed or razor wire.
            10.   Lighting on wireless support structures shall not be
permitted except as required by federal and state regulations.
            11.   Wireless support structures shall be light gray except when
specific colors and color patterns are required by federal or state regulations
or a different natural color, as approved by the administrator, which would
make the tower blend into its natural surroundings more readily.
            12.   All wireless facilities shall be landscaped by semi-opaque
vegetative screening on all sides. All plants and trees shall be indigenous to
western North Carolina and shall be drought resistant.
            13.   Stealth wireless facility.
               (i)   Antennae must be enclosed, camouflaged, screened, obscured
or otherwise not readily apparent to a casual observer.
               (ii)   The structure utilized to support the antennae must be
allowed within the underlying zoning district. Structures may include, but are
not limited to, flagpoles, bell towers, clock towers, crosses, monuments,
parapets, and steeples.
            14.   A DAS system that is owned or operated by a commercial
carrier and is part of a commercial wireless system, or is used for commercial
purposes, is expressly included in the context of this section, regardless of
the location or whether the facility or any of its components is located inside
or outside a structure or building.
            15.   Wireless facilities shall comply with all other applicable
regulations of this chapter, and, where applicable, shall meet the requirements
for a special use permit.
            16.   The applicant shall provide the administrator with a
certificate of general liability insurance in the minimum amount of
$1,000,000.00. The certificate shall contain a requirement that the insurance
company notify the town 30 days prior to cancellation, modification or failure
to renew the insurance coverage required.
            17.   The collocation of facilities and/or stealth technology shall
be considered a mitigating factor to a variance request and may be
justification for the request.
            18.   Any tower constructed under a permit pursuant to this article
shall be removed within 180 days of the date which it ceases to be in active
use, or upon notice from the ordinance administrator, whichever is more
favorable to the owner.
            19.   Collocation of small wireless facilities. Pursuant to
guidance as provided by G.S. 160D, the town shall allow collocation of small
wireless facilities on eligible facilities pursuant to the following
guidelines:
               (i)   A zoning compliance permit is required.
               (ii)   All ground support equipment shall require semi-opaque
vegetative landscape screening on any sides visible to the motoring public such
as can be accomplished without compromising underground utilities, and while
maintaining a 12-foot by 25-foot sight triangle from intersections, and 15 feet
of clear area along perpendicular streets culminating at a corner lot.
               (iii)   Each new facility in the right-of-way shall not extend
more than ten feet above the utility pole, city utility pole, or wireless
support structure on which it is collocated. Extensions proposed higher than
ten feet shall require a variance from the board of adjustment.
               (iv)   Each new utility pole and each modified or replacement
utility pole or city utility pole installed in the right-of-way shall not
exceed 50 feet above ground level. In residentially zoned areas, the height
limit for new pole installation shall be 40 feet unless granted a variance by
the board of adjustment.
               (v)   Wireless providers are responsible for damages due to
their activities to town rights-of-way while occupying, installing, repairing
or maintaining wireless facilities, wireless support structures, city-owned or
other utility poles.
               (vi)   Collocations on private support structures shall require
a letter of consent from the owner of the structure.
         e.   Fees. Subject to the provisions of G.S. 160A-400.54(e), 160A-54
(f), 160A-296(a)(6), 160A-206(b), and 160D, all fees and charges, including,
but not limited to, application fees, inspection fees and permit fees, shall be
as set forth in the town's schedule of fees and charges. For new towers,
support structures, or substantial modifications, an expert assistance fee
shall be established in advance to prevent taxpayer subsidization of the
applicant. This fee shall be established in the town schedule of fees and
charges, and shall be tendered in cash or a certified cashier's check upon
submittal of the telecommunications support facility application. It shall be
held by the town's finance officer in an escrow account, whereby it may be
drawn upon as necessary for payment of professional services related to the
town's review of the application.
      (5)   Mobile food vendors
         a.    Definitions.
            1.    Mobile Food Vendor means a readily movable trailer or
motorized wheeled vehicle, currently registered with the N.C. Division of Motor
Vehicles, equipped to serve food.
            2.    Regulatory Fee means a fee assessed to cover the cost of
regulating a particular type of business activity that is assessed to an
operator of that type of business.
         b.   Permitting.
            1.    Permit required for Mobile Food Vendor operator: An annual
Mobile Food Vendor permit from the Zoning Administrator of the Town of Lake
Lure shall be required prior to operating a Mobile Food Vendor in Lake Lure. A
regulatory fee will be assessed to cover the costs associated with regulation
of Mobile Food Vendors in Lake Lure.
            2.    A Mobile Food Vendor Permit is valid for one (1) year from
the month in which the permit was issued. This permit shall be posted in a
visible location on the food truck.
            3.    The Mobile Food Vendor shall have the signed approval of the
property owner for any location at which the Mobile Food Vendor operates.
            4.    Mobile Food Vendors operating on Town-owned property must
provide evidence of at least $300,000 liability insurance coverage.
            5.    Mobile Food Vendors shall provide documentation of approval
from the North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services. A valid health
permit must be maintained for the duration of the Mobile Food Vendor permit and
shall be placed in a conspicuous location on the vehicle for public inspection.
            6.    Zoning permit required for property use:  No land may be used
for a Mobile Food Vendor operation until a certificate of zoning compliance
shall have been issued to the property owner. The zoning permit shall be for
Mobile Food Vendor operations as either a commercial primary use or as an
accessory to a commercial use. Zoning district yard setbacks shall apply to any
Mobile Food Vendor location.
         c.   Locations and Restrictions.
            1.    Permitted Mobile Food Vendors may operate on private property
that has a valid zoning permit for Mobile Food Vendor use within the following
districts:
               R-3 Resort Residential: with a special use permit when in
conjunction with a hotel, motel, lodge or resort; or as an accessory use to an
existing restaurant
               CN Commercial Neighborhood District
               CTC Commercial Town Center District
               CG Commercial District
               CSG Commercial Shopping Center District
               S-1 Scenic Natural Attraction District
               GU Governmental Institutional Use District, upon approval of
Town Council
            2.    Permitted Mobile Food Vendors may operate on private property
as an accessory use to a legally permitted campground in any zoning district.
            3.    Permitted Mobile Food Vendors may operate on Town-owned
property with approval from Town Council regardless of the zoning district.
            4.    Permitted Mobile Food Vendors may be utilized for a specific,
temporary event in conjunction with the following uses, regardless of the
zoning district in which they are located:
               Primary Event Venues in connection with an event at the venue.
               Accessory Residential Event Venues in connection with an event
at the venue.
               Churches or school, in connection with temporary event on that
location.
               Town Council approved Farmers’ Markets with Mobile Food Vendor
(s) use approved.
               Town Council approved festival or event with Mobile Food Vendor
(s) use approved.
               Residences, in connection with a private event at the residence.
            5.    The Mobile Food Vendor vehicle shall be positioned at least
100 feet from the customer entrance of an existing restaurant during its hours
of operation, unless the Mobile Food Vendor operator provides documentation
from the restaurant owner supporting a closer proximity.
            6.    The Mobile Food Vendor vehicle shall not block drive aisles,
other access to loading/service areas, or emergency access and fire lanes. The
Mobile Food Vendor vehicle must also be positioned at least 15’ away from fire
hydrants, any fire department connection, driveway entrances, alleys, or
handicapped parking spaces and must have at least three off-street parking
spaces in addition to spaces required by Section 36-218 for any other existing
uses on parcel.
            7.    These Mobile Food Vendor permitting requirements, rights or
privileges shall not apply in any respect to food vending at any event that is
approved and sanctioned, or sponsored, by Town Council. Town Council shall
consider the recommendations of the Police Chief, Fire Chief and Community
Development Director when approving specific, individualized requirements,
rights and/or privileges for any such event.
         d.   Public Safety and Nuisance Provisions   
            1.    A trash receptacle shall be provided for customers. Town
trash receptacles do not satisfy this requirement. All associated equipment,
including trash receptacles, must be within five (5) feet of the Mobile Food
Vendor vehicle.
            2.    Temporary connections to potable water are prohibited. All
plumbing and electrical connections shall be in accordance with the State
Building Code.
            3.    No liquid, grease or solid wastes may be discharged from the
Mobile Food Vendor. Absolutely no waste may be disposed of in tree pits, storm
drains, or onto the sidewalks, streets, or other public space. Under no
circumstances shall grease be released or disposed of in the Town’s sanitary
sewer system.
            4.    Mobile Food Vendor vehicle must have the following fire
extinguisher on board during hours of operation: minimum Class 2A, 10B, and C
rated extinguisher. If food preparation involves deep frying, a Class K fire
extinguisher must also be on the vehicle. All National Fire Protection
Association (NFPA) standards shall be met to include fire extinguishers and
fire suppression hood systems shall be maintained.
            5.    If the Mobile Food Vendor vehicle operates after dark, the
Vendor shall provide appropriate lighting. Lighting shall be such that
minimizes the glare on roadways and surrounding properties.
            6.    No signage shall be allowed other than signs permanently
attached to the Mobile Food Vendor vehicle and one (1) sandwich style menu
sign.
            7.    The noise level from the Mobile Food Vendor vehicle and
operations shall comply with the Town’s noise ordinance.
            8.    Mobile Food Vendors shall only operate between the hours of
7am to 11pm.
         e.    Revocation of permit
            1.    The permit issued for the Mobile Food Vendor operator may be
revoked if the Vendor violates any of the provisions contained in this article;
or any Environmental Health Department, county or state regulation pertaining
to mobile food vendor operations.
            2.    If at any time evidence of the improper disposal of liquid
waste or grease is discovered, all permits for the Mobile Food Vendor shall be
rendered null and void, and the operation within the Town will cease.
            3.    If at any time, the Environmental Health Department revokes
or suspends the issued food vending permit, all Town permits shall be revoked
or suspended simultaneously.
            4.    The town manager may revoke a permit if he or she determines
that the Mobile Food Vendor's operations are causing parking, traffic
congestion, or litter problems either on or off the property where the use is
located or that such use is otherwise creating a danger to the public health or
safety.
         f.    Exceptions
            1.    A temporary event sponsored by local schools, churches,
registered not-for-profit organizations, or the local Chamber of Commerce may
have Mobile Food Vendor permit fees waived or reduced with recommendation of
Zoning Administrator and Town Council approval.
            2.    Actively operating restaurants within the Town limits may
apply for up to one (1) waived Mobile Food Vendor permit fee. The Mobile Food
Vendor permit will still be required.
         g.    Penalties.
            1.    Any violation of subsections B, C, and D shall constitute a
civil violation and subject the violator to a civil penalty in the amount of
fifty dollars ($50.00). Each day that a violation continues uncorrected shall
constitute a separate violation. In addition, these violations subject the
vendor to permit revocation as outlined in subsection (E).
            2.    The Code Enforcement Officer and his/her designees are
authorized to determine the existence of the violations and to assess the civil
penalties established by this article by issuing a citation to the person
determined to be in violation or by sending a letter to the vendor responsible
for the violation. Any such notice or citation shall state the nature of the
violation and the procedures available for review of the penalty imposed.
            3.    Any violation and penalty assessed under this article may be
appealed to the town manager provided such appeal is filed with the town
manager's office within fifteen (15) days after notice of said civil penalty.
If an appeal is timely filed, the manager or his designee shall conduct an
administrative hearing; shall consider any information the party assessed the
penalty presents; and shall render a decision on the appeal within ten (10)
days of the conclusion of the hearing. If no appeal is filed, the determination
of the Code Enforcement Officer or his or her designee shall be final.
            4.    Any penalty not paid within thirty (30) days of assessment,
or the conclusion of any appeals taken under the provisions of this section may
be recovered by the town in a civil action in the nature of the debt. In
addition to the penalties and remedies provided by this section, the Town may
institute any appropriate action or proceedings to prevent, restrain, correct,
or abate a violation of this Section.
(Code 1989, § 92.042; Ord. of 10-13-2009; Ord. of 1-1-2010; Ord. of 2-28-2012;
Ord. of 10-14-2014; Ord. of 7-14- 2015; Ord. of 3-13-2018; Ord. of 2-12-2019;
Ord. of 7-9-2019; Ord. No. 21-05-11, 5-11-2021; Ord. No. 21-11-09, 11- 09-2021,
Ord. No. 22-11-08A)
Secs. 36-73—36-100. Reserved.
ARTICLE IV.
SPECIAL USES
Sec. 36-101. Purpose.
   Special uses might not be appropriate without specific standards and
requirements to assure that such uses are compatible with the other uses
permitted in the designated districts. Such uses may be permitted in a zoning
district as special uses if the provisions of this and all other articles of
this chapter have been met.
(Code 1989, § 92.045; Ord. No. 21-05-11, 5-11-2021)
Sec. 36-102. Special use permit review procedure and application.
   (a)   Sketch plan conference. Any person seeking to obtain approval of a
special use shall submit to the zoning administrator a sketch plan prior to
submitting an application for a special use permit. The purpose of submitting
the sketch plan is to afford the applicant an opportunity to obtain the advice
and assistance of the development review committee in order to facilitate the
subsequent preparation and timely approval of the special use permit
application. This procedure does not require formal application or fee.
Applications must be made by a person with a property interest or a contract to
purchase the property.
   (b)   Review procedure. All special use permit applications and applicable
fees shall be delivered to the office of the zoning administrator to be
processed for the board of adjustment. Incomplete applications shall be
returned to the applicant by the zoning administrator accompanied by a letter
outlining the deficiencies found therein.
      (1)   Development review committee. The zoning administrator shall submit
the complete special use permit application to the development review committee
for technical review and recommendation within seven days of the date the
application was received and found to be complete by the zoning administrator.
The development review committee shall review the application and make
recommendations to the board of adjustment in addition to the zoning and
planning board within 30 days of the date the application was determined to be
complete by the zoning administrator.
      (2)   Zoning and planning board. The complete application, accompanied by
the recommendations of the development review committee, shall then be
submitted to the zoning and planning board by the zoning administrator for
review and recommendation. The zoning and planning board may consider site
treatment, building design, relationship of building to site, harmony of
buildings and uses with neighborhood character, landscaping, signs, lights and
any other considerations it feels reasonably affect the appearance of the
proposed project. The zoning and planning board shall have 35 days to make its
recommendation to the board of adjustment. The 35 days shall begin on the date
the zoning and planning board first considers the application at a regularly
scheduled meeting. Applications which do not involve the change in the
appearance of a building or premises, as determined by the zoning
administrator, shall not be required to be reviewed by the zoning and planning
board.
      (3)   Board of adjustment. The board of adjustment shall hold a hearing
no later than 65 days from the date the application was reviewed by the
development review committee. The board of adjustment shall neither deny nor
approve any application solely on the basis of a recommendation from the
development review committee or zoning and planning board. The board of
adjustment may or may not incorporate the recommendations from the development
review committee or zoning and planning board in its decision regarding the
special use permit application.
   (c)   Hearing. Upon receipt of a complete application for a special use
permit, the zoning administrator shall assign the application a hearing before
the board of adjustment. Hearing shall be quasi-judicial and shall be noticed
and conducted in accordance with the provisions of section
36-184. A decision by the board of adjustment shall be made within 45 days of
the date the hearing ends.
   (d)   Issuance of special use permit. The board of adjustment shall grant
and issue the special use permit if and only if it finds the following:
      (1)   Application. The application is complete, and the applicant has
demonstrated the proposed use complies with all applicable standards of these
zoning regulations, including any special requirements in section
36-72.
      (2)   Public safety. The proposed use will not materially endanger the
public safety, if located and developed according to the application as
submitted; and satisfactory provision and arrangement has been made for at
least the following, where applicable:
         a.   Automotive ingress and egress.
         b.   Traffic flow.
         c.   Traffic control.
         d.   Pedestrian and bicycle ways.
         e.   Lake use (water vessels, watersports, swimming activities, etc.).
         f.   Fire suppression.
      (3)   Public health. The proposed use will not materially endanger the
public health, if located and developed according to the application as
submitted; and satisfactory provision and arrangement has been made for at
least the following, where applicable:
         a.   Water supply.
         b.   Water distribution.
         c.   Sewer collection.
         d.   Sewer treatment.
      (4)   Protection of property values. The proposed use will not
substantially injure the value of adjoining or abutting property, if developed
according to the application as submitted; and satisfactory provision and
arrangement has been made for at least the following, where applicable:
         a.   Lighting.
         b.   Noise.
         c.   Odor.
         d.   Landscaping.
      (5)   Standards and requirements. The proposed use will meet all
standards and requirements specified in the regulations, if located and
developed according to the application as submitted; and satisfactory provision
and arrangement has been made for at least the following, where applicable:
         a.   Parking spaces.
         b.   Loading zones.
         c.   Sign design.
         d.   Street design.
      (6)   Comprehensive plan and neighborhood character compatibility. The
location and character of the proposed use and structures will be in harmony
with the neighborhood character and in general conformity with the applicable
elements of the land use plan and other officially adopted plans of the town,
if developed according to the application as submitted; and satisfactory
provision and arrangement has been made for at least the following, where
applicable:
         a.   Site layout and treatment.
         b.   Building design.
         c.   Relationship of buildings to site.
         d.   Harmony of buildings and uses with neighborhood character.
   (e)   Conditions. In addition to any other requirements provided by these
regulations, the board of adjustment may, in issuing a special use permit,
designate additional conditions and requirements in connection with the
application as will, in its opinion, assure that the use in its proposed
location will be in harmony with the area in which it is proposed to be located
and with the spirit of the regulations. All additional conditions shall be
entered in the minutes of the meeting at which the permit is granted and also
on the ruling issued by the board. All conditions so imposed shall run with the
land and shall be binding upon the original applicant, as well as the
applicant's heirs, successors, or assigns, during the continuation of the use
specially permitted.
   (f)   Expiration of permit. A special use permit issued in accordance with
this article shall expire if a certificate of zoning compliance for such use is
not obtained by the applicant within six months from the date of the decision.
If, after commencing work under a special use permit and prior to completion of
the entire project, work is discontinued for a period of 12 months, the special
use permit shall become void, and no work may be performed until a new special
permit has been issued. If, after issuance of a certificate of zoning
compliance for a special use, and that use is discontinued for a period of 12
months, the special use becomes void, and the use may not be re- established
until a new special use permit has been issued. When a special permit expires,
the board of adjustment shall treat re-application for a new special use permit
in the same manner as any other application, and the provisions of the
regulations currently in effect shall be applicable. The permit will be
provided in writing or electronic form. If electronic form is used it will be
protected from further editing.
   (g)   Construction schedule departure. All construction approved pursuant to
a special use permit shall be completed in accordance with the construction
schedule submitted and approved by the board of adjustment. In the event that a
significant departure from the construction schedule occurs during a project,
the applicant may appear before the board and request an amendment to the
special use permit. The board may extend the construction schedule only upon
finding that delays in construction have been caused by, or are expected to be
caused by, circumstances beyond the control of the applicant. Unless the
construction is extended by amendment of the special use permit, failure to
complete construction within the approved time shall be considered a violation
of the special use permit.
   (h)   Voidance of permit. In the event of failure to comply strictly with
the plans, documents, and other assurances submitted and approved with the
application, or in the event of failure to comply with any conditions imposed
upon the special use permit as provided in subsection (d) of this section, the
permit shall immediately become void.
   (i)   Periodic inspections. The zoning administrator shall make periodic
inspections during construction as well as a final inspection after
construction is complete to determine whether the conditions imposed and
agreements made in the issuance of the permit have been met as well as whether
all other requirements of this chapter have been met. The zoning administrator
shall report his findings to the board of adjustment. If, at any time after a
special use permit has been issued, the board of adjustment determines that the
conditions imposed and agreements made have not been or are not being fulfilled
by the holder of a special use permit, the permit shall be terminated and the
operation of such use discontinued. If a special permit is terminated for any
reason, it may be reinstated only after reapplying for a special permit. The
board of adjustment shall treat re-applications for a new special use permit in
the same manner as any other application, and the provisions of the regulations
currently in effect shall be applicable.
(Code 1989, § 92.046; Ord. of 11-15-2005; Ord. of 10-9-2012; Ord. No. 21-05-11,
5-11-2021)
Sec. 36-103. Application.
   All applications for a special use permit shall precede any application for
a certificate of zoning compliance and shall be submitted on the proper form
obtainable from the zoning administrator. The application shall include a
development plan/site plan, building elevations, floor plans, landscape plan,
lighting plan, sign drawings, construction schedule, and a description of the
use. It should be noted that due to severe topographic conditions, sensitive
natural areas, or soils that do not easily support soil drainage systems, some
land may be unsuited to some land clearing or land disturbance projects that
may be proposed.
      (1)   Development plan/site plan. This plan shall be drawn to a scale
sufficient to clearly indicate the following:
         a.   The site conditions and characteristics, before and after the
proposed land clearing, land disturbance and/or construction, including
contours, watercourses, flood hazard areas, and any sensitive natural areas or
unique manmade features.
         b.   All boundary lines of the proposed development, proposed lot
lines and plot designs.
         c.   The location and use of all existing and proposed structures.
         d.   The location and size of all areas to be conveyed, dedicated or
reserved as common open spaces, parks, recreational areas, school sites and
similar public or semi-public uses.
         e.   The existing and proposed street system, including location and
number of off-street parking spaces, service areas, loading areas, and major
points of access to public rights-of-way. Notations of proposed ownership of
the street system (public or private).
         f.   The approximate location of proposed water and sewer/septic
systems, as well as septic test results from the county.
         g.   The areas to be graded showing corresponding sedimentation and
erosion control devices, retaining walls, and provisions for stormwater
drainage during construction and after construction. See also section 36-234.
         h.   The location and/or notation of existing and proposed easements
and rights-of-way.
         i.   The proposed treatment of the perimeter of the development,
including materials and/or techniques such as screens, fences, buffers, berms,
and walls.
         j.   Information on adjacent land areas, including land use, zoning
classifications, public facilities, any unique natural features, and historic
features.
         k.   The zoning districts in which the project is located.
         l.   A legal description of the total site proposed for development,
including a statement of present and proposed ownership.
         m.   Quantitative data for the following: proposed total number and
type of residential dwelling units, parcel size, and total amount of open
space.
         n.   A statement of the applicant's intentions with regard to the
future selling, leasing, and/or renting of all or portions of the development.
         o.   A written description for maintenance of common areas, recreation
areas, open spaces, streets and utilities.
      (2)   Building elevations. These shall be drawn to scale and show
building height and exterior treatment on all sides of the building. The front
elevation shall be fully colored with proposed color selections and all
materials noted and identified. Paint samples shall be included. Elevations
shall be required of all other sides if color, materials, and design are
substantially different from the front elevation.
      (3)   Floor plans. These shall be drawn to scale a scale not less than
one-eighth inch to one foot and show all features and details such as gross
floor area, net floor area, number of seats, storage areas, or any other
applicable information.
      (4)   Landscape plan. This shall be drawn to scale and show species,
quantity, size, and location of plantings, as well as hardscape features such
as walls, fountains, and waterfalls.
      (5)   Lighting plan. This shall be drawn to scale and show type,
quantity, height, intensity, coverage area, type of light source, duration of
use, and impact on adjacent property and streets as certified by an electrical
engineer or lighting professional with lighting certified credentials.
      (6)   Sign drawings. This shall be drawn to scale and show the size,
type, and location of any signs proposed to be erected in conjunction with the
use. Method, source, and intensity of illumination shall also be included on
these drawings and appropriate documentation verifying specifications provided.
      (7)   Construction schedule. This shall be a complete construction
schedule, including date the construction is expected to begin and end.
      (8)   Description of use. This shall be a complete and detailed written
description of the uses proposed.
      (9)   Additional information. Any additional information required by the
board of adjustment in order to evaluate the impact of the proposed development
[may be required]. The board of adjustment may waive a particular requirement
if in its opinion the inclusion is not essential to a proper decision of the
project.
      (10)   Written documentation. Where applicable, the following written
documentation shall be submitted:
         a.   A legal description of the total site proposed for development,
including a statement of present and proposed ownership.
         b.   The zoning districts in which the project is located.
         c.   A land clearing, land disturbance and/or development schedule
indicating approximate beginning and completion dates, including any proposed
milestones or stages of completion.
         d.   A statement of the applicant's intentions with regard to the
future selling and/or leasing of all or portions of the development.
         e.   Quantitative data for the following: proposed total number and
type of residential dwelling units, parcel size, and total amount of open
space.
         f.   Plan for maintenance of common areas, recreation areas, open
spaces, streets and utilities.
(Code 1989, § 92.047; Ord. of 1-22-1991; Ord. of 11-15-2005; Ord. of 6-10-2008;
Ord. No. 21-05-11, 5-11-2021)
Sec. 36-104. Special use standards and requirements for PUDs.
   The purpose of this section is to encourage and provide for flexibility and
innovation in the design and location of structures and land development, to
provide for the most efficient and environmentally sensitive use of land
resources, and to provide an opportunity to develop land areas in a manner
different from the standard arrangement of one principal building on one lot.
It is further intended that a planned unit development will be in harmony with
the character and natural beauty of the area in which it is located.
      (1)   Planned unit development (PUD) standards. The following land
development standards shall apply for all planned unit developments in addition
to all other applicable sections of this chapter. Planned unit developments may
be located only in certain specified districts as special uses, subject to a
finding by the board of adjustment that the following requirements be met:
         a.   Ownership control and project completion. The land in a PUD shall
be under single ownership or management by the applicant before final approval
and/or construction begins. Proper assurances (legal title or execution of a
binding sales agreement) shall be provided to verify the development can be
successfully completed by the applicant. Further, financial information shall
be required to assure that the planned unit development can be successfully
completed by the applicant.
         b.   Density requirements. There are no density requirements for
nonresidential uses as long as the proposed project does not violate the intent
of the district in which it is located. The proposed residential density of the
planned unit development shall conform to that permitted in the district in
which the development is located as indicated in section 36-70. If the planned
unit development lies in more than one district, the number of allowable
dwelling units must be separately calculated for each portion of the planned
unit development that is in a separate district, and must then be combined to
determine the number of dwelling units allowable in the entire planned unit
development.
         c.   Frontage requirements. Planned unit developments shall have
access to a highway or road suitable for the scale and density of the
development being proposed.
         d.   Minimum requirements.
            1.   Distance between buildings. The minimum distance between
buildings shall be 20 feet or as otherwise specified by the board of adjustment
to ensure adequate air, light, privacy, and space for emergency vehicles.
            2.   Access and circulation. Every dwelling unit shall have access
to a public or private street, walkway or other area dedicated to common use.
There shall be provision for adequate vehicular circulation to all development
properties in order to ensure acceptable levels of access for emergency
vehicles.
            3.   Privacy. Each development shall provide reasonable visual and
acoustical privacy for all dwelling units. Fences, insulation, walks, barriers,
and landscaping shall be used, as appropriate, for the protection and aesthetic
enhancement of property and the privacy of its occupants and adjacent
properties, for screening of objectionable views or uses, and for reduction of
noise. Multi-level buildings shall be located in such a way as to dissipate any
adverse impact on adjoining low rise buildings and shall not invade the privacy
of the occupants of such low rise buildings.
            4.   Perimeter requirements. Structures located on the perimeter of
the development must be set back from property lines and rights-of-way of
abutting streets in accordance with the provisions of the zoning regulations
controlling the zoning district within which the property is situated.
            5.   Water and sewer. The developer shall provide plans showing
approximate location of water and sewer lines. The developer shall provide
documentation from the town's utilities director, public works director, fire
coordinator, and/or town engineer ensuring that the water supply and sewer
capacity is available to adequately serve the planned unit development.
            6.   Parking. Preliminary plans shall include provision for parking
and loading for all proposed uses within the planned unit development in
accordance with sections 36-217 through 36-219. When more than one use is
located in the planned unit development, the minimum parking and loading
requirements shall be the sum of the required parking for each use within the
development. However, separate uses may share parking spaces if deemed
appropriate by the board of adjustment.
            7.   Pedestrian and bicycle paths. Any pedestrian and bicycle path
circulation system and its related walkways shall be designed to minimize
conflicts between vehicle and pedestrian traffic.
            8.   Relationship to affected areas. Layout of parking areas,
service areas, entrances, exits, yards, courts, structures, and landscaping.
Signs, lighting, noise or other potentially adverse influences shall be in
harmony with the neighborhood character and any other affected areas.
            9.   Common areas. Conveyance and maintenance of open spaces,
recreational areas and communally owned facilities shall be in accordance with
the Unit Ownership Act (G.S. ch. 47A) and/or any other appropriate mechanisms
acceptable to the board of adjustment.
            10.   Tall building standards. Tall buildings are permitted in
planned unit development having an area of 25 acres of more. The following tall
standards shall apply to those tall buildings located in planned unit
developments having an area of 25 acres or more:
               (i)   The maximum height of tall buildings shall not exceed 45
feet.
               (ii)   The maximum tall building density ratio shall not exceed
one tall building per 20 acres of lot area.
               (iii)   Tall buildings shall be surrounded by a green area at
least 50 feet in width. The green area shall consist of landscaped areas with
trees, shrubs, grasses native to the Southern Mountains and/or open and
undeveloped areas. Sidewalks, trails, and walkways may be located within the
green area. Roadways and access drives may cross the green area, but no
automotive vehicular parking may be located therein.
               (iv)   Tall buildings shall be set back a minimum of 100 feet
from any adjoining road right-of-way, 100 from any property line, and 200 feet
from the lake shoreline.
               (v)   Tall buildings located within 125 feet of an existing
public road shall be buffered by either a landscaped berm or living hedge
consisting of species native to the Southern Mountains or combination thereof
at least ten feet in height above the grade of the road.
               (vi)   Tall buildings shall not have a building footprint more
than 15,000 square feet.
               (vii)   Tall buildings shall not display mechanical equipment,
such as, but not limited to, HVAC equipment, on the roof.
               (viii)   Tall buildings shall have a primary roof pitch between
8/12 and 10/12.
               (ix)   Tall buildings shall be in harmony with the neighborhood
character.
            11.   Uses per zoning district.
               (i)   The proposed uses for any planned unit development in
multiple zoning districts shall conform to the requirements of the respective
zoning districts. A use or structure not expressly permitted as either a
permitted use or special use in a given district is prohibited from locating in
any district except those uses listed in subsections (1)d.11(ii) through (v) of
this section.
               (ii)   The following uses are permitted within planned unit
developments:
                  A.   Single-family dwellings, excluding mobile homes.
                  B.   Multifamily dwellings, including condominiums, duplexes,
townhouses, and individual units or clusters of detached units located on lots
or tracts in single ownership or held in common ownership under a condominium
agreement in districts that permit such uses.
                  C.   Customary accessory buildings, including garages and
storage buildings.
                  D.   Recreational facilities intended exclusively for use by
the owners, residents and guests of the PUD, and which are an integral part of
such development.
               (iii)   The following accessory commercial uses may be permitted
in a PUD designed for 50 or more dwelling units, subject to the provisions of
this section:
                  A.   Real estate sales and rental offices for on-premises
inventory only;
                  B.   Administrative offices for the PUD;
                  C.   Property management offices exclusively for the PUD.
               (iv)   The accessory uses in subsection (1)d.11(iii) of this
section may be permitted subject to the following conditions:
                  A.   The PUD shall have a minimum of seven acres;
                  B.   All sales and rentals shall be for the use and
convenience of the owners, residents or guests of the PUD;
                  C.   All accessory uses listed in this subsection (iv) shall
not occupy more than 15 percent of the total floor area of the PUD, except that
in no case shall the accessory uses exceed a maximum of 12,000 square feet. No
individual accessory use permitted in this subsection (iv) shall occupy more
than five percent of the total floor area of the development, except that in no
case shall the accessory use exceed a maximum of 4,000 square feet;
                  D.   Any accessory use permitted in this section shall be
designed in a manner compatible with the architectural style and function of
the PUD and development on adjacent properties.
               (v)   The following accessory commercial uses may be permitted
in a planned unit development with 150 or more dwelling units having
certificates of occupancy, subject to the provisions of this section:
                  A.   Retail sales for PUD residents and guests, excluding
petroleum products sold or disbursed from pumps, and provided no merchandise
may be displayed or stored outside of the building.
                  B.   Sports equipment sales and rentals for PUD residents and
guests.
               (vi)   The above listed accessory uses in both subsections
(1)d.11(iii) and (v) of this section may be permitted subject to the following
conditions:
                  A.   The PUD shall have a minimum of 21 acres;
                  B.   All sales and rentals shall be for the use and
convenience of the owners, residents and guests of the PUD;
                  C.   All accessory uses listed in this subsection (vi) shall
not occupy more than ten percent of the total floor area of the PUD, except
that in no case shall the accessory uses exceed a maximum of 30,000 square
feet. No individual accessory use permitted in this section shall occupy more
than three percent of the total floor area of the development, except that in
no case shall the accessory use exceed a maximum of 6,000 square feet;
                  D.   Any accessory use permitted in this section shall be
designed in a manner compatible with the architectural style and function of
the PUD and development on adjacent properties.
            12.   [Common amenities.] Common amenities for residential
developments provided that they are situated within the residential development
so as not to adversely impact existing and/or reasonably foreseeable uses on
adjoining properties. Such amenities shall be set back a minimum of 30 feet
from such adjoining properties and a minimum of 60 feet from Lake Lure.
Buffering may be utilized to ensure compatibility with adjoining uses.
      (2)   Planned unit developments post-approval requirements. The following
items may be reviewed for approval after the board of adjustment issues the
permit for a special use. A certificate of zoning compliance shall not be
issued until the following applicable items have been submitted to the zoning
administrator for review and approval:
         a.   Guarantee of performance. In order to ensure the applicable
improvements are completed properly within a period of time specified by the
town council, the developer shall enter into a guarantee for completion with
the town council. A performance guarantee shall be negotiated between the
developer and the town council after the issuance of the special use permit by
the board of adjustment. The guarantee of performance shall require that the
developer complete the improvements, including roads, parking areas and rights-
of-way; water and sewer facilities; drainage, erosion and sedimentation control
facilities; lighting and landscaping; and any other improvements, including
protection/replacement of natural vegetation, specified by town council. The
guarantee shall be provided by either one or a combination of the following
guarantees not exceeding 1.25 times the entire cost as provided herein:
            1.   Surety performance bond. The developer shall obtain a
performance bond from a surety bonding company authorized to do business in the
state. The bond shall be payable to the town and shall be in an amount equal to
1.25 times the entire cost, as estimated by the town manager, of installing all
required improvements. The duration of the bond shall be until such time as the
improvements are approved by the town council. The town council shall not give
said approval until it has been satisfied that all required improvements have
been installed.
            2.   Cash or equivalent security. The developer shall deposit cash
or other instrument readily convertible into cash at face value, either with
the town or in escrow with a financial institution designated as an official
depository of the town. The use of any instrument other than cash shall be
subject to the approval of the town council. The amount of deposit shall be
equal to 1.25 times the cost, as estimated by the town manager, of installing
all required improvements. If cash or other instrument is deposited in escrow
with a financial institution as provided above, then the developer shall file
with the town council an agreement between the financial institution and
himself guaranteeing the following:
               (i)   That said escrow account shall be held in trust until
released by the town council and may not be used or pledged by the developer in
any other matter during the term of the escrow; and
               (ii)   That in the case of a failure on the part of the
developer to complete said improvements, the financial institution shall, upon
notification by the town council and submission by the town council to the
financial institution of the town manager's estimate of the amount needed to
complete the improvements, immediately either pay to the town the funds
estimated as needed to complete the improvements, up to the full balance of the
escrow account, or deliver to the town any other instruments fully endorsed or
otherwise made payable in full to the town.
            3.   Letter of credit. A satisfactory, irrevocable letter of credit
as approved by the town attorney and town council and deposited with the town
clerk shall be submitted. When a letter of credit is submitted, the following
information shall be contained in said letter:
               (i)   It shall be entitled "Irrevocable letter of credit."
               (ii)   It shall indicate that the town is the sole beneficiary.
               (iii)   The amount (of the letter of credit) as approved by the
town manager.
               (iv)   The account number and/or credit number that drafts may
be drawn on.
               (v)   A list of improvements that shall be built that the letter
is guaranteeing.
               (vi)   Terms in which the town may make drafts on the account.
               (vii)   Expiration date of the letter.
            4.   Default. Upon default, meaning failure on the part of the
developer to complete the required improvements in a timely manner as spelled
out in the agreement, then the surety, or the financial institution holding the
escrow account shall, if requested by the town council, pay all or any portion
of the bond or escrow fund to the town up to the amount needed to complete the
improvements based on the town manager's estimate. Upon payment, the town
council, in its discretion, may expend such portion of said funds as it deems
necessary to complete all or any portion of the required improvements. The town
shall return to the surety or escrow account any funds not spent in completing
the improvements.
            5.   Release of guarantee security. The town council may release a
portion of any security posted as the improvements are completed and
recommended for approval by the town manager. At such time as the town council
approves all improvements as recommended by the town manager, then all security
posted shall be immediately released.
         b.   Soil erosion control plans. These shall conform to the town soil
erosion and sedimentation control regulations or the applicable soil erosion
regulations of the state. A land disturbance permit shall be secured from the
town's soil erosion and sedimentation control officer before construction
begins.
         c.   Water system plans. Detailed water distribution plans showing
exact size and location size of water lines, material types, and specifications
shall be submitted to the town and applicable state agency for approval. Water
system plans and specifications shall conform to the document entitled "Town of
Lake Lure, Standard Specifications and Details for Construction." All
applicable water system permits and approvals must be secured before
construction begins.
         d.   Sewer collection system plans. Detailed sewer collection plans
showing exact location of lines and manholes, material types, and
specifications shall be submitted to the town and the applicable state agency
for approval. Sewer collection system plans and specifications shall conform to
the document entitled "Town of Lake Lure, Standard Specifications and Details
for Construction." All applicable sewer collection system permits and approvals
must be secured before construction begins.
(Code 1989, § 92.048; Ord. of 11-15-2005; Ord. of 6-10-2008; Ord. No. 21-05-11,
5-11-2021)
Sec. 36-105. Special use standards and requirements for gasoline service or
filling stations.
   The following regulations shall apply to all gasoline service or filling
stations in addition to other applicable sections of this chapter:
      (1)   All buildings shall be located at least 40 feet from any street
right-of-way line.
      (2)   Gasoline pumps and other appliances shall be located at least 15
feet from any street right-of-way line.
      (3)   All service, storage or similar activities shall be conducted
entirely on the premises.
      (4)   All major repair work, if any, shall be conducted within a
completely enclosed building.
      (5)   Open storage of wrecked or inoperable cars, discarded tires, auto
parts or similar materials shall not be permitted.
(Code 1989, § 92.049; Ord. of 11-15-2005; Ord. No. 21-05-11, 5-11-2021)
Sec. 36-106. Special use standards and requirements for camps.
   (a)   Membership. All camps shall be active members in the American Camp
Association (ACA) or similar accrediting organization.
   (b)   Health. The camp shall comply with all relevant regulations enforced
by the county health department. Inspection reports from the county health
department shall be submitted to the town on an annual basis to ensure the camp
is complying with minimum standards established for dining facilities, sleeping
quarters, and other uses.
   (c)   Building footprint coverage area. No single building shall have a
building footprint larger than 10,000 square feet. The sum total of all
building footprints shall not exceed six percent of the total land area.
   (d)   Tall buildings. Camps shall be permitted tall buildings not to exceed
45 feet, as measured from the average finish grade at the building foundation
line to the highest point of the roof ridgeline. The tall building to land area
ratio shall not exceed one tall building per 20 acres of land area.
   (e)   Building separation. Buildings may be clustered together, provided no
building may be closer than 20 feet to another building.
   (f)   Setbacks. Buildings not exceeding 35 feet, as measured from the
average finish grade at the building foundation line to the highest point of
the roof ridgeline, shall be set back at least 100 feet from the centerline of
any abutting primary or secondary street, and at least 100 feet of any
adjoining property line. Except, however, in relation to the lake shoreline,
buildings not exceeding 35 feet in height may be closer than 100 feet but shall
be no closer than 35 feet to the lake shoreline in any case. Any building
taller than 35 feet, as measured from the average finish grade at the building
foundation line to the highest point of the roof ridgeline, shall be set back a
minimum of 200 feet from the lake shoreline.
   (g)   Architecture. The exterior architecture design of any building or
other structure shall complement the existing character of buildings located on
adjacent properties. Further, any structure visible from the lake shall
compliment the natural setting in which it is located.
   (h)   Ingress/egress. A maximum of two driveways shall be permitted,
provided both are no wider than 25 feet and not located closer than 200 feet
from one another as measured from entrance to entrance. Each driveway shall be
located to minimize disruption of normal traffic flow on public streets.
   (i)   Parking. One parking space per four seats in the dining hall or one
space per four beds, whichever is greater. Parking areas shall be discreetly
located and screened from view from adjoining properties, public streets, and
the lake. Parking areas may either be constructed of gravel, concrete, asphalt,
or a semi-pervious surface. In any case, the parking spaces shall be clearly
delineated and designed in accordance with town standards.
   (j)   Signs. Signs shall comply with the residential standards set forth for
the R-3 Resort Residential Zoning District.
   (k)   Landscaping/buffer strips. Landscaping and buffer strips shall be
provided to maintain visual compatibility with the neighborhood and surrounding
uses. Landscaping and buffer strips shall mostly consist of plant and tree
species native to the Southern Mountains.
   (l)   Noise. Public announcement systems shall be permitted while camp is in
session or nonemergency purposes only from 7:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. so as to not
disrupt the tranquility of the neighborhood. However, a one-time, lights-out
announcement, no later than 10:00 p.m., shall be permitted while camp is in
session.
   (m)   Lighting. Lighting shall be permitted throughout the camp to ensure a
safe environment for campers. Light fixtures shall cast the light emitted
downward and be of a residential size and type. The coverage area of the light
emitted shall not spill over onto adjoining properties in any manner.
   (n)   Lake use. The town lake use regulations shall apply at all times. A
certified lifeguard shall be on duty when campers are engaged in water sports
such as swimming or other types of water activities.
(Code 1989, § 92.050; Ord. of 1-10-2006; Ord. No. 21-05-11, 5-11-2021)
Sec. 36-107. Design standards for commercial buildings.
   (a)   Intent. It is the intent of these regulations to encourage development
that helps maintain the visual qualities of the town that make it the unique,
resort-retirement, mountain town of retreat and recreation that it is today. It
is also the intent of these regulations to encourage the development of
pedestrian-friendly, human scale buildings that achieve variety and creative
design to protect property values and interests of residents and visitors. The
town endeavors to set a high standard for commercial construction, which uses
basic architectural design principles and encourages harmony with the eclectic
mix of the original Mediterranean revival style commercial buildings, and the
cottage type dwellings consisting mostly of natural materials such as wood and
stone. The town wants to ensure that commercial buildings are in harmony with
existing natural environment, neighborhood and community character. These
regulations include basic design elements that are appropriate for such
buildings in the town.
   (b)   Applicability. These regulations establish architectural design
standards for all new commercial buildings in commercial zoning districts, new
commercial buildings in residential zoning districts, any addition with a gross
floor area of 1,000 square feet or greater to an existing commercial building
in either a residential or commercial zoning district, or any addition to an
existing commercial building where the length of the original building facade
will be increased by more than 50 percent as a result of the proposed additions
in those same zoning districts. These regulations are used as criteria by which
to judge plan submissions.
   (c)   Neighborhood character compatibility. New or modified buildings in or
adjacent to existing developed areas shall be compatible with the established
architectural character of adjacent areas by using a design that is
complimentary. In some cases, it may not be desirable to create compatible
character with surrounding buildings. Character compatibility shall be achieved
through techniques such as repetition of rooflines, the use of similar
proportions in building mass and outdoor spaces, similar relationships to the
street, similar window and door patterns, and/or the use of building materials
that have color shades and textures similar to those of existing in the
neighborhood of the proposed development. Any addition less than 1,000 square
feet, or any addition less than 50 percent of the original facade length, shall
be deemed to be compatible with neighborhood character if the addition mimics
with the architectural style of the existing structure.
   (d)   Building size, height, mass, and scale. Buildings shall either be
similar in size and height, or, if larger, be articulated and subdivided into
massing that is proportional to the mass and scale of other structures in the
neighborhood.
   (e)   Alternative design. Upon the recommendation of the zoning and planning
board, the board of adjustment may grant a special use permit for a commercial
building which departs from the design standards contained in sections 36-107
through 36-110 so long as the design of such development is in substantial
compliance with the town design guidelines for new commercial construction.
(Code 1989, § 92.054; Ord. of 11-15-2005; Ord. of 6-10-2008; Ord. of 3-9-2010;
Ord. No. 21-05-11, 5-11-2021)
Sec. 36-108. Definitions for commercial building design standards.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in sections
36-107 through
36-110, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where
the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
Arbor means a structure designed to create a shady area.
Arcade means a covered walkway usually supported by piers or columns attached
to a building wall.
Arch means a structural element shaped in an arc or curve.
Architectural sign graphic means building materials used to convey corporate
colors, signage, or graphics.
Barrel tile means semi-cylindrical tile used for roofing, especially for
Mediterranean revival style architecture.
Board and batten means vertical siding composed of wide boards that do not
overlap and narrow strips, or battens, nailed over the spaces between the
boards.
Bond means the general method of overlapping the joints of successive courses
of bricks or stones, thereby binding them together to form a wall or surface.
Different patterns may be formed by the joints such as, but not limited to,
common bond, herringbone bond, and English bond.
Building base means the lowest portion of the building side.
Building bays means a section of the building facade, which is divided by a
vertical element, on both ends, designed to break down the massing for large
buildings.
Building body means the middle portion of the building side.
Building cap means the highest portion of the building side.
Canopy means a covering, extending from a building, over an outside area.
Clapboard means siding material of horizontal wooden strips, often applied with
the thicker edge overlapping the clapboard view.
Cornice means projecting ornamental molding along the top of a building or
wall.
Course means a horizontal row of bricks, shingles, stones, or other building
materials.
Deck means a roofless, floored area constructed of wood that adjoins a house.
Design standards means parameters to be followed in site development and/or
building construction.
Dormer means a structure projecting from a sloping roof with window or
ventilating louvers.
Double portico means a projecting two-story porch with columns as a pediment.
Eave means the projecting overhang at the lower edge of the roof.
Exterior insulated finish system (E.I.F.S.) means a synthetic stucco cladding
material applied on exterior walls, finished with color.
Facade means the face of a building emphasized architecturally.
False fenestration means artificial openings on a facade made to look like
windows and doors, often used to break down the massing of buildings.
Fascia means a flat, horizontal band used to finish the edge of an exposed
rafter.
Fenestration means the arrangement of windows and openings in the exterior wall
of a building.
Flashing means copper or other materials used to make weather-tight the joint
between the chimney and a roof.
Flat roof means a roof having only enough slope for drainage.
Floor area ratio (FAR) means the gross floor area of all buildings on a lot per
lot area, excluding vertical core circulation areas for multistory structures.
Frieze means a horizontal band, often with decorative detail, located below the
cornice.
Gable means a triangular wall section at the end of a pitched roof.
Gambrel roof means a roof with one low, steep slope and an upper, less-steep
one on each of its two sides, giving the look of a traditional American hay
barn.
Hip roof means a roof with four uniformly pitched sides.
Impervious material means a material through which water will not pass.
Keystone means the central, topmost stone or feature of an arch. Also, the
central detail above windows or doors which appears to come from an arch but is
used for decorative purposes.
Lintel means the horizontal beam over the top of a door or window.
Mansard roof means a roof with two slopes on each side, the lower slope being
much steeper; frequently used to add an upper story.
Masonry means stone work or brick work used in a wall construction.
Mass means three-dimensional forms, the simplest are cubes, boxes, or
"rectangular solids." Buildings are rarely one of these simple forms.
Miter means the edge of a piece of material, generally wood, that has been
beveled preparatory to making a miter joint.
Molding means a decorative band either carved or applied to a surface.
Muntins means a small, slender wood or metal member which separates the panes
of glass in a window.
Overhang means an area of the roof extending past the wall.
Parapet means a low wall on the top of the building often used to screen roof-
top units from view.
Pediment means wide, low pitched gable end of the roof; triangular crowning
element over doors and windows.
Pervious material means any material that permits the passage of water.
Pitch means the slope of a roof expressed in terms of a ratio of height to
span.
Piers means a solid masonry support or solid mass between doors, windows, and
other openings in buildings.
Porch means a roofed outside walking area having the floor elevated more than
eight inches above grade.
Portico means a roofed space, open or partly enclosed, forming the entrance and
centerpiece of the facade, often with detached or attached columns and an
overhead structure.
Primary building facade means the particular facade of a building which faces
the street to which the address of the building pertains.
Principal building means the main structure on a lot.
Rafter means a sloping structural member of the roof that extends from the
ridge.
Rib means a projecting band on a building facade which is structural of purely
decorative.
Shake means split wood shingles.
Shed roof means a sloping, single planed roof as seen on a lean-to.
Shingle roof means a thin, oblong shaped material laid in overlapping rows as a
covering for roofs, typically of wood or an asphalt-based material.
Shutter means a cover or screen for a door or a widow.
Siding means building material used for the surface of a building.
Sill means lowermost member of a frame house; the large dimension wooden
element resting directly on the foundation.
Slate means thinly laminated rock, split for roofing and paving.
Soffit means the finished underside of an eave.
Street frontage means the total linear dimension of all property lines which
coincide with the edge of an adjoining street right-of-way.
Stucco means coarse or fine plasterwork used for exterior or interior walls.
Terra cotta means a fine-grained, brown-red fired clay used for roof tiles and
decoration; literally, cooked earth.
Tile roof means a thin, usually rectangular material laid in overlapping rows
as a covering for roofs, typically of fired clay or concrete.
Treillage means an outdoor open structure of framework for supporting plant
material.
Veranda means a roofed porch sometimes stretching on two sides of a building.
(Code 1989, § 92.055)
Sec. 36-109. Design standards for commercial buildings less than 15,000 square
feet.
   (a)   Architectural style. Forms and finish materials of buildings, signage,
gasoline pump canopies and other accessory structures shall be compatible with
neighborhood character, or within the same development, through compliance with
the following standards:
      (1)   All buildings, including gasoline pump canopies, shall utilize a
consistent architectural style. Different buildings, businesses or activities
in the development may be distinguished by variations within the architectural
style. Architectural sign graphics used as predominant siding is not permitted.
      (2)   The sides and back of buildings shall be as visually attractive as
the front through the design of rooflines, architectural detailing, and
landscape features.
      (3)   Vending machines and other site accessories shall be integrated
into the architectural theme.
   (b)   Character and image. In new buildings, and to the extent feasible, in
development projects involving changes to existing building walls, facades or
awnings (as applicable), entrances shall be clearly defined and recessed or
framed by an element such as an awning, arcade or portico in order to provide
shelter from the summer sun and winter weather.
   (c)   Facade elements.
      (1)   Minimum wall articulation. Building bays shall be a maximum of 30
feet in width. Bays shall be visually established by architectural features
such as columns, ribs or pilasters, piers and fenestration pattern. In order to
add architectural interest and variety and avoid the effect of a single, long
or massive wall with no relation to human size, the following additional
standards shall apply:
         a.   No wall that faces a street or connecting walkway shall have a
blank, uninterrupted length exceeding 30 feet without including at least two of
the following: change in plane, change in texture or masonry pattern, windows,
treillage with vines, or an equivalent element that subdivides the wall into
human scale proportions.
         b.   Side or rear walls that face walkways may include false windows
and door openings defined by frames, sills and lintels, or similarly
proportioned modulations of the wall, only when actual doors and windows are
not feasible because of the nature of the use of the building.
         c.   All sides of the building shall include materials and design
characteristics compatible with those on the front.
      (2)   Facades that face streets of connecting pedestrian frontage shall
be subdivided and proportioned using features such as windows, entrances,
arcades, arbors, awnings, and treillage with vines, along no less than 50
percent of the facade.
   (d)   Variation in massing. A single, large, dominant building mass shall be
avoided in new buildings and, to the extent reasonably feasible, in development
projects involving changes to the mass of existing buildings.
      (1)   Horizontal masses shall not exceed a height to width ratio of 1:
3 without substantial variation in massing that includes a change in height and
projecting and recessed elements.
      (2)   Changes in mass shall be related to entrances, the integral
structure and/or the organization of interior spaces and activities and not
merely for cosmetic effect.
   (e)   Building base, body, and cap. All architectural elevations of
principal buildings shall consist of a base, a body, and a cap.
      (1)   The base shall occupy the lowest portion of the elevation, and
shall have a height no less than eight percent of the average wall height.
      (2)   The body shall occupy the middle portion of the elevation, and
shall have a height no less than 60 percent of the average wall height.
      (3)   The cap shall occupy the highest portion of the elevation,
excluding the roof, and shall have no less than eight percent of the average
wall height, not to exceed the height of the base.
      (4)   The cap shall consist of at least one of the following
architectural features:
         a.   Cornice;
         b.   Parapet;
         c.   Awning;
         d.   Canopy; or
         e.   Eaves.
      (5)   The base and cap shall be clearly distinguishable from the body
through changes in color, material, pattern, profile, or texture. A cap and
base shall incorporate at least three of these design patterns.
   (f)   Materials. The materials used on a building facade play a large part
in determining the appearance of a building. In order to ensure that a building
is aesthetically pleasing, it is important to ensure that the materials and the
colors used on the exterior of a building are pleasing to the eye and are
compatible with the surroundings. As a general rule, the use of high quality
natural building materials such a wood, brick, and native stone contribute to
aesthetically pleasing facades. The following is a list of permitted materials
for the building base, body, and cap:
      (1)   Building base. Brick, native stone, manufactured stone, or textured
concrete masonry units.
      (2)   Building body. Wood, brick, native stone, manufactured stone, or
other applied materials such as exterior insulated finish system (E.I.F.S.).
      (3)   Building cap. Brick, native stone, manufactured stone, textured
concrete masonry units, wood, or applied materials such as exterior insulated
finish system (E.I.F.S.).
   (g)   Facade colors. The use of low reflectance, subtle, neutral, or earth
tone colors on the facade usually results in an acceptable appearance. The use
of high intensity colors, metallic colors, black or fluorescent colors as the
predominate facade color usually does not result in an aesthetically appealing
building. Building trim and accent areas may feature brighter colors, including
primary colors, but the use of neon tubing as a feature for a building is not
permitted.
      (1)   Building base. The base shall read as a single, subdued, earth tone
color.
      (2)   Building body. The body shall read as a single, subdued, earth tone
color. A maximum of three accent colors are also permitted that are compatible
with the body color.
      (3)   Building cap. The cap shall consist of colors that are compatible
with the building body color, any accent color and to each other.
   (h)   Roofs. In order to reduce the massive size of large structures, flat
roofs should be avoided if at all possible. The use of varied rooflines,
through the utilization of parapets and/or sloped roofs, is encouraged. The
roof treatment should harmonize with the neighborhood character. Building
walls, parapets, and/or roof systems shall be designed to conceal all roof-
mounted mechanical equipment from view to adjacent properties and public
rights- of-way.
      (1)   Permitted roof styles shall include gable, mansard, and hip roofs.
Flat roofs are permitted if disguised through the use of parapet walls.
      (2)   The height of any pitched roof shall not exceed the average wall
height to the building.
      (3)   Permitted materials for pitched roofs include wood, slate,
fiberglass reinforced asphalt shingles, and standing seam or terned metal.
(Code 1989, § 92.056; Ord. of 11-15-2005; Ord. of 3-3-2010; Ord. of 3-9-2010)
Sec. 36-110. Additional design requirements for commercial buildings 15,000
square feet or greater.
   These requirements are in addition to regulations applicable to commercial
buildings with a gross floor area less than 15,000 square feet. In order to
promote human scale, large blank building facades need elements that provide
visual interest. Human scale and visual interest can also be provided through
the use of articulation that breaks down large facades into smaller, more human
scale segments. The elements used to accomplish this should be integrated into
the design of the building structure. Other methods used to break down large,
blank building facades include, but are not limited to, color changes, texture
changes, or material changes. The utilization of superficial trim, painting or
other graphics as the sole method of breaking up large building facades is not
permitted. All building facades that are visible from adjoining properties and/
or public streets should follow the material and color guidelines of these
requirements.
      (1)   Wall projections and recesses. Facades greater than 100 feet in
length, measured horizontally, shall incorporate wall plane projections or
recesses having a depth of at least three percent of the length of the facade
and extending at least 20 percent of the length of the facade. No uninterrupted
length of any facade shall exceed 100 horizontal feet.
      (2)   Ground floor facades. Ground floor facades that face public streets
shall have arcades, display windows, entry areas, awnings or other such
features along no less than 60 percent of their horizontal length.
      (3)   Repeating pattern. Building facades must also include a repeating
pattern of no less than three of the following elements:
         a.   Color change.
         b.   Texture change.
         c.   Material module change.
         d.   An expression of architectural or structural bays through a
change in plane no less than 12 inches in width, such as an offset, reveal, or
projecting rib.
   Note: At least one of elements of subsections (3)a through c of this section
shall repeat horizontally. All elements shall repeat at intervals no less than
30 feet, either horizontally or vertically.
      (4)   Roofs. Roofs shall have no less than two of the following features:
         a.   Parapet concealing flat roofs and rooftop equipment such as HVAC
units from public view. The average height of such parapets shall not exceed at
any point one-third of the height of the supporting wall. Such parapet shall
feature three-dimensional cornice treatment.
         b.   Overhanging eaves, extending no less than three feet past the
supporting walls.
         c.   Sloping roofs that do not exceed the average height of the
supporting walls with an average slope greater than or equal to one foot of
vertical rise for every three feet of horizontal run and less than or equal to
one foot of vertical rise for every one foot of horizontal run.
         d.   Three or more roof slope planes.
      (5)   Materials and facade colors. See section 36-109(f) and (g).
      (6)   Entryways. A course texture paver area shall be installed on the
street adjacent to all pedestrian entrances to encourage traffic calming and
provide distinct area for safe pedestrian crossing. Smooth texture paver
crosswalks shall be installed within this area for handicap accessibility as
appropriate. Each large retail establishment on a site shall have clearly
defined, highly visible customer entrances featuring no less than three of the
following:
         a.   Canopies or porticos.
         b.   Overhangs.
         c.   Recess/projections.
         d.   Arcades.
         e.   Raised corniced parapets over the door.
         f.   Peaked roof forms.
         g.   Arches.
         h.   Outdoor patios.
         i.   Display windows.
         j.   Architectural details such as tile work and moldings which are
integrated into the building structure and design.
         k.   Integral planters or wing walls that incorporate landscaped areas
and/or places for sitting.
(Code 1989, § 92.057; Ord. of 11-15-2005)
Sec. 36-111. Special use outdoor lighting standards and requirements.
   (a)   Conformance. All proposed outdoor artificial illumination devices for
a special use shall be installed in conformance with the provisions of this
section and the state building code. For existing nonconforming commercial
lighting, refer to section 36-234. Where there is a conflict between the
provisions of this section and applicable provisions of the state building
code, the most restrictive shall govern.
   (b)   Materials and installation. The provisions of this section are not
intended to prevent the use of any equipment, material or method of
installation not specifically prescribed by this section provided the board of
adjustment has approved the alternative. The board of adjustment may approve
any such alternative provided that the proposed design provides the approximate
equivalence to the specific requirements of this section.
   (c)   Shielding. All outdoor lighting fixtures, including decorative
luminaries, except those exempted by subsection (g) of this section shall be
fully shielded as specified in this section. A fully shielded outdoor lighting
fixture must be shielded or constructed so that all light emitted is projected
below a horizontal plane which is parallel to the ground and runs through the
lowest part of the fixture.
   (d)   Light trespass. The maximum illumination at five feet inside an
adjacent residential area, or public right- of-way, or beyond, from light
emitted from an artificial light source is 0.5 horizontal footcandles and 0.5
vertical footcandles. No line of site to a bulb is permitted five feet or more
beyond a residential property line or public right-of-way line by an observer
viewing from a position that is level with or higher than the ground below the
fixture. Compliance is achieved with fixture shielding, directional control
designed into the fixture, fixture location, fixture height, fixture aim, or a
combination of these factors.
   (e)   Duration of use. All unnecessary outdoor lighting fixtures shall be
turned off after the close of business. However, fixtures nearest building
entryways may remain lighted at minimum intensity for safety and security.
   (f)   Canopies. The lighting fixture bulbs shall be recessed into a canopy
ceiling so that the bottom of the fixture is flush with the ceiling so that
light is restrained to no more than 85 degrees from vertical. As an alternative
to recessed ceiling lights, indirect lighting may be used where the light is
directed upward and then reflected down from the underside of the canopy. In
this case, light fixtures shall be shielded so that direct illumination is
focused exclusively on the underside of the canopy. The lighting for such
facilities, such as pump islands and under canopies, shall have a maximum of 15
footcandles average, maintained at grade.
   (g)   Exemptions. Fixtures including the following are exempt from
regulation: incandescent fixtures (other than floodlights or spotlights) less
than 160 watts, natural gas or liquid propane lights, and any light source of
1,800 lumens or less.
(Code 1989, § 92.058; Ord. of 11-15-2005; Ord. of 3-12-2019; Ord. No. 21-05-11,
5-11-2021)
Sec. 36-112. Special use landscaping requirements.
   (a)   Small parking areas. All new parking areas for commercial buildings
and planned unit developments which contain more than five spaces, but less
than 40 spaces, shall be provided with one or more landscape areas. Such
landscape areas shall be not less than ten percent of the total parking area,
and shall be located, wherever possible, so as to safely contain preexisting
significant trees and stands of native shrubbery and their root protection
zones. The total parking area includes parking spaces, loading areas, access
aisles, and that portion of driveway entrances not located in public rights-of-
way. Landscape areas shall be located either adjacent to the parking area or
within the parking area, but may not be located within any public right-of-way.
The forest coverage standard (Appendix B to this chapter) shall be maintained
within parking areas by planting additional trees in these green spaces or, if
there is not sufficient room, elsewhere on the subject property.
   (b)   Large parking areas. All new parking areas for commercial buildings
and planned unit developments which contain 40 or more parking spaces shall be
provided with one or more landscape areas. Such landscape areas shall amount to
not less than ten percent of the total parking area and shall be located,
wherever possible, so as to safely contain preexisting significant trees and
stands of native shrubbery and their root protection zones. The total parking
area includes parking spaces, loading areas, access aisles, and that portion of
driveway entrances not located in public rights-of-way. These landscape areas
shall be located totally within the parking area and may not be located within
the public right-of-way. The forest coverage and/or significant tree standard,
as per Appendix B to this chapter, shall be maintained within parking areas by
planting additional trees in these green spaces or, if there is not sufficient
room, elsewhere on the subject property.
   (c)   Buffer strip. In addition to the landscape areas described in
subsections (a) and (b) of this section, all new parking areas for planned unit
developments and commercial developments which contain 40 or more parking
spaces shall be provided with a buffer strip five feet in width between the
parking area and any adjoining right-of- way. Any buffer strip 20 feet in
length must contain at least one tree for every 20 feet of the buffer strip.
   (d)   Plant type. All specified landscape areas shall be adequately covered
with trees, shrubs, or a combination of both; provided, however, that any
landscape area exceeding 100 square feet in area must contain at least one
tree. At least 75 percent of the tree, shrub, or plant species proposed shall
be desirable species native to the Southern Mountains as per the Lake Lure Tree
Management Handbook.
(Code 1989, § 92.059; Ord. of 11-15-2005; Ord. of 6-12-2007; Ord. No. 21-05-11,
5-11-2021)
Secs.36-113—36-137. Reserved.
ARTICLE V.
ADMINISTRATION, ENFORCEMENT, APPEALS
Sec. 36-138. General administrative process.
   Except for those referred to the tree protection officer by the explicit
terms of these regulations, all questions arising in connection with this
chapter shall be presented first to the zoning administrator, who shall be
responsible for the day-to-day administration of this chapter. The board of
adjustment shall have the authority to rule on matters of interpretation of
this chapter, consider appeals from decisions of the zoning administrator and
tree protection officer, issue special use permits, and grant variances. Any
appeal from a decision of the board of adjustment shall be to the courts as
provided by law. The duties of the town council in connection with this chapter
shall be the duty of considering and passing upon the initial chapter and any
proposed amendments or repeal of this chapter as provided by law. The town
zoning and planning board shall serve in an advisory capacity to the town
council and shall provide recommendations to the council, including
recommendations pertaining to zoning amendments and other matters as designated
in G.S. 160D.
(Code 1989, § 92.060; Ord. of 1-22-1991; Ord. of 6-12-2007; Ord. No. 21-05-11,
5-11-2021)
Sec. 36-139. Administrative duties.
   The town shall appoint a zoning administrator and a tree protection officer
who shall be charged with the duty to administer and enforce the provisions of
this chapter as specified herein.
      (1)   Duties of the zoning administrator. The zoning administrator shall
issue certificates of zoning compliance and certificates of occupancy and shall
perform such other duties as are prescribed herein. The zoning administrator
shall be the person principally responsible for the administration and
enforcement of this chapter and is authorized to issue notices of violation and
citations in accordance with section 36-431.
      (2)   Duties of the tree protection officer. The tree protection officer
shall have such duties as are assigned him by these regulations and shall have
authority to issue notices of violation and citations, pursuant to section 36-
431, and to pursue remedies pursuant to section 36-430, for those matters for
which he is principally responsible.
(Code 1989, § 92.061; Ord. of 6-12-2007; Ord. of 10-8-2013; ; Ord. No. 21-05-
11, 5-11-2021)
Sec. 36-140. Certificate of zoning compliance required; applications.
   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no building or other
structure shall be erected, moved, added to or structurally altered, nor shall
any county building permit be issued nor shall any change in the use of any
building or land be made until a certificate of zoning compliance shall have
been issued by the zoning administrator. No certificate of zoning compliance
shall be issued except in conformity with the provisions of this chapter. Upon
approval of a special use permit or variance by the board of adjustment the
zoning administrator shall issue a certificate of zoning compliance. The
certificate of zoning compliance review fee for a Home Occupation, as defined
by section 36-5, that has been granted a special use permit for a Home
Occupation use that will not involve the change in appearance of a building or
premises, as determined by the Zoning Administrator, shall be waived.
   (b)   All applications for certificates of zoning compliance shall be
accompanied by the following:
      (1)   Detailed site plans, in duplicate and drawn to scale, showing the
following:
         a.   Actual dimensions and general topography of the lot to be built
upon;
         b.   Accurate dimensions, uses and locations on the lot of the
building proposed to be erected or altered;
         c.   The significant trees to be protected or removed; and
         d.   A steep slope plan in accordance with section 36-262 where such
slopes occur.
      (2)   If connection is to be made to the town's water or sewer systems,
proof of approval for taps from the town, or a completed "waiver of liability"
on a form obtainable from the town.
      (3)   If individual septic tanks and/or wells are to be used, proof of
approval from the county health department.
      (4)   Such other information as may be necessary to provide for the
enforcement of the provisions of this chapter.
      (5)    The application package shall include the review fee, the amount
of which shall be established by the town council. Failure to obtain a required
permit prior to commencing work shall subject applicant to double application
review fee.
   (c)   Prior to issuance of a certificate of zoning compliance, the zoning
administrator may consult with such qualified personnel as surveyors,
geotechnical engineers, the tree protection officer, the erosion control
officer, and others, as needed, for assistance to determine if the application
meets the requirements of this chapter. The cost of a zoning compliance
certificate shall be as set forth in the town fee schedule at the time the
application for a certificate of zoning compliance is made.
(Code 1989, § 92.062; Ord. of 1-22-1991; Ord. of 4-10-2007; Ord. of 6-12-2007;
Ord. of 1-8-2008; Ord. No. 21-05- 11, 5-11-2021; Ord. No. 21-11-09A, 11-9-2021)
Sec. 36-141. Infrastructure not to be damaged during construction.
   (a)   It shall be a violation of these regulations to damage any street,
sidewalk, bridge, culvert, ditch and drain, sign, signpost, streetlight, water
line, water meter, sewer line, manhole, or other property owned by the town.
   (b)   Prior to the issuance of a certificate of zoning compliance, the town
public works director or his designee shall perform a pre-construction
inspection of the public infrastructure in the vicinity of the subject property
to assess and document the existing conditions thereof. Subsequently, prior to
the issuance of a certificate of occupancy, the public works director or his
designee shall perform a post-construction inspection of the same
infrastructure and assess and document damage, if any.
   (c)   If, in the determination of the zoning administrator, in consultation
with the public works director, damage resulted from the construction process,
the property owner shall be responsible for repairing the damaged
infrastructure.
(Code 1989, § 92.063; Ord. of 4-13-2010)
Sec. 36-142. Building permit required.
   Upon receiving a certificate of zoning compliance, a building permit shall
be obtained from the county building inspections office for the construction or
alteration of any building or structure pursuant to the procedures of the
county building inspections office.
(Code 1989, § 92.064; Ord. of 1-22-1991)
Sec. 36-143. Foundation survey required.
   Where plans submitted for a certificate of zoning compliance show that any
portion of a new structure or addition to an existing structure will be within
five feet of any required yard, a survey prepared by a registered land surveyor
or civil engineer shall be made to ensure that the proposed structure will be
located as shown on the approved plans. This survey shall be conducted after
the construction of any foundation. The survey shall also indicate the location
of roof overhangs, decks, chimneys and any other appurtenances that extend
beyond the walls of the structure. This survey shall be submitted to the zoning
administrator for review and, if in accordance with the approved plans, the
zoning administrator shall issue a statement of approval. This statement shall
be required before any certificate of occupancy shall be issued by the county
building inspections office. If the survey is not performed or if the survey
shows the structure is not in accord with the approved plans, the certificate
of zoning compliance shall be rescinded until such time as a survey shows the
location of the structure is in conformance. In the event the certificate of
zoning compliance is rescinded, the zoning administrator shall notify the
county building inspections office that the building permit is no longer valid.
(Code 1989, § 92.064; Ord. of 11-17-1998; Ord. of 2-8-2011; Ord. of 3-10-2015)
Sec. 36-144. Certificate of occupancy required.
   (a)   A certificate of occupancy issued by the zoning administrator is
required in advance of:
      (1)   Occupancy or use of a building hereafter erected, altered or moved.
      (2)   Change of use of any building or land.
   (b)   In conjunction with the final building inspection, the zoning
administrator shall certify that all requirements of this chapter have been
met. The applicant shall call for such certification coincident with the final
building inspection or within ten days following completion. A certificate of
occupancy, either for the whole or part of a building, shall be applied for
coincident with the application for a certificate of zoning compliance and
shall be issued within ten days after the erection or structural alterations of
the building, or part, shall have been completed in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter. When only a change in use of land or existing
building occurs, the zoning administrator shall issue a certificate of
occupancy coincident with the certificate of zoning compliance. A certificate
of occupancy shall not be issued unless the proposed use of a building or land
conforms to the applicable provisions of this chapter. If the certificate of
occupancy is denied, the zoning administrator shall state in writing the
reasons for refusal and the applicant shall be notified of the refusal. A
record of all certificates shall be kept on file in the office of the zoning
administrator, and copies shall be furnished on request to any person having a
proprietary or tenancy interest in the building or land involved.
(Code 1989, § 92.065; Ord. of 1-22-1991)
Sec. 36-145. Construction progress.
   Construction sites shall be kept clean and free of debris. If work has not
commenced within six months of the date of the issuance of the certificate of
zoning compliance, or if work begins and then ceases for a period of 12 months,
the certificate of zoning compliance shall become invalid.
(Code 1989, § 92.066; Ord. of 1-22-1991; Ord. of 4-10-2007; Ord. of 1-8-2008)
Sec. 36-146. Compliance.
   In case any building is erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered,
repaired, converted or maintained, or any building or land is used in violation
of this chapter, the zoning administrator or any other appropriate town
authority, or any person who would be damaged by such violation, in addition to
other remedies, may institute an action for injunction, or mandamus, or other
appropriate action or proceedings to prevent such violation.
(Code 1989, § 92.067; Ord. of 1-22-1991)
Sec. 36-147. Appeal from the zoning administrator.
   All questions arising in connection with this chapter shall be presented
first to the zoning administrator, and such questions shall be presented to the
board of adjustment only on appeal from a ruling of the zoning administrator.
Any order, requirement, decision or determination made by the zoning
administrator may be appealed to the board of adjustment pursuant to the
procedure found in section 36-185.
(Code 1989, § 92.068)
Secs. 36-148—36-163. Reserved.
ARTICLE VI.
SITE SPECIFIC VESTING PLANS
Sec. 36-164. Site-specific vesting plans.
   (a)   An approved site-specific vesting plan precludes any zoning action by
the Town of Lake Lure, which would change, alter, impair, prevent, diminish, or
otherwise delay the development or use of the property as set forth in an
approved site-specific vesting plan and in accordance with applicable
limitations and exceptions.
   (b)   The development approvals listed below are determined by the Town of
Lake Lure to qualify as site- specific vesting plans.
      (1)   Planned Unit Development Plan;
      (2)   Subdivision Plat;
      (3)   Site Plan;
      (4)   Preliminary or General Development Plan;
      (5)   Special Use Permit;
      (6)   Conditional Zoning.
   (c)   A vested right established pursuant to this article shall run for a
period of two to five years from the effective date of the approval of the
underlying development application.
(Ord. No. 21-05-11, 5-11-2021)
Sec. 36-165. Process for submittal, approval, and amendment of a site-specific
vesting plan.
   (a)   Each site-specific vesting plan shall include the information required
by the Town of Lake Lure for the underlying type of development plan.
   (b)   Each site-specific vesting plan shall provide the notice and hearing
required for the underlying type of development plan.
   (c)   An approved site-specific vesting plan and its conditions may be
amended with the approval of the owner and the local government in the same
manner as required for the underlying type of development plan.
   (d)   Upon following the same process as required for the original approval,
the decision-making board or official may extend the vesting of a site-specific
vesting plan up to three years (with total length of vesting not to exceed five
years) upon finding that:
      (1)   The permit has not yet expired;
      (2)   Conditions have not changed so substantially as to warrant a new
application; and
      (3)   The extension is warranted in light of all other relevant
circumstances—including, but not limited to the size and phasing of
development, the level of investment, the need for the development, economic
cycles, and market conditions or other considerations.
(Ord. No. 21-05-11, 5-11-2021)
Sec. 36-166. Limits of site-specific vesting plans.
   (a)   Nothing in this article shall prohibit the revocation of the original
approval or other remedies for failure to comply with applicable terms and
conditions of the approval or the zoning ordinance. The development remains
subject to subsequent review and approvals to ensure compliance with the terms
and conditions of the original approval as provided for in the original
approval or by applicable regulations.
   (b)   The establishment of a vested right pursuant to this article shall not
preclude the application of overlay zoning that imposes additional requirements
but does not affect the allowable type or intensity of use, or ordinances or
regulations that are general in nature and are applicable to all property
subject to land use regulation by the Town of Lake Lure, including, but not
limited to, building, fire, plumbing, electrical, and mechanical codes.
   (c)   New and amended zoning regulations that would be applicable to certain
property but for the establishment of a vested right shall become effective
upon the expiration or termination of the vested rights period provided for in
this article.
   (d)   Upon issuance of a building permit, the expiration provisions of G.S.
§ 160D-1111 and 160D-1115 apply, except that a building permit shall not expire
or be revoked because of the running of time while a zoning vested right under
this section is outstanding.
   (e)   Any vested rights for a site-specific vesting plan are subject to the
exceptions specified at G.S. § 160D-108.1.
(Ord. No. 21-05-11, 5-11-2021)
Sec. 36-167. Application completeness review.
   (a)   Completeness. Determination applicants shall submit applications to
the zoning administrator in accordance with the applicable published schedule
of submittal dates. Until an application is determined to be complete in
accordance with the requirements, an application has not been submitted.
   (b)   On receiving a development application, the zoning administrator
shall, within 30 business days, determine whether the application is complete
or incomplete. A complete application is one that:
      (1)   Contains all information and materials required by for submittal of
the applicable type of application, [and in].
(Ord. No. 21-05-11, 5-11-2021)
Secs. 36-168—36-177. Reserved.
ARTICLE VII.
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT 2
 
Notes
  Editor's note(s)—Ord. No. 21-05-11, adopted May 11, 2021, added art. VI, site
2 specific vesting plans, thereby renumbering former art. VI, as art. VII, as
  herein set out.
Sec. 36-178. Establishment.
   There shall be and hereby is created a zoning board of adjustment consisting
of five members to be appointed by the town council. Members of the board shall
serve a term of three years, provided that upon initial appointment the terms
of office may be staggered. In filling vacancies created by resignation or
other causes, a new member may be appointed to fill the unexpired term of the
member so vacating. Alternate members shall be appointed for the same term, at
the same time, and in the same manner as regular members. Each alternate member
while attending any regular or special meeting of the board and serving in the
absence of any regular members shall have and may exercise all the powers and
duties of a regular member. Members shall serve without pay but may be
reimbursed for any expenses incurred while representing the board of
adjustment.
(Code 1989, § 92.080)
Sec. 36-179. Alternate members.
   The town council shall appoint three alternate members to serve on the board
of adjustment in the absence, for any cause, of any regular member. Such
alternate members shall be appointed for three-year terms. Such alternate
members while attending any regular or special meeting of the board and serving
in the absence of any regular member, shall have and exercise all the powers
and duties of such regular member so absent. The alternate members shall be
subject to the provisions of section 36-180.
(Code 1989, § 92.081; Ord. of 1-22-1991; Ord. of 1-9-2007)
Sec. 36-180. Rules of conduct.
   (a)   Members of the board of adjustment may be removed by the town council
for cause, including violation of the rules stated in this section.
   (b)   Faithful attendance at meetings of the board and conscientious
performance of the duties required of members of the board shall be considered
a prerequisite to continuing membership on the board.
   (c)   A board member shall not participate in or vote on any quasi-judicial
matter in a manner that would violate affected persons' constitutional rights
to an impartial decision maker. Impermissible conflicts include, but are not
limited to, a member having a fixed opinion prior to hearing the matter that is
not susceptible to change, undisclosed ex-parte communications, a close
familial, business, or other associational relationship with an affected
person, or a financial interest in the outcome of the matter.
   (d)   No board member shall discuss any case with any parties thereto prior
to the hearing on that case; provided, however, that members may receive and/or
seek information pertaining to the case from the zoning administrator or any
other member of the board, its secretary or clerk prior to the hearing.
   (e)   Members of the board shall not express individual opinions on the
proper judgment of any case prior to its determination on that case.
   (f)   When a member is aware of a potential conflict of interest, he shall
give notice to the chairperson at least 48 hours prior to the time scheduled
for hearing such matter.
   (g)   No board member shall vote on any matter that decides an application
or appeal unless he has attended the hearing on that application or appeal.
   (h)   All members appointed to the board shall, before entering their
duties, qualify by taking an oath of office as required by G.S. 153A-26 and
160A-61.
(Code 1989, § 92.082; Ord. of 1-22-1991; Ord. of 10-9-2012; Ord. of 10-8-2013;
Ord. No. 21-05-11, 5-11-2021)
Sec. 36-181. General proceedings.
   (a)   The board of adjustment shall annually elect a chairperson and a vice-
chairperson from among its regular members. The chairperson in turn shall
appoint a clerk, who may be an employee of the town or a municipal officer.
   (b)   The chairperson, or any member acting as chair, and the clerk may
administer oaths.
   (c)   The chairperson or, in the absence of the chairperson, anyone acting
as the chairperson may subpoena witnesses and compel the production of
evidence. To request issuance of a subpoena, persons with standing under G.S.
160D may make a written request to the chairperson explaining why it is
necessary for certain witnesses or evidence to be compelled. The chairperson
shall issue requested subpoenas he determines to be relevant, reasonable in
nature and scope, and not oppressive. The chairperson shall rule on any motion
to quash or modify a subpoena. Decisions regarding subpoenas made by the
chairperson may be appealed to the full board of adjustment.
   (d)   The board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, including the names
of members present and absent, a record of the vote on every question, or
abstention from voting, if any, together with records of its examinations and
other official actions.
(Code 1989, § 92.083; Ord. of 1-22-1991; Ord. of 10-8-2013; Ord. No. 21-05-11,
5-11-2021)
Sec. 36-182. Meetings.
   (a)   Board meetings. The board of adjustment shall hold regular monthly
meetings at a specified time and place. Special meetings of the board may be
called at any time by the chairperson or by request of three or more members of
the board. At least 48 hours' written notice of the time and place of meetings
shall be given, by the chairperson, to each member of the board. All board
meetings are to be held in accordance with G.S. ch. 143, art. 33C (G.S. 143-
318.9 et seq.), commonly referred to as the Open Meetings Act.
   (b)   Cancellation of meetings. Whenever there are no appeals, applications
for special uses or variances, or other business for the board, or whenever so
many members notify the clerk of inability to attend that a quorum will not be
available, the chairperson may dispense with a meeting by giving written or
oral notice to all members.
   (c)   Quorum. A quorum shall consist of three members of the board, but the
board shall not pass upon any questions relating to an application for a
variance when there are less than four members present.
   (d)   Voting. The concurring vote of four-fifths of the board shall be
necessary to grant a variance. A majority of the members shall be required to
decide all other issues before the board, including any other quasi-judicial
matter or an appeal made in the nature of certiorari. Vacant positions on the
board and members who are disqualified from voting on a quasi-judicial matter
shall not be considered members of the board for calculation of the requisite
majority if there are no qualified alternates available to take the place of
such members.
(Code 1989, § 92.084; Ord. of 1-22-1991; Ord. of 10-8-2013; Ord. No. 21-05-11,
5-11-2021)
Sec. 36-183. Powers and duties.
   The board of adjustment is empowered and shall have the responsibility to
hear and decide:
      (1)   Appeals from decisions of administrative officials pursuant to
section
36-185;
      (2)   Applications for special use permits pursuant to section
36-102; and
      (3)   Applications for variances pursuant to section
36-186.
(Code 1989, § 92.085; Ord. of 10-8-2013; Ord. No. 21-05-11, 5-11-2021)
Sec. 36-184. General requirements for quasi-judicial hearings and decisions.
A quasi-judicial decision is a process that involves the finding of facts
regarding a specific application of an ordinance and the exercise of discretion
when applying the standards of the ordinance. Quasi-judicial decisions include
decisions involving variances, special use permits, and appeals of
administrative determinations.
      (1)   Procedure for filing appeals and applications. Notices of appeal
shall be filed with the town clerk. Applications for special use permits and
applications for variances shall be filed with the zoning administrator and
processed in accordance with these regulations. All appeals and applications
shall be made upon the form specified for that purpose, and all information
required on the form shall be complete before an appeal or application shall be
considered as having been filed.
      (2)   Notice of hearing. Notice of hearings conducted pursuant to this
section shall be mailed to the person or entity whose appeal or application is
the subject of the hearing; to the owner of the property that is the subject of
the hearing if the owner did not initiate the hearing; to the owners of all
parcels of land abutting the parcel of land that is the subject of the hearing;
to the owners of all parcels of land within 100 feet of the land (as determined
by GIS) that is the subject of the hearing; and to any other persons entitled
to receive notice as provided by these regulations. In the absence of evidence
to the contrary, the town may rely on the county tax listing to determine
owners of property entitled to mailed notice. The notice must be deposited in
the mail at least ten days, but not more than 25 days, prior to the date of the
hearing. Within that same time period, the town shall also prominently post a
notice of the hearing on the site that is the subject of the hearing or on an
adjacent street or highway right- of-way. In addition, notice of a hearing on
an application for a special use permit shall be posted at town hall and
published in a newspaper having general circulation in the town within that
same time period.
      (3)   Hearings. The board shall conduct a quasi-judicial hearing on the
appeal or application. It shall determine contested facts and make its decision
within 45 days of the conclusion of hearing. The board's decision shall be
based upon competent, material, and substantial evidence in the record of the
hearing. During the hearing, parties will be to participate fully in the
evidentiary hearing, including presenting evidence, cross-examining witnesses,
objecting to evidence, and making legal arguments; may allow non-parties to
present competent, material, and substantial evidence that is not repetitive.
The decision shall be reduced to writing and reflect the board's determination
of contested facts, if any, and their application to applicable standards. The
evidentiary hearing will be the applicant's opportunity to gather and present
competent material and substantial evidence to establish the facts of the case.
The hearing will have testimony under oath from the applicant's parties and
will establish written findings of fact and conclusions of law. The written
decision shall be signed by the chair or other duly authorized member of the
board. The decision of the board shall be effective upon filingsuch decision
with the clerk to the board. The clerk shall see that the decision is delivered
by personal delivery, electronic mail, or by first-class mail to the applicant,
property owner, any entity granted party status at the hearing, and to any
person who has submitted a written request for a copy, prior to the date the
decision becomes effective and shall certify that proper notice has been made.
      (4)   Expiration of authorizations. Unless otherwise specified, any order
or decision of the board in granting a variance or a special use permit shall
expire if a certificate of zoning compliance for such use is not obtained by
the applicant within six months from the date of the decision.
(Code 1989, § 92.086; Ord. of 10-8-2013; Ord. of 5-12-2015; Ord. No. 21-05-11,
5-11-2021)
Sec. 36-185. Appeals.
   The board of adjustment shall hear and decide appeals of administrative
officials charged with enforcement of this chapter and with the subdivision
regulations contained in chapter 28 in accordance with the provisions of this
section.
      (1)   The town and any person who has standing under G.S. 160D may appeal
a decision to the board. An appeal is taken by filing a notice of appeal with
the town clerk. The notice of appeal shall state the grounds for the appeal.
      (2)   The official who made the decision shall give written notice to the
owner of the property that is the subject of the decision and to the party who
sought the decision, if different from the owner. The written notice shall be
delivered by personal delivery, electronic mail, or by first-class mail.
      (3)   The owner or other party shall have 30 days from receipt of the
written notice within which to file an appeal. Any other person with standing
to appeal shall have 30 days from receipt from any source of actual or
constructive notice of the decision within which to file an appeal.
      (4)   It shall be conclusively presumed that all persons with standing to
appeal have constructive notice of the decision from the date a sign containing
the words "Zoning Decision" or "Subdivision Decision" in letters at least six
inches high and identifying the means to contact an official for information
about the decision is prominently posted on the property for at least ten days.
Any such posting shall be the responsibility of the landowner or applicant.
Verification of the posting shall be provided to the official who made the
decision.
      (5)   The official who made the decision shall transmit to the board all
documents and exhibits constituting the record upon which the action appealed
from is taken. The official shall also provide a copy of the record to the
appellant and to the owner of the property that is the subject of the appeal if
the appellant is not the owner.
      (6)   An appeal of a notice of violation or other enforcement order stays
enforcement of the action appealed from unless the official who made the
decision certifies to the board after notice of appeal has been filed that,
because of the facts stated in an affidavit, a stay would cause imminent peril
to life or property or, because the violation is transitory in nature, a stay
would seriously interfere with enforcement of the regulations. In that case,
enforcement proceedings shall not be stayed except by a restraining order,
which may be granted by a court. If enforcement proceedings are not stayed, the
appellant may file with the official a request for an expedited hearing of the
appeal, and the board shall meet to hear the appeal within 15 days after such a
request is filed. Notwithstanding the foregoing, appeals of decisions granting
a permit or otherwise affirming that a proposed use of property is consistent
with the regulations shall not stay further review of an application for
permits or permissions to use such property; in these situations, the appellant
may request, and the board may grant, a stay of a final decision of permit
applications or building permits affected by the issue being appealed.
      (7)   Subject to the provisions of subsection (6) of this section, the
board shall hear the appeal within 45 days of the date of filing such appeal,
and shall render its decision within a reasonable time thereafter.
      (8)   The official who made the decision shall be present at the hearing
as a witness. The appellant shall not be limited at the hearing to matters
stated in the notice of appeal. If any party would be unduly prejudiced by the
presentation of matters not presented in the notice of appeal, the board shall
continue the hearing. The board may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may
modify the decision appealed from and shall make any order, requirement,
decision, or determination that ought to be made. The board shall have all
powers of the official who made the decision.
      (9)   When hearing an appeal pursuant to G.S. 160D or any other appeal in
the nature of certiorari, the hearing shall be based on the record below and
the scope of review shall be as provided in G.S. 160D.
      (10)   The parties to an appeal may agree to mediation or other forms of
alternative dispute resolution.
(Code 1989, § 92.087; Ord. of 10-8-2013; Ord. No. 21-05-11, 5-11-2021)
Sec. 36-186. Variances.
   When unnecessary hardships would result from carrying out the strict letter
of these regulations, the board of adjustment shall vary such regulations upon
a showing of all of the following:
      (1)   Unnecessary hardship would result from the strict application of
the regulations. It shall not be necessary to demonstrate that, in the absence
of the variance, no reasonable use can be made of the property.
      (2)   The hardship results from conditions that are peculiar to the
property, such as location, size, or topography. Hardships resulting from
personal circumstances, as well as hardships resulting from conditions that are
common to the neighborhood or the general public, may not be the basis for
granting a variance.
      (3)   The hardship did not result from actions taken by the applicant or
the property owner. The act of purchasing property with knowledge that
circumstances exist that may justify the granting of a variance shall not be
regarded as a self-created hardship.
      (4)   The requested variance is consistent with the spirit, purpose, and
intent of the regulations, such that public safety is secured, and substantial
justice achieved. Substantial justice is not achieved when granting the
variance would be injurious to the neighborhood or to the general welfare.
         a.   In determining what constitutes an unnecessary hardship, the
board of adjustment shall be guided by the following:
            1.   There are extraordinary and exceptional conditions pertaining
to the particular piece of property in question that are not applicable to
other lands or structures in the same district.
            2.   Granting the variance requested will not confer upon the
applicant any special privileges that are denied to other residents of the
district in which the property is located.
            3.   A literal interpretation of the provisions of this chapter
would deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other residents of
the district in which the property is located.
            4.   The requested variance will not be injurious to the
neighborhood or to the general welfare.
            5.   The special circumstances are not the result of the actions of
the applicant.
            6.   A nonconforming use of neighboring land, structures or
buildings in the same district, and permitted uses of land, structures or
buildings in other districts, will not be considered grounds for the issuance
of a variance.
         b.   In granting any variance, the board of adjustment may prescribe
appropriate conditions and safeguards in conformity with this chapter.
Violation of such conditions and safeguards, when made a part of the terms
under which the variance is granted, shall be deemed a violation of this
chapter and punishable under section
36-431.
(Code 1989, § 92.088; Ord. of 10-8-2013)
Sec. 36-187. Fees for variances, special uses and appeals.
   The fee for a request for a variance, special use, or for an appeal to the
board of adjustment shall be determined by resolution of the town council and
shall be payable to the town.
(Code 1989, § 92.089; Ord. of 10-8-2013; Ord. No. 21-05-11, 5-11-2021)
Sec. 36-188. Judicial review of decisions of the board.
   Decisions of the board of adjustment shall be subject to review by the
superior court by proceedings in the nature of certiorari pursuant to G.S.
160D. A petition for review shall be filed with the clerk of superior court by
the later of 30 days after the decision is effective or after a written copy
thereof is given in accordance with section 36- 184(3). When first-class mail
is used to deliver notice, three days shall be added to the time to file the
petition.
(Code 1989, § 92.090; Ord. of 10-8-2013; Ord. No. 21-05-11, 5-11-2021)
Secs.36-189—36-214. Reserved.
ARTICLE VIII. NONCONFORMANCE; OFF-STREET PARKING AND
LOADING; GENERAL REQUIREMENTS 3
 
Notes
  Editor's note(s)—Ord. No. 21-05-11, adopted May 11, 2021, added art. VI, site
3 specific vesting plans, thereby renumbering former art. VII, as art. VIII, as
  herein set out.
Sec. 36-215. Zoning affects every building and use.
   No building or land shall hereafter be used and no building or part thereof
shall be erected, moved or altered except in conformity with the regulations
herein specified for the district in which it is located, except as provided in
this article.
(Code 1989, § 92.100; Ord. of 1-22-1991)
Sec. 36-216. Nonconforming uses.
   (a)   Intent.
      (1)   Within the districts established by these zoning regulations or
amendments that may later be adopted there may exist:
         a.   Lots;
         b.   Structures;
         c.   Uses of land or water and structures; and
         d.   Characteristics of use which were lawful before these zoning
regulations were adopted or amended, but which would be prohibited, regulated,
or restricted under the terms of these zoning regulations or future amendments.
      (2)   It is the intent of these zoning regulations to permit these
nonconformities to continue until they are voluntarily removed or removed as
required by these zoning regulations; however, such nonconformities shall not
be used as grounds for adding other structures or uses prohibited elsewhere in
the same district.
      (3)   Nonconforming uses are declared by this article to be incompatible
with permitted uses in the districts involved. A nonconforming use of a
structure, a nonconforming use of land or water, or a nonconforming use of a
structure and land or water in combination shall not be extended or enlarged
after the effective date of the ordinance from which this chapter is derived or
its amendment by attachment on structures or premises of additional signs
intended to be seen from off the premises, or by the addition of other uses of
a nature or characteristic which would be prohibited generally in the district
involved. To avoid undue hardship, nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to
require a change in the plans, construction or designated use of any building
for which a valid permit has been approved prior to the effective date of the
ordinance from which this adoption or amendment of this chapter is derived.
   (b)   Nonconforming lots of record. This category of nonconformance consists
of lots for which plats or deeds have been recorded in the county register of
deeds, which at the time of the adoption of the ordinance from which this
chapter is derived, or any amendment thereto, fail to comply with the minimum
area or width requirements of the districts in which they are located. Any such
nonconforming lot may be used for any of the uses permitted in the district in
which it is located provided the owner of the subject lot does not own
sufficient contiguous land to enable conformity to the minimum area or lot
width requirements through recombination, and all other dimensional
requirements can be met. The zoning administrator is authorized to issue a
certificate of zoning compliance after having received an attorney's
certificate of title on a form obtainable from the town.
   (c)   Nonconforming uses of land (or land with minor structures). Where, at
the effective date of the ordinance from which the adoption or amendment of
this chapter is derived, lawful use of land exists which would not be permitted
by these zoning regulations, and where such use involves no minor individual,
permanently fixed structure with a replacement cost exceeding $1,000.00 and no
combination of permanently fixed structures with a replacement cost as high as
$4,000.00, the use may be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful,
provided:
      (1)   Enlargement, increase, intensification. No such nonconforming use
shall be enlarged, increased, intensified or extended to occupy a greater area
of land than was occupied at the effective date of the ordinance from which the
adoption or amendment of this chapter is derived.
      (2)   Movement. No such nonconforming use shall be moved in whole or in
part to any portion of the lot or parcel other than that occupied by such use
at the effective date of the ordinance from which the adoption or amendment of
this chapter is derived.
      (3)   Discontinuance. If any such nonconforming use ceases for any reason
(except when governmental action impedes access to the premises) for a period
of more than 12 consecutive months, any subsequent use of such land shall
conform to the regulations specified by this chapter for the district in which
such land is located.
      (4)   Subdivision or structural additions. No land in nonconforming use
shall be subdivided, nor shall any structures be added on such land, except for
the purposes and in a manner conforming to the regulations for the district in
which such land is located; provided, however, that subdivision may be made
which does not increase the degree of nonconformity of the use.
   (d)   Nonconforming structures. Where a structure exists lawfully under this
chapter at the effective date of the adoption or amendment of this chapter,
that could not be built under these zoning regulations by reasons of
restrictions on area, residential densities, height, yards, location on the
lot, or requirements other than use concerning the structure, such structure
may be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the
following provisions:
      (1)   Enlargement, alteration. No such nonconforming structure may be
enlarged or altered in a way which increases its nonconformity. Enlargements,
additions, or alterations under an existing roofline or within the existing
building footprint shall not be considered an increase in a structure's
nonconformity. Further, a nonconforming structure may be enlarged or altered if
the part of the structure to be enlarged or altered and the area of the lot
into which such changes are proposed pre-exist in conformance with the
requirements of these regulations.
      (2)   Involuntary destruction. Should such nonconforming structure or
nonconforming portion of a structure be destroyed by any means other than
voluntary removal, it may be reconstructed to the same configuration, including
density, height, area, setbacks, parking, and the like, as existed prior to
destruction.
      (3)   Relocation. Should such structure be moved for any reason for any
distance whatever, it shall thereafter conform to the regulations for the
district in which it is located after it is moved.
   (e)   Nonconforming use of major structures, or of major structures and
premises in combination. Where, at the effective date of the adoption or
amendment of this chapter, lawful use of structures, or of structures and
premises in combination exists involving an individual, permanently fixed
structure with a replacement cost at or exceeding $1,000.00 or a combination of
permanently fixed structures with a replacement cost at or exceeding $4,000.00,
which use would not be permitted under these zoning regulations, such use may
be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful, provided:
      (1)   Enlargement, extension, alteration, etc., of structures. No
existing structure devoted to a use not permitted by this chapter in the
district in which such use is located shall be enlarged, extended, constructed,
reconstructed, moved to another location on the property, or structurally
altered except in changing the use of the structure to a use permitted in the
district in which it is located.
      (2)   Extension of use in building manifestly designed for such use. Any
nonconforming use may be extended throughout any parts of a building which were
manifestly arranged or designed for such use at the effective date the
ordinance from which the adoption or amendment of this chapter is derived. Any
nonconforming use which occupied a portion of a building not originally so
arranged or designed or intended for such use shall not be extended to any
other part of the building. No nonconforming use shall be extended to occupy
any land outside the building, nor any additional building on the same lot or
parcel, not used for such nonconforming use at the effective date of the
adoption or amendment of this chapter.
      (3)   Change in tenancy or ownership. There may be a change in tenancy,
ownership, or management of a nonconforming use.
      (4)   Change in use. If no structural alterations are made, any
nonconforming use of a structure, or of a structure and premises in
combination, may be changed to another nonconforming use of the same character,
or to a more restricted but nonconforming use, provided that the zoning
administrator shall find that the proposed use is equally or more appropriate
to the district than the existing nonconforming use and that the relation of
the structure to surrounding properties is such that adverse effects on
occupants and neighboring properties will not be greater than if the existing
nonconforming use is continued. In permitting such change, the zoning
administrator may require appropriate condition and safeguards in accordance
with the intent and purpose of these zoning regulations.
      (5)   Change to conforming use requires future conformity with district
regulations as to use. Any structure, or structure and premises in combination,
in or on which a nonconforming use is superseded by a permitted use shall
thereafter conform to the regulations as to use for the district in which such
structure is located, and the nonconforming use shall not thereafter be resumed
nor shall any other nonconforming use be permitted.
      (6)   Discontinuance. If any nonconforming use of a structure, or
structure and premises in combination, ceases for any reason (except where
governmental action impedes access to the premises) for a period of more than
12 consecutive months, any subsequent use shall conform to the regulations for
the district in which the use is located.
      (7)   Subdivision or structural additions. Premises of major structures
(having values as indicated in this subsection), where such major structures
are used for nonconforming purposes as of the effective date of the adoption or
amendment of this chapter, shall not be subdivided, nor shall any structures be
added on such premises, except for purposes and in a manner conforming to the
regulations for the district in which such premises are located.
   (f)   Nonconforming characteristics of use. If characteristics of use, such
as residential densities, signs, off- street parking or off-street loading, or
other matters pertaining to the use of land and structures are made
nonconforming by these zoning regulations as adopted or amended, no change
shall thereafter be made in such characteristics of use which increases
nonconformity with the regulations set out in this chapter; provided, however,
that changes may be made which do not increase, or which decrease such
nonconformity.
   (g)   Repairs and maintenance. On any nonconforming structure or portion of
a structure and on any structure containing a nonconforming use, ordinary
repairs, or repair or replacement of walls, fixtures, wiring, or plumbing, may
be done.
   (h)   Nonconforming structures unsafe because of lack of maintenance. If a
nonconforming structure or portion of a structure or any structure containing a
nonconforming use becomes physically unsafe or unlawful due to lack of repairs
or maintenance, and is declared by the county building inspector to be unsafe
or unlawful by reason of physical condition, it shall not thereafter be
restored, repaired, or rebuilt except in conformity with the regulations of the
district in which it is located.
   (i)   Nonconforming structures unsafe for reasons other than maintenance. If
a nonconforming structure or portion of a structure or any structure containing
a nonconforming use becomes physically unsafe or unlawful for reasons other
than lack of repairs or maintenance, nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to
prevent the strengthening or restoring to a safe condition of such building or
part thereof declared to be unsafe by the county building inspector.
   (j)   Structures conforming as to use and location. Where a structure is
conforming as to location and use, nothing in these zoning regulations shall be
deemed to prevent the strengthening or restoring to a safe condition of such
structure or part thereof declared to be unsafe by the official of the county
building inspector.
   (k)   Casual, temporary, or illegal use. The casual, temporary or illegal
use of land or structures, or land and structures in combination, shall not be
sufficient to establish the existence of a nonconforming use or to create
rights in the continuance of such use.
   (l)   Uses under special use provisions not nonconforming. Any use which is
permitted as a special use in a district under the terms of this chapter shall
not be deemed a nonconforming use in such district, but shall without further
action be deemed a conforming use in such district.
(Code 1989, § 92.101; Ord. of 3-10-2015; Ord. of 2-9-2016; Ord. of 7-9-2019;
Ord. No. 19-07-09A, 7-9-2019; Ord. No. 21-05-11, 5-11-2021)
Sec. 36-217. Off-street parking and loading requirements.
   It is the intent of these regulations that adequate parking and loading
facilities shall be provided on private property in order to promote the public
safety, to lessen congestion in the public streets, and to help make possible
the full use of existing streets for traffic movement unhindered by parking,
loading and unloading maneuvers conducted within the public streets. To achieve
these purposes, it is further intended that upon the erection of any building
or the use of any lot, off-street parking and loading space shall be provided
which is not less than the minimum required herein. Compliance with these
requirements shall be a continuing responsibility.
(Code 1989, § 92.102; Ord. of 1-22-1991)
Sec. 36-218. Off-street parking required.
   (a)   [Generally.] Off-street automobile storage or parking space shall be
provided on every lot on which any of the following uses are hereafter
established. The number of parking spaces provided shall be at least as great
as the number specified below for various uses. Each space shall be provided
with vehicular access to a street or alley and shall be provided with adequate
space for turning so that no vehicle shall be required to back into the street
except from space used for single- or two-family dwellings. Commercial parking
spaces shall measure at least nine feet by 18 feet. To ensure orderly parking,
each parking space shall be appropriately delineated as determined by the
zoning administrator.
   (b)   [Parking requirements.] Requirements for off-street parking for uses
not specifically mentioned in this section shall be the same as provided for
the use most similar to the one sought, it being the intent of these
regulations to require all uses to provide off-street parking unless specific
provision is made to the contrary.
Uses Required Parking
Uses                                    Required Parking
Any residential use consisting of not   One space for each dwelling unit
more than four dwelling units
Roominghouses, boardinghouses, and bed  One space for each bedroom available
and breakfast establishments            for rent, plus one space for each two
                                        employees
Tourist courts, hotels, motels and inns One space for each accommodation, plus
                                        one space for each two employees
Multifamily residential uses containing
more than four dwelling units,          1½ spaces for each dwelling unit
including condominiums
Bowling alleys                          Two spaces for each alley, plus one
                                        space for each two employees
Sanitariums, nursing homes, rest and    One space for each six patient beds,
convalescent homes, homes for the aged, plus one space for each staff or
family care homes, and other similar    visiting doctor, plus one space for
institutions                            each four employees
Mobile home parks                       Two spaces for each mobile home space
                                        One space for each two beds, plus one
Hospitals and clinics                   space for each staff or visiting
                                        doctor, plus one space for each two
                                        employees, including nurses
Mortuary or funeral home                One space for each four seats in the
                                        chapel or parlor
Places of public assembly, including    One space for each four seats in the
school auditoriums                      principal assembly room
Places of assembly or recreation        One space for each 200 square feet of
without fixed seats                     gross floor space directed to patron
                                        use
Schools, elementary and junior high     One space for each classroom and
                                        administrative office
Schools, senior high                    One space for each classroom and
                                        administrative office
Churches or other religious             One space for each four seats in the
institutions                            auditorium or main assembly room
Colleges                                One space for each four pupils
Libraries, art galleries, and public    One space for each 200 square feet of
buildings                               gross floor space
Physicians' and dentists' offices       Five spaces per physician or dentist,
                                        plus one space for each employee
Professional and business offices       One space for each 200 square feet of
                                        gross floor space
                                        One space for each 200 square feet of
Banks                                   gross floor space, plus one space for
                                        each two employees
Retail stores and shops of all kinds,   One space for each 200 square feet of
including barber and shoe and similar   gross floor space, plus one space for
service outlets                         each two employees
Car sales, house and truck trailer      Four spaces for each salesperson, plus
sales, outdoor equipment and machinery  one space for each two other employees
sales, commercial nurseries
                                        One space for each three seating
Restaurants                             accommodations, plus one space for each
                                        two employees on shift of greatest
                                        employment
Gasoline service or filling stations    Five spaces for each grease rack, and
                                        five spaces for each wash rack
                                        One space for each employee, plus one
Child care centers                      space per ten children but no less than
                                        four spaces beyond those provided for
                                        employees
 
   (c)   Location on other property. If the required automobile parking spaces
cannot reasonably be provided on the same lot on which the principal use is
conducted, such spaces may be provided on other off-street property provided
such property lies within 400 feet of the main entrance to such principal use.
Such automobile parking space shall be associated with the principal use and
shall not thereafter be reduced or encroached upon in any manner.
   (d)   Extension of parking space into a residential district. Required
parking space may extend up to 120 feet into a residential zoning district,
provided that the parking space:
      (1)   Adjoins a commercial district;
      (2)   Has its only access to or fronts upon the same street and is
adjacent to the property in the commercial district for which it provides the
required parking space; and
      (3)   Is separated from abutting properties in the residential district
by a 15-foot-wide buffer strip densely planted with evergreens which at
maturity will be at least six feet in height.
   (e)   Reduction in area and number of parking spaces. No open area in an
off-street parking area shall be encroached upon by buildings, storage, or any
other use; nor shall the number of parking spaces be reduced except after the
submission of proof to the zoning administrator that, by reason of reduction in
floor area, seating capacity, number of employees, or change in other factors
controlling the regulation of the number of off-street parking spaces, the
proposed reduction is reasonable and consistent with the intent of this
chapter.
   (f)   Mixed uses. In the case of mixed uses, including live-work units, the
total requirement for off-street parking shall be the sum of the requirements
of the various uses computed separately as specified herein.
(Code 1989, § 92.103; Ord. of 1-22-1991; Ord. of 1-24-1995; Ord. of 7-10-2001;
Ord. of 3-10-2009)
Sec. 36-219. Off-street loading and unloading space required.
   Every lot on which business or trade use is hereafter established shall
provide space as indicated herein for the loading and unloading of vehicles off
the street or public alley. Such space shall have access to an alley, or if
there is no alley, to a street. For the purpose of this section, an off-street
loading space shall have minimum dimensions of 12 feet by 40 feet. Required
space shall be considered as follows:
      (1)   Retail business. One space for each 5,000 square feet of gross
floor area.
      (2)   Truck terminals. Sufficient space to accommodate the maximum number
of trucks to be stored or to be loading or unloading at the terminal at any one
time.
(Code 1989, § 92.104; Ord. of 1-22-1991)
Sec. 36-220. Corner visibility.
   On any corner lot in any district, no planting, fence, structure, or other
obstruction shall be erected so as to interfere with sight distance standards
established by the department of transportation for secondary roads.
(Code 1989, § 92.105; Ord. of 1-22-1991)
Sec. 36-221. Required yards not to be used by another building.
   The minimum yards or other open spaces required by this chapter for each and
every building hereafter erected, moved or structurally altered shall not be
encroached upon or considered to meet the yard or open space requirements of
any other building except as provided in section
36-104.
(Code 1989, § 92.106; Ord. of 1-22-1991)
Sec. 36-222. One principal building on a lot.
   Every building hereafter erected or moved shall be located on a lot, and in
no case shall there be more than one principal building and its accessory
buildings on a lot except as provided in sections 36-57(d) and 36-104.
(Code 1989, § 92.107; Ord. of 1-22-1991; Ord. of 4-8-2014)
Sec. 36-223. Reduction of lot and yard area.
   No yard or lot existing at the time of passage of this section shall be
reduced in size or area below the minimum requirements set forth herein. Yards
or lots created after the effective date of the ordinance from which this
article is derived shall meet at least the minimum requirements established by
this chapter.
(Code 1989, § 92.108; Ord. of 1-22-1991)
Sec. 36-224. Street access.
   No building or use of land for other than agricultural purposes shall be
established on a lot which does not abut a street except as provided in section
36-104.
(Code 1989, § 92.109; Ord. of 1-22-1991)
Sec. 36-225. Corner lots.
   On corner lots, the side yard on that side of the lot abutting the side
street shall not be less than the front yard requirements for lots fronting on
the side street.
(Code 1989, § 92.110; Ord. of 1-22-1991)
Sec. 36-226. Junkyards and outdoor privies.
   Junkyards and outdoor privies not connected to public water and sewer
facilities are prohibited in the town.
(Code 1989, § 92.111; Ord. of 1-22-1991)
Sec. 36-227. Mobile homes.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or locate, place, maintain or
use any mobile home within the limits of the town, either occupied or
unoccupied, unless said mobile home is within a mobile home park, except that a
mobile home may be used as a temporary shelter or office on a construction site
during the actual period of construction.
(Code 1989, § 92.112; Ord. of 1-22-1991)
Sec. 36-228. Mobile home tie-downs.
   All mobile homes in the town limits shall be anchored or tied down in
accordance with the regulations of mobile homes for the state. Existing mobile
homes in the town limits shall be so anchored or tied down within one year of
the effective date of the ordinance from which this chapter is derived.
(Code 1989, § 92.113; Ord. of 1-22-1991)
Sec. 36-229. Travel trailers (motor homes).
   One unoccupied travel trailer may be parked or located in any accessory
private garage building or in a yard of an occupied dwelling. Upon receipt of
an occupancy permit from the zoning administrator, a travel trailer so located
may be occupied for a period not exceeding 90 days. Existing situations, where
a travel trailer is attached as an integral part of a permanent structure to
provide utilities or living quarters, shall not constitute a nonconforming use
under the terms of this chapter.
(Code 1989, § 92.114; Ord. of 1-22-1991)
Sec. 36-230. Rights-of-way.
   Street and highway rights-of-way shall not be determined as part of a lot or
any required yard or open space.
(Code 1989, § 92.115; Ord. of 1-22-1991)
Sec. 36-231. Fences, walls and hedges.
   (a)   Fences, walls and hedges are exempt from setback requirements except
that in residential districts, fences and walls are limited to eight feet in
height from the existing ground elevation in the required side and rear yards.
   (b)   In the required lake front yards of all residential districts, fences,
walls and hedges shall be limited to 42 inches in height.
   (c)   In the required street front yards of all residential districts, open
fences (those allowing the free flow of light and air other than those
prohibited by subsection (d) of this section) are limited to eight feet in
height and solid walls and fences are limited to three feet in height from the
existing ground elevation. Walls and fences may be combined, provided not more
than three feet of the height of the structure may be solid and the remainder
shall be open fence work. Where fences are erected, solid support columns not
more than 16 inches in width on not less than eight-foot centers shall be
allowed up to eight feet in height and such columns may be topped with
decorative elements such as balls, vases and the like up to a total height of
nine feet. Open fences include wood or metal picket, wrought iron or similar
designs with a solid to open ratio of not more than 1:4. Columns at entrance to
vehicular driveways shall be allowed up to 36 inches per side.
   (d)   Chain link fencing, chicken wire, hardware cloth, and other woven or
mesh products are not permitted in required street front yards of any district.
Welded, galvanized or painted wire fencing materials are permitted when fully
framed within a wood or similar construction fence. However, when used to
enclose, protect, or secure property owner by a utility or a government agency,
dark coated chain link fencing is permissible with or without dark woven mesh
products. All dark woven mesh products shall installed on the interior side of
fence.
   (e)   All fences, walls and hedges are subject to the provisions of section
36-220 regarding visibility at intersections.
   (f)   Retaining walls needed to prevent erosion or land subsidence are
allowed in all required yards and are exempt from the height limitations of
this section.
(Code 1989, § 92.116; Ord. of 1-12-1999; Ord. of 10-14-2003; Ord. No. 21-05-
11B, 5-11-2021)
Sec. 36-232. Home occupations.
   (a)   The person conducting the home occupation must be the owner of the
dwelling unit/building or accessory building in which the home occupation is to
be located, or if the applicant is a tenant, written approval of the owner must
be provided.
   (b)   The use of the dwelling unit/building or accessory building for home
occupations shall be clearly incidental and subordinate to its use for
residential purposes by its occupants, and shall under no circumstances change
the residential character of it.
   (c)   Deliveries or pick-ups of supplies or products associated with the
home occupation are allowed only between 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.
   (d)   The home occupation shall not generate additional traffic beyond what
is customary to and of the type associated with residential use.
   (e)   Goods or materials used in connection with a home occupation shall
only be stored within a completely enclosed structure.
   (f)   No vehicles used primarily in connection with a home occupation which
advertises that home occupation may be parked where they are visible from the
road.
   (g)   No merchandise or articles for sale shall be displayed for advertising
purposes so as to be visible from outside the main dwelling.
   (h)   No persons other than the resident occupants and three individuals
shall be working on the home occupation in the dwelling unit/building or
accessory building at any given time.
   (i)   No equipment or process shall be used in such home occupation which
creates noise, vibration, glare, fumes, odors, or electrical interference which
is detectable.
   (j)   There shall be no visible evidence of the conduct of a home occupation
when viewed from the street right-of-way or from an adjacent lot. No changes
shall be made to the outside appearance of the dwelling unit or lot for the use
in conjunction with a home occupation and there shall be no other visible
evidence of the conduct of such home occupation on the lot. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, a home occupation may utilize one non- illuminated sign, not
exceeding two square feet in area, affixed to the residence.
   (k)   The home occupation shall cease immediately when the use is determined
by the zoning administrator to be a nuisance or is in violation of any statute,
ordinance, law or regulation.
   (l)   Parking adequate to accommodate employees, clients or customers, and
residents shall be provided off the street and shall be screened from view from
adjoining properties.
(Code 1989, § 92.117; Ord. of 1-8-2008)
Sec. 36-233. Fabric and metal structures.
   (a)   Fabric structures. To protect the character and appearance of the
town, no fabric structures, including tents and similar fabric-covered
shelters, shall be erected in the town in any zoning district except in
accordance with
chapter 6.
   (b)   Metal structures. Metal framed structures and metal sheathing are
permitted in the town in any zoning district, provided that no metal sheathed
walls shall be visible from any primary streets or adjoining residentially
zoned property. All proposed metal sheathed walls within sight distance from
any primary streets or adjoining residentially zoned property shall either be
overlaid with wood, stone, or other natural or simulated natural material or
hidden by walls, structures, buffer strips, or other means.
(Code 1989, § 92.118; Ord. of 11-15-2005; Ord. of 4-10-2007; Ord. of 10-13-
2009; Ord. of 9-10-2013)
Sec. 36-234. Existing nonconforming commercial lighting.
   (a)   Lights brought into compliance. Any commercial lighting existing on
the date of enactment of the ordinance from which this article is derived which
does not conform to the requirements of section
36-111 shall be taken down and removed or brought into compliance by the owner,
agent, or person having the beneficial use of the building, land, or structure
upon which such lighting may be found within a period of ten years.
   (b)   Amortization. The amortization period for nonconforming commercial
lighting is ten years. All commercial lighting must be in compliance by March
12, 2029.
   (c)   Repair of nonconforming lighting. Any commercial lighting existing on
the date of enactment of the ordinance from which this article is derived shall
not be repaired if 50 percent or more of the value of the fixture must be
restored in order for it to be deemed in good repair; instead, such lighting
shall be removed and a new lighting fixture which conforms to the regulations
set forth by section
36-111 shall be erected. The 50 percent standard shall not be applicable to the
retrofitting of fixtures to achieve conformance as per section
36-111.
   (d)   Relocation of nonconforming lighting. Any commercial lighting fixture
existing on the date of enactment of the ordinance from which this article is
derived exhibiting light trespass as per section
36-111(d) shall be taken down and removed or brought into compliance on or
before March 12, 2029, by the owner, agent, or person having the beneficial use
of the building, land, or structure upon which such lighting may be found.
   (e)   Emergency lighting. Emergency lighting, or lighting deemed essential
by OSHA or any other regulatory agencies, to enhance worker safety in hazardous
environments shall not be subject to the requirements of this section.
   (f)   Enforcement. Enforcement of the provisions of this section shall be as
provided in section
36-431.
(Code 1989, § 92.119; Ord. No. 21-05-11, 5-11-2021)
Sec. 36-235. Gatehouses, guardhouses and security gates.
   (a) Gatehouses, guardhouses and security gates may be permitted provided
that:
      (1)    It is not located on a publicly dedicated street or street right-
of-way; and
      (2)   The project proposal is reviewed and approved by the Fire Chief,
Police Chief and any other authority having jurisdiction (AHJ).
   (b) Gatehouses, guardhouses and security gates are exempt from yard setback
requirements but for applications other than personal dwellings:
      (1)   Shall be setback sufficiently far from public road access to allow
for the stacking of at least three (3) vehicles out of the public travel lanes
on the public road;
      (2)    Shall have an additional setback in front of the gate to allow a
vehicle which is denied access to safely turn around and exit onto a public
road;
      (3)   Shall provide adequate gate width and alignment of approach and
departure areas, on both sides of gate, to allow free and unimpeded passage of
emergency vehicles;
      (4)    Where the gate crosses a travel way, such gate shall open so as to
provide a    minimum width of 18 feet of passage for two-way travel; or minimum
width of 12 feet of passage for one-way travel.
   (c) Gatehouses, guardhouses and security gates shall provide unfettered and
immediate access to all private roads by emergency and law enforcement vehicles
and reasonably guarantee access to all private roads by Town, County and State
of North Carolina employees operating within the scope of their official duties
to perform governmental regulatory activities, and to all public utility
companies to perform installation and maintenance activities of public utility
infrastructure. If an emergency necessitates the breaking of an entrance gate,
the cost of repairing the gate and the emergency vehicle if applicable, shall
be the responsibility of the owner or operator of the gate. A statement to this
effect shall be filed with the Town of Lake Lure Police Department and appear
on the final plat of all new development.
Secs. 36-236—36-261. Reserved.
ARTICLE IX.
LAND CLEARING AND GRADING 4
 
Notes
  Editor's note(s)—Ord. No. 21-05-11, adopted May 11, 2021, added art. VI, site
4 specific vesting plans, thereby renumbering former art. VIII, as art. IX, as
  herein set out.
Sec. 36-262. Land clearing and grading associated with development.
   (a)   General. Except as provided herein, no land clearing and/or grading
associated with development, as defined in this chapter, shall begin unless and
until an approved land disturbance permit in chapter 22 has been obtained, a
site plan meeting the requirements of this section has been approved by the
tree protection officer or his designee and the property has been staked
according to the structure boundaries and clearable areas shown on the site
plan. Cutting of significant trees during development in areas other than those
designated as appropriate in Figure 1 and this section is prohibited unless
provided for as part of an approved site plan. Tree topping is prohibited under
any conditions. It should be noted that due to severe topographic conditions,
sensitive natural areas, or soils that do not easily support soil drainage
systems, some land may be unsuited to some land clearing or land disturbance
projects that may be proposed.
   (b)   Site plan. The tree protection officer may require the site plan to
take the form of a topographic survey of the subject property, at a scale
sufficient to clearly indicate required details, which may include at least the
following:
      (1)   Adjoining roads, and any watercourses or bodies of water either
contained within the bounds of the subject property or adjoining it.
      (2)   Property and setback lines.
      (3)   The location on the site and footprints of all proposed structures
and other improvements, such as dwellings (including any associated extrusions
such as balconies, porches, decks, exterior stairways, patios, car ports, and
the like), outbuildings, utilities, water lines, sewer lines or septic system,
and other structures such as paths and walkways (including any associated
boardwalks, ramps, stairs, and the like), driveways, parking areas, garden
areas, and the like.
      (4)   Clearable areas as defined in this article. Utility easements, if
required, shall follow the route estimated to cause the least possible
disruption to vegetation, to viewsheds, and/or to the natural contour of the
land.
      (5)   Location of additional areas proposed for clearing or thinning for
the purpose of grading, patios, views, etc.
      (6)   With regard to commercial parking lots for five or more cars, the
site plan shall clearly show the location and extent of areas that are to be
cleared and areas that are to be protected as green spaces within or adjacent
to the parking area (see section 36-112).
      (7)   Where the subject property includes steep slopes, a steep slope
plan shall be included as part of the site plan. See also sections
36-396 through
36-398.
      (8)   Any additional documentation that the tree protection officer may
determine to be necessary in order to determine the specifics of the plan.
      (9)   Seals or signatures are required from any professionals who are
involved in preparation or review of the site plan, such as the surveyor and
the architect or builder who adds to the site plan the location of the house
and/or other structures to be constructed or improved. On steep slopes, the
seal or signature of the inspecting qualified licensed professional is also
required.
   (c)   Standards. Except as otherwise noted, land clearing permitted under
these zoning regulations shall be governed by the locations of trees and/or
shrubbery with respect to the structures planned for the lot (see Figure 1).
      (1)   Structure boundary. The removal of trees and native shrubs is
required within the footprint of the proposed structures, provided that such
structures meet all applicable town regulations.
      (2)   Clearable areas. The removal of trees and native shrubbery is
permissible within the clearable area lines provided that soil safety and
retention are not put at risk.
      (3)   Remainder of lot. All areas outside of the clearable areas shall be
marked on the site plan as protected forest areas. No significant trees or
native shrubs may be removed from these areas except for specified significant
trees or areas of shrubbery whose thinning or removal may be authorized on the
site plan by the tree protection officer. Such special authorizations may be
granted for purposes such as those listed below, provided that the visual tree
canopy and natural appearance of ridgelines are protected and that soil safety
and retention are not put at risk. The purposes for which tree thinning or
removals may be authorized include the following:
         a.   Underbrushing without grubbing, for landscaping purposes.
         b.   Tree thinning, except within trout buffers, for the development
of views or to provide sunlight for gardening.
         c.   Removal or thinning of flammable species for purposes of fire
prevention. (See The Lake Lure Tree Management Handbook.)
         d.   Underbrushing with grubbing, for construction of erosion control
measures in specified areas (as directed by the erosion control officer), to
clear for gardening (see section
36-263), or to prevent regeneration of undesirable species as directed or
approved by the tree protection officer).
   Note that these permissions do not include the removal of significant trees
for the construction of easily relocatable features such as stairs and paths
without exception being granted by the tree protection officer or his designee.
      (4)   Lakefront lots. For lakefront lots, any trees that must be removed
as a result of marine construction or due to erosive collapse shall be
indicated on the plan and be replanted according to the requirements of this
section.
(Code 1989, § 92.120; Ord. of 6-12-2007; Ord. of 6-10-2008; Ord. of 1-9-2018)
Sec. 36-263. Land clearing and grading not associated with an application for
development authorization.
   (a)   General. It shall be unlawful to conduct land clearing and grading not
associated with an application for development authorization except in
accordance with this section.
   (b)   Authorization. Authorization must be obtained in writing from the tree
protection officer or designee for any land clearing or grading activity not
authorized by an approved site plan in section 36-262 or exempted (section
36-262(c)) under these regulations. Any such land clearing that is begun
without authorization subjects the property owner to penalties outlined in
section
36-431. Requirements for land clearing authorization include the following:
      (1)   A site plan showing relevant features of the property proposed for
land clearing and/or grading, including, but not limited to, property lines,
waterways adjoining or passing through the property, steep slopes, sensitive
natural areas, and the extent of proposed land clearing and/or grading
activities.
      (2)   A sequential list detailing the permit acquisitions,
authorizations, land clearing, grading, and/or any other activities the
proposal may require, in the correct order of execution. In the case of
clearing prior to development, the list shall also include a date for
submission of formal section
36-232 development plans for the property.
      (3)   A date by which all listed activities must be completed.
      (4)   Any other items the tree protection officer or designee deems
necessary to ensure compliance with these regulations.
   (c)   Allowed activities. The activities listed herein shall be allowed
provided that the person undertaking them obtain land clearing authorization
from the tree protection officer or designee.
   (d)   Forestry activity.
      (1)   Forestry activity on land that is taxed on the basis of its
present-use value as forest land under G.S. ch. 105, art. 12 (G.S. 105-274 et
seq.) and that is conducted in accordance with a forest management plan
prepared or approved by a forester registered in accordance with G.S. ch. 89B.
A copy of the forest management plan shall be filed with the tree protection
officer prior to the removal of trees from the land.
      (2)   Property owners wishing to harvest trees from property that is
neither taxed on the basis of its present- use value as forest land nor managed
in accordance with a valid forest management plan must obtain a valid forestry
management plan as well as land clearing authorization before harvesting
begins.
   (e)   Delay of development authorization. When any allowed activity, as
described in subsection (b) of this section, results in excessive tree removal,
as defined in this chapter, the town may deny a certificate of zoning
compliance or refuse to approve a site plan or subdivision plat for such land
for a period of three years after the last date that clearing activities
occurred on the site. If the violation was willful, this period may be
increased to five years from the last date that clearing activities occurred on
the site.
   (f)   Exceptions. Insofar as they are not undertaken with the intent of
circumventing these zoning regulations, the following activities do not require
land clearing authorization or a permit and, so long as they comply with any
other applicable regulations, may be carried out at any time:
      (1)   Cutting of diseased or hazardous trees.
      (2)   Cutting of trees not classified as significant.
      (3)   Tree removal for the purpose of creating a hiking or biking trail.
      (4)   Tree removal for installation or maintenance of utilities,
provision of safe visibility at intersections, or any other public health or
safety purpose.
      (5)   Tree removal on a lot containing a single-family dwelling or duplex
which does not constitute the excessive removal of trees as defined in this
chapter.
(Code 1989, § 92.121; Ord. of 6-12-2007; Ord. of 6-10-2008; Ord. of 1-9-2018)
Sec. 36-264. Special administrative and enforcement provisions for land
clearing and grading activities.
   The following special administrative and enforcement provisions shall apply
to land clearing and grading activities as specified in sections
36-262 and
36-263:
      (1)   Inspections. The tree protection officer or a designee shall
periodically inspect all land clearing and grading activities to ensure
compliance with this chapter, or rules or orders adopted or issued pursuant to
this chapter, and to determine whether the measures required in the site plan
are effective in protecting all significant trees not indicated in the site
plan for removal. Notice of the right to inspect shall be included in the
certificate of zoning compliance.
      (2)   Stop-work order. The tree protection officer is authorized to issue
a stop-work order at any time that any of the following is determined to have
occurred:
         a.   Tree removal for development prior to obtaining a land clearing
authorization and site plan approval.
         b.   A significant deviation from approved plans, certificates, or
permits.
         c.   Systematic or habitual removal of or damage to protected trees
and/or shrubs, and/or their root protection zones.
         d.   General carelessness with regard to tree protection and/or
erosion control.
      (3)   Remedies. Following issuance of a stop-work order the tree
protection officer shall provide the property owner with detailed descriptions
of approved methods, protective barriers, and the repairs and/or replantings
needed to correct the damage. In cases where additional or more severe
penalties are required, the penalties described in section
36-431 may be considered. The tree protection officer shall verify that all
appropriate measures have been implemented, including any necessary agreements
by the owner or the owner's agent to complete weather-sensitive replantings at
the appropriate season, before work is allowed to resume.
      (4)   Replantings. Any significant tree cut in excess of the number
allowed by the Forest Coverage Table or without an approved tree protection
plan, or in violation of an approved tree protection plan, or that is damaged
during construction to the extent that the tree is likely to die, shall be
replaced by healthy trees at the expense of the owner of the property, or the
owner's agent. Such trees shall be replaced by species recommended in the Lake
Lure Tree Management Handbook, at the "minimum dbh for replanting" sizes
appropriate to the species as shown in Appendix A to this chapter and in
sufficient numbers to equal the total inches in dbh of the trees damaged or
unlawfully removed. Any areas exceeding 100 square feet in size from which
native shrubbery and their stumps and roots have been removed without approval
as part of a tree protection plan, or that are damaged to an extent likely to
cause the death of those shrubs, shall be replanted with healthy shrubbery at
the expense of the owner or the owner's agent. Such replacement trees and/or
shrubs shall be planted in the approximate location of the originals that were
damaged or unlawfully removed, or elsewhere on the property as approved by the
tree protection officer, and shall be inspected at intervals by the tree
protection officer. Any replanted trees or shrubs not continuing in good health
for a minimum of two years shall be replanted at the expense of the owner of
the property or the owner's agent.
(Code 1989, § 92.122; Ord. of 6-12-2007)
Secs. 36-265—36-291. Reserved.
ARTICLE X.
EXCEPTIONS 5
 
Notes
  Editor's note(s)—Ord. No. 21-05-11, adopted May 11, 2021, added art. VI, site
5 specific vesting plans, thereby renumbering former art. IX, as art. X, as
  herein set out.
Sec. 36-292. Lot of record.
   Only where the owner of a lot consisting of one or more lots of official
record in any district at the time of the adoption of this article, or his
successor in title thereto, does not own sufficient contiguous land to enable
him to conform to the minimum lot size requirements of this article, may such
lot be used as a building site subject to the provisions of section
36-216.
(Code 1989, § 92.130; Ord. of 1-22-1991)
Sec. 36-293. Front yard setbacks for dwellings.
   The front yard setback requirements of this chapter for dwellings shall not
apply to any lot where the average setback of existing buildings located wholly
or partially within 100 feet on either side of the proposed dwelling and on the
same side of the same block and use district and fronting on the same street as
such lot is less than the minimum required front yard depth. In such cases, the
setback on such lots may be less than the required setback, but not less than
the average of the existing setbacks on the aforementioned lots, or a distance
of ten feet from the street right-of-way line, whichever is greater.
(Code 1989, § 92.131; Ord. of 1-22-1991)
Sec. 36-294. Lots not served by public water and/or sewer.
   Lots not served by public water and/or sewer, and for which development is
proposed, shall be examined by the county health department and certified to
equal or exceed the public health requirements for private water and/or
sewerage facilities for the proposed use before a building permit shall be
issued.
(Code 1989, § 92.132; Ord. of 1-22-1991)
Sec. 36-295. Exceptions to required yards.
   In all zoning districts, yards, as defined in section 36-5, shall be as
established by this chapter provided the following shall be permitted in any
yard:
      (1)   Access structures to connect the principal structure to the street
or shoreline, provided said structures are constructed above grade at an
elevation no greater than reasonably required by topography.
      (2)   Fences, walls, hedges, and retaining walls under the provisions of
section
36-231.
      (3)   One masonry column located on each side of a driveway to define the
entrance to a property or to support a gate across a driveway, provided that
such columns shall not exceed 36 inches in width and eight feet in height.
      (4)   Entrance gates, gatehouses or guardhouses as defined in section
36-5 and under the provisions of section
36-235.
(Code 1989, § 92.133; Ord. of 4-9-2002; Ord. of 10-14-2003)
Sec. 36-296. Lake structures.
   Lake structures within the full pond boundary of the waters of Lake Lure are
regulated by the Lake Structure Regulations, rather than this Zoning
Regulations chapter. Lake Structures within the boundary of any other lake or
navigable body of water will be regulated under this chapter as accessory
structures with the following provisions:
      (1)    Lake structures not within the full pond boundary of the waters
known as Lake Lure will be exempt from setback requirements at the point where
the lake structure connects with the lakeshore property line.
      (2)    The owner of the lake or other navigable body of water must
provide authorization for the structure to be built on that property, including
but not limited to the owner’s signature on the zoning permit application.
Secs. 36-297. Exceptions to 36-140(b)(5).
   The doubled permit fee penalty for failing to obtain a required permit prior
to commencing work shall not apply to either a Mobile Food Vendor Operator or a
Vacation Rental Operator who begin operating within the Town without the
required Town permit. However, the violation may subject that violator to civil
fines as provided in the Town fee schedule.
Secs. 36-298—36-323. Reserved.
ARTICLE XI.
SIGN REGULATIONS 6
 
Notes
  Editor's note(s)—Ord. No. 21-05-11, adopted May 11, 2021, added art. VI, site
6 specific vesting plans, thereby renumbering former art. X, as art. XI, as
  herein set out.
Sec. 36-324. Intent and application.
   This article is established to regulate and control all existing and future
signs throughout the zoning jurisdiction of the town. The provisions of this
article shall apply to the display, construction, erection, placement,
alteration, use, location, illumination, and maintenance of all signs, except
as specifically exempted in this article. A sign may be erected, placed,
established, painted, created or maintained in the town only in conformance
with the standards, procedures, exemptions and other requirements of this
article. All signs not expressly permitted by this article are prohibited. This
article shall provide for the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter and
establish a limited variety of signs in other zones, subject to the standards
and permit procedures of this chapter. Internally lighted signs are acceptable,
however, to improve the environmental setting the town would prefer that signs
be externally lighted whenever possible.
(Code 1989, § 92.145; Ord. of 1-22-1991; Ord. of 11-18-2003)
Sec. 36-325. Purpose of article.
   It shall be the purpose of this article to promote the safety, health,
peace, dignity and general welfare of the people and the town in a manner
consistent with the unique natural beauty that distinguishes the town through
the regulation of the posting, displaying, erection, use and maintenance of
signs. Further, it is recognized that the standards and regulations for signs
will address the following purposes:
      (1)   Provide an improved environmental setting and community appearance
which is vital for the economic well-being of the town.
      (2)   Create a more productive and professional business environment.
      (3)   Provide signs which are in scale and appropriate to the planned
character and development in each zoning district.
      (4)   Promote traffic safety and prevent hazard or nuisance conditions
for vehicle or pedestrian traffic.
      (5)   Prevent the visual clutter of signage which distracts from business
and conflicts with legitimate informational signage and signage which is
essential for public health and safety.
      (6)   Protect and enhance the value of properties within the town.
      (7)   Promote the public safety and general welfare of the town.
(Code 1989, § 92.146; Ord. of 11-18-2003)
Sec. 36-326. Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
Abandoned sign means a sign which was erected on property in conjunction with a
particular use, which use has been discontinued for a period of 180 days or
more, or a temporary sign for which the permit has expired or the event has
occurred. This is not intended to apply to the seasonal type businesses which
annually operate "in season." However, failure to operate any business for a
minimum of 90 consecutive days in a calendar year will deem these signs to have
been abandoned.
Additional signs (signage) means signs used on premises in addition to a
business designation sign to identify the availability of products, services or
other items.
Amortization means the method of eliminating a nonconforming sign by requiring
the termination of the sign after a specified period of time.
Banners, pennants and balloons mean any animated, rotating, fluttering or
nonstationary device made of flexible materials designed to attract attention.
Blade sign means a sign not designed to stand alone, which must be appended to
another sign.
Business designation sign means a sign to designate the legal name of the
business.
Canopy means a structure constructed of rigid materials, including, but not
limited to, metal, wood, concrete, plastic, canvas or glass that is attached to
and supported by a building or by columns, poles or braces extended to the
ground.
Canopy sign means a sign which is suspended, attached to or supported from, or
forms a part of a canopy.
Changeable copy sign means a sign on which message copy is changed manually or
electronically in the field, through the utilization of attachable letters,
numbers, symbols and other similar characters or changeable pictorial panels.
Time and temperature signs are not included in this definition.
Commercial or industrial center means three or more separate occupancies
located within the same or adjacent building or buildings on the same non-
residentially zoned parcel.
Directory sign means a sign listing only the names and/or use or location of
more than one business, activity or professional office conducted within a
building, group of buildings, or commercial center.
Double-faced sign means a sign with two faces which are usually, but not
necessarily, parallel.
Electrical sign means a self-illuminated sign or sign structure in which the
electrical wiring, connections or fixtures are used as part of the sign proper.
Exempt sign means any sign that is specifically listed as exempt from this
article. Said listed exempt signs are not regulated by the terms of this
article.
Existing sign means any sign that was erected or displayed prior to the
adoption of this article.
Externally illuminated sign means any sign that is lighted by an outside light
source.
Facade means the entire building wall, including wall face, parapet fascia,
windows, doors, canopy, and roof on any complete elevation.
Fixed projecting sign means a sign, other than a flat sign, which extends out
for more than six inches from the facade of any building and is rigidly affixed
thereto.
Flat sign means a sign erected parallel to and extending out not more than 12
inches from the facade of any building to which it is attached and supported
throughout its entire length by the facade and not extending above the
building.
Freestanding detached sign means a sign supported by a sign structure secured
in the ground and which is wholly independent of any building, fence, vehicle
or object other than the sign structure for support.
Frontage means the length of the property line on any one premises serving as a
public right-of-way line.
Frontage wall face means the building facade, excluding parapet, facia, soffit,
mansard and roof, which faces a frontage of the premises.
Governmental sign means any sign erected by or on the order of an authorized
public official in the performance of his office or duty, including, but not
limited to, traffic control signs, street name signs, warning and directional
signs, public notice, or signs of a similar nature.
Holiday sign means a sign used for the celebration of any national or religious
holiday which is erected for a limited period of time.
Incidental flat sign means a sign containing accessory information for the
principal use and erected parallel to and extending out not more than 12 inches
from the facade of any building to which it is attached and supported
throughout its entire length by the facade and not extending above the
building. No advertising may be affixed to incidental flat signs.
Incidental sign means a single face, non-illuminated professional or
announcement sign attached wholly to a building, window or door containing
information relative to emergencies, store hours, credit cards honored, and
other similar accessory information.
Inflatable sign means a sign that is either expanded to its full dimensions or
supported by gasses contained within the sign, or sign parts, at a pressure
greater than atmospheric pressure.
Internally illuminated sign means any sign which has light transmitted outward
through its face or any part thereof.
Neon type signs means signs made from tubes filled with neon, argon, xenon, or
other luminous gasses, and producing various colors of light.
Noncommercial message means any message protected by the First Amendment that
does not direct attention to a business operated for profit, or to a commodity
or service for sale.
Nonconforming sign means a sign erected and in existence prior to the date of
adoption of the ordinance from which this chapter is derived or an amendment to
the chapter, that does not meet one or more of the standards imposed by this
chapter.
Occupancy means any one business activity or professional office.
Off-premises directional sign means any off-premises sign indicating the
location of or directions to a business or other activity. The sign shall not
include any information or message except the name of the business or the
nature of the activity, universal symbol, if applicable, and an arrow
indicating direction and distance to the business or activity. If a sign
contains any additional message or exceeds the maximum area, it shall be
considered to be in violation of this chapter.
Off-premises sign means a sign identifying, advertising or directing the public
to a business, merchandise, service, institution, residential area,
entertainment, or activity which is located, sold, rented, based, produced,
manufactured, furnished or taking place at a location other than the property
on which the sign is located.
Painted wall sign means a sign painted directly on any exterior building wall
or door surface, exclusive of windows or door glass areas.
Panel means the primary surface of a sign upon which the message of the sign is
carried.
Parapet means a vertical false front or wall extension above a roofline.
Perimeter means the contour of the face of the sign.
Permitted sign means a sign for which a valid permit has been issued.
Person means any individual, partnership, association, corporation or other
entity.
Political sign means a sign erected by a political candidate, group or agent
thereof for the purpose of advertising a candidate or stating a position
regarding an issue upon which the voters of the town shall vote.
Portable sign means a sign generally constructed to be easily movable without a
permanent attachment to the ground and which may or may not be equipped with
wheels. Such signs may be designed for changeable messages. The term "portable
sign" does not apply to sidewalk or sandwich board signs permitted in section
36-336.
Principal flat sign means a sign advertising the principal use and erected
parallel to and extending out not more than 12 inches from the facade of any
building to which it is attached and supported throughout its entire length by
the facade and not extending above the building.
Private traffic direction/information sign means a sign which is on-premises
and is designed and erected solely for the purpose of vehicular or pedestrian
traffic direction or safety.
Project sign means any sign erected and maintained on the premises temporarily
while undergoing construction by an architect, contractor, developer, finance
organization, subcontractor, or materials vendor upon which property the
individual is furnishing labor, services or materials.
Public right-of-way line means the line where the property meets the public
right-of-way at a public street or public waterway, provided that this
definition shall not include alleys, easements, or other similar dedicated
uses.
Real estate sign means a sign erected by the owner, or his agent, advertising
real property upon which the sign is located for rent, for lease, or for sale.
Resort means a place under common management where a large selection of
organized activities takes place, such as recreation and entertainment, and
where facilities are provided for dining and lodging for residents and guests.
Roof means the exterior upper covering of the top of a building.
Roof sign means a sign erected over or on, and wholly supported by or partially
dependent upon the roof of any building for support, or attached to the roof in
any way.
Sidewalk or sandwich board sign means an A-frame, inverted V-shape, or
similarly shaped moveable sign not secured or attached to the ground or any
building or structure. A sidewalk or sandwich board sign is portable and
usually double-sided.
Sign means any form of publicity or advertising which is designed to be visible
from any public way, directing attention to an individual business, commodity,
service, activity or product by means of words, lettering, numerals, trade
names or trademarks, or other pictorial matter designed to convey such
information.
Sign face means the part of the sign that is or can be used to identify,
advertise, communicate information, or for visual representation which attracts
the attention of the public for any purpose. The term "sign face" includes any
background material, panel, trim, color and direct self-illumination used that
differentiates the sign from the building, structure, backdrop surface or
object against which or upon which it is placed. The sign structure shall not
be included as a portion of the sign face provided that no message, symbol or
any aforementioned sign face criteria are displayed on or designed as part of
the sign structure.
Sign structure means a supporting structure erected or intended for the purpose
of identification, with or without a sign thereon, situated upon or attached to
the premises upon which any sign may be fastened, affixed, displayed or
applied; provided, however, said definition shall not include a building or
fence.
Snipe sign means a sign which is tacked, nailed, pasted, glued, or otherwise
attached to trees, poles, stakes or fences, or to other objects.
Special event directional sign means a sign which directs the public to a
special event at a place other than the premises upon which the sign is
located.
Special event sign means a sign which carries a message regarding a special
event or civic function sponsored by a nonprofit organization such as, but not
limited to, Kiwanis, Rotary, or the Lion's Club for fund drives, fairs,
festivals, and sporting events, or a sign which carries a message regarding
special events for businesses such as, but not limited to, initial openings or
special sales which are of general interest to the community.
Subdivision or mobile home park entrance sign means an entrance sign which
designates the name of a subdivision, or a residential district, or of a mobile
home park and is located at or near the main entrance.
Swinging sign means a sign projecting from the outside walls of any building
which is supported only by one rigid support.
Temporary sign means a sign with or without letters and numerals such as land
sale signs, subdivision openings, construction signs, seasonal events, or
community, public and semi-public functions.
Vehicle sign means a permanent or temporary sign affixed to or placed upon any
parked vehicle, parked trailer, or other parking device capable of being towed,
the primary purpose of which is to attract the traveling public, provided that
this definition does not include a single sign placed on a single vehicle or
trailer at a residence of an individual which sign identifies the vehicle or
trailer as being for sale.
Window means an opening covered in glass built into the wall or roof which
functions or appears to function to admit light to a building or structure.
Window sign means any sign which is painted on, applied to, attached to or
projected upon or within the exterior or interior of a building glass area,
including doors, whose identification, message, symbol, insignia, visual
representation, logotype, or any other form which communicates information can
be read from off-premises, contiguous property or public right-of-way.
Window sign, temporary, means a window sign of a temporary nature used to
direct attention to the sale of merchandise or a change in status of the
business, including, but not limited to, signs for sales, specials, going out
of business, and grand openings.
(Code 1989, § 92.147; Ord. of 9-28-1993; Ord. of 11-18-2003; Ord. of 3-9-2010)
Sec. 36-327. Area of sign defined.
   The area of a sign shall be considered to be that of the smallest
rectilinear figure which encompasses all lettering, wording, design or symbols,
together with any background difference on which the sign is located if such
background is designed as an integral part of and related to the sign. Any cut-
outs or extensions shall be included in the area of a sign but supports and
bracing which are not intended as part of the sign shall be excluded. In the
case of a double-faced sign, the area of the sign shall be considered to
include all faces visible from one direction. The area of a wall or window sign
consisting of individual letters or symbols attached to or painted on a
surface, building, wall or window shall be considered to be that of the
smallest rectangle which encompasses all of the letters or symbols.
(Code 1989, § 92.148)
Sec. 36-328. Method of attachment defined.
The following methods of attachment, when used in this article, shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
Attached sign means any sign attached to, applied on, or supported by any part
of a building (such as a wall, projecting, window, canopy, awning or marquee)
which encloses or covers useable space.
Flush attached signs means signs which are mounted flush and parallel, or any
sign painted on an exterior wall or surface of a building.
Freestanding detached signs means signs supported by a structure placed in the
ground and which is wholly independent of any building or object other than the
sign structure for support.
Freestanding ground sign means a freestanding detached sign flush to the ground
and not elevated upon poles or stanchions and not attached to a building.
Freestanding pole sign means a freestanding detached sign which is permanently
affixed to the ground by a pole or other structure and which is not part of a
building.
Projecting attached signs means signs end-mounted or otherwise attached to an
exterior wall of a building and which project out from the wall, including
signs which are incorporated in or attached to an awning or canopy.
Suspended sign means a sign which is suspended from the underside of a
horizontal plane surface, such as a canopy or marquee, and which is supported
by such surface.
Window sign means signs permanently attached to, painted on a window, or
displayed to be seen through a window.
(Code 1989, § 92.149)
Sec. 36-329. Height of freestanding detached signs.
   (a)   The height of a freestanding detached sign shall not exceed the
maximum height set forth in this article. The height of a freestanding detached
sign shall be measured as the vertical distance from the uppermost point of the
sign or sign structure, whichever is higher, to the base of the sign at street
grade or adjacent parking area grade. Where the grade of the parking area is
lower than the street, the measurement will be taken at the street grade at the
driveway entrance, or in the case of two entrances, at the upper entrance.
   (b)   The height of all other signs shall be measured as the vertical
distance to the uppermost point of a sign measured from the ground level of the
structure to which the sign is attached.
(Code 1989, § 92.150; Ord. of 11-18-2003)
Sec. 36-330. Value of signs.
   The value of an existing sign shall be the value for tax purposes of any
sign so listed. If the tax value is not available, the value shall mean the
original cost of the sign. In the absence of information as to the original
cost submitted by the sign owner, the administrator shall estimate the original
cost based upon the best information reasonably available.
(Code 1989, § 92.151)
Sec. 36-331. Administration.
   The zoning administrator shall be responsible for the administration and
enforcement of this article.
(Code 1989, § 92.152)
Sec. 36-332. Permits required.
   All existing signs and all signs hereafter erected, placed, posted,
attached, painted or otherwise made visible from an adjacent property or right-
of-way require a sign permit in accordance with the provisions of this article
except as otherwise prohibited, exempted or not requiring a permit by this
article. Any sign which requires a permit which is displayed without the
requisite permit shall be in violation of this chapter and shall be considered
an illegal sign.
(Code 1989, § 92.153)
Sec. 36-333. Signs exempt from regulations.
   The following signs are exempt from the regulations of this article:
      (1)   Signs not visible from beyond the boundaries of the property on
which they are located.
      (2)   Signs of a governmental body, including traffic warning or
regulatory signs and devices. These signs shall also include other governmental
signs including building identification, directional information, and welcome
signs. Signs of a governmental body, other than the town, require town council
approval, regardless of the type of sign, unless otherwise exempted by federal
or state law. Although exempt from sign regulations, specific governmental
signs like building identification, directional information, and welcome signs
must be reviewed by the planning board and approved by town council. However,
traffic control signs, traffic warning signs, public notices, or signs of a
similar nature need only town manager approval.
      (3)   Trade names, graphics, and prices which are located on gas pumps,
newspaper, soft drink and similar vending devices.
      (4)   Flags, or insignia of any governmental, nonprofit, or business
organization when not displayed as an advertising device.
      (5)   Seasonal/holiday signs and decorations associated with a national
or religious holiday.
      (6)   Warning of danger signs posted by utility or construction
companies.
      (7)   Signs on vehicles indicating the name of a business, unless the
immediate use of the vehicle is for the display of signs.
      (8)   Signs required by law, statute or ordinance.
(Code 1989, § 92.154; Ord. of 5-13-2014; Ord. of 9-13-2016)
Sec. 36-334. Signs exempt from permit requirements.
   The following signs shall not require a permit and shall not be counted as
part of the allowable sign area. However, such signs shall conform to the
requirements set forth below as well as other applicable requirements of this
article.
      (1)   Private traffic directional signs. Signs containing information to
direct pedestrian or vehicular traffic shall be located on the premises for
which directions are indicated. Directional signs shall not contain any
advertising or logo, shall not exceed three square feet per face, two faces per
sign, and shall not exceed three feet in height if freestanding or six feet in
height if attached to the principal or an accessory structure. The maximum
signs allowed per lot shall be four. These signs may be indirectly or directly
illuminated as prescribed by standards set forth in section
36-338.
      (2)   Incidental signs. Signs containing information necessary or
convenient for persons coming on to a premises shall be located on the premises
to which the information pertains. No advertising may be affixed to such a sign
and these signs shall be single-faced only and wholly attached to a principal
building (including the windows or doors).
      (3)   Political signs. Political signs advertising candidates or issues
shall be allowed in any zone. However, no such sign shall be placed within any
public right-of-way or on any public property or attached to any utility pole
or tree. The property owner and the political candidate shall be equally
responsible for the proper location, maintenance and removal of political
signs. All political signs must be removed within seven calendar days following
the election to which the sign pertains. Political signs shall not exceed four
square feet in area per display face and two faces per sign.
      (4)   Copy changes and maintenance. No permit is required for copy
changes made to a changeable copy sign, menu board or marquee sign. No permit
is required for maintenance carried out in accordance with the provisions in
section
36-338 and where no structural changes are made.
      (5)   Residential identification signs. Signs which provide the name or
address of an individual residence, either attached or detached, indirectly or
non-illuminated, provided no sign shall exceed two square feet in size per sign
face.
      (6)   No trespassing signs. "No trespassing," "no hunting," "no fishing,"
"no loitering" and similar signs not exceeding two square feet per sign face.
      (7)   In any residential district.
         a.   One real estate sign, not exceeding four square feet per sign
face area and, if freestanding, not exceeding four feet in height from ground
level shall be permitted. Property with two or more on-premises frontages shall
be permitted one additional sign.
         b.   To display a sign on a premises not personally owned by the
realtor, the realty company must have a valid, current, exclusive sales
agreement with the property owner.
      (8)   [Real estate signs.] In any business, commercial or industrial
district a real estate sign shall be permitted on the premises for sale, rent
or lease. Such sign shall be non-illuminated, not to exceed 32 square feet in
area. A double-faced real estate sign is permitted, provided that it shall not
exceed 32 square feet per sign face and, if freestanding, it shall not exceed
12 feet in height.
      (9)   Window signs. Signs painted on or placed in a window shall be
permitted, subject to the following provisions:
         a.   Such signs shall not exceed an aggregate area equal to 25 percent
of the window and/or glass area of the building wall on which it is located, to
include all temporary signs.
         b.   The sign area for a window shall not be included in the allowable
sign area for the particular occupancy or activity utilizing such sign, as
defined in section
36-336(b)(1).
      (10)   [Works of art.] Works of art that do not include a commercial
message.
(Code 1989, § 92.155; Ord. of 1-9-2001; Ord. of 11-8-2003; Ord. of 3-9-2010)
Sec. 36-335. Signs prohibited.
   The following are prohibited within the jurisdiction of this article:
      (1)   Swinging signs.
      (2)   Snipe signs.
      (3)   Portable signs, except for special events.
      (4)   Banners, pendants, flags and balloons, except as otherwise allowed.
      (5)   Off-premises signs along public thoroughfares.
      (6)   A sign which contains any moving, flashing, animated lights,
visible moving or movable parts, or giving the appearance of animation.
      (7)   Vehicle signs, except as exempt in section
36-333.
      (8)   Any sign which emits a sound, odor or visible matter.
      (9)   Any sign which obstructs free ingress or egress from a required
door, window, fire escape or other required exit way.
      (10)   Any sign and/or sign structure which obstructs the view of, may be
confused with, or purports to be a governmental or traffic direction/safety
sign.
      (11)   Signs painted on or attached to trees, fence posts, rocks or other
natural features, telephone or utility poles, or painted on roofs or walls of
buildings designed to be visible from any public thoroughfare.
      (12)   Abandoned signs.
      (13)   Any sign which exhibits statements, words or pictures of obscene
or pornographic subjects as defined in G.S. ch. 15.
      (14)   Signs affixed to a private residence or dwelling, or displayed
upon the grounds thereof, except one personal identification sign not exceeding
two square feet of sign area, and one non-illuminated "For Sale" or "For Rent"
sign not exceeding four square feet per sign face, and any other signs
authorized by this article.
      (15)   Inflatable signs.
      (16)   Political signs on public property and within public rights-of-
way. The town may remove these signs immediately.
      (17)   Signs, whether temporary or permanent, within any street or
highway right-of-way, or within ten feet from the edge of any roadway, paved or
not, where no right-of-way exists, with the exception of governmental signs.
      (18)   Neon type signs, in all circumstances, except for windows signs as
provided in section
36-334(9).
(Code 1989, § 92.156; Ord. of 1-9-2001; Ord. of 11-18-2003)
Sec. 36-336. Signs permitted and regulated.
   (a)   Residential.
      (1)   All residential districts:
         a.   One non-illuminated sign not to exceed 12 square feet per sign
face and a height not to exceed six feet from ground level shall be permitted
for family care homes.
         b.   Subdivision developments and planned units developments (except
in R-1D) shall be permitted one sign per entrance identifying the development.
Said sign may be illuminated. Said sign shall not exceed 50 square feet per
sign face. Any additional identification or directional signs abutting public
thoroughfares in the development shall not exceed 30 square feet per sign face.
Each entrance identification sign shall require a separate permit fee and is
classified as a business designation sign. Additional signs along public
thoroughfares shall be classified as additional signs and the permit fees will
be in accordance with section
36-340.
         c.   Up to two decorative non-advertising flags of not more than three
feet by five feet in size shall be permitted as accessory to any residential
structure. Said flags shall be exempt from the permit requirements of this
chapter.
      (2)   R-1, R-2, R-3, R-1A, R-1B and R-1C districts: shall permit one
attached non-illuminated sign not exceeding three square feet per sign face on
plots containing permitted public utility buildings or home occupations or
uses, other than accessory.
      (3)   R-1, R-2, R-3, and R-4 districts:
         a.   One flat sign not to exceed 12 square feet, identifying the
premises of or on which permitted nonresidential uses are located [shall be
permitted]. Such signs shall not be illuminated by either an internal or
external source. This subsection shall not apply to home occupations, signs in
which are regulated by the terms of section
36-232(j).
         b.   One freestanding sign identifying the nonresidential premises may
be permitted in lieu of a flat sign; provided, however, it does not exceed 24
square feet per sign face, does not exceed seven feet in height, and is not
closer than ten feet to the public right-of-way. Such sign shall not be
illuminated by either an internal or external source.
         c.   Churches are permitted to erect on the premises a freestanding
sign, either non-illuminated or illuminated, no closer than ten feet to the
right-of-way, not to exceed 24 square feet per sign face area and not exceeding
seven feet in height, provided that such sign is so shielded that the source of
light is not visible from any abutting residence.
         d.   Mobile home parks in R-2 districts shall be governed by the same
sign provisions as provided for subdivisions and planned unit developments,
except that no sign shall exceed 24 square feet per sign face.
      (4)   All businesses operating under a special use permit as authorized
in section
36-101 in any residential district shall be governed by subsection (b) of this
section, unless otherwise specified by the board of adjustment.
   (b)   Business, commercial and industrial districts.
      (1)   Sign permitting and maintenance. As this subsection is applied to
commercial centers, the commercial center owner shall be responsible for
securing permits and maintaining the following signs:
         a.   Commercial center signage. Each commercial center, as defined
herein, shall be allowed one freestanding, double-faced, detached sign, or up
to three suspended or flush attached signs, identifying the center. A
freestanding detached sign may also contain the names of individual businesses
located in the commercial center and may be illuminated. The aggregated total
sign face area of said signs shall not exceed 100 square feet. Signs listed in
sections
36-333,
36-334 and
36-337 shall not be included in the allowable area calculated.
         b.   Individual business entry signage. In addition, each individual
business in the commercial center having a separate individual outside entrance
serving the general public shall be permitted one projecting or flush attached
sign, as defined herein, to identify the public entrance to that business. Said
business entrance signs shall be positioned adjacent to the entrance of said
business. The total aggregate area of the business entrance signs shall not
exceed three percent of the gross area of the frontage wall, nor shall any
single sign exceed 240 square feet. The signs may be illuminated. Signs listed
in sections
36-333,
36-334 and
36-337 shall not be included in the allowable area calculated.
         c.   Incidental flat signs. Incidental flat signs affixed to the
exterior side of the building wall on which the main entrance of the business
is located, indicating an incidental use such as a pharmacy, garden center,
deli or similar accessory use in a commercial center, shall be permitted. In no
case shall the total aggregate area of incidental flat signs exceed two percent
of the gross area of the frontage wall face, as defined herein, nor shall any
single sign exceed 160 square feet.
      (2)   Allowable sign area. Any business establishment not operating in a
commercial center shall be allowed a maximum of 50 square feet of sign area as
defined in section
36-327. Said sign area may be divided between a maximum of two signs. Signs may
be illuminated. Signs listed in sections
36-333,
36-334 and
36-337 shall not be included in these calculations.
      (3)   Commercial subdivision development requirements. Commercial
subdivision developments shall be permitted one double-faced sign or two
single-faced signs per entrance identifying the development, and shall be
subject to the following:
         a.   Said sign may be illuminated.
         b.   Said sign shall not exceed 50 square feet per sign face. Signs
listed in sections 36-333, 36-334 and 36-337 shall not be included in the
allowable area calculated.
         c.   Any additional directional signs abutting public thoroughfares in
the development shall not exceed 30 square feet per sign face.
         d.   Each entrance identification sign shall require a separate permit
fee and is classified as a business designation sign. Additional signs along
public thoroughfares shall be classified as additional signs and the permit
fees will be in accordance with section 36-340.
      (4)   Commercial sponsor name or motif. Any signs permitted in business,
commercial or industrial districts may contain a commercial sponsor name or
motif provided that the total commercial name or motif shall not exceed 25
percent of the total allowable sign face area and shall be included in the
total of sign face area.
      (5)   Changeable copy. No sign in this subsection (b) shall have more
than 50 percent of its sign face area devoted to changeable copy.
      (6)   Maximum height. The maximum height of any freestanding detached
sign shall be 16 feet; all other signs shall not project above the base of the
roof of the building to which they are attached.
      (7)   Sign location restriction. Signs in this subsection (b) may be
located within required front yards so long as no portion of any sign
encroaches into any right-of-way and further provided that signs within 50 feet
of any property zoned residential shall be no closer than ten feet to the
right-of-way.
      (8)   Decorative flags. Up to two decorative flags of not more than three
feet by five feet in size shall be permitted for each 50 feet of street
frontage as accessory to any business. Said flags may include artwork depicting
the products and services available from the business and shall be exempt from
the permit requirements of this chapter.
      (9)   Sandwich board sign placement, size and removal. Commercial
districts may be permitted a single sandwich board sign to be placed adjacent
to a sidewalk, the front of the individual business, or in the parking area
providing such sign is located on the business establishment's property and
does not pose a safety hazard. Business establishments located in the arcade
may also be permitted to place one such sign in front of their business under
the breezeway on the walkway providing such location does not pose a safety
hazard to pedestrians. This sign shall not exceed four feet in height or eight
square feet in area per sign face. The sign must be removed at the end of each
day when the business closes. Said signs may include artwork depicting the
products and services available from the business, changeable copy, and shall
be exempt from the permit requirements of this chapter.
   (c)   Government districts. [Signs in government districts shall be] as
determined by town council in compliance with all town regulations during its
review of a proposed development project or on a case-by-case basis.
   (d)   Resort signs. These standards govern signage located within resorts
containing 75 acres or more as that term is defined in section
36-326. If any resort sign regulated pursuant to this subsection is
illuminated, it shall only be illuminated by an external bulb.
      (1)   Resort private road sign. A sign communicating limits on speed and/
or messages of warning, caution, and prohibitions for regulating vehicular or
pedestrian traffic for safety [shall be permitted]. These signs shall neither
exceed six feet in height nor be greater than nine square feet in area per sign
face. Said sign may display the insignia or logo of the entity which owns and
maintains the private road, so long as not more than 20 percent of the sign
face is used to display the logo or insignia. Signs shall be placed in a manner
so as to neither obstruct visibility nor sight distance of motorists.
      (2)   Resort direction sign. A sign within a resort designed and erected
solely for the purpose of vehicular or pedestrian traffic direction [shall be
permitted]. These signs shall neither exceed ten feet in height nor be greater
than 40 square feet in area per sign face. Such signs may display the insignia
or logo of the resort, so long as not more than 20 percent of the sign face is
used to display the logo or insignia. Signs shall be placed in a manner so as
to neither obstruct/impair visibility nor sight distance of motorists.
      (3)   Resort information sign. A single-faced announcement sign within a
resort designed and erected solely for the purpose of conveying information
relative to rules of conduct, resort protocol, directives, warnings, or caution
[shall be permitted]. These signs shall neither exceed seven feet in height nor
be greater than 40 square feet in area per sign face. Such signs may display
the insignia or logo of the resort, so long as not more than 20 percent of the
sign face is used to display the logo or insignia. Signs shall be placed in a
manner so as to neither obstruct/impair visibility nor sight distance of
motorists.
      (4)   Resort incidental sign. A single-faced announcement sign within a
resort containing information relative to direction, warning, emergencies,
caution, rules, or other similar necessary accessory messages [shall be
permitted]. These signs shall neither exceed five feet in height nor be greater
than five square feet in sign area. The total number of resort incidental signs
in a resort shall not exceed a number which is the product of three times the
number of acres in the resort. For purposes of determining this number, acreage
contained within a golf course shall not be counted, nor shall any resort
incidental signs contained within such golf course.
(Code 1989, § 92.157; Ord. of 12-12-1995; Ord. of 1-8-2008; Ord. of 10-13-2009;
Ord. No. 21-05-11, 5-11-2021)
Sec. 36-337. Special signs.
   The following special signs are permitted, subject to the provisions of this
article and other applicable provisions of this section:
      (1)   Project signs. One non-illuminated sign may be permitted on the
premises subject to the following conditions:
         a.   The sign shall not exceed 24 square feet per sign face if for a
multifamily or nonresidential development. If the sign is for the contractor of
a single-family residence, the sign may not exceed four square feet per sign
face.
         b.   The sign shall not be erected prior to issuance of a building
permit, and must be removed when a certificate of occupancy is issued;
provided, however, if the sign is erected as permitted hereunder and if
construction is not commenced within 30 days after the permit is issued or if
construction is not continually progressed to completion, the sign shall be
removed by the owner or be subject to removal pursuant to this article.
         c.   The signs shall be located on the premises being developed.
      (2)   Rear entrance sign. When a building has a rear entrance or remote
parking area on premises, one flat sign per occupancy, not exceeding 12 square
feet in sign area, shall be permitted at the rear building entrance.
      (3)   Special event sign and special event directory sign.
         a.   One sign directing the attention of the public to a special event
or function of a business shall be permitted on the premises of said event for
a period not to exceed 15 consecutive days, shall not exceed 40 square feet per
sign face, and shall not exceed seven feet in height. Said signs may include
banners, pennants, and flags, but not balloons. A temporary sign permit shall
be obtained from the zoning administrator before said sign is erected.
         b.   One sign directing the attention of the public to a special event
or function of civic or nonprofit organizations shall be permitted on the
premises of said event for a period not to exceed 30 consecutive days, shall
not exceed 40 square feet per sign face, and shall not exceed seven feet in
height. Said signs may include banners, pennants, and flags, but not balloons.
A temporary sign permit shall be obtained from the zoning administrator before
said sign is erected.
         c.   Special event directional signs for civic or nonprofit
organizations, including banners but not pennants, flags, or balloons, are
permitted provided that a temporary permit is obtained from the zoning
administrator. The signs shall be located at points specified by the zoning
administrator for a period not to exceed 30 consecutive days.
         d.   Special event temporary signs shall be permitted only two times
in a calendar year.
      (4)   Town directory signs. The town may erect directory signs for the
benefit of visitors, on which may be listed institutional names, churches, and
points of interest. Civic organizations and churches may be granted permission
to place their insignia thereon.
      (5)   Town off-premises directional signs. The town may erect off-
premises directional signs for the benefit of the traveling public. The cost of
manufacture, erection, and maintenance of the signs shall be charged to those
requesting the sign at a rate established by the town.
         a.   Off-premises directional signs are permitted for the following
types of businesses: natural phenomena; scenic attractions; historic,
educational, cultural, scientific, and religious sites; outdoor recreational
areas; and establishments providing motor fuel, lodging, and/or meals for the
general public.
         b.   Off-premises directional signs may be located at the intersection
of a major thoroughfare (U.S. Highway 64/74, Buffalo Shoals Road, Buffalo Creek
Road, and N.C. Highway 9) with the side street leading to the business or
activity. One additional off-premises directional sign may be located at the
intersection of the street leading to the business or activity with the street
providing access to the establishment.
         c.   Off-premises directional signs shall be 18 inches by 48 inches
per sign face, one sign face per directional flow of traffic, and two sign
faces per sign structure. Not more than two off-premises directional signs
shall be permitted for the same business or activity.
      (6)   Other directional signs. Churches and civic organizations located
within the boundaries of the town may display one directional sign to be
located at the discretion of the zoning administrator. Such signs shall not
exceed five square feet per sign face.
      (7)   Natural, scenic or cultural business attractions.
         a.   Any business known as a natural, scenic or cultural attraction,
thereby developing and attracting tourism for our community and located on
property consisting of at least 75 acres, shall be categorized under this
subsection (7).
         b.   Any on-site existing signs in place along a public thoroughfare
as of the date of adoption of the ordinance from which this article is derived
not exceeding 50 square feet per sign, shall be deemed legally permitted signs
and shall be subject to the annual license fee structure in section 36-340.
      (8)   Marina signs. Recognizing that marinas need signs that can be seen
and read from the lake, as well as an on-premises sign for the highway, the
town will permit signage on the marina building, "business designation" and/or
"additional signage." The town will also permit a second "business designation"
sign on the highway, not to exceed 50 square feet in sign area. Only one annual
business designation fee shall be charged. The total signage for a marina shall
not exceed 100 square feet.
(Code 1989, § 92.158; Ord. of 9-28-1993; Ord. of 9-28-1994; Ord. of 8-8-2006)
Sec. 36-338. Sign maintenance and abandoned signs.
   (a)   Maintenance provisions. All signs, supports, braces, poles, wires and
other appurtenances of signs or sign structures shall be kept in good repair,
maintained in safe condition, and shall conform to the following standards:
      (1)   A sign shall be in a state of disrepair when more than 20 percent
of its total surface area is covered with disfigured, cracked, ripped or
peeling paint or poster paper, or any combination of these conditions. Any sign
in a state of disrepair shall be considered in violation of this chapter.
      (2)   No sign shall be allowed to stand with bent or broken sign facing,
broken supports, loose appendages or struts which causes the sign to stand more
than 15 degrees from the perpendicular.
      (3)   No sign or sign structure shall be allowed to have weeds, vines or
other vegetation growing on it and obscuring it from the street or highway from
which it is intended to be viewed.
      (4)   No indirectly illuminated sign shall be allowed to stand with only
partial illumination operational.
      (5)   Any sign which violates the maintenance provisions listed in this
subsection (a) shall be in violation of this chapter and shall be repaired or
removed as required by the applicable sections of this article.
   (b)   Abandoned signs.
      (1)   Signs or parts of signs which advertise or pertain to a business,
product, service, commodity, or purpose which no longer exists or that has not
been in use for 180 days or more shall be deemed to be an abandoned sign. Signs
which are associated with seasonal business shall not be considered abandoned
provided there is clear intent to continue the business in the upcoming season.
However, failure to operate any business for a minimum of 90 consecutive days
in a calendar year shall deem any sign associated with such business an
abandoned sign.
      (2)   Abandoned signs are prohibited and shall be removed by the owner or
his agent or the owner of the property where the sign is located within 30 days
from the date such sign is deemed to be abandoned.
      (3)   This section shall be enforced in accordance with section 36-340
(d).
(Code 1989, § 92.159)
Sec. 36-339. Noncommercial messages.
   (a)   General. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, any
sign, display or device allowed under this article may contain, in lieu of any
other copy, any otherwise lawful noncommercial message that does not direct
attention to a business operated for profit, or to a commodity or service for
sale, and that complies with size, lighting, height and other requirements of
the district in which it is located.
   (b)   [Illumination.] If illuminated, signs shall be illuminated only by the
following means:
      (1)   A steady stationary light of reasonable intensity, which shall be
shielded and directed solely at the sign.
      (2)   Light sources to illuminate signs shall be shielded from all
adjacent residential buildings and streets and shall not be of such brightness
so as to cause glare hazardous to pedestrians or auto drivers or so as to
create a nuisance.
      (3)   Internally lit signs shall have the same requirements as
subsections (b)(1) and (2) of this section.
      (4)   Electrical requirements pertaining to signs shall be as prescribed
in local codes.
   (c)   Unlawful cutting of trees or shrubs. No person may, for the purpose of
increasing or enhancing the visibility of any sign, damage, trim, destroy or
remove any trees, shrubs or other vegetation located within a public right-of-
way of any road or highway.
(Code 1989, § 92.160)
Sec. 36-340. Permits, fees, nonconforming signs, and enforcement.
   (a)   Permits. All new or existing signs, except as otherwise provided in
section 36-334, shall require a sign permit prior to being located or erected
on any property within the jurisdiction of this chapter. Sign permits shall be
issued by the zoning administrator. If a sign permit is denied, the decision
may be appealed to the board of adjustment as provided in section 36-185.
   (b)   Permit fees. The town council may establish a fee schedule for all
sign permits issued in accordance with this article.
   (c)   Nonconforming signs.
      (1)   Signs that are erected and were in place prior to the adoption of
this chapter, but which do not conform to the provisions of this chapter, are
declared nonconforming signs. Signs that were erected and that are in place and
which conformed to the provisions of this chapter at the time erected, but
which do not conform to an amendment of this chapter enacted subsequent to the
erection of said signs also are declared nonconforming signs. Any sign erected
after the passage of this chapter must meet all the criteria within this
chapter.
      (2)   All nonconforming signs shall be maintained in accordance with
section 36-338, but shall not be:
         a.   Changed or replaced with another nonconforming sign except that
an existing sign may be replaced to reflect a change in business identification
so long as the replacement sign is in the same general location and the size of
the replacement sign face does not exceed that of the existing sign.
         b.   Expanded or relocated.
         c.   Reestablished after damage or destruction in excess of 50 percent
of the appraised replacement cost at the time of the damage or destruction.
         d.   Modified in any way which increases the sign's degree of
nonconformity.
      (3)   With the exception of off-premises signs for which a current, valid
permit has been issued by the state department of transportation, any
nonconforming sign shall either be eliminated or brought into conformance
within seven years of the date it became nonconforming.
   (d)   Enforcement. Violation of the provisions of this article shall be
enforceable as set forth below in addition to the enforcement provisions as set
forth in this chapter.
      (1)   Notice of violation. The zoning administrator shall have the
authority to issue a notice of violation for all violations of this article.
Where the owner of the sign is indicated on the sign or is otherwise apparent
or known to the zoning administrator, a copy of the notice of violation shall
be delivered to the sign owner by hand delivery or by certified mail. In all
other cases, a copy of the notice of violation shall be posted on the sign and
a copy shall be delivered by hand delivery or certified mail to the property
owner as shown on the county tax records. In addition, service hereunder may be
made in accordance with rule 4 of the state rules of civil procedure.
      (2)   Time to remedy violation. The sign owner and/or the property owner
shall have 15 days to remedy all violations set forth in the notice of
violation. The 15-day period shall commence upon the earlier of the posting of
the notice of violation on the sign or the delivery of a copy of the notice of
violation to the sign owner or property owner.
      (3)   Extension of time for compliance. The zoning administrator shall
have the authority to grant a single 30- day extension of time within which the
sign owner must comply with the notice of violation. The single extension of
time may be issued based upon a written request for extension of time which
sets forth valid reasons for not complying within the original 15-day period.
      (4)   Remedies for failure to comply. Pursuant to G.S. 160A-175(f), the
zoning administrator may choose from the remedies set forth below to enforce
these regulations when there is a failure to comply with the notice of
violation. Those remedies are as follows:
         a.   In addition to or in lieu of the other remedies set forth in this
section, the zoning administrator may issue a citation setting forth a civil
penalty of $50.00. In the case of a continuing violation, each 24-hour period
during which the violation continues to exist shall constitute a separate
violation. The citation shall be served upon the person described in subsection
(d)(1) of this section by the means set forth therein. In the event the
offender does not pay the penalty within ten days of service of the citation,
the civil penalty shall be collected by the town in a civil action in the
nature of debt, which shall not constitute a misdemeanor, and in so providing,
the town council hereby chooses to exercise the option provided by G.S. 160A-
175(b).
         b.   In addition to or in lieu of the other remedies set forth in the
section, the zoning administrator shall have the authority to issue a remove
order for any sign not repaired or brought into compliance within the time
required by the foregoing provisions. Remove orders shall be issued to and
served upon the person described in subsection (d)(1) of this section by the
means set forth therein. The sign owner or the landowner shall be allowed a
period of 30 days after the service of the remove order within which to remove
the sign at his own expense. The remove order shall describe specifically the
location of the sign to be removed and all of the reasons for issuance of the
remove order, including specific reference to the provisions of the chapter
which have been violated.
         c.   In addition to or in lieu of the other remedies set forth in this
section, the zoning administrator may seek injunctive relief in the appropriate
court.
      (5)   Removal and recovery of expense. If a sign owner or property owner
fails to comply with the requirements of a remove order, the zoning
administrator may cause such sign to be removed. The sign owner and property
owner shall be jointly and severally liable for the expense of removal. Notice
of the cost of removal shall be served upon the person described in subsection
(4)b of this section by the means set forth therein. If said sum is not paid
within 30 days thereafter, said sum shall be collected by the town in a civil
action in the nature of debt, which shall not subject the offender to the
penalty provisions of G.S. 14-4.
      (6)   Removal of dangerous signs. Pursuant to G.S. 160D, the zoning
administrator shall have the authority to summarily remove, abate, or remedy a
sign which is dangerous or prejudicial to the public health or safety. The
expense of the action shall be paid by the sign owner, or if the sign owner
cannot be determined, by the landowner, and if not paid, shall be a lien upon
the land or premises where the nuisance arose, and shall be collected as unpaid
taxes.
(Code 1989, § 92.161; Ord. of 9-28-1994; Ord. of 12-12-1995; Ord. of 11-26-
1996; Ord. of 11-18-2003; Ord. No. 21- 05-11, 5-11-2021)
Secs. 36-341—36-368. Reserved.
ARTICLE XII.
AMENDMENTS 7
 
Notes
  Editor's note(s)—Ord. No. 21-05-11, adopted May 11, 2021, added art. VI, site
7 specific vesting plans, thereby renumbering former art. XI, as art. XII, as
  herein set out.
Sec. 36-369. Amendment procedure.
   These zoning regulations, including the zoning map, may be amended by the
town council in accordance with the provisions of this article. All proposed
amendments shall be referred to the zoning and planning board for its review
and recommendations to the town council.
   When adopting an amendment to the zoning ordinance, the zoning and planning
board must also adopt a brief statement describing whether the amendment is
consistent or inconsistent with the approved plans. In addition, the board must
note on the applicable future land use maps when a zoning map amendment is
approved that is not consistent with the map; the future land use map is deemed
amended when an inconsistent rezoning is approved.
(Code 1989, § 92.170; Ord. of 1-22-1991; Ord. No. 21-05-11, 5-11-2021)
Sec. 36-370. Application.
   Before any application on a proposed change or amendment, an application
shall be submitted to the office of the zoning administrator at least 30 days
prior to the zoning and planning board's meeting at which the application is to
be considered. The application shall contain the name and addresses of the
owner of the property in question, the location of the property, and a
description and/or statement of the present and proposed zoning regulation or
district. All applications requesting a change in the zoning map shall include
a description of the property in question. The zoning and planning board will
not consider a reapplication for any rezoning of any such property denied for a
period of 12 months from the date of denial. The provisions of this section and
section
36-371 regarding application fees shall not apply to amendments generated by
the town.
(Code 1989, § 92.171; Ord. of 1-22-1991; Ord. of 1-8-2008)
Sec. 36-371. Application fee.
   (a)   Costs associated with a rezoning request shall be borne by the
petitioner. Included in such costs, but not limited to the following, are legal
fees, advertising costs, and expenses incurred in notification of adjacent
property owners.
   (b)   A deposit based on the zoning administrator's estimate of the costs in
subsection (a) of this section shall be tendered before work is begun on the
request.
(Code 1989, § 92.172; Ord. of 1-22-1991)
Sec. 36-372. Zoning and planning board action.
   Before taking any action on a proposed amendment to the chapter, the town
council shall consider the zoning and planning board's recommendations on each
proposed amendment. Provided, however, if the zoning and planning board shall
not have made its recommendations within 35 days after the first consideration
of an application by the board, the applicant shall have the right to demand
that the application be forwarded to the town council for a public hearing
thereon.
(Code 1989, § 92.173; Ord. of 1-22-1991; Ord. of 1-8-2008)
Sec. 36-373. Public hearing.
   (a)   Before enacting any amendment to this chapter, the town council shall
hold a public hearing. A notice of such public hearing shall be published in a
newspaper of general circulation in the county once a week for two successive
weeks; the first publication shall not appear less than ten days or more than
25 days prior to the date fixed for the public hearing. In computing such
period, the day of publication is not to be included, but the day of the
hearing shall be included. The notice shall include the time, place and date of
the hearing, and include a description of the property or the nature of the
change or amendment to the chapter and/or map.
   (b)   Whenever there is a zoning classification action involving a parcel of
land, the owner of that parcel of land as shown on the county tax listing, and
the owners of all parcels of land abutting that parcel of land as shown on the
county tax listing, as well as properties separated from the subject property
by street, railroad, or other transportation corridors, shall be mailed a
notice by the zoning administrator of the proposed classification by first-
class mail at the last address listed for such owners on the county tax
abstracts, provided that this mailing requirement does not apply in the case of
a total rezoning of all property within the corporate limits of the town. The
person mailing such notices shall certify to the town council that fact, and
such certificate shall be deemed conclusive in the absence of fraud. This
provision shall apply only when tax maps are available for the area to be
zoned.
(Code 1989, § 92.174; Ord. of 1-22-1991; Ord. No. 21-05-11, 5-11-2021)
Sec. 36-374. Decision.
   The town council shall make a decision on the proposed amendment within 60
days after the public hearing. The Town Council will follow applicable
procedures for legislative decisions under any development regulation
authorized under Chapter 160D, not just zoning; they will adopt any development
regulation by ordinance not by resolution.
(Code 1989, § 92.175; Ord. of 1-22-1991; Ord. No. 21-05-11, 5-11-2021)
Secs. 36-375—36-391. Reserved.
ARTICLE XIII.
MOUNTAIN AND HILLSIDE DEVELOPMENT 8
 
Notes
  Editor's note(s)—Ord. No. 21-05-11, adopted May 11, 2021, added art. VI, site
8 specific vesting plans, thereby renumbering former art. XII, as art. XIII, as
  herein set out.
Sec. 36-392. Applicability.
   In order to protect the public health, safety, and welfare, the regulations
contained in this article apply to mountain and hillside development which is
any lot, tract or parcel of land for which the average slope, as defined
herein, equals or exceeds 30 percent. Applicability shall initially be
determined by means of the town's GIS maps. Property owners may provide
topographic maps of the property if they disagree with the determination made
by reference to the GIS maps.
      (1)   Determining slope. Average slope shall be determined for each
separate land tract in accordance with the methods and procedures contained
herein. All slope determinations for the purposes of administering this article
shall be the natural slope of the lot to be developed or subdivided, which is
to say the slope of the lot prior to any modification due to development
activities.
         a.   Prior to commencing any development or land disturbing activity
and prior to making application for any permits and/or other approvals, the
calculated average slope for a particular land tract shall be approved by the
director. Average slope calculations and supporting documentation shall be
submitted to the director for review. Within 20 days of receipt, the director
shall:
            1.   Request additional information;
            2.   Request revisions to the average slope calculation submittal;
or
            3.   Issue written concurrence with the determination of average
slope, as submitted.
         b.   Each slope calculation submitted to the director for review shall
include a scaled map, accurately showing:
            1.   Topography for the entire land tract;
            2.   A closed perimeter line delineating a single area proposed for
any type of land of land disturbing activity; and
            3.   The deeded land tract boundary.
   The accuracy and detail of the map shall be acceptable to the director for
site-specific conditions and the particular land disturbing activities
proposed. In certain cases, the director may, at his discretion, require that
the slope calculation and associated mapping be prepared by a state
professional land surveyor, a state professional engineer, or a state
professional landscape architect.
         c.   For an individual lot, the basis of the average slope calculation
shall include the entire lot. For subdivisions, the average slope calculation
shall be based on the entire tract to be subdivided unless the subdivider has
elected to exclude areas subject to an absolute conservation easement pursuant
to subsection (2) of this section or the director has approved a division of
area pursuant to subsection (3) of this section.
         d.   Land slopes shall be calculated based on both:
            1.   The downstream drainage slope from the highest, most remote
point within the delineated area of proposed land disturbance; and
            2.   The upstream drainage slope from the lowest, most remote point
within the delineated area of proposed land disturbance in accordance with the
following requirements.
         e.   Land slope based on the highest, most remote point shall be
calculated by determining the maximum horizontal length of drainage travel (D)
from the highest, most remote point (Elevation H1) within the delineated area
of land disturbance in a downslope, drainage direction and perpendicular to
topographic contours for the greatest distance to the lowest point (Elevation
H2) at which drainage would exit the delineated area of proposed land
disturbance. Slope based on the highest, most remote point shall be calculated
using the following formula:
 
S a = H1-H2  x 100
      100
 
   S a = ((H1-H2)/D)(100)
   Where:
   S a = Slope expressed as a percentage.
   H1 = Elevation of highest, most remote point.
   H2 = Elevation of the lowest point drainage point below H1.
   D = The maximum length of drainage travel between points H1 and H2 expressed
as a horizontal measurement (D is not necessarily a straight line distance).
         f.   Land slope based on the lowest, most remote point shall be
calculated by determining the maximum horizontal length of drainage travel (D)
from the lowest, most remote point (Elevation L2) within the delineated area of
land disturbance in an upslope direction and perpendicular to topographic
contours for the greatest distance to the highest point (Elevation L1) at which
location drainage to point L2 would begin within the delineated area of
proposed land-disturbance. Slope based on the lowest, most remote point shall
be calculated using the following formula:
 
S b = L1-L2  x 100
       100
 
   S b = ((L1-L2)/D)(100)
   Where:
   S b = Slope expressed as a percentage.
   L1 = Elevation of highest point above drainage point.
   L2 = Elevation of the lowest, most remote point.
   D = The maximum length of drainage travel between points L1 and L2 expressed
as a horizontal measurement (D is not necessarily a straight line distance).
   Average slope shall be the greater of S a or S b rounded off to the nearest
one percent.
      (2)   Conservation easements. Lands subject to an "absolute" conservation
easement, that is, an easement in which the landowner retains no development
rights, may, at the landowner's option, be excluded when determining average
natural slope under this chapter.
      (3)   Division of area. Where there is a substantial variation in the
landform character within one site, the site may, with the director's approval,
be divided into two or more distinct areas for the purposes of slope
determination. Generally, this provision shall only be used in cases where
large tracts of property encompass flat land as well as significant mountain
and hillside terrain. Details for each division must be provided.
(Code 1989, § 92.200; Ord. of 11-18-2008; Ord. of 3-10-2009; Ord. of 8-9-2011)
Sec. 36-393. Goals.
   This article is adopted in order to further the following goals:
      (1)   To preserve the appearance and protect the natural resources of
Lake Lure's mountains and hillsides;
      (2)   To protect ridgelines and steep slopes;
      (3)   To prevent soil erosion, and to control stormwater runoff;
      (4)   To protect trees and other native vegetation;
      (5)   To encourage responsible development and to allow for reasonable
uses that complement the natural and visual character of the natural landscape;
      (6)   To encourage the application of sound and innovative design
principles to development of these areas; and
      (7)   To provide standards and guidelines for building and subdivision
designs so they will be compatible with mountain and hillside surroundings in a
way that benefits the landowner and the community.
(Code 1989, § 92.201; Ord. of 11-18-2008)
Sec. 36-394. Lots of record.
   Any existing lots, tracts or parcels of record as of the effective date of
the ordinance from which this article is derived shall be considered without
exception to be approved for the building of a single-family dwelling;
provided, however, that all requirements for the health department are met and
any required development permit or building permit is obtained. Provided,
further, for any building requiring a Level 2 analysis, as per section
36-397(2), the applicant shall provide a geotechnical analysis and report
demonstrating the site is suitable and safe for construction of the proposed
dwelling. Any new structures also must meet all applicable building codes and
those development standards that may be set by other regulations, as may be
required. When application for a certificate of zoning compliance is made on
one of these existing lots, the applicant shall demonstrate compliance with the
following requirements of this article unless deviations from such standards
are reviewed and approved as a variance as provided in this chapter:
      (1)   The requirements for the construction of buildings contained in
section
36-399; and
      (2)   The general regulations for all land disturbing activity contained
in section
36-398 with the exception of section
36-398(7) and (8).
(Code 1989, § 92.202; Ord. of 11-18-2008; Ord. of 3-10-2009)
Sec. 36-395. Exemptions.
   The following land uses or activities are exempt from the requirements of
this article:
      (1)   Agriculture and forestry, provided that such activities are
consistent with the best management practices established by the state division
of forest resources or the state natural resources conservation service,
consistent with all state and federal laws, and all applicable regulations
promulgated by the state.
      (2)   Landscape maintenance activities including the removal of diseased,
dead or damaged trees; provided, however, that such activities shall be carried
out in conformance with applicable regulations of this article or other
resolutions that might apply.
      (3)   Any land disturbing activity on any land which was contained in or
subject to any site-specific development plan granted a statutory vested right.
      (4)   Additions to single-family residences, on legal lots of record,
properly permitted and approved prior to the effective date of the ordinance
from which this article is derived, shall be permitted, subject to the
following:
         a.   The addition complies with the requirements of section 36-399
herein.
         b.   The height of the building addition does not exceed the height of
the existing building or the maximum height permitted pursuant to the
regulations contained herein, whichever is greater.
         c.   No land disturbance is required to accomplish the building
addition that would encroach on any reserved area, or that exceeds the land
disturbance maximum specified herein.
         d.   The building addition is in conformity with the purposes and
intent and consistent with regulations of this chapter as determined by the
community development director or designee.
      (5)   Development of subdivisions for which preliminary or final plat
approval has been granted prior to the effective date of the ordinance from
which this article is derived. Lots in any such subdivision, the final plat for
which was recorded in the office of the register of deeds subsequent to
November 18, 2008, shall be deemed existing lots of record in accordance with
section
36-394.
(Code 1989, § 92.203; Ord. of 11-18-2008; Ord. of 3-10-2009)
Sec. 36-396. Application requirements for all land disturbing activity other
than that associated with a single-family dwelling.
   The following information shall be submitted as part of the first request
for development authorization, including, without limitation, approval of a
preliminary subdivision plat, permit for land disturbing activity, development
plan approval, or permit for a building, road, or driveway for anything other
than a single-family dwelling. In order to reduce costs to applicants, the
topographic survey, soils report, hydrological report and plan, and
geotechnical analysis and report need not address areas not proposed for
development. Surveys, reports, plans and analyses required herein shall in all
cases be prepared by a qualified licensed professional.
      (1)   Topographic survey. A topographic survey of the project site shall
be required for preliminary subdivision plat approval. Notes and details of
existing terrain shall be included in the required topographic information, as
needed to adequately portray the natural and manmade features of the land, as
well as its elevations. A topographic survey may be required by the community
development director for any other application for land disturbing activity or
building approval where reliable data on existing topography including county
GIS maps or other topographic maps which may be available do not provide
sufficient detail to administer the requirements of this chapter. Said
topographic survey, if required by this section or by the community development
director pursuant to this section, shall provide contour intervals of no more
than five feet unless otherwise approved by the community development director.
      (2)   Soils report. This report shall include conclusions and
recommendations regarding the effect of soil conditions on the proposed
development. The report may use the soil survey prepared and published by the
natural resources conservation service for the county, as its basis, although
site-specific soil tests may be required at the discretion of the community
development director.
      (3)   Hydrology report and plan. This report shall include a complete
description of the hydrology of the site, including the presence and location
of springs, seeps and streams and the classification of streams as perennial,
intermittent or ephemeral. The report shall also include conclusions and
recommendations regarding the effect of hydrological conditions on the proposed
development, and the capability of the site to be developed. A hydrological
control plan shall also be required. At minimum, said plan shall show and take
into account the direction of flow within the local drainage basin; all natural
drainage channels directed toward and away from the site within 50 feet of the
perimeter of the site; and other natural drainageways which may affect or be
affected by the development proposal. Alterations of natural drainageways shall
be prohibited except for approved road crossings and drainage structures.
Natural drainageways shall be rip-rapped or otherwise stabilized below drainage
and culvert discharge points for a distance sufficient to convey the discharge
without channel erosion. Special notations shall be included which highlight
details of the terrain, existing natural surface drainage and areas subject to
seepage or spring flow.
      (4)   Geotechnical analysis and report. This analysis and report shall
address the existing geology, topographic and hydrologic conditions of the
site, including an evaluation of the ability of the site to accommodate the
proposed activity. Such analysis and report shall contain a professional
opinion regarding slope stability, soil- bearing capacity, the potential for
landslide or other geological hazards and their potential impact on structures
or surrounding properties, and any other pertinent information. The analysis
and report shall then be used by a qualified licensed professional engineer or
qualified licensed architect to create a design that is structurally sound and
addresses the design elements outlined in this article. Upon completion of all
improvements shown on approved plans but prior to the issuance of any final
approval of improvements by the town, the applicant shall submit a declaration
by the design engineer or architect that the design was provided in substantial
accordance with the geotechnical analysis. The applicant shall also submit a
declaration by a qualified licensed professional engineer or qualified licensed
architect that the work was completed in accordance with approved plans.
      (5)   Assessment. A written assessment of how the project has been
designed to minimize the negative impacts of development on the environment of
the mountain or hill.
(Code 1989, § 92.204; Ord. of 11-18-2008; Ord. of 8-9-2011)
Sec. 36-397. Application requirements for land disturbing activity associated
with a single-family dwelling.
   A plot plan of the lot or site on which the building is to be located shall
be submitted to the zoning administrator for review and approval. The plot plan
shall be prepared by a surveyor, civil engineer, or other qualified
professional licensed or registered in the state and shall show the finished
floor elevation of the building in relation to the natural ground surface and
in relation to the uppermost point of the crest, summit, or ridge top of the
mountain or hill on which said building is constructed. The plot plan shall
also indicate the limits of the area to be disturbed and the slope of the
building and grading envelope and of any proposed driveways. Areas proposed or
required to remain undisturbed shall be marked on the plot plan and in the
field with tape, orange plastic fencing, or other approved marker until a
certificate of occupancy is issued or as otherwise approved by the community
development director. The following additional information shall be submitted
along with the plot plan:
      (1)   Level 1 requirements. Every application for authorization to
undertake land disturbing activities associated with development of a single-
family dwelling shall contain a topographic survey of the lot with contour
intervals of two feet and a certification of maximum structure height as per
section
36-396(1). The applicant shall also conduct an analysis of the county soils
map. If the soils map indicates the presence of problematic soils, a soils
report meeting the requirements of section
36-396(2) should accompany the application.
      (2)   Level 2 requirements.
         a.   Level 2 requirements apply to any application to develop a
single-family home where:
            1.   The soils report confirms the presence of problematic soil
types; and/or
            2.   The natural slope of the building and grading envelope equals
or exceeds 40 percent.
         b.   In addition to the topographic survey required in section
36-396(1), Level 2 applications shall also contain the following information:
            1.   A soils report meeting the requirements of section
36-396(2), if one has not already been provided;
            2.   A hydrology report and plan meeting the requirements of
section
36-396(3); and
            3.   A geotechnical analysis and report meeting the requirements of
section
36-396(4).
(Code 1989, § 92.205; Ord. of 11-18-2008; Ord. of 3-10-2009)
Sec. 36-398. General regulations for all land disturbing activity.
   The following minimum standards shall apply to earth moving and land
disturbing activity which is not otherwise exempt:
      (1)   Minimum alterations. Earth moving shall be limited to the minimum
required for building foundations, driveways, drainage control structures and
other approved improvements and immediate areas surrounding the building,
structure, road driveway, drainage structure or other approved improvements.
With the exception of approved stockpiling or restoration efforts, substantial
earth moving beyond that required for the installation or construction of
approved buildings, structures, driveways, roads, or drainage structures shall
not be permitted.
      (2)   Cut and fill. Unless otherwise specifically approved by the town,
cut slopes shall be no steeper than 1½ half horizontal to one vertical (1½:1)
and fill slopes shall not be steeper than two horizontal to one vertical (2:1).
Slopes exceeding 35 feet in height shall be benched at 35-foot intervals.
      (3)   Compaction of fill. All fill shall be stabilized in conformance
with generally accepted engineering standards, including a compacted density of
a least 95 percent. Vegetation which has been cut or cleared shall be removed
from the site and shall not be covered by, or imbedded in, fill material.
      (4)   Timing of disturbance and prompt completion. The applicant for any
land disturbing activity regulated hereunder shall propose a construction
program to regulate the timing of construction which shall be designed to
accomplish all earth moving and land disturbance in the shortest practical
period of time. Absent extenuating circumstances beyond the control of the
developer, failure to comply with the construction program shall constitute a
violation of this article.
      (5)   Natural drainage channels. Natural drainageways shall be preserved
to the maximum extent possible.
      (6)   Impact on adjacent property. Realignment of streams and natural
drainage channels shall not be permitted except for the purpose of effecting a
stream crossing and only as specifically approved by the community development
director upon issuance of all necessary state and federal permits. In such
cases, natural or typical flow of surface or subsurface water shall not be
altered or obstructed in any way by grade changes if such alteration may
adversely affect the property of another by either contributing to pooling or
collection of waters, or to the concentration or intensification of surface
water discharge.
      (7)   Density limits. Unless developed as a planned unit development
pursuant to the provisions of subsection (8) of this section, development on
lands that are subject to this article shall meet the density and development
requirements shown in Table 1. No lot that is subject to the requirements of
this article shall be approved for subdivision unless it complies with the
requirements of this table.
TABLE 1
 
Average Natural Slope of Minimum Lot Size (acres) Maximum Building and Grading
Lot to be Subdivided                              Envelope (BGE)
30%—34%                1                        25%
35%—39%                2                        20%
40% or more              5                        15%
 
   Note: Minimum lot size may also be expressed in terms of dwelling units per
acre. Thus, a two-acre minimum lot size would result in a maximum density of
one dwelling per two acres (or one-half dwelling per acre) and so forth. This
table shall not be construed to impair the clustering of dwellings and lots so
long as maximum density is not exceeded.
      (8)   Planned unit development alternative. In lieu of developing land
subject to the density limits contained in subsection (7) of this section, the
owner of such land may propose to develop it as a planned unit development in
accordance with the procedures contained in article IV of this chapter. The
board of adjustment shall approve such application so long as the applicant
demonstrates that the proposed planned unit development complies with
applicable standards and requirements contained in article IV of this chapter,
as well as the following additional standards:
         a.   The average natural slope of the building and grading envelope
for each lot proposed for development shall be less than 30 percent.
         b.   With the exception of subsection (7) of this section concerning
density limits, the proposed development shall comply with the requirements of
this article.
      (9)   Storm drainage. The potential for rapid erosion is extremely high
in mountainous and hillside areas. Steep slopes create perfect conditions for
rapid movement of soils downhill during rainfall. Therefore, it is essential to
address stormwater drainage and soil and erosion before land disturbing
activities begin. Natural drainage flows shall be maintained wherever possible
and developers and landowners are encouraged to use the best technology
available to reduce the effects of this increased flow. All applications that
affect the natural flow of stormwater must meet all local regulations,
including, without limitation, the soil erosion and sedimentation control
regulations. Stormwater flow shall not be altered from its natural flow so as
to impact or damage the property of others.
      (10)   Clearing and grading.
         a.   A great deal of environmental damage associated with new
development can be avoided if construction and the position of the development
site are well planned. As the most potentially destructive part of the
construction process, grading must be carefully planned and executed to
maintain the stability of protected mountain and hillside property. The choice
of an appropriate building site is the key to minimizing potential erosion
problems. Grading, if required on the site, shall not take place prior to
development plan approval and issuance of any permit required by the soil
erosion and sedimentation control regulations. Only areas which have been
approved for disturbance may be disturbed, and then only after all erosion
measures and other regulations have been met.
         b.   The applicant's plans for meeting the following standards will be
reviewed during planning or before construction begins:
            1.   Cut and fill activities shall be minimized by carefully
selecting the site for structures, drainfields, septic tanks, etc.
            2.   Grading areas shall be clearly marked before any grading
begins. Highly visible fencing is recommended to prohibit earth moving
equipment from moving beyond designated grading boundaries.
            3.   Grading shall be phased so that prompt revegetation will
provide optimal erosion controls.
            4.   All top and bottom edges of slopes caused by either cut or
fill should be a minimum of two feet away from property lines.
      (11)   Retaining walls. Retaining walls, where required, shall be built
to follow the contours of the land. Retaining walls, any portion of which
exceeds ten feet in height, shall be designed to blend in with the natural
landscape and shall incorporate vegetation to screen them from view.
      (12)   Requirements for streets and driveways. No new public or private
street, road or driveway serving lands to which this article is applicable
shall be permitted or constructed unless such street, road or driveway complies
with the requirements of section
28-105.
         a.   All new public and private streets and roads and all driveways
shall be designed and constructed to minimize the potential for landslides,
erosion, and runoff.
         b.   Streets, roads and driveways shall be located such that the
maximum number of existing trees on the site is preserved.
         c.   Streets, roads and driveways shall be designed to create the
minimum feasible amounts of land coverage and the minimum feasible disturbance
of the soil. Variations in roadway design and construction specified by these
regulations shall be permitted, as may be approved by the community development
director, to prevent the dedication of unnecessarily large amounts of land to
such streets, roads or driveways. One-way streets shall be permitted and
encouraged where appropriate for the terrain and where public safety would not
be jeopardized. For example, a two-way street may have the directions of flow
split into one-way pairs that differ in elevation, circumnavigate difficult
terrain, or avoid tree clearance. Such streets shall have a minimum pavement
width of 16 feet for one-way loop roads and divided streets less than 2,500
feet in length, and 18 feet for one-way loop roads and divided streets 2,500
feet or greater in length, and shall meet all other applicable standards for
roads constructed within the town.
         d.   Except as may be modified herein, the maximum grade for any
street or road is 15 percent. Grades within 100 feet of an intersection shall
not exceed five percent without approval by the director. Where doing so will
result in less disturbance to steep slopes, grades of up to 18 percent may be
approved for distances not to exceed 500 feet per section or 15 percent of the
length of the entire road system in the project, whichever is more. No grades
in excess of 15 percent shall be approved in areas not served by functioning
fire hydrants. Those portions of streets or roads for which the grade exceeds
15 percent shall be paved.
         e.   Except as may be modified herein the maximum grade for any new
driveway is 22 percent. Grades of up to 25 percent may be authorized for
distances not to exceed 300 feet where doing so will result in less disturbance
to steep slopes. Where grades greater than 15 percent are authorized, driveways
shall be paved. Where grades in excess of 22 percent are authorized, driveways
shall have a minimum pavement width of 12 feet.
(Code 1989, § 92.206; Ord. of 11-18-2008; Ord. of 3-10-2009)
Sec. 36-399. Requirements for construction of buildings.
   Unless exempted by the terms of this section, no residential or
nonresidential building or manufactured home shall be erected within the area
governed by this article except in compliance with the following provisions:
      (1)   Disturbance limits for single-family homes. Land disturbance
associated with the development or redevelopment of a single-family home on
land subject to this article shall, in addition to other applicable
requirements, comply with the following provisions:
         a.   No more than 50 percent of a lot may be disturbed; provided,
however, the disturbance area on any lot shall not be required to be less than
7,500 square feet, nor may the disturbance area on any lot exceed 15,000 square
feet.
         b.   No lot may contain more than 6,000 square feet of impervious
surface. Any impervious surfaces on a lot shall be counted as disturbed area
when calculating the limits contained in subsection (1)a of this section.
         c.   No development or land disturbance activity may occur in the
following areas of a parcel:
            1.   Rock outcroppings without a geotechnical analysis assessing
the suitability of the site for the proposed disturbance activity.
            2.   Wetlands or buffer areas along streams.
            3.   Natural drainageways.
            4.   All sensitive natural areas.
            5.   Significant historical and archeological resource areas as
defined by the National Register of Historic Places or other federal and state
agencies.
         d.   The provisions of this subsection (1) shall not apply to the
crossing of streams and creeks for utility corridors and roadways if
construction does not exceed 1,000 square feet, does not reduce drainage, and
meets all other criteria for land disturbance activities as set forth in
chapter 22.
      (2)   Disturbance limits for lots intended for other than single-family
homes. For lots intended for development as other than single-family homes, the
building and grading envelope and impervious surfaces shall be the minimum
necessary to develop the property for its intended use as authorized in the
special use permit for the project and shall otherwise comply with the
requirements of this section.
      (3)   Building and grading envelopes. To the extent practical, building
and grading envelopes shall be sited so as to minimize the visibility of any
structures to be placed thereon from public rights-of-way or public lands. This
may be accomplished through natural terrain, existing vegetation or other means
approved by the director.
      (4)   Setbacks. Setbacks shall be used to protect natural features of the
mountain and hillside terrain. Placing structures away from the shoulder
reduces the visual impact of development as well as erosion on steep slopes.
All structures shall be set back a minimum of 20 feet above the shoulder of a
ridge line. The shoulder is defined as the plane at which the slope of the land
changes from greater than 20 percent to a ridge top of less than 20 percent.
Natural vegetation shall be maintained undisturbed within the setback area
except for access to a lot or limited cutting to provide a view. All other
setbacks, including, but not limited to, those from streams, creeks,
springheads and property lines, shall be met as required by this Code with the
following exception. Often in steep-slope settings, the preferred placement of
a structure is immediately adjacent to the roadway, thereby minimizing the
amount of disturbance of the hillside. The community development director shall
have authority to reduce the minimum front yard requirements in such
circumstances.
      (5)   Outdoor lighting. While lighting outside of homes is often
necessary, it can be quite obtrusive in the night skyline. Mountainous and
hillside areas are generally rural in character and should be maintained as
such even in the presence of development. The following shall apply to the
placement of outside lights:
         a.   Except for landscaping lighting not exceeding a height of 24
inches, all lights shall have fully-shielded fixtures that direct the light
downward. These shields shall eliminate scattered light and excessive glare.
         b.   Light poles shall not exceed the height of surrounding buildings.
      (6)   Landscaping. Because the mountainous and hillside areas of the town
are largely valued for their natural beauty, it is the intention of these
regulations to preserve this forested quality.
         a.   No construction equipment or development is permitted outside the
building and grading envelope.
         b.   Revegetation is required on all disturbed areas that remain after
construction, including areas around permanent structures, resurfaced areas
such as driveways and areas of cuts and fills, pursuant to land disturbance
regulations. Where trees have been removed due to insect damage or disease, and
this tree removal increases land disturbance so that it exceeds the maximum
building and grading envelope, replanting is required.
         c.   Riparian buffers act to intercept sediment, nutrients,
pesticides, and other materials in surface runoff and reduce nutrients and
other pollutants in shallow subsurface water flow. They also serve to provide
habitat and wildlife corridors and can reduce erosion by bank stabilization.
All buffers shall be protected in accordance with applicable requirements in
the soil erosion and sedimentation control requirements contained in
chapter 22.
         d.   Any clearing or thinning of trees or other vegetation shall be
accomplished in accordance with the requirements of sections
36-234 and
36-262.
(Code 1989, § 92.207; Ord. of 11-18-2008; Ord. of 3-10-2009; Ord. No. 21-05-11,
5-11-2021)
Secs. 36-400—36-426. Reserved.
ARTICLE XIV.
LEGAL PROVISIONS 9
 
Notes
  Editor's note(s)—Ord. No. 21-05-11, adopted May 11, 2021, added art. VI, site
9 specific vesting plans, thereby renumbering former art. XIII, as art. XIV, as
  herein set out.
Sec. 36-427. Severability.
   It is the legislative intent of the town council in adopting this chapter
that all provisions and sections thereof shall be liberally construed to
protect and preserve the health, safety and general welfare of the inhabitants
of the town, and, further, that should any provision, portion, section or
subsection of this chapter be held to be invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, such ruling shall not be construed as affecting the validity of
any of the remaining provisions, portions, or sections, it being the intent of
the town council that this chapter shall stand, notwithstanding the invalidity
of any provision, or sections or part thereof.
(Code 1989, § 92.185; Ord. of 1-22-1991)
Sec. 36-428. Conflict with other laws.
   When provisions of this chapter require a greater width or size of yards, or
require a lower height of a building, or require a greater percentage of a lot
to be left unoccupied, or impose other higher standards than are required in
any other statute or local ordinance or regulation, provisions of this chapter
shall govern. When the provisions of any other statute or local ordinance or
regulation require a greater width or size of yards, or require a lower height
of a building, or require a greater percentage of a lot to be left unoccupied,
or impose other higher standards than are required by the provisions made by
this chapter, the provisions of that statute or local ordinance or regulation
shall govern.
   (a)   Governing board. A governing board member shall not vote on any
legislative decision regarding a development regulation adopted pursuant to
this chapter where the outcome of the matter being considered is reasonably
likely to have a direct, substantial, and readily identifiable financial impact
on the member. A governing board member shall not vote on any zoning amendment
if the landowner of the property subject to a rezoning petition or the
applicant for a text amendment is a person with whom the member has a close
familial, business, or other associational relationship.
   (b)   Appointed boards. Members of appointed boards shall not vote on any
advisory or legislative decision regarding a development regulation adopted
pursuant to this chapter where the outcome of the matter being considered is
reasonably likely to have a direct, substantial, and readily identifiable
financial impact on the member. An appointed board member shall not vote on any
zoning amendment if the landowner of the property subject to a rezoning
petition or the applicant for a text amendment is a person with whom the member
has a close familial, business, or other associational relationship.
   (c)   Administrative staff. No staff member shall make a final decision on
an administrative decision required by this chapter if the outcome of that
decision would have a direct, substantial, and readily identifiable financial
impact on the staff member or if the applicant or other person subject to that
decision is a person with whom the staff member has a close familial, business,
or other associational relationship. If a staff member has a conflict of
interest under this section, the decision shall be assigned to the supervisor
of the staff person or such other staff person as may be designated by the
development regulation or other ordinance. No staff member shall be financially
interested or employed by a business that is financially interested in a
development subject to regulation under this chapter unless the staff member is
the owner of the land or building involved. No staff member or other individual
or an employee of a company contracting with a city local government to provide
staff support shall engage in any work that is inconsistent with his or her
duties or with the interest of the local government, as determined by the local
government.
   (d)   Quasi-judicial decisions. A member of any board exercising quasi-
judicial functions pursuant to this chapter shall not participate in or vote on
any quasi-judicial matter in a manner that would violate affected persons'
constitutional rights to an impartial decision maker. Impermissible violations
of due process include, but are not limited to, a member having a fixed opinion
prior to hearing the matter that is not susceptible to change, undisclosed ex
parte communications, a close familial, business, or other associational
relationship with an affected person, or a financial interest in the outcome of
the matter.
   (e)   Resolution of objection. If an objection is raised to a board member's
participation at or prior to the hearing or vote on that matter and that member
does not recuse himself or herself, the remaining members of the board shall by
majority vote rule on the objection.
   (f)   Familial relationship. For purposes of this section, a close familial
relationship means a spouse, parent, child, brother, sister, grandparent, or
grandchild. The term includes the step, half, and in-law relationships.
(Code 1989, § 92.996; Ord. of 1-22-1991; Ord. No. 21-05-11, 5-11-2021)
Sec. 36-429. Violations.
   Whenever, by the provisions of this chapter, the performance of any act is
prohibited, or whenever any regulation, dimension, or limitation is imposed on
the use of land, or on the erection or alterations, or on the use or change of
use of a structure, or the uses within such structure, a failure to comply with
such provisions of this chapter shall constitute a separate violation and a
separate offense.
(Code 1989, § 92.997; Ord. of 1-22-1991)
Sec. 36-430. Remedies.
   Any or all of the following procedures may be used to enforce the provisions
of this chapter:
      (1)   Injunction. Any violation of this chapter or of any condition,
order, requirement, or remedy adopted pursuant hereto may be restrained,
corrected, abated, mandated, or enjoined by other appropriate proceedings
pursuant to state law.
      (2)   Civil penalties. Any person who violates any provision of this
chapter shall be subject to the assessment of a civil penalty under the
procedures provided in section
36-431.
      (3)   Denial of permit, application or certificate. The administrator or
his designee shall withhold or deny any permit, application, certificate, or
other authorization on any land, building, structure, sign, or use in which
there is an uncorrected violation of a provision of this chapter or of a
condition or qualification of a permit, certificate, or other authorization
previously granted. Furthermore, the administrator may request the county
building inspector withhold applicable building permits under the state
building code until any violation of this chapter has been remedied, including
violations pertaining to the establishment of unapproved subdivisions or the
transfer of lots in unapproved subdivisions.
      (4)   Special permit or temporary certificate. The administrator or his
designee may condition the authorization of any permit or certificate upon the
correction of the deficiency, payment of civil penalties within a specified
time, or the posting of a compliance security bond approved by administrator.
      (5)   Stop-work orders. Whenever any land disturbing activity is
commenced and/or a building, structure, sign, or part thereof is being
constructed, reconstructed, altered, or repaired in violation of this chapter,
the administrator may order the work to be immediately stopped. The stop-work
order shall be in writing and directed to the owner, occupant, or person doing
the work. The stop-work order shall state the specific work to be stopped, the
specific reasons for the stoppage, and the conditions under which the work may
be resumed. Such action shall be in accordance with G.S. 160D or the state
building code. Furthermore, the administrator may request the county building
inspector issue a stop-work order regarding applicable building permits issued
under state building code until any violation of this chapter has been
remedied, including violations pertaining to the establishment of unapproved
subdivisions or the transfer of lots in unapproved subdivisions.
      (6)   Revocation of permits or certificates. The administrator or his
designee may revoke and require the return of a permit or certificate by
notifying the permit holder in writing, stating the reason for the revocation.
Permits or certificates shall be revoked for any substantial departure from the
approved application, plans, or specifications; refusal or failure to comply
with the requirements of state or local laws; or for false statements or
misrepresentations made in securing the permit or certificate. Any permit or
certificate mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable state or local law
may also be revoked. Furthermore, the administrator may request the county
building inspector to revoke applicable building permits issued under state
building code requirements until any violation of this chapter has been
remedied, including violations pertaining to the establishment of unapproved
subdivisions or the transfer of lots in unapproved subdivisions.
(Code 1989, § 92.998; Ord. of 6-12-2007; Ord. No. 21-05-11, 5-11-2021)
Sec. 36-431. Enforcement and penalties.
   (a)   Enforcement procedures. When the administrator or his designee becomes
aware of a violation of this chapter, it shall be his duty to notify the owner
or occupant of the land, building, structure, sign, or use of the violation.
The owner or occupant shall immediately remedy the violation. If needed, the
administrator will inspect the premises during reasonable hours and upon
presenting credentials. The administrator must have the consent of the premises
owner or an administrative search warrant to inspect areas that are not open to
the public.
   (b)   Notice of violation. If the owner or occupant of the land, building,
structure, sign, or use in violation fails to take prompt corrective action,
the administrator or his designee shall give the owner or occupant written
notice of violation (by personal delivery, first-class mail, and/or by posting
notice conspicuously on the property) of the following:
      (1)   That the activity, land, building, structure, sign, or use is in
violation of this chapter;
      (2)   The nature of the violation, and citation of the section of this
chapter violated;
      (3)   The measures necessary to remedy the violation; and
      (4)   Mechanisms available to appeal the decision of the administrator.
      (5)   Any commencement of land clearing or removal of vegetative growth
in violation of section 36-234 without first receiving a land disturbance
permit and providing an approved site plan, or in violation of section 36- 262
without first receiving a land disturbance authorization, as required by this
chapter, shall subject the property owner or the owner's agent to a civil fine
not to exceed $500.00 per day for each occurrence of such a violation. The fine
shall be payable immediately upon notification and shall be assessed from the
date of violation. Each day of a continuing violation shall constitute a
separate violation. If, following the appropriate inspections, the illegal
development is found to meet all requirements of this chapter, certificates of
zoning compliance shall be issued upon payment of the fine and submittal of the
appropriate documents, including fees. If the development does not meet said
requirements, the development shall either be returned as far as possible to
its original state, or be brought into compliance prior to receipt of site plan
approvals.
      (6)   The removal of significant trees or native shrubbery with their
stumps and roots, without an approved site plan, as required by this chapter,
shall subject the property owner to fines of $500.00 for each significant tree
illegally removed and $500.00 for each 100 square feet of native shrubbery,
with their stumps and roots, illegally removed. If the number of significant
trees and/or extent of native shrubbery previously existing on the property is
not known by means of an on-site inspection, fines shall be levied based on the
canopy coverage observable from existing aerial photography of the area in
question. In addition to these fines, illegally removed significant trees shall
be replaced at the expense of the owner or the owner's agent as set forth in
section 36-234.
   (c)   Appeal. Any owner or occupant who has received a notice of violation
may appeal in writing the decision of the administrator or his designee to the
board of adjustment in accordance with sections 36-184 and 36-185. In the
absence of an appeal, the decision of the administrator shall be final.
   (d)   Failure to comply with notice of violation or decision of the board of
adjustment. If the owner or occupant of a property fails to comply with a
notice of violation from which no appeal has been taken, or a final decision by
the BOA following an appeal, the owner or occupant shall be subject to such
remedies and penalties as may be provided for by state law or by section 36-
430.
   (e)   Civil penalties. Any person who violates any provision of this chapter
shall be subject to the assessment of a civil penalty in accordance with the
provisions set forth herein.
      (1)   Responsible parties. The owner or occupant of any land, building,
structure, sign, use of land, or part thereof, and any architect, builder,
contractor, agent, or other person, who participates or acts in concert,
assists, directs, creates, or maintains any condition that is in violation of
this chapter may be held responsible for the violation and subject to the civil
penalties and remedies provided herein and in section
36-430.
      (2)   Issuance of citations. No civil penalty shall be assessed under
this section until the person alleged to be in violation has been notified in
accordance with subsection (b) of this section. If after receiving a notice of
violation the owner or other violator fails to correct the violation, a civil
penalty shall be imposed in the form of a citation. Such citation shall
substantially conform to the following:
         a.   It shall be in writing;
         b.   It shall be delivered by certified or registered mail to the last
known address of the owner or occupant or such other person or by personal
service or by posting conspicuously on the property;
         c.   It shall state the civil penalty which is imposed upon the
violator; and
         d.   It shall direct the violator to pay the civil penalty within ten
business days of the date of service of the citation.
      (3)   Payment of civil penalties. The schedule for civil penalties shall
be set forth in a fee schedule maintained by the town clerk. For each day the
violation is not corrected, the violator will be guilty of an additional and
separate offense and subject to additional civil penalties. For each additional
and separate offense, the citation amount for the same violation shall be twice
the amount as the last citation as set forth in the fee schedule. If the
offender fails to pay any civil penalties within 30 days of service of a
citation, the town may recover such penalties in a civil action in the nature
of debt. Assessment of civil penalties shall be stayed pending appeals taken to
the board of adjustment.
(Code 1989, § 92.999; Ord. of 6-12-2007; Ord. of 5-13-2014; Ord. of 8-8-2017;
Ord. No. 21-05-11, 5-11-2021)
Secs. 36-432—36-460. Reserved.
ARTICLE XV.
APPENDICES 10
 
Notes
   Editor's note(s)—Ord. No. 21-05-11, adopted May 11, 2021, added art. VI, site
10 specific vesting plans, thereby renumbering former art. XIV, as art. XV, as
   herein set out.
Sec. 36-461. Appendix A, Significant trees: Common tree species of Lake Lure
and recommended diameters.
Tree Species Average Diameter at Breast Significant dbh Maximum Caliper for
             Height (dbh)                               Replanting
Tree Species        Average Diameter at Significant dbh Maximum Caliper for
                    Breast Height (dbh)                 Replanting
White Oak           2-3'                12"             3"
Northern Red Oak    3-4'                15"             3"
Scarlet Oak         1-2'                6"              3"
Chestnut Oak        3-4'                15"             3"
Blackjack Oak       1-2'                6"              3"
White Ash           1-2'                6"              3"
Red Maple           1-2'                6"              3"
Flowering Dogwood   12 -18"             4"              3"
Black Locust        2-3'                12"             3"
Black Walnut        2-4'                12"             3"
Bitternut Hickory   18-24"              10"             3"
Pignut Hickory      2-3'                12"             3"
Mockernut Hickory   18-24"              10"             3"
Yellow Poplar       2-6'                12"             3"
Sycamore            3-4'                15"             3"
Basswood*           2-3'                12"             3"
Beech               2-3'                12"             3"
Slippery Elm*       1-2'                6"              3"
Sweet Birch         2-3'                12"             3"
Black Cherry        2-3'                12"             3"
American Holly      6-24"               6"              3"
Sourwood            18-20"              6"              3"
Carolina Silverbell 6-12"               6"              3"
Persimmon           10-12"              6"              3"
Blackgum            1-2'                6"              3"
Cucumber Magnolia*  1-2'                6"              3"
Fraser Magnolia     10-12"              6"              3"
Redbud              10-12"              6"              3"
Yellow Buckeye*     To 3'               12"             3"
Eastern Hemlock     2-3'                12"**           3"
Carolina Hemlock    2-3'                12"**           3"
Shortleaf Pine      3-4'                6"              3"
Virginia Pine       1-2'                6"              3"
Pitch Pine          1-2'                6"              3"
White Pine          2-3'                12"             3"
 
*Species that may or may not occur in the town, but do occur in the region.
**It may become necessary to preserve all these trees, regardless of dbh, due
to potential loss of the species due to mortality from invasive species.
(Code 1989, ch. 92, app. A; Ord. of 6-12-2007)
Sec. 36-462. Appendix B, Forest coverage table: Significant tree density and
canopy coverage.
   Forest coverage can be estimated in several ways depending on the size and
topography of the property, the number of trees on the property, and the
availability of suitable aerial photographs. The table below shall be used to
determine the minimum forest coverage that must be retained during land
clearing, land disturbance, and/or development or achieved through replanting
with trees and shrubs recommended in the Lake Lure Tree Management Handbook.
Copies of all materials used to arrive at tree density or canopy coverage
estimates must be presented with the site plan.
      (1)   The ground survey - significant tree density. A small property or
one with relatively few trees could be evaluated by a ground survey. With this
method, a qualified licensed professional shall visit the area on foot (at the
owner's expense), count or (if necessary) estimate the number of significant
trees present before clearing, and report the significant tree density.
Significant trees, and/or forest areas, shall be marked on the site plan for
protection or removal as described in section 36-234. Estimates of significant
tree densities that will remain after land clearing, land disturbance, and/or
development shall be produced based on the number of significant trees to be
removed. Where this density falls below that required on the Forest Coverage
Table, the tree protection officer shall direct the replanting of trees to make
up the deficit.
      (2)   The aerial survey - canopy coverage. A larger property,
particularly one with steep topography, or a property with significant forest
coverage, might best be managed by a canopy coverage estimate involving
analysis of existing aerial photographs. This analysis shall be carried out by
a qualified licensed professional, at the owner's expense, by the method
described under Aerial Survey - Canopy Coverage Method at the end of this
appendix.
      (3)   The combined ground and aerial survey. When a large area to be
evaluated by aerial survey also includes pockets of forest that are to be left
for greenspace or common areas, or small undisturbed forest areas (less than
one acre and less than 50 percent canopy coverage) that will be disconnected
from larger undisturbed forest areas, these isolated areas shall be evaluated
by a ground survey, with the significant tree density figure to be shown on the
plat or site plan for each such isolated area. This method will improve
accuracy in calculating overall forest coverage, particularly where common
areas and greenspace are so designated. The significant tree density method
shall also be used when planning tree thinning on a portion of the property or
for other special purposes needing particular accuracy.
      (4)   Other methods. Property owners wishing to compute the pre-land
clearing/land disturbance/development forest coverage estimate by their own
methods shall provide their calculations to the tree protection officer with
sufficient clarity and accuracy that the tree protection officer can duplicate
and validate their results.
      (5)   The Forest Coverage Table. This table computes the minimum
significant tree density or canopy coverage that shall remain on a property
after land clearing, land disturbance and/or development, based on the
significant tree density or canopy coverage on the property prior to land
clearing, land disturbance and/or development. Where the post-land clearing,
land disturbance and/or development values fall below those required on the
Forest Coverage Table, the tree protection officer shall direct the replanting
of trees to make up the deficit.
   Significant Tree Density/Canopy Coverage Table
 
Pre-Land Clearing/Land    Pre-Land Clearing/Land  Post-Land Clearing/Land
Disturbance/Dvelopment    Disturbance/Development Disturbance/Development
Significant Tree Density  Canopy Coverage         Significant Tree Density Or
(Significant Trees per    (Percentage of Total    Canopy Coverage
Acre)                     Property Area)
0 to 10                   0% to 10%               1.0 x initial value
11 to 20                  11% to 20%              0.90 x initial value
21 to 50                  21% to 50%              0.80 x initial value
50 or more                50% or more             0.70 x initial value
 
Examples
Tree Density Example 1: For a two-acre lot with an average initial significant
tree density of 25 significant trees per acre, the final significant tree
density shall average 20 significant trees per acre (0.80 x 25).
Tree Density Example 2: For a one-acre lot with an initial significant tree
density of 15 per acre, a minimum of 13.5 significant trees must remain after
construction (0.90 x 15). If construction renders greater tree removal
unavoidable, then a replanting plan shall be submitted as part of the site plan
that will achieve the minimum final density.
Tree Density Example 3: For a 0.5-acre lot with just ten significant trees
(initial significant tree density of 20), nine of them shall remain (or be
replaced) after construction.
Canopy Coverage Example 1: For a two-acre lot with an initial canopy coverage
of 25 percent, the minimum final canopy coverage shall be 20 percent of the
two-acre lot (0.80 x 0.25).
Canopy Coverage Example 2: For a one-acre lot with an initial canopy coverage
of 80 percent, a minimum final coverage of 56 percent of the one-acre lot must
remain after construction (0.70 x 0.80). If construction renders greater tree
removal unavoidable, then a replanting plan shall be submitted as part of the
site plan that will achieve the minimum final coverage.
Canopy Coverage Example 3: For a 0.5-acre lot with an initial canopy coverage
of just ten percent, all the trees shall remain (or be replaced) after
construction (0.10 x 1.)
Aerial Survey - Canopy Coverage Method
   Step 1: Using a clear, 2005 or later aerial photo of the property, draw a
grid overlaying the property. The grid lines shall be spaced at one-half inch
intervals. Count the total number of squares in the grid, then study the
squares and estimate each square's coverage level the percentage (100 percent,
75 percent, 50 percent, 25 percent, or zero percent) of each square that is
covered by forest canopy.
   For squares with 100 percent canopy coverage, a value of 1 shall be
assigned.
   For squares with 75 percent canopy coverage, a value of 0.75 shall be
assigned.
   For squares with 50 percent canopy coverage, a value of 0.5 shall be
assigned.
   For squares with 25 percent canopy coverage, a value of 0.25 shall be
assigned.
   For squares with 0% canopy coverage, a value of 0 shall be assigned.
   Step 2: Count the number of squares with 100 percent coverage and multiply
by 1. To calculate the percentage of the total property area that the 100
percent coverage squares represent, divide the number of 100 percent squares by
the total number of squares in the grid. Use the following formula to do the
division and convert the results into a percentage:
 
(a x 1)  x 100 = (?)%
X
 
   x = total number of squares covering the whole property.
   a = total number of squares with a 100 percent canopy coverage level.
   Then count the number of squares with 75 percent coverage and multiply by
0.75. Use the same formula to do the division and convert the results into
percentages.
 
(b x 0.75)  x 100 = (?)%
X
 
   x = total number of squares covering the whole property.
   b = total number of squares with a 75 percent canopy coverage level.
   Follow the same steps for the other levels of canopy coverage using the
following values:
   For the 50 percent canopy coverage:
 
(c x 0.50)  x 100 = (?)%
X
 
   x = total number of squares covering the whole property.
   c = total number of squares with a 50 percent canopy coverage level.
   For the 25 percent canopy coverage:
 
(d x 0.25)  x 100 = (?)%
X
 
   x= total number of squares covering the whole property.
   d = total number of squares with a 25 percent canopy coverage level.
   For the 0% canopy coverage:
 
(e x 0)  x 100 = (?)%
X
 
   x= total number of squares covering the whole property.
   e = total number of squares with a 0 percent canopy coverage level.
   When the area percentage for each coverage level is known, add the
percentages together for the total estimated canopy coverage as a percentage of
the total property acreage.
   Example Problem: A grid is laid over a two-acre tract. The property has been
previously disturbed and shows mixed patches of forest and cleared areas. The
total number of squares covering the parcel is 140. 100 squares are completely
vegetated; ten squares are 75 percent vegetated; 15 squares are 50 percent
vegetated; ten squares are 25 percent vegetated; and five squares no longer
contain any vegetation. Using the above equation, calculate the estimated
canopy coverage for the site.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c141ac2780daea4288dd157975992950c90da25b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1292.png]
 
   Canopy Coverage Estimation
(Code 1989, ch. 92, app. B; Ord. of 6-12-2007; Ord. of 12-8-2009)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
STATE LAW REFERENCE TABLE
CODE COMPARATIVE TABLE 1989 CODE
CODE COMPARATIVE TABLE LEGISLATION
CODE COMPARATIVE TABLE
1989 CODE
This table gives the location within this Code of those sections of the 1989
Code which are included herein. Sections of the 1989 Code not listed herein
have been omitted as repealed, superseded, obsolete or not of a general and
permanent nature. For the location of ordinances and other legislation adopted
subsequent thereto, see the table immediately following this table.
1989 Code Section Section this Code
1989 Code Section Section this Code
10.01             1-1
10.02             1-2 
10.03             1-3
10.04             1-4
10.05             1-5
10.06             1-6
10.07             1-7
10.08             1-8
10.09             1-9
10.99             1-10
20.01             2-19
20.02             2-20
20.03             2-21
20.04             2-22
20.05             2-23
20.15             2-50
20.16             2-51
20.17             2-52
21.01             2-78
21.02             2-79
21.04             2-80
21.05             2-81
22.01             2-106
22.02             2-107
23.01             2-128
23.10             2-155
23.11             2-156
23.12             2-157
23.13             2-158
23.20             2-185
23.21             2-186
23.22             2-187
23.23             2-188
23.24             2-189
23.25             2-190
23.26             2-191
23.27             2-192
23.28             2-193
23.29             2-194
30.01             16-1
30.02             16-2
30.03             16-3
30.04             16-4
30.05             16-5
30.06             16-6
30.07             16-7
30.08             16-8
30.09             16-9
31.01             12-40
31.02             12-41
31.11             12-71
31.12             12-72
31.13             12-73
31.14             12-74
31.99             12-75
40.01             26-1
40.15             26-2
40.16             26-3
40.17             26-4
40.18             26-5
40.19             26-6
40.20             26-7
40.21             26-8
40.22             26-9
40.23             26-10
41.01             24-19
41.02             24-20
41.03             24-21
41.04             24-22
41.05             24-23
41.06             24-24
41.07             24-25
41.08             24-26
41.09             24-27
42.1              26-39
42.2              26-40
42.3              26-41
42.4              26-42
42.5              26-43
42.6              26-44
42.7              26-45
42.8              26-46
42.9              26-47
42.10             26-48
50.01             32-19
50.02             32-20
50.03             32-21
50.04             32-22
50.05             32-23
50.06             32-24
50.07             32-25
50.08             32-26
50.09             32-27
50.10             32-28
50.11             32-29
50.12             32-30
50.13             32-31
50.14             32-32
50.15             32-33
50.16             32-34
50.17             32-35
50.18             32-36
50.19             32-37
50.20             32-38
51.00             32-66
51.01             32-67
51.02             32-68
51.03             32-69
51.04             32-70
51.05             32-71
51.06             32-72
51.07             32-73
51.08             32-74
51.09             32-75
51.10             32-76
51.11             32-77
51.13             32-78
51.14             32-79
51.15             32-80
51.16             32-81
51.17             32-82
51.18             32-83
51.19             32-84
51.20             32-85
51.21             32-86
51.22             32-87
51.23             32-88
51.24             32-89
51.25             32-91
61.10             8-19
61.20             8-20
61.90             8-21
62.01             8-67
62.10             8-86
62.11             8-87
62.12             8-88
63.01             8-115
63.02             8-116
63.99             8-117
65.1              10-19
65.2              10-20
65.3              10-21
65.4              10-22
65.4.1            10-23
65.4.2            10-24
65.4.3            10-25
70.01             30-19
70.02             30-20
70.03             30-21
70.04             30-22
70.05             30-23
70.06             30-24
70.07             30-25
70.08             30-26
71.01             30-56
71.02             30-57
71.03             30-58
71.04             30-59
71.05             30-60
71.06             30-61
71.07             30-62
71.99             30-63
ch. 72, sched. I  30-95
73.01             34-19
73.02             34-20
73.03             34-21
73.05             34-22
73.06             34-23
73.07             34-24
73.08             34-25
73.09             34-26
73.10             34-27
73.11             34-28
73.12             34-29
74.01             30-119
74.02             30-120
74.03             30-121
74.04             30-122
74.05             30-123
74.06             30-124
74.07             30-125
74.08             30-126
80.01             10-54
80.02             10-55
80.03             10-56
80.04             10-57
80.05             10-58
80.06             10-59
80.07             10-60
80.08             10-61
81.01             4-1
81.02             4-2
81.03             4-3
81.04             4-4
81.99             4-5
82.01             24-58
82.02             24-59
82.03             24-60
82.04             24-61
82.99             24-62
83.01             18-1
83.02             18-2
83.03             18-3
83.04             18-4
83.05             18-5
84.01             20-1
84.02             20-2
84.03             20-3
84.04             20-4
84A.01            20-27
84A.02            20-28
84A.03            20-29
84A.04            20-30
84A.05            20-31
84A.06            20-32
84A.07            20-33
84A.08            20-34
84A.10            20-35
                20-36
84A.11            20-37
90.01             6-19
90.02             6-20
90.03             6-21
90.04             6-22
90.05             6-23
90.06             6-24 
90.07             6-25
90.08             6-26
90.09             6-27
90.10             6-28
90.11             6-29
91.01             28-1
91.02             28-2
91.03             28-3
91.04             28-4
91.05             28-5
91.06             28-6
91.15             28-31
91.16             28-32
91.17             28-33
91.18             28-34
91.19             28-35
91.20             28-36
91.21             28-37
91.22             28-38
91.23             28-39
91.35             28-67
91.36             28-68
91.37             28-69
91.38             28-70
91.39             28-71
91.39A            28-72
91.40             28-73
91.41             28-74
91.42             28-75
91.43             28-76
91.44             28-77
91.45             28-78
91.46             28-79
91.47             28-80
91.55             28-104
91.56             28-105
91.57             28-106
91.58             28-107
91.59             28-108
                28-109
91.60             28-110
91.61             28-111
91.70             28-136
91.80             28-156
91.81             28-157
91.99             28-158
ch. 91, attach. A 28-190
ch. 91, attach. B 28-191
ch. 91, attach. C 28-192
ch. 91, attach. D 28-193
92.001            36-1
92.002            36-2
92.003            36-3
92.004            36-4
92.005            36-5
92.015            36-29
92.016            36-30
92.017            36-31
92.018            36-32
92.019            36-33
92.025            36-55
92.026            36-56
92.027            36-57
92.028            36-58
92.029            36-59
                36-60
92.030            36-61
92.031            36-62
92.031B           36-63
92.031C           36-64
92.031D           36-65
92.032            36-66
92.033            36-67
92.034            36-68
92.039            36-69
                36-71
92.040            36-70
92.041            36-71
92.042            36-72
92.045            36-101
92.046            36-102
92.047            36-103
92.048            36-104
92.049            36-105
92.050            36-106
92.054            36-107
92.055            36-108
92.056            36-109
92.057            36-110
92.058            36-111
92.059            36-112
92.060            36-138
92.061            36-139
92.062            36-140
92.063            36-141
92.064            36-142
                36-143
92.065            36-144
92.066            36-145
92.067            36-146
92.068            36-147
92.080            36-178
92.081            36-179
92.082            36-180
92.083            36-181
92.084            36-182
92.085            36-183
92.086            36-184
92.087            36-185
92.088            36-186
92.089            36-187
92.090            36-188
92.100            36-215
92.101            36-216
92.102            36-217
92.103            36-218
92.104            36-219
92.105            36-220
92.106            36-221
92.107            36-222
92.108            36-223
92.109            36-224
92.110            36-225
92.111            36-226
92.112            36-227
92.113            36-228
92.114            36-229
92.115            36-230
92.116            36-231
92.117            36-232
92.118            36-233
92.119            36-234
92.120            36-262
92.121            36-263
92.122            36-264
92.130            36-292
92.131            36-293
92.132            36-294
92.133            36-295
92.145            36-324
92.146            36-325
92.147            36-326
92.148            36-327
92.149            36-328
92.150            36-329
92.151            36-330
92.152            36-331
92.153            36-332
92.154            36-333
92.155            36-334
92.156            36-335
92.157            36-336
92.158            36-337
92.159            36-338
92.160            36-339
92.161            36-340
92.170            36-369
92.171            36-370
92.172            36-371
92.173            36-372
92.174            36-373
92.175            36-374
92.185            36-427
92.200            36-392
92.201            36-393
92.202            36-394
92.203            36-395
92.204            36-396
92.205            36-397
92.206            36-398
92.207            36-399
92.996            36-428
92.997            36-429
92.998            36-430
92.999            36-431
ch. 92, app. A    36-461
ch. 92, app. B    36-462
94.01             6-47
94.02             6-48
94.03             6-49
94.04             6-50
94.05             6-51
94.06             6-52
94.07             6-53
94.08             6-54
94.09             6-55
94.10             6-56
94.11             6-57
94.12             6-58
94.13             6-59
94.14             6-60
94.15             6-61
94.16             6-62
94.17             6-63
94.18             6-64
94.99             6-65
95.001            14-1
95.002            14-2
95.003            14-3
95.004            14-4
95.010            14-5
95.020            14-6
95.021            14-7
95.022            14-8
95.023            14-9
95.024            14-10
95.025            14-11
95.026            14-12
95.027            14-13
95.030            14-45
95.031            14-46
95.032            14-47
95.033            14-48
95.034            14-49
95.040            14-72
95.041            14-73
95.043            14-74
95.044            14-75
95.045            14-76
96.01             22-19
96.02             22-20
96.03             22-21
96.04             22-22
96.05             22-23
96.06             22-24
96.07             22-25
96.08             22-26
96.09             22-27
96.10             22-28
96.11             22-29
96.12             22-30
96.13             22-31
96.14             22-32
96.15             22-33
96.16             22-34
96.17             22-35
96.18             22-36
96.19             22-37
96.20             22-38
96.999            22-39
97.01             6-89
97.02             6-90
 
CODE COMPARATIVE TABLE
LEGISLATION
This table gives the location within this Code of those ordinances and other
legislation which are included herein. Ordinances and other legislation not
listed herein have been omitted as repealed, superseded or not of a general and
permanent nature.
Legislation Date Section Section this Code
Legislation        Date       Section Section this Code
Ord. of 7-9-1974   7-9-1974         8-67
                                  8-86—
                                      8-88 
                                  30-56—
                                      30-61 
                                  30-63
Ord. of 7-8-1975   7-8-1975         30-57
Ord. of 3-23-1982  3-23-1982        2-155—
                                      2-158 
                                  6-20—
                                      6-27 
Ord. of 5-26-1989  5-26-1989        16-9
Ord. of 1-22-1991  1-22-1991        36-1—
                                      36-4 
                                  36-29—
                                      36-31 
                                  36-55—
                                      36-58 
                                  36-60
                                  36-66
                                  36-103
                                  36-138
                                  36-140
                                  36-142
                                  36-144—
                                      36-146 
                                  36-179—
                                      36-182 
                                  36-215
                                  36-217—
                                      36-230 
                                  36-292—
                                      36-294 
                                  36-324
                                  36-369—
                                      36-374 
                                  36-427—
                                      36-429 
Ord. of 4-23-1991  4-23-1991        8-115—
                                      8-117 
Ord. of 4-24-1991  4-24-1991        30-95
Ord. of 12-15-1992 12-15-1992       6-47
                                  6-51
Ord. of 2-23-1993  2-23-1993        4-3
                                  4-5
Ord. of 7-27-1993  7-27-1993        2-156
Ord. of 9-28-1993  9-28-1993        36-326
                                  36-337
Ord. of 1-25-1994  1-25-1994        36-5
                                  36-70
Ord. of 3-22-1994  3-22-1994        28-1—
                                      28-5 
                                  28-33
                                  28-67
                                  28-70
                                  28-104
Ord. of 5-10-1994  5-10-1994        8-115
Ord. of 6-28-1994  6-28-1994        6-50
Ord. of 7-26-1994  7-26-1994        28-105
Ord. of 8-9-1994   8-9-1994         6-48,
                                      6-49
                                  6-53,
                                      6-54
                                  6-57
Ord. of 9-27-1994  9-27-1994        28-35
                                  36-56
                                  36-58
                                  36-60
Ord. of 9-28-1994  9-28-1994        36-337
                                  36-340
Ord. of 11-8-1994  11-8-1994        36-5
Ord. of 1-24-1995  1-24-1995        28-105,
                                      28-106
                                  36-218
Ord. of 5-23-1995  5-23-1995        28-34,
                                      28-35
                                  28-105,
                                      28-106
Ord. of 12-12-1995 12-12-1995       36-61
                                  36-70
                                  36-336
                                  36-340
Ord. of 11-26-1996 11-26-1996       28-6
                                  28-72—
                                      28-75 
                                  28-136
                                  36-5
                                  36-70
                                  36-340
Ord. of 1-28-1997  1-28-1997        36-5
                                  36-56
                                  36-60
Ord. of 8-18-1998  8-18-1998        36-29
                                  36-68
Ord. of 10-20-1998 10-20-1998       6-48
                                  6-50—
                                      6-54 
                                  6-60,
                                      6-61
                                  6-65
Ord. of 11-17-1998 11-17-1998       36-143
Ord. of 1-12-1999  1-12-1999        36-231
Ord. of 2-9-1999   2-9-1999         36-5
                                  36-29
                                  36-62—
                                      36-64 
                                  36-70
Ord. of 4-13-1999  4-13-1999        36-5
                                  36-64
Ord. of 12-14-1999 12-14-1999       36-5
Ord. of 1-9-2001   1-9-2001         36-5
                                  36-64
                                  36-334,
                                      36-335
Ord. of 5-8-2001   5-8-2001         6-89,
                                      6-90
Ord. of 6-18-2001  6-18-2001        6-48
                                  6-51
Ord. of 7-10-2001  7-10-2001        36-5
                                  36-56
                                  36-61
                                  36-218
Ord. of 11-13-2001 11-13-2001       28-6
                                  28-33
                                  28-38
Ord. of 1-14-2002  1-14-2002        28-106
Ord. of 2-12-2002  2-12-2002        6-49
Ord. of 4-9-2002   4-9-2002         26-1
                                  28-6
                                  28-72
                                  28-105
                                  36-5
                                  36-295
Ord. of 6-11-2002  6-11-2002        6-89
Ord. of 9-9-2003   9-9-2003         2-185—
                                      2-193 
                                  6-54
Ord. of 10-14-2003 10-14-2003       36-231
                                  36-295
Ord. of 11-8-2003  11-8-2003        36-334
Ord. of 11-18-2003 11-18-2003       36-324—
                                      36-326 
                                  36-329
                                  36-335
                                  36-340
Ord. of 12-9-2003  12-9-2003        6-48
Ord. of 5-11-2004  5-11-2004        36-5
                                  36-58,
                                      36-59
                                  36-61
                                  36-67
                                  36-68
Ord. of 4-12-2005  4-12-2005        6-48
                                  6-51
                                  6-59—
                                      6-61 
                                  6-63
Ord. of 7-12-2005  7-12-2005        36-5
Ord. of 11-15-2005 11-15-2005       22-19
                                  36-5
                                  36-60—
                                      36-64 
                                  36-102—
                                      36-105 
                                  36-107
                                  36-109—
                                      36-112 
                                  36-233
Ord. of 1-10-2006  1-10-2006        36-106
Ord. of 4-12-2006  4-12-2006        6-54
Ord. of 7-11-2006  7-11-2006        6-48—
                                      6-53 
                                  6-60
Ord. of 8-8-2006   8-8-2006         36-337
Ord. of 9-12-2006  9-12-2006        6-49,
                                      6-50
                                  6-53
Ord. of 10-10-2006 10-10-2006       28-3—
                                      28-6 
                                  28-32—
                                      28-35 
                                  28-67
                                  28-70
                                  28-104
                                  28-109
                                  28-158
Ord. of 11-14-2006 11-14-2006       28-6
                                  28-32—
                                      28-35 
                                  28-109
                                  28-158
Ord. of 1-9-2007   1-9-2007         28-34
                                  36-59
                                  36-179
Ord. of 4-10-2007  4-10-2007        36-5
                                  36-55
                                  36-70
                                  36-140
                                  36-145
                                  36-233
Ord. of 6-12-2007  6-12-2007        22-21—
                                      22-24 
                                  22-26,—
                                      22-27
                                  22-30,
                                      22-31
                                  22-36
                                  22-39
                                  36-5
                                  36-112
                                  36-138—
                                      36-140 
                                  36-262—
                                      36-264 
                                  36-430,
                                      36-431
                                  36-461,
                                      36-462
Ord. of 8-14-2007  8-14-2007        6-48,
                                      6-49
                                  6-51,
                                      6-52
                                  6-54—
                                      6-56 
                                  6-58—
                                      6-61 
                                  6-63
Ord. of 10-9-2007  10-9-2007        28-6
                                  28-76,
                                      28-77
Ord. of 1-8-2008   1-8-2008         36-5
                                  36-57—
                                      36-60 
                                  36-64
                                  36-140
                                  36-145
                                  36-232
                                  36-336
                                  36-370
                                  36-372
Ord. of 3-11-2008  3-11-2008        6-51,
                                      6-52
                                  6-60
Ord. of 5-13-2008  5-13-2008        14-1
Ord. of 6-10-2008  6-10-2008        28-3
                                  28-6
                                  28-33,
                                      28-34
                                  28-76,
                                      28-77
                                  28-104
                                  28-107
                                  28-109
                                  28-158
                                  36-5
                                  36-67—
                                      36-69 
                                  36-103,
                                      36-104
                                  36-107
                                  36-262,
                                      36-263
Ord. of 8-12-2008  8-12-2008        28-78
                                  36-70
Ord. of 11-18-2008 11-18-2008       28-6
                                  28-104
                                  36-5
                                  36-71
                                  36-392—
                                      36-399 
Ord. of 1-13-2009  1-13-2009        28-79
Ord. of 2-13-2009  2-13-2009        36-61
Ord. of 3-10-2009  3-10-2009        28-6
                                  36-5
                                  36-62—
                                      36-64 
                                  36-71
                                  36-218
                                  36-392
                                  36-394,
                                      36-395
                                  36-397—
                                      36-399 
Ord. of 5-12-2009  5-12-2009        6-62
Ord. of 10-13-2009 10-13-2009       6-49
                                  6-51
                                  6-89,
                                      6-90
                                  36-5
                                  36-58—
                                      36-60 
                                  36-67
                                  36-72
                                  36-233
                                  36-336
Ord. of 11-10-2009 11-10-2009       28-33—
                                      28-35 
Ord. of 11-17-2009 11-17-2009       28-34
Ord. of 12-8-2009  12-8-2009        36-462
Ord. of 1-1-2010   1-1-2010         36-5
                                  36-72
Ord. of 3-3-2010   3-3-2010         36-109
Ord. of 3-9-2010   3-9-2010         36-107
                                  36-109
                                  36-326
                                  36-334
Ord. of 4-13-2010  4-13-2010        36-5
                                  36-61
                                  36-64
                                  36-141
Ord. of 12-14-2010 12-14-2010       36-5
                                  36-61
Ord. of 2-8-2011   2-8-2011         10-19
                                  36-5
                                  36-70
                                  36-143
Ord. of 4-1-2011   4-1-2011         10-19
Ord. of 4-12-2011  4-12-2011        6-48
                                  6-51
                                  6-61
                                  6-63—
                                      6-65 
Ord. of 5-10-2011  5-10-2011        28-6
Ord. of 6-14-2011  6-14-2011        36-5
                                  36-62—
                                      36-64 
Ord. of 7-12-2011  7-12-2011        36-33
Ord. of 8-9-2011   8-9-2011         36-33
                                  36-392
                                  36-396
Ord. of 2-28-2012  2-28-2012        36-72
Ord. of 3-13-2012  3-13-2012        1-10
                                  6-19—
                                      6-29 
                                  18-1
Ord. of 4-10-2012  4-10-2012        28-6
                                  28-80
                                  36-5
                                  36-56—
                                      36-65 
                                  36-67,
                                      36-68
Ord. of 6-12-2012  6-12-2012        36-59
Ord. of 8-14-2012  8-14-2012        1-10
Ord. of 9-11-2012  9-11-2012        4-2
Ord. of 10-9-2012  10-9-2012        36-5
                                  36-71
                                  36-102
                                  36-180
Ord. of 3-14-2013  3-14-2013        6-23
Ord. of 6-11-2013  6-11-2013        36-5
Ord. of 9-10-2013  9-10-2013        36-233
Ord. of 10-8-2013  10-8-2013        36-139
                                  36-180—
                                      36-188 
Ord. of 11-12-2013 11-12-2013       6-62
Ord. of 4-8-2014   4-8-2014         36-5
                                  36-57
                                  36-222
Ord. of 5-13-2014  5-13-2014        36-333
                                  36-431
Ord. of 10-14-2014 10-14-2014       36-5
                                  36-62—
                                      36-65 
                                  36-72
Ord. of 12-9-2014  12-9-2014        6-48
                                  36-5
                                  36-70,
                                      36-71
Ord. of 3-10-2015  3-10-2015        36-5
                                  36-70
                                  36-143
                                  36-216
Ord. of 3-16-2015  3-16-2015        36-71
Ord. of 4-1-2015   4-1-2015         26-8
Ord. of 5-12-2015  5-12-2015        6-60
                                  8-116
                                  36-184
Ord. of 7-14-2015  7-14-2015        36-5
                                  36-59,
                                      36-60
                                  36-64
                                  36-72
Ord. of 11-10-2015 11-10-2015       36-60
Ord. of 12-22-2015 12-22-2015       6-58
Ord. of 2-9-2016   2-9-2016         36-216
Ord. of 4-12-2016  4-12-2016        6-47,
                                      6-48
                                  6-51—
                                      6-53 
                                  6-55
                                  6-58—
                                      6-61 
Ord. of 6-14-2016  6-14-2016        20-4
Ord. of 9-13-2016  9-13-2016        36-5
                                  36-333
Ord. of 1-10-2017  1-10-2017        32-71
Ord. of 8-8-2017   8-8-2017         36-431
Ord. of 1-9-2018   1-9-2018         36-262,
                                      36-263
Ord. of 3-13-2018  3-13-2018        30-62
                                  36-72
Ord. of 4-10-2018  4-10-2018        8-19—
                                      8-21 
Ord. of 5-8-2018   5-8-2018         22-21—
                                      22-23 
                                  22-25
                                  22-28
                                  22-30
                                  22-33
                                  22-36
                                  22-39
Ord. of 6-12-2018  6-12-2018        36-64
Ord. of 8-14-2018  8-14-2018        2-107
                                  30-119—
                                      30-126 
Ord. of 9-11-2018  9-11-2018        6-55
Ord. of 11-13-2018 11-13-2018       30-95
                                  32-66
                                  32-70,
                                      32-71
                                  32-75
                                  32-78
Ord. of 2-12-2019  2-12-2019        36-56
                                  36-59
                                  36-61—
                                      36-65 
                                  36-67,
                                      36-68
                                  36-72
Ord. of 3-12-2019  3-12-2019        36-111
Ord. of 5-14-2019  5-14-2019        4-2
                                  26-8
Ord. of 7-9-2019   7-9-2019         36-72
                                  36-216
Code Chapter 93    1977       Added   22-61 
                                      22-64 
Ord. No. 19-07-09A 7-9-2019   2       36-216(d)(1)
                                      36-2—
                                      36-5 
                                      36-31—
                                      36-33 
                                      36-55—
                                      36-65  
                                      36-67,
Ord. No. 21-05-11  5-11-2021  1       36-68—
                                      36-72 
                                      36-101—
                                      36-107  
                                      36-111,
                                      36-112—
                                      36-138 
                                      36-140
                            Added   36-164—
                                      36-167 
                            Rnmd    Art. VI
                            as      Art. VII
                            Added   36-180(h)
                                   36-181—
                                      36-185 
                                   36-187,
                                      36-188
                            Rnmd    Art. VII
                            as      Art. VIII
                                       
                                   36-216,
                                      36-231—
                                      36-234
                            Rnmd    Art. VIII
                            as      Art. IX
                            Rnmd    Art. IX
                            as      Art. X
                            Rnmd    Art. X
                            as      Art. XI
                                   36-336—
                                      36-340
                            Rnmd    Art. XI
                            as      Art. XII
                                      36-369—
                                   36-373(b),
                                      36-374
                            Rnmd    Art. XII
                            as      Art. XIII
                                   36-374
                            Rnmd    Art. XII
                            as      Art. XIII
                                   36-399
                            Rnmd    Art. XIII
                            as      Art. XIV
                                      36-428—
                                   36-430,
                                      36-431
                            Rnmd    Art. XIV
                            as      Art. XV
                                      28-2—
Ord. No. 21-05-11A 5-11-2021  1       28-39 
                                      28-109
Ord. No. 21-05-11B 5-11-2021  1       36-231(d)
Ord. No. 21-06-08  6-8-2021   1       30-61
Ord. No. 21-11-09  11-9-2021  1       36-72(4)(d)(7)
Ord. No. 21-11-09A 11-9-2021  1       36-140(A)
Ord. No. 21-11-09C 11-9-2021         Adopting Ordinance
Ord. No. 21-12-14  12-14-2021 1       4-2(c)
                                     
 
STATE LAW REFERENCE TABLE
This table shows the location within this Charter and Code, either in the text
or notes following the text, of references to the General Statutes (G.S.).
G.S. Section this Code
G.S.              Section this Code
1-593             1-3
1A-1              1-10
                6-64,
                  6-65
                22-33
                22-36
                22-39
                28-158
ch. 7A            14-49
12-3              1-3
14-3(a)(3)        1-10
14-4              1-10
                4-5
                6-65
                8-21
                8-117
                24-62
                26-47
                36-340
14-4(a)           32-70
14-190.14         36-5
14-190.15         36-5
14-399            Ch. 24, Art. III
14-415.10 et seq. 20-4
ch. 15            36-335
17C-6             16-7
ch. 18A           Char. (note)
ch. 18B           Char. (note)
18B-101           8-115
20-4.01           30-121
20-4.01(11)       20-28
20-4.01(27)d      20-28
20-4.01(27)e      20-28
20-4.01(27)h      20-28
20-4.01(48)       20-28
20-4.01(49)       20-28
20-141(f)         30-95
20-156            30-26
ch. 20, art. 7A   10-60
20-219.9          10-60
20-219.11(a)      10-59
20-219.11(b)      10-59
20-280            34-23 
                  34-25 
20-360            26-8
20-363            26-8
20-364            26-8
20-368            26-8
44A-4 44A-6       10-60
47-30             28-35
ch. 47A           36-104
74-46 et seq.     22-22
ch. 77            Sess. Laws
ch. 89B           10-21
                10-25
                36-263
ch. 89C           28-74
105-274 et seq.   28-109
                36-5
                36-263
105-375           Char. (note)
105-375(d)        Char. (note)
ch. 113           Sess. Laws
                2-191
113-57(2)         22-23
113A-1 et seq.    22-23
113A-15A          22-35
113A-54.1(b)      22-23
113A-54.1(e)      22-23
113A-56(a)        22-22
113A-57(2)        22-23
113A-57(3)        22-38
113A-61(c)        22-35
113A-61.1         22-23
113A-64           22-39
113A-64(b)        22-23
122C-3(11)b       36-5
130A-184 et seq.  Ch. 4 (note)
130A-290(a)(6)    14-5
130A-290(a)(9)    14-5
130A-290(a)(35)   14-5
130A-290(a)(36)   14-5
ch. 139           22-21
ch. 143, art. 8   2-107
143-129(f)        2-107
143-129(g)        2-107
143-143.15        14-73
ch. 143, art. 33C Sess. Laws
143-318.9 et seq. 2-190
                6-62
                36-182
143-318.12        2-51
143-355(l)        Ch. 32, Art. II
150B-14(c)        22-21
153A-26           36-180
159-7 et seq.     2-80
159-25            2-80
159-28            2-106
160-373           28-6
ch. 160A          Char. (note)
160A-1            Char. (note)
160A-1 et seq.    Ch. 2 (note)
160A-22           Char. (note)
160A-61           36-180
160A-67           Ch. 2 (note)
160A-69           2-21
160A-70           2-22
160A-71           2-51
160A-74           2-50
160A-75           2-50
160A-76           Ch. 2 (note)
160A-77           Ch. 2 (note)
160A-78           Ch. 2 (note)
160A-79           1-1
160A-146          2-19
160A-146 et seq.  Ch. 2 (note)
160A-147          2-23
160A-148          2-23
160A-151          2-23
160A-171          2-78
160A-173          2-79
160A-174          Ch. 2 (note)
160A-174 et seq.  6-19
160A-175          6-65
                22-39
                26-46,
                  26-47
                28-158
160A-175(b)       36-340
160A-175(d)       4-5
160A-175(e)       4-5
160A-175(f)       36-340
160A-182          Ch. 4 (note)
160A-183          Ch. 12 (note)
160A-184          Ch. 20, Art. II
160A-186          Ch. 4 (note)
160A-187          Ch. 4 (note)
160A-188          Ch. 4 (note)
                4-4
160A-189          20-1
160A-190          20-1
160A-194(c)       Ch. 30, Art. II
160A-203.1        Ch. 4 (note)
160A-206          Ch. 2 (note)
160A-207          Ch. 2 (note)
160A-209          Sess. Laws
                Ch. 2 (note)
                2-191
ch. 160A, art. 10 Char. (note)
160A-216 et seq.  6-26
160A-281 et seq.  Ch. 16 (note)
160A-282          16-9
160A-291 et seq.  Ch. 12 (note)
160A-296          Ch. 26
160A-300          Ch. 30, Art. II
160A-300.6        Ch. 30, Art. V
                30-120
                30-126
160A-303          Ch. 10, Art. III 
                Ch. 30, Art. II
160A-303.1        Ch. 24, Art. II 
160A-304          Ch. 34, Art. II 
160A-311          Ch. 32, Art. III 
160A-311 et seq.  Ch. 32, Art. II 
160A-312          Ch. 32, Art. III 
160A-312 et seq.  32-66
160A-314          Char. (note)
160A-317          Ch. 32, Art. III 
160A-317(b)       Ch. 24, Art. II
160A-393(d)       6-62
                  2-158 
                  36-2 
                  36-33 
                  36-138 
ch. 160D          36-181 
                  36-185 
                  36-188 
                  36-340 
                  36-430
160D-102          36-185
160D-108.1        36-166,
                  36-167
160D-301          2-155
160D-305          6-23
160D-702          Ch. 36 (note)
160D-801          Ch. 28 (note)
160D-801 et seq.  28-2
160D-901 et seq.  Ch. 36 (note)
160D-923          Ch. 14 (note)
                Ch. 36 (note)
160D-925          Ch. 36 (note)
160D-930 et seq.  Ch. 36 (note)
160D-935          36-72
160D-940 et seq.  Ch. 36 (note)
160D-1111         36-166
160D-1115         36-166
160D-1119         Ch. 6, Art. II
160D-1128         Ch. 12 (note)
160D-1129         Ch. 6, Art. II
160D-1201 et seq. Ch. 6, Art. II 
                6-19
160D-1203         6-23
                6-25,
                  6-26
160D-1206         6-23
163-292           Char. (note)
166A-19.30(a)(5)   
                  22-22
                  
 
