TOWN OF LANDIS, NORTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2012 S-1 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance passed 9-10-2012
and State legislation current to 2012 ALS pamphlet #5
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
432 Walnut Street, 12th Floor
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Email: customerservice@amlegal.com
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
CHARTER
Section
Article I. Incorporation and Corporate Powers
   
1.1.   Incorporation and general powers
   
1.2.   Exercise of powers
   
1.3.   Enumerated powers not exclusive
Article II. Corporate Boundaries
   
2.1.   Existing corporate boundaries
   
2.2.   Extension of corporate boundaries
Article III. Mayor and Board of Alderpersons
   
3.1.   Composition of board of alderpersons
   
3.2.   Mayor and mayor pro tempore
   
3.3.   Terms; qualifications; vacancies
   
3.4.   Organization of board of alderpersons; oath of office
   
3.5.   Meetings of board
   
3.6.   Ordinances and resolutions
Article IV. Elections
   
4.1.   Regular municipal elections
   
4.2.   Other municipal elections
Article V. Town Attorney
   
5.1.   Appointment; qualifications; terms; compensation
   
5.2.   Duties
Article VI. Administrative Officers and Employees
   
6.1.   Form of government
   
6.2.   Deleted
   
6.3.   Town administrator/town clerk
   
6.4.   Town tax collector
   
6.5.   Other officers and employees
Article VII. Finance
   
7.1.   Custody of town money
   
7.2.   Independent audit
Article VIII. Claims Against Town
   
8.1.   Presentation of claims; suit upon claims
Article IX. Town Electric System
   
9.1.   Sale, lease or discontinuance of municipally owned electric system
Article X. Street and Sidewalk Improvements
   
10.1.   Authority to make street improvements; assessment of costs
   
10.2.   When petition for street improvements unnecessary
   
10.3.   “Street improvement” defined
   
10.4.   Authority to make sidewalk improvements; assessment of costs
   
10.5.   Assessment procedure
   
10.6.   Effect of assessments
   
10.7.   Acceptance of conveyance in satisfaction of assessments
Article XI. Prohibited Acts
   
11.1.   Repealed
   
11.2.   Discharge of firearms and explosives
Editor’s note:
   Set out herein is the Charter of the Town of Landis, as contained in section
1 of Session Laws 1975, chapter 213, ratified May 5, 1975, together with all
acts amendatory thereof. Acts amending the Charter are cited following the
sections affected. Unless so cited, each section derives unchanged from the
original act.
   A uniform system of capitalization and spelling has been employed, and a
frontal analysis has been added for the convenience of the user. Catch-lines
have been added or altered where necessary to more accurately reflect the
contents of each section.
Article I. Incorporation and Corporate Powers
Sec. 1.1. Incorporation and general powers.
   The Town of Landis, in the County of Rowan, shall continue to be a body
politic and corporate under the name of the “Town of Landis,” and continue to
be vested with all property and rights which now belong to the town; shall have
perpetual succession; may have a common seal and alter and renew the same at
pleasure; may sue and be sued; may contract, may acquire and hold all such
property, real and personal, as may be devised, bequeathed, sold or in any
manner conveyed or dedicated to it, or otherwise acquired by it, and may from
time to time hold, invest, sell, or dispose of the same; and shall have and may
exercise in conformity with this Charter all municipal powers, functions,
rights, privileges, and immunities of every name and nature.
Sec. 1.2. Exercise of powers.
   All powers, functions, rights, privileges, and immunities of the town, its
officers, agencies, or employees, shall be carried into execution as provided
by this Charter, or, if this Charter makes no provision, as provided by
ordinance or resolution of the board of alderpersons and as provided by the
General Statutes of North Carolina pertaining to municipal corporations.
Sec. 1.3. Enumerated powers not exclusive.
   The enumeration of particular powers by this Charter shall not be held or
deemed to be exclusive but, in addition to the powers enumerated herein or
implied hereby, or those appropriate to the exercise of such powers, the Town
of Landis shall have and may exercise all powers which are granted to municipal
corporations by the General Statutes of North Carolina and all powers which,
under the Constitution of North Carolina, it would be competent for this
Charter specifically to enumerate.
Article II. Corporate Boundaries 
Sec. 2.1. Existing corporate boundaries.
   (a)   The corporate limits of the Town of Landis shall be those existing at
the time of the ratification of this Charter and as the same may be altered
from time to time in accordance with law. The board of alderpersons of the Town
of Landis shall cause to be prepared a map to be designated “Map of the Town of
Landis Corporate Limits,” showing the corporate limits as the same may exist as
of the effective date of this Charter. The board of aldermen shall also cause
to be prepared a written description of the corporate limits as shown on said
map to be designated “Description of Landis Corporate Limits.” This map and
description shall be retained permanently in the office of the town
administrator/town clerk as the official map and description of the corporate
limits of the town. Immediately upon alteration of the corporate limits
pursuant to law, the board of alderpersons shall cause to be made the
appropriate changes to the official map and description. Photographic copies or
other legible and permanent reproductions of the official map or description,
certified as by law providing for the certification of ordinances, shall be
admissible into evidence in all courts and shall have the same force and effect
as would the official map or description.
   (b)   The board of alderpersons shall require the redrawing of the official
map and the rewriting of the official description as may from time to time be
required. A redrawn map and a rewritten description shall supersede for all
purposes the earlier maps and descriptions which are respectively replaced.
Sec. 2.2. Extension of corporate boundaries.
   All extensions of the corporate boundaries shall be governed by the General
Statutes of North Carolina.
Article III. Mayor and Board of Alderpersons 
Sec. 3.1. Composition of board of alderpersons.
   The board of alderpersons shall consist of four members to be elected by the
qualified voters of the town voting at large in the manner provided in article
IV of this Charter.
Sec. 3.2. Mayor and mayor pro tempore.
   The mayor shall be elected by and from the qualified voters of the town
voting at large in the manner provided in article IV of this Charter. The mayor
shall be the official head of the town government and shall preside at all
meetings of the board of alderpersons. When there is an equal division on a
question, the mayor shall resolve the deadlock by his vote, but he shall vote
in no other case. The mayor shall exercise such powers and perform such duties
as are or may be conferred upon him by the General Statutes of North Carolina,
by this Charter, and by the ordinances of the town. The board of alderpersons
shall choose one of its number to act as mayor pro tempore, and he shall
perform the duties of the mayor in the mayor’s absence or disability. The mayor
pro tempore as such shall have no fixed term of office, but shall serve in such
capacity at the pleasure of the remaining members of the board.
Sec. 3.3. Terms; qualifications; vacancies.
   (a)   The mayor and members of the board of alderpersons shall serve for
terms of four years by staggered elections every two years; provided, they
shall serve until their successors are elected and qualified pursuant to the
General Statutes of North Carolina. (Adopted 4-21-03)
   (b)   No person shall be eligible to be a candidate or to be elected as
mayor or as a member of the board of alderpersons or to serve in such capacity,
unless he possesses the qualifications set forth in article IV of the
Constitution of the State of North Carolina.
   (c)   In the event a vacancy occurs in the office of mayor or alderman, the
board of alderpersons shall by majority vote appoint some qualified person to
fill the vacancy for the remainder of the unexpired term.
Sec. 3.4. Organization of board of alderpersons; oath of office.
   The board of alderpersons shall meet and organize for the transaction of
business at the first regularly scheduled meeting of the board in December
following each biennial election, after the results of such election have been
certified pursuant to the General Statutes of North Carolina. Before entering
upon their offices, the mayor and each alderman shall take, subscribe to and
have entered upon the minutes of the board the following oath of office:
   “I,                                                                        
         , do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support and maintain the
Constitution and laws of the United States, and the Constitution and laws of
North Carolina not inconsistent therewith, and that I will faithfully discharge
the duties of my office as                                            , so help
me, God.”
Sec. 3.5. Meetings of board.
   The board of alderpersons shall fix a suitable time and place for its
regular meetings, which shall be held at least as often as once monthly.
Special meetings may be held according to the procedures and requirements
designated by the General Statutes of North Carolina pertaining to special
meetings of city
councils.
Sec. 3.6. Ordinances and resolutions.
   The adoption, amendment, repeal, pleading, or proving of ordinances shall be
in accordance with the applicable provisions of the General Statutes of North
Carolina not inconsistent with the charter. The ayes and noes shall be taken
upon all ordinances and resolutions and entered upon the minutes of the board.
The enacting clause of all ordinances shall be: “Be it ordained by the Board of
alderpersons of the Town of Landis.” All ordinances and resolutions shall take
effect upon adoption unless otherwise provided therein.
Article IV. Elections
Sec. 4.1. Regular municipal elections.
   The regular municipal elections for the Town of Landis shall be conducted in
accordance with the nonpartisan plurality method of election, as set forth in
chapter 163 of the General Statutes of North Carolina.
Sec. 4.2. Other municipal elections.
   All other town elections shall be conducted in accordance with the General
Statutes of North Carolina relating to municipal elections.
Article V. Town Attorney
Sec. 5.1. Appointment; qualifications; terms; compensation.
   The board of alderpersons shall appoint a town attorney who shall be an
attorney at law licensed to engage in the practice of law in North Carolina and
who need not be a resident of the town during his tenure. The town attorney
shall serve at the pleasure of the board and shall receive such compensation as
the board shall determine.
Sec. 5.2. Duties.
   It shall be the duty of the town attorney to prosecute and defend suits
against the town; to advise the mayor, board of alderpersons and other town
officials with respect to the affairs of the town; to draft all legal documents
relating to the affairs of the town; to draft proposed ordinances when
requested to do so; to inspect and pass upon all agreements, contracts,
franchises and other instruments with which the town may be concerned; to
attend all meetings of the board of alderpersons, when required by the board;
and to perform such other duties as may be required of him by virtue of his
position as town attorney.
Article VI. Administrative Officers and Employees
Sec. 6.1. Form of government.
   Pursuant to N.C.G.S. 160A-101 and 160A-102, the Charter of the Town of
Landis, as set forth in Section 1 of the Session Laws 1975, chapter 213,
ratified May 5, 1975, is hereby further amended to provide that the Town of
Landis shall operate under the alderman-manager form of government in
accordance with Part 2 of Article 7 of N.C.G.S. Chapter 160A and any other
provision not in conflict therewith.
   The Town of Landis administrator shall cause a notice to be duly published
stating that an ordinance amending the Charter to adopt the alderman-manager
form of government has been adopted.  This ordinance shall be in full force and
effect from and after March 8, 2010.
Sec. 6.2. Deleted.
Sec. 6.3. Town administrator/town clerk.
   The board of alderpersons shall appoint a town administrator/town clerk to
keep a journal of the proceedings of the board, to maintain in a safe place all
records and documents pertaining to the affairs of the town, and to perform
such other duties as may be required by law or as the board may direct.
Sec. 6.4. Town tax collector.
   The town administrator/town clerk shall act as the town tax collector; but
the Rowan County Tax Collector shall collect all taxes owed to the town,
subject to general law, this Charter and town ordinances.
Sec. 6.5. Other officers and employees.
   The board of alderpersons may authorize additional offices and positions to
be filled by appointment of the board of alderpersons and may organize the town
government as deemed appropriate, including combining any of the offices
provided for in this article, subject to the requirements of general law.
Article VII. Finance
Sec. 7.1. Custody of town money.
   All moneys received by the town for or in connection with the business of
the town government shall be paid promptly into the town depository or
depositories. Such institutions shall be designated by the board of
alderpersons in accordance with the regulations and subject to the requirements
as to security for deposits and interest thereon as may be established by the
General Statutes of North Carolina. All interest on moneys belonging to the
town shall accrue to the benefit of the town. All moneys belonging to the town
shall be disbursed in accordance with the provisions of the Local Government
Budget and Fiscal Control Act, being G.S. §§ 159-7 et seq.
Sec. 7.2. Independent audit.
   As soon as possible after the close of each fiscal year, an independent
audit shall be made of all books and accounts of the town government by a
certified public accountant or an accountant certified by the local government
commission. The audit shall be secured in accordance with the provisions of the
Local Government Budget and Fiscal Control Act.
Article VIII. Claims Against Town
Sec. 8.1. Presentation of claims; suit upon claims.
   (a)   All claims or demands against the Town of Landis arising in tort or in
contract shall be presented to the board of alderpersons in writing, signed by
the claimant or his attorney or agent, within 90 days after the claim or demand
is due or the cause of action accrues. No suit or action shall be brought
thereon within 30 days, or after the expiration of 12 months, from the time the
claim or demand is so presented. Unless the claim or demand is so presented
within 90 days after the cause of action accrues, and unless suit is brought
within 12 months thereafter, any action thereon is barred.
   (b)   No action shall be instituted against the town for damages to or
compensation for real property taken or used by the town for any public
purpose, or for the ejectment of the town therefrom, or to remove a cloud upon
the title thereof, unless, within two years after such alleged use, the owner,
his executor, administrator, guardian, or next friend shall have given notice
in writing to the board of alderpersons of the claim, including in the notice
the date that the alleged use commenced, a description of the property alleged
to have been used, and the amount of the damage or compensation claimed.
   (c)   Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections (a) and (b) of this
section, if a complainant suffers from physical or mental incapacity that
renders it impossible for him to give notice, his action shall not be barred if
notice of claim is given by him or on his behalf within six months after the
termination of his incapacity; provided, that minority shall not of itself
constitute physical or mental incapacity. If the complainant is a minor, his
action shall not be barred if notice of claim is given on his behalf within
three years after the occurrence of the infliction of the injury complained of;
or, if the minor suffers from physical or mental incapacity that renders it
impossible for him to give notice, his action shall not be barred if notice of
claim is given on his behalf within six months after termination of the
incapacity, or within three years after the occurrence or the infliction of the
injury complained of, whichever is the longer period. The town may at any time
request the appointment of a next friend to represent any person having a
potential claim against the town and known to be suffering from physical or
mental incapacity.
Article IX. Town Electric System
Sec. 9.1. Sale, lease or discontinuance of municipally owned electric system.
   The board of alderpersons is authorized to sell, lease (as lessor), or
discontinue the electric power distribution system owned by the Town of Landis
upon such terms and conditions as the board deems best; provided, however, that
the electric power distribution system owned by the town shall not be sold,
leased to another, or discontinued unless the proposal to sell, lease, or
discontinue is first submitted to a vote of the qualified voters of the Town of
Landis and is approved by a majority of those who vote thereon.
Article X. Street and Sidewalk Improvements
Sec. 10.1. Authority to make street improvements; assessment of costs.
   In addition to any authority which is now or may hereafter be granted by the
General Statutes of North Carolina to the Town of Landis for making street
improvements, the board of alderpersons is hereby authorized to make street
improvements and to assess the cost thereof against abutting property owners in
accordance with the provisions of this article.
Sec. 10.2. When petition for street improvements unnecessary.
   The board of alderpersons may order street improvements and assess the cost
thereof against the abutting property owners, exclusive of the costs incurred
at street intersections according to one or more of the assessment bases set
forth in article 10 of chapter 160A of the North Carolina General Statutes,
without the necessity of a petition, upon the finding by the board as a fact:
   (a)   That the street improvement project does not exceed 1,200 linear feet,
and
   (b)   That such street or part thereof is unsafe for vehicular traffic, and
it is in the public interest to make such improvements, or
   (c)   That it is in the public interest to connect two streets, or portions
of a street already improved, or
   (d)   That it is in the public interest to widen a street, or part thereof,
which is already improved, provided that assessments for widening any street
and otherwise improving such street in accordance with the street
classification and improvement standards established by the town’s thoroughfare
or major street plan for the particular street or part thereof to be widened
and improved under the authority granted by this article.
Sec. 10.3. “Street improvement” defined.
   For the purpose of this article, the term “street improvement” shall include
grading, regrading, surfacing, resurfacing, widening, paving, repaving, the
acquisition of right-of-way and the construction or reconstruction of curbs,
gutters and street drainage facilities.
Sec. 10.4. Authority to make sidewalk improvements; assessment of costs.
   In addition to any authority which is now or may hereafter be granted by the
General Statutes of North Carolina to the town for making sidewalk
improvements, the board of alderpersons is hereby authorized, without the
necessity of a petition, to make or to order to be made sidewalk improvements
or repairs according to standards and specifications of the town, and to assess
the total cost thereof against abutting property owners, according to one or
more of the assessment bases set forth in article 10 of chapter 160A of the
North Carolina General Statutes; provided, however, that regardless of the
assessment basis or bases employed, the board of alderpersons may order the
cost of sidewalk improvements made only on one side of a street to be assessed
against property owners abutting both sides of such street.
Sec. 10.5. Assessment procedure.
   In ordering street and sidewalk improvements without a petition and
assessing the cost thereof under authority of this article, the board of
alderpersons shall comply with the procedure provided by article 10, chapter
160A of the General Statutes, except those provisions relating to the petition
of property owners and the sufficiency thereof.
Sec. 10.6. Effect of assessments.
   The effect of the act of levying assessments under the authority of this
article shall for all purposes be the same as if the assessments were levied
under authority of article 10 of chapter 160A of the General Statutes.
Sec. 10.7. Acceptance of conveyance in satisfaction of assessments.
   The town tax collector or other officials or employee of the town having
charge of the collection of special assessments, shall have the right, power,
and authority by and with the approval of the board of alderpersons first
obtained, to receive and accept a fee simple conveyance to the town of any lot
or parcel of land in the town, free and clear of other encumbrances, in full
settlement and satisfaction of all street and sidewalk assessments outstanding
and unpaid against such property. Such right, power, and authority, however,
shall be limited to a conveyance of the whole of the lot or parcel of land
against which the particular assessment or assessments involved were levied. No
lot or tract of land may be divided and no such right, power, and authority
exercised as to a part, only, of the property originally embraced in and
covered by said assessment or assessments. In the case of such conveyance, it
shall not be necessary that the street or sidewalk assessment or assessments
against the property be foreclosed; but the town, upon the receipt of any such
conveyance, shall become and be the absolute fee simple owner of the property,
as fully to all intents and purposes as if purchased in and through foreclosure
proceedings for the enforcement of such street and sidewalk assessment or
assessments.
Article XI. Prohibited Acts
Sec. 11.1. Repealed.
   Editor’s Note: This section was repealed in November, 2007, when Landis held
a referendum to adopt liquor by the drink.
Sec. 11.2. Discharge of firearms and explosives.
   That it shall be a misdemeanor for any person to fire a gun, pistol,
firecracker, Roman candle or any explosive within the corporate limits of
Landis unless by permission from the board of alderpersons, and said board
shall not have power to suspend this section more than 24 consecutive hours.
Any person violating this section shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine
of up to twenty-five dollars ($25.00) or imprisonment of up to 30 days.
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10:  GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time; computing time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinances
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend code; effect of new ordinances
   
10.18   Section histories; section headings; statutory references
   
10.19   Provisions considered as continuations of existing ordinances
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01  TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the Town of Landis shall be
designated as the Code of the Town of Landis, North Carolina and may be so
cited.
(Prior Code, § 1-1)
§ 10.02  INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03  APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04  CAPTIONS.
   (A)   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
   (B)   The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as
mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall not be deemed
or taken to be titles of sections nor as any part thereof nor, unless expressly
so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of the sections, including the
catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
(Prior Code, § 1-4)
§ 10.05  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain,
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BOARD OF ALDERPERSONS.  The governing body of the Town of Landis, North
Carolina.
      CHARTER. The Charter of the Town of Landis, North Carolina.
      CODE,THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This  municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or
sections.
      COMPUTATION OF TIME. The time within which an act is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first and the last day; and if the last day is
Saturday, Sunday or a legal holiday, that day shall be excluded.
      COUNTY. The County of Rowan, North Carolina.
      G.S. or GENERAL STATUTES. The latest edition of the GENERAL STATUTES of
North Carolina, as amended.
      GENDER. Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine
and neuter.
      GOVERNOR. The Governor of North Carolina.
      JOINT AUTHORITY. All words giving a joint authority to three or more
persons or officers shall be construed as giving the authority to a majority of
persons or officers.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      NUMBER. Words used in the singular include the plural and the plural
includes the singular number.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in those cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of the municipality unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
      OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD. Whenever certain hours are named in this code,
they shall mean standard time or daylight saving time as may be in current use
in the town.
      OWNER. Applied to any property, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety, of the whole
or a part of the property.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as applied to
any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members thereof and, as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Every species of property, except real property.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      PROPERTY. Includes real and personal property.
      REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIDEWALK. Any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of North Carolina.
      STREET. Any public way, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard,
parkway, dedicated alley, lane, viaduct, bridge and the approaches thereto
within the town and shall mean the entire width of the right-of-way between
abutting property lines.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      TENANT or OCCUPANT. When applied to a building or land, shall include any
person who occupies the whole or a part of the building or land, whether alone
or with others.
      TENSE. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well
as the past and present.
      TOWN. The Town of Landis, in the County of Rowan, North Carolina.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
      ZONING ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. One designated by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 1-2)
Statutory reference:
   Computation of time, see G.S. § 1-593
§ 10.06  RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of the town shall be by the following
rules, unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or”, if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of an act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07  SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08  REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09  REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the town exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10  ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, that spelling shall be corrected and the word
or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11  OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within the town for the transaction of all municipal
business.
§ 10.12  REASONABLE TIME; COMPUTING TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13  ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14  ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   (A)   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other
ordinances pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in
full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary
implication.
   (B)   Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code shall be
construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
      (1)   Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture
incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective
date of this code;
      (2)   Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment
of money for the town or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the town or
any evidence of the town’s indebtedness;
      (3)   Any contract or obligation assumed by the town;
      (4)   Any ordinance fixing the salary of any town officer or employee;
      (5)   Any right or franchise granted by the town;
      (6)   Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating,
relocating, opening, widening, paving and the like, any street or public way in
the town;
      (7)   Any appropriation ordinance;
      (8)   Any ordinance which, by its own terms, is effective for a stated or
limited term;
      (9)   Any ordinance providing for local improvements and assessing taxes
therefor;
      (10)   Any zoning ordinance or zoning map amendment;
      (11)   Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any subdivision plat;
      (12)   Any ordinance describing or altering the boundaries of the town;
      (13)   The administrative ordinances or resolutions of the town not in
conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this code;
      (14)   Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes not included herein;
      (15)   Any ordinance establishing or prescribing street grades in the
town; and/or
      (16)   Any personnel ordinance.
   (C)   Nor shall any ordinance be construed to revive any ordinance or part
thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance which is repealed by
this chapter; and all ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full
force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length herein.
Statutory reference:
   Statutes not repealed by General Statutes, see G.S. § 164-7
§ 10.15  EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from
their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16  REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall, in any way, be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17  ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND CODE; EFFECT OF NEW ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal or
in any way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering
system hereof and printed for inclusion herein. When subsequent ordinances
repeal any chapter, section or division, or any portion thereof, the repealed
portions may be excluded from this code by omission from reprinted pages. The
subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted in the case of
repeal, shall be prima facie evidence that the subsequent ordinances numbered
or omitted are readopted as a new code by the town.
   (B)   Amendments to any of the provisions of the code shall be made by
amending provisions by specific reference to the section number of this code in
language substantially similar to the following: “Section                of the
Code of Ordinances, Town of Landis, North Carolina, is hereby amended as
follows...”. The new provisions shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (C)   If a new section not heretofore existing in the code is to be added,
language substantially similar to the following shall be used: “The Code of
Ordinances, Town of Landis, North Carolina, is hereby amended by adding a
section, to be numbered               , which section shall read as
follows:...”. The new section shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (D)   All sections, subchapters, chapters or provisions desired to be
repealed must be specifically repealed by section, subchapter or chapter
number, as the case may be.
§ 10.18  SECTION HISTORIES; SECTION HEADINGS; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:  (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text
of the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example:  (G.S. §
160A-11)  (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1985)
      (2)   A statutory cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
   § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
         Inspection of public records, see G.S. §§ 132-1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the prior code of ordinances
of the town, the prior code section number shall be indicated in the history by
“(Prior Code, §       )”.  The history notes following sections and the
references scattered throughout the code are not part of the code, but are
merely for the benefit for the user of the code.
§ 10.19  PROVISIONS CONSIDERED AS CONTINUATIONS OF EXISTING ORDINANCES.
   The provisions appearing in this code, so far as they are the same as those
of ordinances adopted prior to the adoption of this code and included herein,
shall be considered as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
(Prior Code, § 1-3)
§ 10.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of any
section or division of this code of ordinances for which no other penalty is
provided, or failing or neglecting or refusing to comply with same, shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor and subject to a fine not to
exceed $50 or imprisonment not to exceed 30 days, and each day that any of the
provisions of this code of ordinances are violated shall constitute a separate
offense.
(G.S. § 14-4(a))
   (B)   (1)   Violation of any provision of this code or any other town
ordinance shall subject the offender to a civil penalty to be recovered by the
town in a civil action in the nature of debt if the offender does not pay the
penalty within a period of time prescribed by the court after he or she has
been cited for the violation.
      (2)   Any provision of this code or any other town ordinance may be
enforced by an appropriate equitable remedy issuing from a court of competent
jurisdiction. In such case, the general court of justice shall have
jurisdiction to issue such orders as may be appropriate, and it shall not be a
defense to the application of the town for equitable relief that there is an
adequate remedy at law.
      (3)   Any provision of this code or any other town ordinance that makes
unlawful a condition existing upon or use made of real property may be enforced
by injunction and order of abatement, and the general court of justice shall
have jurisdiction to issue the orders. When a violation of such a provision
occurs, the town may apply to the appropriate division of the general court of
justice for a mandatory or prohibitory injunction and order of abatement
commanding the defendant to correct the unlawful condition upon or cease the
unlawful use of the property. The action shall be governed in all respects by
the laws and rules governing civil proceedings, including the Rules of Civil
Procedure in general and Rule 65 in particular. In addition to an injunction,
the court may enter an order of abatement as a part of the judgment in the
cause. An order of abatement may direct that buildings or other structures on
the property be closed, demolished or removed; that fixtures, furniture or
other movable property be removed from buildings on the property; that grass
and weeds be cut; that improvements or repairs be made; or that any other
action be taken that is necessary to bring the property into compliance with
this code or the ordinance. If the defendant fails or refuses to comply with an
injunction or with an order of abatement within the time allowed by the court,
he or she may be cited for contempt and the town may execute the order of
abatement. The town shall have a lien on the property for the cost of executing
an order of abatement in the nature of a mechanic’s and materialman’s lien. The
defendant may secure cancellation of an order of abatement by paying all costs
of the proceedings and posting a bond for compliance with the order. The bond
shall be given with sureties approved by the clerk of superior court in an
amount approved by the judge before whom the matter is heard and shall be
conditioned on the defendant’s full compliance with the terms of the order of
abatement within a time fixed by the judge. Cancellation of an order of
abatement shall not suspend or cancel an injunction issued in conjunction
therewith.
      (4)   The provisions of this code and any other town ordinance may be
enforced by any one, all or a combination of the remedies authorized and
prescribed by this section.
      (5)   Except as otherwise specifically provided, each day’s continuing
violation of any provision of this code or any other town ordinance shall be a
separate and distinct offense.
(Prior Code, § 1-6)
Statutory reference:
   Enforcement of ordinances, see G.S. § 160A-175
TITLE III:  ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   BODY OF GOVERNMENT
      
31.   GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS
      
32.   CIVIL EMERGENCIES
      
33.   PERSONNEL
CHAPTER 30:  BODY OF GOVERNMENT
Section
General Regulations
   
30.01   Governing body
   
30.02   Officers and employees
   
30.03   Restriction of use of town assets to official business
Rules of Procedure
   
30.15   Meeting time and place
   
30.16   Order of business
   
30.17   Recess; motions to adjourn and to reconsider
   
30.18   Voting; ballot; quorum; Robert’s Rules applied
   
30.19   Minutes
   
30.20   Ordinance presentation; numbering; content
   
30.21   Ordinance record
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 30.01  GOVERNING BODY.
   The Board of Alderpersons shall be the governing body of the town and shall
consist of four Alderpersons, who shall be qualified voters, and elected in
accordance with the provisions of the Charter and the General Election Law
applicable.
(Prior Code, § 2-3)
§ 30.02  OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   Generally. The Board of Alderpersons shall appoint the Town
Administrator/Town Clerk, the Town Tax Collector, the Town Attorney and other
town officers and employees.
(Prior Code, § 2-3.1)
   (B)   Term and removal of officers appointed by Board. All employees
appointed by the Board of Alderpersons hold their offices at the pleasure of
the Board and may be removed at any time by the Board.
(Prior Code, § 2-4)
   (C)   Filling vacancies in appointive office. In regard to positions which
are filled by appointment by the Board of Alderpersons, the Board of
Alderpersons shall fill vacancies caused by death, resignation or otherwise,
which may occur during its term of office, at its next regular meeting or as
soon thereafter as practicable.
(Prior Code, § 2-5)
   (D)   Further duties, and the like, of officers. The Board of Alderpersons
has the power to require further and other duties of all officers whose duties
are described in this code and other ordinances of the town and to define and
prescribe powers and duties of all officers elected to any office provided for
by the Charter of the town whose duties are not therein especially mentioned
and to fix their compensation when not therein fixed.
(Prior Code, § 2-6)
§ 30.03  RESTRICTION OF USE OF TOWN ASSETS TO OFFICIAL BUSINESS.
   (A)   No employee, firm, corporation, organization, school, governmental
agency, Mayor or member of the Board of Alderpersons of the town, shall use the
town equipment, supplies, property or materials for personal use and all town
equipment, supplies, property or materials shall only be used for official town
business, projects or work.
   (B)   This prohibition of the use of town equipment shall not apply to the
use of town equipment in honoring mutual aid agreements with other governmental
agencies entered into pursuant to the authority granted by law.
(Ord. passed 11-1-1992)
RULES OF PROCEDURE
§ 30.15  MEETING TIME AND PLACE.
   A regular meeting of the Board of Alderpersons shall be held at the Town
Hall on the first Monday in each month at the time as may be prescribed.
(Prior Code, § 2-7)
§ 30.16  ORDER OF BUSINESS.
    Whenever a regular meeting of the Board of Alderpersons shall be organized,
the order of business shall be as follows:
   (A)   Reading and approving or correction of minutes;
   (B)   Reception of petitions;
   (C)   Reports of committees;
   (D)   Report of officers;
   (E)   Recommendations by the Mayor;
   (F)   Unfinished business;
   (G)    New business;
   (H)   Auditing bills; and
   (I)   Adjournment.
(Prior Code, § 2-9)
§ 30.17  RECESS; MOTIONS TO ADJOURN AND TO RECONSIDER.
   (A)   Recess. A regular or special meeting of the Board of Alderpersons and
any recessed meeting thereof may recess to the time prior to the next regular
meeting date as may be fixed by the Board of Alderpersons.
(Prior Code, § 2-8)
   (B)   Motion to adjourn. At a meeting of the Board of Alderpersons, a motion
to adjourn shall have precedence over all other motions and shall be acted upon
immediately and without debate.
(Prior Code, § 2-10)
   (C)   When motion to reconsider may be made. A motion to reconsider shall
not be in order unless made not later than the next regular meeting of the
Board of Alderpersons.
(Prior Code, § 2-11)
§ 30.18  VOTING; BALLOT; QUORUM; ROBERT’S RULES APPLIED.
   (A)   All elections by the Board of Alderpersons shall be by ballot and the
majority of the votes of all members voting shall be necessary for an election;
provided, no election shall be valid unless a quorum be present.
(Prior Code, § 2-12)
   (B)   Except where otherwise provided by law or ordinances, the procedure of
the Board of Alderpersons shall be governed by Robert’s Rules of Order.
(Prior Code, § 2-13)
§ 30.19  MINUTES.
   A complete and accurate account of all the proceedings of the Board of
Alderpersons shall be kept. Every resolution adopted or made by the Board of
Alderpersons and every petition submitted to it, which is not set out in full
in the minutes, shall be filed in an exhibit book and by proper reference shall
be made a part of the minutes. The minutes of each meeting shall be read at the
subsequent meeting and upon being approved by the Board of Alderpersons shall
be signed by the Town Administrator/Town Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 2-14)
§ 30.20  ORDINANCE PRESENTATION; NUMBERING; CONTENT.
   (A)   Manner of presentation. Every chapter or repealing any chapter and
every new chapter shall be proposed in writing, signed by the Alderpersons
presenting the same and approved as to form by the Town Attorney.
(Prior Code, § 2-15)
   (B)   Indication of chapter, subchapter or section of code to be amended or
repealed. Every chapter introduced, if it proposes to amend or repeal any
existing portion of the code, shall show by proper reference the chapter,
subchapter and section proposed to be amended; or if it proposes to add to the
existing code a new chapter, subchapter or section, it shall indicate, with
reference to the arrangement of this code, the proper number of the chapter,
subchapter or section. In addition to the indication thereof, as may be
contained in the text of the proposed chapter, the same shall be shown in
concise form above the chapter.
(Prior Code, § 2-16)
   (C)   Numbering of ordinances. All ordinances of the town shall be
consecutively numbered in annual series, the number of a particular ordinance
to consist of the year in which passed and the consecutive number of the
ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 2-19)
§ 30.21  ORDINANCE RECORD.
   (A)   Ordinance book; entering ordinances. The Clerk and Treasurer shall
enter in a book copies of all ordinances passed by the Board of Alderpersons.
The book in which ordinances are thus entered shall be known as the “Ordinances
at Large of the Town of Landis, North Carolina” and shall be indexed.
(Prior Code, § 2-17)
   (B)   Notation of amending or repealing ordinances. The Clerk and Treasurer
shall write on the first page of every ordinance, entered in the book mentioned
in division (A) above, if the same has been amended or repealed, as the case
may be, the words “amended” or “repealed”, with a reference to the page of the
ordinance book where the amending or repealing ordinance can be found.
(Prior Code, § 2-18)
CHAPTER 31:  GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.001   General right of entry
Mayor Pro Tem
   
31.015   Duties
Town Administrator/Town Clerk and Treasurer
   
31.030   Town Administrator/Town Clerk and Treasurer
   
31.031   Books of account
   
31.032   Financial reports and statements
   
31.033   Audit and examination of claims
   
31.034   Tax collection
   
31.035   Additional duties
Town Attorney
   
31.050   Duties
Tax Collector
   
31.065   Combined with Clerk and Treasurer
   
31.066   Duties
Director of Public Works
   
31.080   Appointment; term
   
31.081   Control and duties
Planning Board
   
31.095   Establishment; jurisdiction
   
31.096   Board membership; compensation; terms; vacancies
   
31.097   Powers and duties
Police Department
   
31.110   Personnel; rank; special police officers
   
31.111   Chief of Police
   
31.112   Police officers’ authority; duties
   
31.113   Grounds for suspension or dismissal
   
31.114   Personnel rules and regulations
   
31.115   Custody hearings
   
31.116   Auxiliary Division creation
Fire Department
   
31.125   Membership; unit organization
   
31.126   Fire Department Chief; powers and duties
   
31.127   State Volunteer Fire Department
   
31.128   Fire service beyond town limits
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.001  GENERAL RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   All town officers, employees and inspectors shall have the right, during
reasonable hours, to enter any building in the discharge of their official
duties or for the purpose of making any inspection, reinspection or test or for
other lawful purposes.
(Prior Code, § 2-2)
MAYOR PRO TEM
§ 31.015  DUTIES.
   In case of the death, absence, resignation or permanent disability of the
Mayor, the Mayor Pro Tem shall act as Mayor. He or she shall have all the
rights and powers and perform all the duties of the Mayor. He or she shall
receive the same salary allowed the Mayor until the Board of Alderpersons call
an election and a successor has been elected and qualified.
(Prior Code, § 2-21)
TOWN ADMINISTRATOR/TOWN CLERK AND TREASURER
§ 31.030  TOWN ADMINISTRATOR/TOWN CLERK AND TREASURER.
   (A)   The offices of Town Administrator/Town Clerk and Town Treasurer are
hereby combined and shall be held by a person whose title shall be the
Administrator/Clerk and Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 2-22)
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Administrator/Clerk and Treasurer to
attend all meetings of the Board of Alderpersons.
(Prior Code, § 2-23)
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Administrator/Clerk and Treasurer to give
a receipt for all money received by him or her.
(Prior Code, § 2-24)
§ 31.031  BOOKS OF ACCOUNT.
   It shall be the duty of the Administrator/Clerk and Treasurer to keep the
books of accounts of the town which shall show:
   (A)   Accurate and detailed statement of all money collected for the town by
all town officers;
   (B)   The property owned by the town and the income derived therefrom;
   (C)   Separate accounts of every appropriation made by the Board of
Alderpersons, the date thereof and the purpose for which made;
   (D)   Each payment of public money, its purpose and to whom paid; and
   (E)   A separate account for each department of the government.
(Prior Code, § 2-25)
§ 31.032  FINANCIAL REPORTS AND STATEMENTS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Administrator/Clerk and Treasurer to make
the financial reports and statements as the Board of Alderpersons may direct.
(Prior Code, § 2-26)
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Administrator/Clerk and Treasurer to
submit to the Board of Alderpersons at least once a year a report of the
financial transactions of the town during the fiscal year.
(Prior Code, § 2-27)
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Administrator/Clerk and Treasurer to
render a full and complete statement of his or her receipts and disbursements
to the Board of Alderpersons at each regular monthly meeting.
(Prior Code, § 2-28)
§ 31.033  AUDIT AND EXAMINATION OF CLAIMS.
   It shall be the duty of the Administrator/Clerk and Treasurer to audit and
examine all claims presented to ascertain if the same are due and their
payments have been legally authorized.
(Prior Code, § 2-29)
§ 31.034  TAX COLLECTION.
   The Administrator/Clerk and Treasurer shall, in cooperation with the Rowan
County Tax Collector, collect all taxes and make due report thereof to the
Board of Alderpersons.
(Prior Code, § 2-30)
§ 31.035  ADDITIONAL DUTIES.
   It shall be the duty of the Administrator/Clerk and Treasurer to do and
perform the other acts as the Board of Alderpersons may require.
(Prior Code, § 2-31)
TOWN ATTORNEY
§ 31.050  DUTIES.
   (A)   Prosecution, and the like, of suits. It shall be the duty of the Town
Attorney to prosecute and defend suits for and against the town.
(Prior Code, § 2-32)
   (B)   Advice to town officers. It shall be the duty of the Town Attorney to
advise any officer of the town in regard to matters concerning the town.
(Prior Code, § 2-33)
   (C)  Attendance at meetings of Board of Alderpersons. It shall be the duty
of the Town Attorney to attend all meetings of the Board of Alderpersons when
requested.
(Prior Code, § 2-34)
   (D)   Drawing deeds, contracts, and the like. It shall be the duty of the
Town Attorney to draw or to approve all deeds, contracts, bonds, notes or other
legal papers required for the proper conduct of the business of the town.
(Prior Code, § 2-35)
   (E)   Approval of form of ordinances. It shall be the duty of the Town
Attorney to approve all ordinances as to form before their passage.
(Prior Code, § 2-36)
   (F)   Drawing franchise ordinances. It shall be the duty of the Town
Attorney to draw all ordinances granting franchises.
(Prior Code, § 2-37)
TAX COLLECTOR
§ 31.065  COMBINED WITH ADMINISTRATOR/CLERK AND TREASURER.
   The Board of Alderman may, when it deems it in the best interest of the
town, combine the office of Tax Collector with that of the Administrator/Clerk
and Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 2-38)
§ 31.066  DUTIES.
   (A)   Collection of personal and real property taxes. It shall be the duty
of the Town Tax Collector to collect all personal and real property taxes due
to the town.
(Prior Code, § 2-39)
   (B)   Collection of privilege and license taxes. It shall be the duty of the
Town Tax Collector, in cooperation with the Administrator/Clerk and Treasurer,
to collect all privilege and license taxes.
(Prior Code, § 2-40)
   (C)   Disposition of  money collected. It shall be the duty of the Town Tax
Collector to pay over, each day to the Administrator/Clerk and Treasurer, all
money collected.
(Prior Code, § 2-41)
   (D)   Monthly report of collections. It shall be the duty of the Town Tax
Collector to file a detailed report each month with the Board of Alderpersons
showing the amount of money collected and from what source.
(Prior Code, § 2-42)
   (E)   Additional duties. It shall be the duty of the Town Tax Collector to
perform, in addition to the duties set out in this subchapter, all duties
required of him or her by law.
(Prior Code, § 2-43)
DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS
§ 31.080  APPOINTMENT; TERM.
   (A)   The Office of Director of Public Works is hereby established.
   (B)   The Director of Public Works shall be appointed by the Board of
Alderpersons and shall serve at the pleasure of the Board of Alderpersons.
(Prior Code, § 2-44)
§ 31.081  CONTROL AND DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   The Director of Public Works shall have full control of the work
in and upon the streets, sidewalks, alleyways, parks and other public places of
the town.
      (2)   The Director of Public Works shall do all things necessary for the
proper maintenance and sanitation of the streets, sidewalks, alleyways, parks
and other public places.
      (3)   The Director of Public Works shall have charge of the collection of
refuse by the town.
(Prior Code, § 2-45)
   (B)   In addition to the duties that may be his or hers under the provisions
of this code and other ordinances of the town, the Director of Public Works
shall perform the duties as may be assigned to him or her by the Board of
Alderpersons.
(Prior Code, § 2-46)
PLANNING BOARD
§ 31.095  ESTABLISHMENT; JURISDICTION.
   (A)   There is hereby established a board to be known as the Town Planning
Board, whose jurisdiction shall include the area within the corporate limits of
the town, plus the extraterritorial area described in division (B)(2) below,
subject to the direction of the Board of Alderpersons.
(Prior Code, § 2-47)
   (B)   (1)   Pursuant to G.S. § 160A-360, the extraterritorial planning
jurisdiction of the town shall be as shown on the map entitled
“Extraterritorial Planning Jurisdiction of the Town of Landis, North Carolina”,
which is hereby adopted and made a part of this division and which shall be
retained in the office of the Town Administrator/Town Clerk.
      (2)   The boundaries of the extraterritorial planning jurisdiction of the
town are described as follows:
      Beginning at a point, the point being located in the northeastern corner
of the right-of-way for the intersection of Airport Road and Highland Avenue,
the point being a point located on the corporate limits for the town and the
corporate limits of the City of Kannapolis; thence, north following the
southern side of the street right-of-way for Highland Avenue for a distance of
approximately 175 feet; thence, northwest following the corporate limits of the
town for a distance of approximately 435 feet; thence, west following the
corporate limits for the town for a distance of approximately 558 feet; thence,
south southwest following the corporate limits of the town for a distance of
approximately 864 feet; thence, west northwest following the corporate limits
of the town and the City of Kannapolis for a distance of approximately 3,210
feet; thence, six points following the corporate limits of the City of
Kannapolis, which are as follows: (1) northeast for a distance of approximately
1,203 feet; (2) north for a distance of approximately 984 feet; (3) west for a
distance of approximately 1,060 feet; (4) north for a distance of approximately
855 feet; (5) east for a distance of approximately 530 feet; (6) north for a
distance of approximately 541 feet; thence, northwest following a common
property line for a distance of approximately 555 feet; thence, north northeast
following a common property line for a distance of approximately 1,000 feet;
thence, east southeast following a common property line for a distance of
approximately 477 feet; thence, north following a common property line for a
distance of approximately 900 feet; thence, west northwest following a common
property line for a distance of approximately 67 feet; thence, northeast
following a common property line for a distance of approximately 167 feet;
thence, northwest following a common property line for a distance of
approximately 190 feet to a point located centerway of Cannon Farm Road;
thence, east northeast following the centerway of Cannon Farm Road for a
distance of approximately 200 feet; thence, north following a common property
line for a distance of approximately 3,610 feet to a point centerway of
Mooreville Highway (N.C. Highway 153); thence, north following a common
property line for a distance of approximately 870 feet; thence, east following
a common property line for a distance of approximately 40 feet; thence, north
following a common property line for a distance of approximately 1,380 feet;
thence, east northeast following a common property line for a distance of
approximately 245 feet; thence, north northwest following a common property
line for a distance of approximately 249 feet to a point centerway of Flat Rock
Creek; thence, in a southern direction following the centerway of Flat Rock
Creek a distance of approximately 2,240 feet; thence, north northeast following
the centerway of Flat Rock Road for a distance of approximately 2,200 feet;
thence, east northeast over open land for a distance of approximately 675 feet
to a common property line; thence, east following a common property line for a
distance of approximately 560 feet; thence, north following a common property
line for a distance of approximately 100 feet; thence, east northeast over open
land for a distance of 875 feet; thence, east following a common property line
1,940 feet to a point centerway of Kimball Road; thence, south-southeast
following the centerway of Kimball Road for a distance of approximately 100
feet; thence, east following a common property line for a distance of
approximately 1,894 feet; thence, south following a common property line for a
distance of approximately 810 feet; thence, east following a common property
line for a distance of approximately 508 feet; thence, south-southeast
following a common property line for a distance of approximately 376 feet to a
point in Grants Creek; thence, south-southeast following a common property line
for a distance of approximately 1,250 feet; thence, south-southwest following a
common property line for a distance of approximately 568 feet; thence, south-
southeast following a common property line for a distance of approximately 140
feet; thence, southwest following a common property line for a distance of
approximately 420 feet; thence, south-southeast following a common property
line for a distance of approximately 1,000 feet; thence, east following a
common property line for a distance of approximately 264 feet; thence, south
following a common property line for a distance of approximately 560 feet;
thence, west following a common property line for a distance of approximately
17 feet; thence, south following a common property line for a distance of
approximately 360 feet to a point centerway of U.S. Highway 29-A; thence east-
northeast following the centerway of U. S. Highway 29-A for a distance of
approximately 260 feet to a point of the intersection of Eudy Road on the east
side of U.S. Highway 29-A and U.S. Highway 29-A; thence, southeast following
the centerway of Eudy Road for a distance of 1,560 feet to a point located
centerway of the intersection of Eudy Road and Chapel Street; thence, east-
southeast following the center-way of Chapel Street for a distance of
approximately 400 feet to a point located in the centerway of the intersection
of Chapel Street and Bostian Road; thence, south-southeast following the
centerway of Bostian Road for a distance of approximately 1,960 feet; thence,
east following a common property line and crossing U.S. Highway 29-601 for a
distance of approximately 790 feet; thence, south-southeast over open land for
a distance of approximately 920 feet to a common property corner; thence,
south-southeast following a common property line for a distance of
approximately 790 feet; thence, south following a common property line for a
distance of approximately 700 feet; thence, south-southwest following a common
property line and crossing Daugherty Road for a distance of approximately 780
feet; thence, east following a common property line for a distance of
approximately 250 feet; thence, south-southwest following a common property
line for a distance of approximately 1,210 feet; thence, southeast following a
common property line for a distance of approximately 290 feet; thence,
southwest following a common property line for a distance of approximately 170
feet; thence, south following a common property line for a distance of
approximately 350 feet; thence, west following a common property line for a
distance of approximately 1,040 feet to a point centerway of Bostian Road;
thence, south following the centerway of Bostian Road for a distance of
approximately 1,020 feet to a point located centerway of the intersection of
Bostian Road and Beatty Ford Road; thence, west following the centerway of
Beatty Ford Road for a distance of approximately 780 feet; thence, south
following a common property line for a distance of approximately 620 feet;
thence, west following a common property line for a distance of approximately
850 feet; thence, west following a common property line for a distance of
approximately 780 feet; thence, south following a common property line for a
distance of approximately 1,320 feet; thence, west following a common property
line for a distance of approximately 3,480 feet to a point on the corporate
limits of the City of Kannapolis and continuing over open land for a distance
of approximately 1,400 feet to a common property corner; thence, west following
a common property line for a distance of approximately 1,430 feet crossing U.S.
Highway 29-601 to a point centerway of South Chapel Street Extension; thence,
north following the centerway of North Chapel Street Extension for a distance
of approximately 930 feet; thence, west following a common property line for a
distance of approximately 1,050 feet to a point in the center of the Norfolk-
Southern railroad track; thence, north following the centerway of the Norfolk-
Southern railroad track for a distance of approximately 520 feet; thence, west
following a common property line for a distance of approximately 930 feet and
continuing on the corporate limits of the City of Kannapolis, crossing U.S.
Highway 29-A to a point on the corporate limits of the town; thence, south
following a common property line and the corporate limits of the town and the
City of Kannapolis for a distance of approximately 30 feet; thence, west
following a common property line and the corporate limits of the town and City
of Kannapolis for a distance of approximately 120 feet; thence, south following
a common property line for a distance of approximately 120 feet to a point on
the north side of the right-of-way of Airport Road; thence, southwest following
the north side of the right-of-way of Airport Road for a distance of
approximately 250 feet to a point located in the northeastern corner of the
intersection of Airport Road and Highland Avenue, to a point of beginning.
(Prior Code, § 2-47.1)  (Ord. passed 2-1-1971; Ord. passed 4-1-1972; Ord.
passed 11-5-1984; Ord. passed 8-10-1987)
§ 31.096  BOARD MEMBERSHIP; COMPENSATION; TERMS; VACANCIES.
   (A)   The Planning Board shall be composed of nine members who reside within
the corporate limits and shall be appointed by the Board of Alderpersons. The
same membership shall function as a zoning board of adjustment as provided in
Chapter 152 of this code. The actions and decisions by the Planning Board shall
not be conducted as part of the regular Zoning Board of Adjustment meeting and
shall be conducted during a regular meeting or a special meeting as provided by
this subchapter.
   (B)   The Planning Board members shall be appointed by the Board of
Alderpersons for three-year staggered terms, and may continue to serve until
their successors have been appointed. Vacancies may be filled for the unexpired
term only.
   (C)   Members may be reappointed to successive terms without limitations.
   (D)   Planning Board members may be removed by the Board of Alderpersons at
any time for failure to attend three consecutive meetings for failure to attend
30% or more of the meetings within any 12-month period or for any other good
cause related to performance of duties. Upon request of the member proposed for
removal, the Board of Alderpersons shall hold a hearing on the removal before
it becomes effective.
   (E)   If a member moves outside the town, that shall constitute a
resignation from the Planning Board, effective upon the date of a replacement
as appointed by the Board of Alderpersons.
   (F)   Members shall serve without pay, but may be reimbursed for any
expenses incurred while representing the Board.
(Prior Code, § 2-48)  (Ord. passed 2-1-1971; Ord. passed 4-1-1972; Ord. passed
5-4-1987)
§ 31.097  POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Town Planning Board to prepare plans and
to coordinate the plans of the town and others so as to bring about a
coordinated and harmonious development of the area. The Board shall be
empowered:
      (1)   To acquire and maintain in current form the basic information and
materials as are necessary to an understanding of past trends, present
conditions and forces at work to cause changes in these conditions;
      (2)   To prepare and from time to time amend and revise a comprehensive
and coordinated plan for the physical development of the area;
      (3)   To establish principles and policies for guiding action in the
development of the area;
      (4)   To prepare and recommend chapters promoting orderly development of
the area along the lines indicated in the comprehensive plan;
      (5)   To determine whether specific proposed developments referred to it
by governmental or private agencies in the area conform to the principles and
requirements of the Comprehensive Plan for the area and to make recommendations
concerning them;
      (6)   To keep the Board of Alderpersons and the general public informed
and advised as to these matters;
      (7)   To make any other recommendations which it sees fit for improving
the development of the area; and
      (8)   To perform any other duties which may lawfully be assigned to it.
   (B)   In carrying out the powers and duties, the Board may:
      (1)   Within the limits of any funds appropriated to it, given to it or
otherwise made available to it, appoint the employees and engage the
consultants as it may require;
      (2)   Within the limits of funds appropriated to it, given to it or
otherwise made available to it, acquire property and materials for its use and
incur other necessary expenses;
      (3)   Authorize its agents, employees or members, in performance of their
official duties, to enter upon lands and make examinations or surveys and
maintain necessary monuments thereon; and
      (4)   Perform any of the actions authorized for municipal planning boards
by G.S. §§ 160A-360 through 160A-366.
(Prior Code, § 2-49)  (Ord. passed 2-1-1971; Ord. passed 4-1-1972)
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 31.110  PERSONNEL; RANK; SPECIAL POLICE OFFICERS.
   (A)   Composition; ranks and designations of members. The Police Department
shall consist of the Chief of Police and the other personnel as may, from time
to time, be authorized by the Board of Alderpersons. Personnel subordinate to
the Chief of Police shall have the ranks or position designations as may, from
time to time, be authorized by the Board of Alderpersons.
(Prior Code, § 11-1)
   (B)   To appoint special police officers; special  police officers
generally. On public occasions, or upon the existence of conditions under
which, in the sound discretion of the Mayor, it appears necessary to augment
the authorized strength of the Police Department to assure maintenance of the
public peace and order, or to assure that normal Police Department functions
will be performed efficiently under abnormal conditions, the Mayor may appoint
or authorize the appointment of special police officers, and he or she may
designate their duties and the localities in which they shall perform their
duties. Special police officers so appointed shall be under command of the
Chief of Police and other police officers superior to them in rank.
(Prior Code, § 11-3)
§ 31.111  CHIEF OF POLICE.
   The Chief of Police shall:
   (A)   Be chief executive and commanding officer of the Police Department and
all personnel thereof;
   (B)   Be chargeable with and responsible for the enforcement of all laws and
chapters and all rules and regulations of the Department; provided that, where
by law, this code or other ordinances the Chief of the Fire Department, the
County Building Inspection Department or other officer has the primary duty to
enforce any law or ordinance, the Chief of Police shall cooperate with the
other officers and render the assistance to them as may be necessary;
   (C)   Assign personnel of the Police Department to their respective duties
and he or she may change the assignments from time to time, whenever, in his or
her judgment, the exigencies of the service shall require the change. He or she
shall maintain a roster of police officers to respond to all fire alarms and
assist the Fire Department in the protection of life and property, in
regulating traffic, maintaining order and in enforcing observance at the scene
of any fire of all laws and ordinances applicable thereat;
   (D)   Have the power to suspend without pay, pending the outcome of the
trial of charges, any member of the Police Department; provided that, no
suspension shall be continued for a period of more than ten days without
approval of the Board of Alderpersons. If the suspension of any member of the
Police Department is not confirmed by the Board of Alderpersons on the charges
preferred, the member shall be entitled to full pay from date of suspension;
and
   (E)   Have general care of the peace of the town and shall see to it that
all subordinates do their duty in preserving the peace.
(Prior Code, § 11-4)
§ 31.112  POLICE OFFICERS’ AUTHORITY; DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   Police officers shall have authority to arrest all persons for
violations of the laws of the state or provisions of this code or other
ordinances of the town, and to execute, anywhere in the police jurisdiction of
the town, any warrant or process.
      (2)   If resisted in the discharge of their official duties, the police
officers shall have authority to summon a sufficient number of citizens to aid
in enforcing the law. Any person summoned to assist a police officer in the
discharge of his or her duty shall, for the time, have authority equal to that
of a regular police officer.
(Prior Code, § 11-5)
   (B)   It shall be the duty of police officers:
      (1)   To suppress all disturbances and arrest all offenders against the
laws of the state or ordinances of the town;
      (2)   To prevent injuries to town property and buildings and to the
streets and sidewalks of the town;
      (3)   During nighttime, to examine all persons abroad whom they have
reason to suspect of any unlawful design;
      (4)   To hold themselves in readiness at all times to answer the calls,
and obey the orders, of their superiors;
      (5)   To conform to all rules and regulations of the Police Department;
      (6)   To render their services with zeal, courage, discretion and
fidelity;
      (7)   When designated for the purpose by the Chief of Police, to serve
and execute tax levy papers and conduct tax sales under the general direction
of the Tax Collector;
      (8)   To report to their superiors any information given them by
responsible persons as to violations of law, this code or ordinances; and to
report conditions or circumstances within their own knowledge which give rise
to reasonable supposition of violations of laws or chapters; and to make the
investigation thereof as may be directed by their superiors; and
      (9)   To perform all duties and obey all commands lawfully assigned to or
given them by their superior officers.
   (C)   No member of the Police Department shall absent himself or herself
from his or her duties without leave by his or her superior officer.
(Prior Code, § 11-6)
§ 31.113  GROUNDS FOR SUSPENSION OR DISMISSAL.
   Any police officer shall be suspended or dismissed from the service if the
Chief of Police, after investigation and hearing, is satisfied that the police
officer has violated any of the provisions of this section:
   (A)   Who is found under the influence of any narcotic or intoxicating
substance while on duty;
   (B)   Who shall be guilty of immoral conduct;
   (C)   Who shall visit a disorderly house, except in the discharge of his or
her legitimate duty;
   (D)   Who shall absent himself or herself from the town without the
permission of the Chief of Police;
   (E)   Who shall enter into any collusion with any prosecutor, defendant or
witness;
   (F)   Who shall solicit business for any practicing attorney or professional
bondsperson;
   (G)   Who willfully neglects the performance of any duty lawfully imposed
upon him or her; and/or
   (H)   Who shall be guilty of other conduct, which, in the opinion of the
Chief of Police, renders him or her unfit for the duties of a police officer.
(Prior Code, § 11-7)
§ 31.114  PERSONNEL RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Chief of Police, in consultation with the Board of Alderpersons, shall
promulgate rules and regulations for the government of the Police Department,
its personnel and property. The rules and regulations, when approved by the
Board of Alderpersons and placed on file in the office of the Town
Administrator/Town Clerk, shall be binding on all personnel of the Police
Department, and it shall be unlawful for any member of the Police Department to
violate or fail to comply with any rule or regulation.
(Prior Code, § 11-8)
§ 31.115  CUSTODY HEARINGS.
   Persons arrested by town police officers shall, without undue delay, be
taken before a magistrate or court having jurisdiction of the alleged offenses,
to be dealt with according to law; and, in no case, shall a prisoner be
detained in custody longer than 12 hours from the time of his or her arrest,
Sundays and legal holidays excepted, without having his or her case heard by
the magistrate or court.
(Prior Code, § 11-9)
§ 31.116  AUXILIARY DIVISION CREATION.
   (A)   There is established within the Police Department, as a division
thereof, an Auxiliary Police Division.
   (B)   The Auxiliary Police Division shall be a volunteer organization, whose
members shall serve without compensation, composed of as many members as may,
from time to time, be determined by the Chief of Police and approved by the
Town Board.
(Ord. passed 6-7-2004)
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 31.125  MEMBERSHIP; UNIT ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   The Fire Department shall consist of the Chief of the Fire Department
and volunteer members. There shall be a minimum number of 20 members and a
maximum of 30 members. Members of the Fire Department shall have the ranks as
may be authorized by vote of the membership of the Fire Department excepting
the Fire Chief. The membership of the Fire Department shall submit to the Board
of Alderpersons, annually, the names of three members of its choice. From these
names, the Board of Alderpersons shall select one person. This person shall be
Fire Chief for one year or until replaced by action of the Fire Department or
Board of Alderpersons.
(Prior Code, § 6-19)
   (B)   The Fire Department shall have the number and type of fire companies
and other units as may be established by the Chief of the Fire Department,
subject to approval by the Board of Alderpersons. The chief of the Fire
Department shall prescribe the order in which units shall respond to alarms.
(Prior Code, § 6-21)
§ 31.126  FIRE DEPARTMENT CHIEF; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Fire Chief, in consultation with the members of the Fire
Department and the Board of Alderpersons, shall promulgate rules and
regulations for the government of the Fire Department, its personnel and
property. The rules and regulations, when approved by the Board of Alderpersons
and placed on file in the office of the Town Administrator/Town Clerk, shall be
binding on all personnel of the Fire Department, and it shall be unlawful for
any member of the Fire Department to violate or fail to comply with any rule or
regulation.
(Prior Code, § 6-20)
   (B)   The Chief of the Fire Department shall be the commanding officer of
the Fire Department and shall be responsible to the Board of Alderpersons for
its proper management. The property of the Fire Department shall be in his or
her care and, for its safety and proper assignment, he or she shall be directly
responsible to the Board of Alderpersons. It shall be the duty of the Chief to
see that all Departmental rules, regulations and orders are promptly and
faithfully respected and obeyed, and whenever any violation thereof is reported
to him or her or comes under his or her personal observation, he or she shall
promptly investigate the matter and report it to the membership of the Fire
Department. The Chief is authorized to summarily suspend from duty any member
of the Fire Department for disobedience or misconduct, but shall immediately
report the suspension, together with all the facts in the case, to the
membership for its consideration and action. The Chief or Assistant Chief shall
respond to all alarms and shall, upon arrival at the scene of the fire, at once
assume command, taking every precaution for the protection of life and
property. He or she shall make a monthly report of the number of volunteer
firefighters attending fires. He or she shall see that the station is in good
order and well cared for. He or she shall have authority at all times, day or
night, in the performance of the duties imposed by this chapter or elsewhere in
this code or any other ordinances of the city, to enter upon and examine any
building or premises where a fire has occurred and other buildings or premises
adjoining or near thereto.
(Prior Code, § 6-22)
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Chief of the Fire Department to
investigate the cause, origin and circumstances of every fire occurring in the
town and within area covered by the city and to ascertain whether the fire was
the result of carelessness or design. The investigation shall be made within
three days, not including Sunday, after the occurrence of each fire and, within
one week thereafter, he or she shall furnish to the State Insurance
Commissioner and the Attorney General a written statement of all facts relating
to the cause and origin of the fire, the kind, value and ownership of the
property destroyed, and other information as may be called for by the blanks
furnished by the State Insurance Commissioner or the Attorney General. He or
she shall keep records giving the time, date and location of the fire, the
owner or lessee of the property, the amount of loss, the amount of insurance
and the result of his or her investigation as to the cause, origin and
circumstances of the fire.
(Prior Code, § 6-23)
   (D)   The county, through its Department of Environmental Services, Codes
Enforcement Division, will perform fire prevention inspections for the town.
The Chief of the Fire Department shall render a report to the Board of
Alderpersons at the first meeting of each quarter, showing the condition of the
fire-fighting equipment, that hydrants have been properly inspected as to
serviceability for fire use, together with the recommendations as he or she may
see fit to make regarding placing the Fire Department in a better position to
fill its requirements.
(Prior Code, § 6-24)
   (E)   In the absence of the Chief of the Fire Department, the officer next
in authority shall be in charge of the Fire Department and shall have complete
charge at the scene of all fires.
(Prior Code, § 6-25)  (Ord. passed 3-2-1992)
§ 31.127  STATE VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The Board of Alderpersons, pursuant to the provisions of G.S. § 69-17,
does hereby resolve to accept and endorse the provisions of G.S. Chapter 58,
Article 80.
(Prior Code, § 6-26)
   (B)   The Treasurer of the State Firemen’s Fund is hereby authorized,
empowered and directed to refund to the town any and all funds, assets or
properties allocated to any member of the Town Volunteer Fire Department upon
the termination of the member’s service with the Department regardless of the
cause or reason for the termination other than by death of the member.
(Prior Code, § 6-26.1)  (Ord. passed 10-10-1973)
§ 31.128  FIRE SERVICE BEYOND TOWN LIMITS.
   (A)   Pursuant to the provisions of G.S. § 69-19, the Chief of the Fire
Department is hereby designated as the person who shall have authority to
dispatch personnel and equipment to respond to calls beyond the area covered by
the town. The two alternates, in the absence or disability of the Chief, shall
be, in order of seniority, the two members of the Department next in rank below
the Chief.
(Prior Code, § 6-27)
   (B)   No fire-fighting service shall be rendered beyond the town limits,
except in the following cases:
      (1)   To protect property within the town threatened by fire outside the
town;
      (2)   To protect town-owned or leased property outside the town;
      (3)   To go to the aid of another municipality threatened with disaster,
when requested to do so by a duly authorized officer of the municipality;
      (4)   To protect property in area beyond town limits as authorized by the
Town Board; and/or
      (5)   To protect schools, churches,  hospitals, publicly-owned buildings
or charitable institutions upon request of properly authorized persons.
(Prior Code, § 6-28)
CHAPTER 32:  CIVIL EMERGENCIES
Section
   
32.01   Rowan Emergency Management Agency
§ 32.01  ROWAN EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY.
   (A)   Short title. This section shall be known and may be cited and referred
to as “Emergency Management Ordinance for the County of Rowan”.
   (B)   Intent and purpose.
      (1)   It is the intent and purpose of this section to establish an office
that will ensure the complete and efficient utilization of all of the county’s
resources to combat disaster resulting from enemy actions or other disasters,
as defined herein.
      (2)   The County Office of Emergency Management will be the coordinating
agency for all activity in connection with emergency management, it will be the
instrument through which the County Board of Commissioners may exercise the
authority and discharge the responsibilities vested in them during disaster
emergencies.
      (3)   This section will not relieve any county department of the moral
responsibilities or authority given to it in the County Charter or by local
ordinances, nor will it adversely affect the work of any volunteer agency
organized for relief in disaster emergencies.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      ATTACK. Direct or indirect assault against the county, its government,
its environs or of the nation, by the forces of a hostile nation or the agents
thereof, including assault by bombing, conventional or nuclear, chemical or
biological warfare, terrorism or sabotage.
      COORDINATOR.  The Coordinator of the County Emergency Management Agency,
appointed as prescribed in this section.
      DISASTER. Actual or threatened enemy attack, sabotage, extraordinary
fire, flood, storm, epidemic, accident, chemical spill or other impending or
actual calamity endangering or threatening to endanger health, life or property
of constituted government.
      EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT. The basic government functions of maintaining the
public peace, health and safety during an emergency. This term shall include
plans and preparations for protection and relief, recovery and rehabilitation
from effects of an attack by the forces of an enemy nation or the agents
thereof or a disaster, as defined herein. It shall not, however, include any
activity that is the primary responsibility of the military forces of the
United States.
      EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT FORCES. The employees, equipment and facilities of
all county departments, boards, councils, institutions and commissions; and, in
addition, it shall include all volunteer personnel, equipment and facilities
contributed by, or obtained from, volunteer persons or agencies.
      EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT VOLUNTEER. Any person duly registered, identified
and appointed by the Coordinator of the County Emergency Management Agency and
assigned to participate in the emergency management activity.
      REGULATIONS. Plans, programs and other emergency procedures deemed
essential to emergency management.
      VOLUNTEER. Contributing a service, equipment or facilities to the
Emergency Management Agency without remuneration.
   (D)   Organization and appointments.
      (1)   The organization shall consist of the following:
         (a)   An agency of Emergency Management within the executive
department of the county government under the direction of the County Board of
Commissioners. The agency head of the County Emergency Management Agency shall
be known as the Coordinator and the assistants and other employees as are
deemed necessary for the proper functioning of the agency will be appointed;
         (b)   The employees and resources of all county departments, boards,
institutions and councils shall participate in the emergency management
activities. Duties assigned to county departments shall be the same as or
similar to the normal duties of the department, where possible; and
         (c)   Volunteer personnel and agencies offering service to, and
accepted by the county.
      (2)   The County Board of Commissioners shall appoint a Coordinator of
the County Emergency Management Agency who shall be a person well versed and
trained in planning operations involving the activities of many different
agencies which will operate to protect the public health, safety and welfare in
the event of danger from enemy action or disaster, as defined in this section.
      (3)   The Coordinator shall designate and appoint Deputy Coordinators to
assume the emergency duties of the Coordinator in the event of his or her
absence or inability to act.
   (E)   Day-to-day duties and responsibilities of the Coordinator.
      (1)   The Coordinator shall be responsible to the County Board of
Commissioners in regard to all phases of emergency management activity. The
Coordinator shall be responsible for the planning, coordination and operation
of the emergency management activities in the county. The Coordinator shall
maintain liaison with the state and federal authorities and the authorities of
nearby political subdivisions so as to ensure the most effective operation of
the emergency management plans.
      (2)   The Coordinator’s duties shall include, but not be limited to, the
following:
         (a)   Coordinating the recruitment of volunteer personnel and agencies
to augment the personnel and facilities of the county for emergency management
purposes;
         (b)   Development and coordination of plans for the immediate use of
all facilities, equipment, manpower and other resources of the county for the
purpose of minimizing or preventing damage to persons and property; and
protecting and restoring to usefulness governmental services and public
utilities necessary for the public health, safety and welfare;
         (c)    Negotiating and concluding agreements with owners or persons in
control of building or other property for the use of the building or other
property for the emergency management purposes and designating suitable
buildings as public shelters;
         (d)   Through public information at programs, educating the populace
as to actions necessary and required for the protection of their persons and
property in case of enemy attack or disaster, as defined herein, either
impending or present;
         (e)   Conducting public practice alerts to insure the efficient
operation of the emergency management forces and to familiarize residents with
emergency management regulations, procedures and operations; and
         (f)   Coordinating the activity of all other public and private
agencies engaged in any emergency management activities.
   (F)   Emergency management plans.
      (1)   Comprehensive emergency management plans shall be adopted and
maintained by resolution of the County Board of Commissioners. In the
preparations of these plans as it pertains to county organization, it is
intended that the services, equipment and facilities and personnel of all
existing departments and agencies shall be utilized to the fullest extent. When
approved, it shall be the duty of all departments and agencies to perform the
functions assigned by these plans and to maintain their portions of the plans
in a current state of readiness at all times. These plans shall have the effect
of law whenever a disaster, as defined in this chapter, has been proclaimed.
      (2)   The Coordinator shall prescribe in the emergency plans those
positions within the disaster organization, in addition to his or her own, for
which lines of succession are necessary. In each instance, the responsible
person will designate and keep on file with the Coordinator a current list of
three persons as successors to his or her position. The list will be in order
of succession and will nearly as possible designate persons best capable of
carrying out all assigned duties and functions.
      (3)   Each service chief and department head assigned responsibility in
the plans shall be responsible for carrying out all duties and functions
assigned therein. Duties will include the organization and training of assigned
employees and, where needed, volunteers. Each chief shall formulate the
standing operating procedure to implement the plans for his or her service.
      (4)   Amendments to these plans shall be submitted to the Coordinator. If
approved, the Coordinator will then submit the amendments to the County Board
of Commissioners with his or her recommendation for its approval. The
amendments shall take effect 30 days from the date of approval.
      (5) When a required competency or skill for a disaster function is not
available within government, the Coordinator is authorized to seek assistance
from persons outside of government. The assignment of duties, when of a
supervisory nature, shall also include the granting of authority for the
persons so assigned to carry out the duties prior to, during and after the
occurrence of a disaster. The services from persons outside of government may
be accepted by local government on a volunteer basis. The citizens shall be
enrolled as emergency management volunteers.
   (G)   No municipal or private liability.
      (1)   This section is an exercise by the county of its governmental
functions for the protection of the public peace, health and safety, and
neither the county nor agents and representatives of same, or any individual,
receiver, firm, partnership, corporation, association or trustee, or any of the
agents thereof in good faith carrying out, complying with or attempting to
comply with any order, rule or regulation promulgated pursuant to the
provisions of this section, shall be liable for any damage sustained to persons
or property as the result of the activity.
      (2)   Any person owning or controlling real estate or other premises who,
voluntarily and without compensation, grants the county the right to inspect,
designate and use the whole or any part or parts of the real estate or premises
for the purpose of sheltering persons during an actual, impending or practice
disaster situation shall not be civilly liable for the death of, or injury to,
any persons on or about the real estate or premises under the license,
privilege or other permission; or for loss of, or damage to, the property of
the person.
   (H)   Violations. It shall be a misdemeanor for any person to violate any of
the provisions of this section or plans issued pursuant to the authority
contained herein, or to willfully obstruct, hinder or delay any member of the
emergency management organization, as herein defined, in the enforcement of the
provisions of this section or any plan issued thereunder.
(Ord. passed 1-7-1991)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 33:  PERSONNEL
Section
   
33.01   Personnel regulations adopted by reference
§ 33.01  PERSONNEL REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The town’s personnel regulations are hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. passed 3-6-1989)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE
      
51.   WATER AND SEWER
      
52.   ELECTRICITY
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE
Section
General Regulations
   
50.01   Purpose
   
50.02   Definitions
   
50.03   Prohibited acts
Landfills
   
50.15   Permissible content
Dead Animals
   
50.30   Carcass removal by town
Vehicular Restrictions
   
50.45   Litter; secured loads
Collection Regulations
   
50.60   Residential collection
   
50.61   Industrial, business collection
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 50.01  PURPOSE.
   It is the intent of the town to set forth rules and regulations for the
orderly collection and disposal of solid waste. The aim is to cover any and all
aspects of the collection and disposal of solid waste. The town reserves the
right to make any decision not covered in this chapter. All rules and
regulations of the county and the state will be observed.
(Prior Code, § 7-1)
§ 50.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this chapter.
   GARBAGE. All putrescible waste including animal and vegetable matter and
recognizable industrial by-products, but excluding sewage and human wastes.
   LITTER. Refuse and all other waste materials, which, if thrown or deposited
on any premises, vacant lot, street or sidewalk, tends to create a danger to
public health and safety, or any unsightly appearance.
   REFUSE. All nonputrescible wastes.
(Prior Code, § 7-2)
§ 50.03  PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw or sweep into any street
or public place of the town any garbage or refuse or to scatter any matter on
any premises or vacant lot of his or her own or that of another, other than as
set forth in this chapter.
   (B)   No garbage that has become decayed or that shall otherwise be a menace
to health or cleanliness shall be allowed to remain in any residence, business
or industry or on any premises for a longer time than shall be reasonably
necessary to remove or deposit it in a proper receptacle.
(Prior Code, § 7-3)  Penalty, see §
10.99
LANDFILLS
§ 50.15  PERMISSIBLE CONTENT.
   (A)   It shall be permissible for dirt, rocks, brick, concrete, leaves and
small limbs to be used for landfills.
   (B)   Garbage is not permitted, nor is material of an offensive or unsightly
nature.
   (C)   The owner is responsible for keeping the site in a neat and orderly
manner.
(Prior Code, § 7-4)  Penalty, see §
10.99
DEAD ANIMALS
§ 50.30  CARCASS REMOVAL BY TOWN.
   Carcasses of dead animals or fowl will be removed from the streets or public
places by the town. Carcasses of small animals or fowl will be removed from
private property, if located at a convenient place, but will be disposed of in
the same manner as garbage or refuse.
(Prior Code, § 7-5)
VEHICULAR RESTRICTIONS
§ 50.45  LITTER; SECURED LOADS.
   No person, while a driver or passenger in a vehicle, shall throw or deposit
litter upon any private property or upon any street or other public place
within the town. No person shall drive or move any truck or other vehicle
within the town unless the vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent
any load of dirt, litter or other matter being spilled therefrom or deposited
upon any street or other public or private place.
(Prior Code, § 7-6)  Penalty, see §
10.99
COLLECTION REGULATIONS
§ 50.60  RESIDENTIAL COLLECTION.
   (A)   The occupant of every residence shall provide himself or herself with
a sufficient number of receptacles made of substantial nonrusting metal or
plastic, in which to deposit all garbage and small refuse which may accumulate
on his or her premises during the usual interval between the collection of
garbage. Each receptacle shall be provided with handles or bails, a tight
fitting cover made of the same material as the receptacle, and shall be water
tight, nonabsorbent and rodent proof. They shall be of a size that can be
conveniently handled by one collector and not to exceed a holding capacity of
32 gallons. There shall be no limit as to the number of receptacles each
occupant may have and all receptacles shall be kept in a reasonably clean and
sanitary condition. Receptacles of over 32 gallons capacity, or without lids or
with bottoms which have rusted through or which otherwise fail to comply with
the requirements of this chapter, shall be tagged with a label condemning them
for use and nothing shall be collected therefrom. No receptacle for garbage
shall be used for burning and no receptacle so used shall be emptied by the
town personnel.
   (B)   All wet garbage shall have the liquid drained off and shall be wrapped
in paper or other material before it is placed in the garbage receptacle to
prevent smell and the breeding of flies in the summer and freezing and adhesion
to the container in winter.
   (C)   All occupants of residences shall place their receptacles in the
position on the premises as to be easily accessible to the garbage collector.
   (D)   No set time is to be set in a certain section or street on any given
days, as garbage collection is made on a continuous rotating basis.
   (E)   An extra collection of refuse will be made upon request, but must be
placed so as to be accessible for loading into a truck.
   (F)   Limbs will be chipped upon request in large quantities, but must be
placed at street side in stacks or rows not to exceed five feet in height, with
butts or large ends placed toward the street.
   (G)   Leaves will be collected upon request, but must be placed at street
side or placed so as to be accessible to the collection truck.
   (H)   Building materials and debris will not be collected by the town, but
special arrangements for vehicles and disposal can be made.
(Prior Code, § 7-7)
§ 50.61  INDUSTRIAL, BUSINESS COLLECTION.
   The conditions for industrial and business shall be the same as for
residential, except for the following.
   (A)   The holding capacity shall not exceed 55 gallons.
   (B)   Must be placed so as to be accessible to the collection truck.
   (C)   Baling and boxing is permissible.
   (D)   All boxes shall be cut down and tied into bundles or placed so as not
to be loose refuse.
   (E)   Special receptacles and trash houses may be used, but must be approved
by the town. The town may require them to be locked and a key furnished the
town for access for collection.
(Prior Code, § 7-8)
CHAPTER 51:  WATER AND SEWER
Section
General Provisions
   
51.001   Federal effluent standards apply
   
51.002   Interference with water, sewer system prohibited
   
51.003   Liability for obstructed sewer lines
   
51.004   Prohibition against trespass on, interference with waste or water
treatment plants
   
51.005   Obstruction of water meter, fire hydrant prohibited
   
51.006   Certain discharges prohibited
   
51.007   Screening devices; backflow preventers
   
51.008   Emergency repair shut-off
Connections with System
   
51.020   Potable water supply
   
51.021   Town sewer system
   
51.022   Septic tanks
   
51.023   Tap charges
   
51.024   Authorized persons
Billing
   
51.035   Maintenance and use of meters
   
51.036   Sewer service rates
   
51.037   Water rates and deposits
   
51.038   Meter reading
   
51.039   Sewer bills due and payable
   
51.040   Disconnection for late payment
Water or Sewer Main Extensions
   
51.055   Inside corporate limits
   
51.056   Outside corporate limits financed by applicant
   
51.057   Outside corporate limits financed by town
   
51.058   Contract and approval required
   
51.059   New sewer design and construction
Water Emergencies
   
51.070   Emergency conditions
   
51.071   Declaration; imposition of restrictions
   
51.072   Staged water use restrictions by level
   
51.073   Level III compliance plans required
Backflow Prevention
   
51.080   Cross connection control
   
51.081   Definitions
   
51.082   Right of entry
   
51.083   Law
   
51.084   Installation
   
51.085   Degree of hazards
   
51.086   Notices
   
51.087   Violations
Sewer Use
   
51.090   Definitions
   
51.091   Prohibited discharges
   
51.092   Industrial, municipal user requirements
   
51.093   Public sewer usage required
   
51.094   Unauthorized connection prohibited
   
51.095   Storm sewer discharge
   
51.096   Private systems
   
51.097   Charge; billing; nonpayment
   
51.098   Public Works right of entry
   
51.099   Determination of flow volume
   
51.100   Determination of waste character, concentration
   
51.101   Prohibited waste control
   
51.102   Accidental discharge
   
51.103   Traps, interceptors and separators
Industrial Waste Water
   
51.115   Discharge reports
   
51.116   Records; monitoring equipment
   
51.117   Inspection; sampling; analysis
   
51.118   Permit required
   
51.119   Permit application
   
51.120   Permit conditions
   
51.121   Connections from outside corporate limit
   
51.122   Permit term, modification
   
51.123   Permit transfer, revocation
Enforcement
   
51.135   Notice of violation
   
51.136   Show cause hearing
   
51.137   Orders and directives
 
   
51.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.001  FEDERAL EFFLUENT STANDARDS APPLY.
   (A)   The effluent standards and limitations contained in this subchapter
shall be no less restrictive than the most nearly applicable federal effluent
standards and limitations.
   (B)   In the event the effluent standards and limitations adopted in this
subchapter are more restrictive than the most nearly applicable federal
effluent standards and limitations, the federal standards shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 15-54)  (Ord. passed 10-7-1985)
§ 51.002  INTERFERENCE WITH WATER, SEWER SYSTEM PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, without having proper authority,
to touch, tamper or in any manner, manipulate or turn the cut-offs on the water
mains, water meters or fire hydrants forming a part of the water system of the
town, nor shall any person without having proper authority tamper with or harm
in any manner whatsoever any water or sewer line, water meter, sewer manhole,
fire hydrant or any apparatus thereto.
   (B)   No person shall throw or deposit any material or substance in any
water or sewer line that will, in any manner, obstruct the line.
(Prior Code, § 15-1)  Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.003  LIABILITY FOR OBSTRUCTED SEWER LINES.
   Whenever it becomes necessary to open any sewer lines, which have become
choked or obstructed by material being placed in them that will not dissolve,
and whose fault is the property owner or the party using the property, the
property owner shall be liable to the town for the damage and shall bear the
expense of opening the sewer.
(Prior Code, § 15-2)
§ 51.004  PROHIBITION AGAINST TRESPASS ON, INTERFERENCE WITH WASTE OR WATER
TREATMENT PLANTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, without having proper authority, to
trespass or, in any manner, interfere with any waste treatment plant, water
treatment plant, raw water storage lakes or resources, stand pipes, elevated
tanks or sewer lift stations.
(Prior Code, § 15-3)  Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.005  OBSTRUCTION OF WATER METER, FIRE HYDRANT PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to plant or construct anything within ten feet of a
water meter or fire hydrant that will, in any way, prevent the proper
maintenance or accessibility of same.
(Prior Code, § 15-4)  Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.006  CERTAIN DISCHARGES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following substances in any sanitary sewer in the town:
   (A)   Storm water, surface water, ground water, roof run-off or subsurface
drainage, or any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F;
   (B)    Water or waste which may contain more than 100 parts per 1,000,000 by
weight, of fat, oil or grease, any gasoline, benzine, naphtha, fuel oil or
other flammable or explosive liquid, solid or gas;
   (C)   Ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, paunch manure or any other solids or viscous
substance capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other
interference with the proper operation of the sewage works;
   (D)   Water or wastes having a stabilized pH lower than six or higher than
nine or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard
to structures, equipment and personnel of the sewage works;
   (E)   Water or wastes having a biochemical oxygen demand in excess of 500
parts per 1,000,000 by weight;
   (F)   Water or waste containing more than 700 parts per 1,000,000 by weight
of suspended solids;
   (G)   Water or waste containing a toxic or poisonous substance or any other
materials in sufficient quantity to injure or interfere with any sewage
treatment process, or constitute a hazard to humans or animals, or create any
hazard in the receiving stream at the sewage treatment plant;
   (H)   Water or wastes containing suspended solids of the character and
quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle the material
at the sewage treatment plant; or
   (I)   Noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a public
nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 15-5)  Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.007  SCREENING DEVICES; BACKFLOW PREVENTERS.
   (A)   Screening devices shall be provided at commercial and industrial
places when, in the opinion of town authorities, they are necessary for the
proper screening of liquid wastes. All devices shall be of a type as approved
by town authorities and shall be located so as to be readily accessible for
cleaning and inspection and shall be maintained by the owner at his or her
expense in continuously efficient operation at all times.
(Prior Code, § 15-6)
   (B)   Backflow preventers shall be provided at any service, when, in the
opinion of the town authorities, they are necessary to prevent backflows. All
devices shall be of a type as approved by town authorities and shall be located
so as to be readily accessible for maintaining and inspection and shall be
maintained by the owners at his or her expense in continuously efficient
operation at all times.
(Prior Code, § 15-7)
§ 51.008  EMERGENCY REPAIR SHUT-OFF.
   Any authorized town personnel can shut off any part of the town water system
for repairs without prior notice to those affected.
(Prior Code, § 15-12)
CONNECTIONS WITH SYSTEM
§ 51.020  POTABLE WATER SUPPLY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to occupy or to rent to or permit
another person to occupy, for more than 24 hours, any building or other
structure intended or designed for human habitation, occupancy or use, without
first connecting the building or structure to the city water system or without
providing potable water from some other source known to be pure and which meets
the approval of the county health authorities.
   (B)   Each day after the first 24 hours that a residence is rented or
occupied without pure water being provided as aforesaid shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 15-13)  Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.021  TOWN SEWER SYSTEM.
   (A)   Every person owning a house or other building or structure designed or
intended for human habitation, occupancy or use, the property line of which is
within 200 feet of a town sanitary sewer, shall connect the premises to the
sanitary sewer.
   (B)   The provision of division (A) of this section shall become applicable
to owners of properties described therein when new or extended town sanitary
sewer lines are laid and the owners of the properties shall have 180 days from
the time the new or extended sewer lines are laid in which to make the
connections required by division (A) of this section.
(Prior Code, § 15-14)
§ 51.022  SEPTIC TANKS.
   (A)   The town is unable to provide sewer service, a septic tank system that
is approved by the County Health Department will be allowed. Upon written
application by a property owner requiring a septic tank, the applicant shall
install this system at his, her or its own expense; this installation shall be
made pursuant to the specifications and requirements of the County Board of
Health; and the town shall maintain the septic tank until there are sewer
system facilities available to him, her or it.
   (B)   For any property owner who desires to connect to the town sewer system
and the town sewerage system cannot serve the applicant’s property by gravity
flow from the property, it shall be the responsibility of the property owner to
install and maintain a lift station or sewer pump that shall enable the
property owner to discharge his or her sewage into the town sewage system. All
lift stations or sewer pumps so installed shall be installed pursuant to the
specifications and requirements of the town. The property owner shall be
required to pay all sewer taps required by the town.
   (C)   If the town is unable to provide sewer service, a septic tank system
approved by the County Health Department will be allowed. As soon as community
sewer service is available, the septic tank system shall be disconnected and
connection made to community sewage system within six months and upon payment
of all sewer tap fees.
(Prior Code, § 15-15)  (Ord. passed 9-17-1984; Ord. passed 10-2-1989)
§ 51.023  TAP CHARGES.
   The following schedule of charges is established for water and sewer taps.
   (A)   Water.
 
Inside Town Water Tap Outside Town Water Tap
Meter Size Cost       Meter Size Cost
3/4 inches $200       3/4 inches $400
1 inch     $300       1 inch     $600
1-1/2 inch $400       1-1/2 inch $800
2 inches   $500       2 inches   $1,000
 
      (1)   All water taps inside the town larger than two inches will be made
at the rate of cost, plus 15%.
      (2)   All water taps outside the town larger than two inches will be made
at the rate of double the cost, plus 15%.
   (B)   Sewer.
 
Inside Town Sewer Tap Outside Town Sewer Tap
Tap Size Cost         Tap Size Cost
4 inches $200         4 inches $400
 
      (1)   All sewer taps inside the town larger than four inches will be made
at the rate of cost, plus 15%.
      (2)   All sewer taps outside the town larger than four inches will be
made at the rate of double the cost, plus 15%.
      (3)  All sewer taps to the town sewer system shall be paid for by the
customer prior to the water tap connection being made.
(Prior Code, § 15-16)  (Ord. passed 3-1-1982; Ord. passed 4-1-1991)
§ 51.024  AUTHORIZED PERSONS.
   No connections with the water or sewer system of the town shall be made by
any other person than one specifically employed or designated by the town for
that work, or by someone under his or her directions, and then only upon permit
duly issued by the Director of Public Works.
(Prior Code, § 15-17)  Penalty, see §
51.999
BILLING
§ 51.035  MAINTENANCE AND USE OF METERS.
   (A)   All meters, meter boxes, pipes and other equipment furnished and used
by the town in installing any water or sewer connection shall be and remain the
property of the town.
   (B)   All meters, except as are required to be furnished by particular users
of water, shall be kept in good repair and working order by the town and at the
expense of the town, except repairs can be charged to property owners for abuse
of the meter and equipment. Meters furnished by particular users of water shall
be kept in good repair and working order by the town, but the expense thereof
shall be borne by the users.
   (C)   Mobile home parks can be serviced by one meter.
   (D)   Not more than one house, outbuilding excepted, can be connected to or
be served by one water meter. In case it already exists, the minimum number
will be charged for water and sewer and service charges to correspond with the
actual number being served; provided that, any separate dwelling or place of
business constructed after the approved date of this chapter shall be connected
to the water system of the town through a separate meter.
(Prior Code, § 15-18)
§ 51.036  SEWER SERVICE RATES.
   (A)   The town’s sanitary sewer service rates shall be established from time
to time by the Board of Alderpersons.
   (B)   A current schedule of the rates shall be maintained on file in the
office of the Town Administrator/Town Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 15-19)
§ 51.037  WATER RATES AND DEPOSITS.
   (A)   The water rates for water furnished by the town shall be established
from time to time by the Board of Alderpersons. A current schedule of the rates
shall be maintained on file in the office of the Town Administrator/Town Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 15-20)
   (B)   (1)   The deposits required for town water service shall be
established from time to time by the Board of Alderpersons.
      (2)   A current schedule of the deposits shall be maintained on file in
the office of the Town Administrator/Town Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 15-21)  (Ord. passed 10-5-1992)
§ 51.038  METER READING.
   All water meters shall be read by the twentieth day of each month.
(Prior Code, § 15-22)
§ 51.039  SEWER BILLS DUE AND PAYABLE.
   Sewer charges are due and payable on the same date as water charges.
(Prior Code, § 15-23)
§ 51.040  DISCONNECTION FOR LATE PAYMENT.
   (A)   It is the policy of the town to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills.  The town's form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number, and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
      (1)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth
on the bill; and
      (2)   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second bill
will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid within
ten days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued for
nonpayment; and
      (3)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his bill shall have
a right to a hearing at which time he may be represented in person and by
counsel or any other person of his choosing and may present orally or in
writing his complaint and contentions to the town official in charge of utility
billing.  This official shall be authorized to order that the customer's
service not be discontinued and shall have the authority to make a final
determination of the customer's complaint.
   (B)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained; only
questions of proper and correct billing will be considered.  In the absence of
payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
   (C)   When it becomes necessary for the town to discontinue utility service
to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only after
all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on charge in
the sum as determined by the Utility Department.
WATER OR SEWER MAIN EXTENSIONS
§ 51.055  INSIDE CORPORATE LIMITS.
   All extensions of water or sewer mains constructed inside the corporate
limits shall be financed by the individual, developer or corporation under a
written contract between the town and the person requesting the extension, and
the contract shall be approved by the Board of Alderpersons. However, the town
may, based on availability of funds, participate in the cost of extending water
and sewer mains to the site of the proposed or existing development; provided
that, no sum of funds allocated may exceed the total conservative estimate of
revenues for a period of eight fiscal years that the town may receive from the
development when completed, or exceed 75% of the actual cost of extending water
and sewer mains to the site of the development.
(Prior Code, § 15-25)  (Ord. passed 11-3-1986)
§ 51.056  OUTSIDE CORPORATE LIMITS FINANCED BY APPLICANT.
   All extensions of water and sewer mains constructed outside the corporate
limits shall be financed by the following methods: Upon written application by
an individual, developer or corporation desiring extension of water and sewer
mains to property outside the corporate limits, the mains may be extended under
an approved written contract between the town and the applicant, with all costs
of the extension to be paid by the applicant. The water and sewer main
extension shall be done under the supervision and control of the Director of
Public Works. The town shall be saved harmless from all losses, costs or
damage, liability or expenses by reason of any injury to any person or property
as a result of installing the main. The extended line, when completed, shall
become the property of the town and subject to its control.
(Prior Code, § 15-26)  (Ord. passed 11-3-1986)
§ 51.057  OUTSIDE CORPORATE LIMITS FINANCED BY TOWN.
   Upon written application by an individual, developer or corporation desiring
extension of water or sewer mains to property located outside the corporate
limits, the mains may be extended with the town participating in the cost of
the extension, based on availability of funds; provided that, the property or
site of development is annexed into the corporate limits under the procedure
stated in the G.S. §§ 160A-29 through 160A-58.6. The annexation should occur
during the construction of the extended mains, but shall occur before service
is provided by the town. No service shall be provided to the property or the
site of development until the property or site has been properly annexed. A
written contract between the town and the person requesting the extension shall
be prepared and the contract shall be approved by the Board of Alderpersons.
The town’s participation shall be stated in the written contract, and the
participation shall not exceed the total conservative estimate of revenues for
a period of five fiscal years that the town may receive from the proposed
development when completed and properly annexed, or exceed 50% of the actual
cost of extending water and sewer mains to the site of the development. The
difference between the town’s participation and the actual cost of construction
of extending the water or sewer main shall be paid by the applicant requesting
the extension. The extended line shall become the property of the town and be
subject to its control.
(Prior Code, § 15-26)  (Ord. passed 11-3-1986)
§ 51.058  CONTRACT AND APPROVAL REQUIRED.
   Any extension of water or sewer mains under the provision of this subchapter
shall require a written contract between the town and the parties requesting
the extension. No written contract or agreement shall be entered into under the
provisions of this subchapter unless it has been approved by the Board of
Alderpersons.
(Prior Code, § 15-27)  (Ord. passed 11-3-1986)
§ 51.059  NEW SEWER DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION.
   New sewers and new connections shall be properly designed and constructed in
accordance with the guidelines as published by the Environmental Protection
Agency.
(Prior Code, § 15-50)  (Ord. passed 10-7-1985)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see 40 C.F.R. § 35.927-4
WATER EMERGENCIES
§ 51.070  EMERGENCY CONDITIONS.
   (A)   A water emergency shall exist when any condition or situation exists
which threatens the safety or supply of either untreated or potable water
contained within the water supply, treatment and distribution systems of the
town or within the system of the municipal, commercial and industrial
customers.
   (B)   Determination of whether specific situations are considered to be
water emergencies shall be made by the Public Works Director or his or her
designee.
   (C)   Water emergency situations shall include, but not be limited to,
drought or periods of insufficient raw water supply, mechanical system failure,
system contamination or contamination of raw water supply and fires of
magnitude such that system integrity is threatened.
(Prior Code, § 15-28)  (Ord. passed 9-25-1986)
§ 51.071  DECLARATION; IMPOSITION OF RESTRICTIONS.
   The Public Works Director or his or her designee, after consultation with
the Board of Alderpersons, shall be authorized to declare that a water
emergency exists. Depending on the severity of the emergency, voluntary (Level
I), mandatory (Level II), mandatory (Level III) or mandatory (Level IV) staged
water use restrictions, as described in this subchapter, shall be imposed upon
water customers.
(Prior Code, § 15-29)  (Ord. passed 9-25-1986)
§ 51.072  STAGED WATER USE RESTRICTIONS BY LEVEL.
   (A)   During a declared Level I water emergency, the following voluntary
water conservation practices shall be encouraged.
      (1)    Watering of lawns and ornamental plants should be limited to that
necessary for plant survival only.
      (2)   Planting of new ornamental plants or seeding of lawns should be
deferred until the water emergency situation no longer exists.
      (3)   Household water should be reutilized to the greatest extent
possible for watering.
      (4)   Use of water for washdown of outside areas as driveways or parking
lots should be curtailed.
      (5)   Faucets should not be left running while shaving, brushing teeth or
washing dishes.
      (6)   The use of washing machines and dishwashers should be limited, if
possible, and these units should be operated with full loads when used.
      (7)   Noncommercial washing of cars or other vehicles should be curtailed
or limited to Saturdays and Sundays. Hoses should not be left running while
washing vehicles.
      (8)   The use of flow restrictors and other water saving devices is
encouraged.
      (9)   Showers used for bathing should be limited to four minutes or less.
      (10)   Filling of pools should be deferred or limited to the hours
between 9:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
      (11)   Commercial and industrial operations shall eliminate all possible
wastage of water.
(Prior Code, § 15-30)
   (B)   During a Level II water emergency, the following mandatory water
restrictions shall be in effect.
      (1)   Household water shall be reutilized to the greatest extent possible
for watering.
      (2)   Faucets shall not be left running while shaving, brushing teeth or
washing dishes.
      (3)   The use of washing machines and dishwashers shall be limited. These
units should be operated with full loads when used.
      (4)   Irrigation of lawns and ornamental plants shall not be done, except
during the hours between 9:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. Variances for commercial
irrigation may be issued and/or revoked by the Director of Public Works or his
or her designee depending on the severity of the situation.
      (5)   Planting of new ornamental plants or seeding of lawns shall be
deferred until after the water emergency no longer exists.
      (6)   Use of water for washdown of outside areas is prohibited.
      (7)    Noncommercial washing of cars and other vehicles shall be
prohibited, except on Saturdays and Sundays. Commercial washing facilities,
including those providing hand-held washing nozzles, may continue normal
operation. However, facility/owner operations shall ensure that water wastage
does not occur.
      (8)   Commercial and industrial operations shall eliminate all possible
wastage of water.
      (9)   Newly constructed or drained pools shall be filled by permit only.
Fill permits shall be issued by the Public Works Director or his or her
designee, and issuance of permits may be curtailed depending on the severity of
the situation.
(Prior Code, § 15-31)
   (C)   During a declared Level III water emergency, the following mandatory
water use restrictions shall be in effect.
      (1)   Irrigation of lawns and other plants is prohibited.
      (2)    Washing of cars, vehicles and equipment is prohibited.
      (3)   Restaurants and food serving establishments shall utilize
disposable service utensils and plates in all cases.
      (4)   Recreational use of potable water, including filling of pools, is
prohibited.
      (5)   Large scale commercial and industrial water customers utilizing
5,000 or more gallons of water per day shall achieve mandatory reductions in
daily water usage through whatever means are available. A target reduction
percentage shall be determined by the severity of the water emergency and shall
be publicly announced  and is part of the emergency declaration. Compliance
with daily usage reduction targets shall be determined by the Public Works
staff. Variances to this restriction may be granted by the Director of Public
Works or his or her designee to designated public health facilities.
(Prior Code, § 15-32)
   (D)   During a declared Level IV water emergency, the following mandatory
water use restrictions shall be in effect.
      (1) All use of water for purposes other than maintenance of public health
and safety is prohibited.
      (2)    Where the town system is still functional, daily residential water
use shall be limited to the amount necessary to sustain life through drinking,
food preparation and personal hygiene.
      (3)   Where the town system is not functional, National Guard and
emergency service vehicles shall be utilized to distribute water for household
use at prearranged locations within the affected area. Usage by individuals
shall be limited to the amount necessary to sustain life through drinking, food
preparation and personal hygiene.
(Prior Code, § 15-22)  (Ord. passed 9-25-1986)
§ 51.073  LEVEL III COMPLIANCE PLANS REQUIRED.
   Commercial and industrial water customers utilizing 5,000 or more gallons
per day shall prepare plans detailing measures to be taken by them to achieve
mandatory reductions in daily water usage during Level III emergencies.(Prior
Code, § 15-34)  (Ord. passed 9-25-1986)
BACKFLOW PREVENTION
§ 51.080  CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL.
   (A)   Purpose.  The purpose of this cross connection control section is: 
      (1)   To protect the public potable water supply of the town from the
possibility of contamination or pollution, due to backsiphonage or back
pressure, by isolation within the consumer's private water system such
contaminants or pollutants, which could backflow into the public water system.
      (2)   To define the authority of the town as the water purveyor entitled
to eliminating all cross connections, new or existing, within Landis Utilities
Water System.
      (3)   To provide a continuing inspection program of cross connections,
which may be installed in the future.
   (B)   Responsibility:  Town of Landis.
      (1)   Landis Utilities will be primarily responsible for preventing any
contamination or pollution of the Landis Utilities Water System. This
responsibility begins at the point of origin of the public water supply and
includes all of the public water distribution system, and ends at the service
connection under the Safe Drinking Water Act. The Backflow Administrator shall
exercise vigilance to ensure that the consumer/customer has taken the proper
steps to protect the public potable water system.
      (2)   When it has been determined that a backflow protection assembly is
required for the prevention of contamination of the Landis Utilities Water
System, the Backflow Administrator shall notify the owner, in writing, of any
such building or premises, to correct within a time set by this section, any
plumbing installed or existing that is in violation of this section.
      (3)   After surveying the private water system the Backflow Administrator
will select an approved backflow prevention assembly required for containment
control to be installed at service entrance.
      (4)   Prior to the installation of any backflow prevention assembly, the
owner of the private water system must be notified that the installation of a
backflow prevention assembly may create a closed system, and as a result
thermal expansion may occur. Under such circumstance, the customer must
understand and assume all liability and responsibilities for that phenomenon.
   (C)   Responsibility:  Customer.
      (1)   The customer has the responsibility of preventing contaminants and
pollutants from entering the customer's private water system or the public
water system operated by the town. The customer, at his own expense, shall
install, operate and maintain all backflow prevention assemblies specified
within this section.
      (2)   If a tenant customer does not maintain the private water system and
has no authority to bring the system into compliance with the provisions of
this section the town may assert any available action against the tenant to
assure the private water system is brought into compliance with this section.
(Ord. passed 3-9-2009)
§ 51.081  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply,
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIR GAP SEPARATION.  An unobstructed vertical distance through the
atmosphere between the lowest opening from any pipe or faucet supplying water
from any source to a tank, plumbing fixture, or other device and the flood
level rim of the receptacle. An approved air gap separation shall be double the
diameter of the supply pipe. In no case shall the air gap separation be less
than one inch.  An approved air gap separation is an effective method to
prevent backflow and shall be considered as a backflow prevention assembly.
   ATMOSPHERIC VACUUM BREAKER.  A device used to prevent back-siphonage, which
is designed so as not to be subject to static line pressure.
   BACK PRESSURE.  Any elevation of pressure in the down stream piping system
caused by pumps, elevation of piping, or steam and/or air pressure above the
supply pressure at the point of consideration, which would cause a reversal of
the normal direction of flow.
   BACK SIPHONAGE.   A reversal of the normal direction of flow in the pipeline
due to a negative pressure (vacuum) being created in the supply line with the
backflow source subject to atmospheric pressure.
   BACKFLOW.  Any reverse flow of water, gas or any other liquid substance or
combination into the public water system from any source due to an unprotected
cross-connection.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION ADMINISTRATOR.  An employee of the town designated by
the Public Works Director to administer and enforce this subchapter.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY – APPROVED.  An assembly that has been
investigated and approved by the Town of Landis Water Department and has been
approved to meet the design and performance standards of the American Society
of Sanitary Engineers(ASSE), the American Waterworks Association (AWWA), or the
Foundation for Cross Connection Control and Hydraulic Research of the
University of Southern California.
   CERTIFIED TESTER.  Any individual person who has proven his or her
competency to test, repair and overhaul backflow prevention assemblies. This
person must hold  a certificate of completion from a certified training program
in the testing and repair of backflow prevention assemblies and cross
connection control.
   CONSUMER/CUSTOMER.   Any person, firm, or corporation using or receiving
water from the Town of Landis public water system.
   CONTAINMENT.   The prevention of backflow from a private water system by an
approved, properly functioning backflow prevention assembly, which is
installed, operated and maintained in accordance with the provisions of this
subchapter.
   CONTAMINATION.  An impairment of  the quality of the water to a degree,
which creates an actual hazard to the public health through poisoning or
through the spread of disease.
   CROSS CONNECTION.    Any actual or potential connection or piping
arrangement between a public or a consumer's potable water system and any other
source or system through which it is possible to introduce into any part of the
potable system any used water, industrial fluids, gas or substance which could
be harmful or hazardous to the potable water system.
   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY.  An assembly composed of two single,
independently acting, approved check valves, including tightly closing shut-off
valves located at each end of the device and suitable connections for testing
the water tightness of each check valve.
   DUAL CHECK VALVE.  A device composed of two single, independently acting,
approved check valves.  This is classified as a device and connot be in-line
tested.
   HAZARD-DEGREE.    The evaluation of a hazard within a private water system
as moderate or high.
   HAZARD-HIGH.  An actual or potential threat of contamination to the public
water system or to a customer's potable water system that could cause serious
illness or death.
   HAZARD-IMMINENT.  An actual threat of contamination to the public water
system that could cause serious illness or death.
   HAZARD-MODERATE.  An actual or potential threat of damage to the physical
components comprising the public water system or a customer's potable water
system, or of pollution to the public water system, or to a customer's potable
water system.
   POLLUTION.   An impairment of the quality of the water to a degree which
does not create an actual hazard to the public health, but which does adversely
and unreasonably affect such water for domestic use.
   POTABLE WATER.  Water from any source, which has been approved for human
consumption by the appropriate agency of the State of North Carolina, Town of
Landis and /or local health agencies.
   PRESSURE VACUUM BREAKER.  An assembly suitable for continuous pressure, to
be used to provide protection against back-siphonage.
   PRIVATE WATER SYSTEM.  Any water system located on the customer's premise,
whether supplied by public potable water system or an industrial piping system.
   PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM.   The potable water system owned and operated by the
Town of Landis.  This system includes all distribution mains, lines, pipes,
connections, storage tanks, and other facilities conveying potable water to the
service connections of each customer.
   REDUCED PRESSURE ZONE ASSEMBLY.  An approved, properly functioning assembly
containing two, independently acting check valves with a hydraulically
operating, mechanically independent pressure differential relief valve located
between the check valves and at the same time below the first check valve.  The
assembly must include properly located test cocks and tightly closing shut-off
valves at each end of the assembly.  This assembly is designed to protect
against a high hazard.
   SERVICE CONNECTION.  The terminal end of a service connection from the
public potable water system, i.e., where the water purveyor loses jurisdiction
and sanitary control over the water at its point of delivery to the consumer's
water system.
   USED WATER.    Any water supplied by a water purveyor from a public water
system to a consumer's water system after is has passed through the point of
delivery and is no longer under the control of the water purveyor.
   WATER PURVEYOR.  Owner or operator of a public potable water system
providing an approved water supply to the public.
   WATER SUPPLY-AUXILIARY.    Any water supply on or available to the
customer's premises other than the purveyor's approved public potable water
supply.  The auxiliary water may include water from another purveyor's public
potable water supply or any natural source such as a well, spring, river,
stream, etc., and used or objectionable.
   WATER SUPPLY-UNAPPROVED.  Any water supply, which has not been approved for
human consumption by the North Carolina Department of Human Resources.
(Ord. passed 3-9-2009)
§ 51.082  RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   Any authorized representative from the town shall have the right to
enter any building, structure, or premises during normal business hours to
perform any duty imposed upon him by this section and in accordance with
Appendix D104.2.1 of the State Plumbing Code. Those duties may include sampling
and testing of water, or inspection and observation of all piping systems
connected to the public water supply. Refusal to allow these representatives to
enter for these purposes will result in the disconnection of water service.
   (B)   On request, the consumer shall furnish to the water purveyor any
pertinent information regarding the water supply system on such property where
cross connection and backflow are deemed possible. (State Plumbing Code
Appendix D104.2.3)
(Ord. passed 3-9-2009)
§ 51.083  LAW.
    Unprotected Cross-Connection Prohibited: 
   (A)   No water service connection to any private exterior or interior water
system shall be installed or maintained by Landis Utilities unless the water
supply is protected as required by this section and other applicable laws.
Service of water to any premises shall be discontinued by the town if a
backflow assembly, required by this section, is not installed, tested, and
maintained or if a backflow assembly has been removed, bypassed, or if an
unprotected cross connection exists on the premises. Service will be restored
after all such conditions or defects are corrected.
   (B)   No customer shall allow an unprotected cross connection to be made or
to remain involving the customer's exterior or interior private water system.
   (C)   No connection shall be made to an unapproved auxiliary water supply
unless the public water supply is protected against backflow by an approved
backflow assembly, appropriate to the degree of hazard.
   (D)   No customer shall fail to maintain in good operating condition any
backflow prevention assembly, which is part of the customer's private water
system and is required by this section.
   (E)   No customer shall fail to submit to the town any record, which is
required by this section.
(Ord. passed 3-9-2009)
§ 51.084  INSTALLATION.
   Installation and testing of backflow prevention assembly.
   (A)   The purpose of this division is to require that all water flowing from
the Landis Utilities Water System must flow through an approved backflow
prevention assembly and that each backflow prevention assembly be properly
located, installed, maintained and tested so that the backflow prevention
assembly is effective in protecting the Landis Utilities Water System from any
possible contamination or pollution.
   (B)   The installation or replacement of a backflow prevention assembly for
domestic water use shall only be performed by a licensed plumber or utility
contractor. The installation of a backflow prevention assembly on a dedicated
fire sprinkler service shall be performed by a licensed fire sprinkler
contractor or utility contractor. Repairs to a backflow prevention assembly on
a dedicated fire sprinkler system may only be performed by a fire sprinkler
contractor. All backflow prevention assemblies may be tested by a certified
backflow technician authorized by the Town of Landis.
   (C)   All new construction plans and specifications which will directly
effect Landis Utilities, and/or are required by the State Building Code, the
State Division of Environmental Health (N.C. DENR), and town or county planning
and zoning offices, shall be made available to the town's Backflow
Administrator for review, approval, and to determine the degree of hazard.
   (D)   All existing facilities zoned commercial or industrial and have
existing water services with Landis Utilities and requesting certificate of
compliance from the Town or County Planning and Zoning Offices, shall be
inspected for compliance of backflow and cross connection control prevention.
Any facility not having backflow protection or changing the degree of hazard
shall be brought into compliance before the Backflow Administrator may release
certificate of compliance.
   (E)   All backflow prevention assemblies must be installed and maintained on
the customer's premises as part of the customer's private water system at or
near the service connection and before the service line is connected to any
other pipes except as authorized by the water purveyor.
   (F)   If it has been determined that a backflow prevention assembly cannot
be installed at the meter service, due to zoning or DOT rights-of-way, an
approved backflow assembly must be installed on every branch of plumbing
installed between the service meter and the service backflow assembly.
   (G)   Any branch of plumbing installed on the private water system that may
be of a greater hazard than the supply line, (example: chemical induced
irrigation or fire systems, pump systems, etc.) shall be protected with a
reduced pressure assembly.
   (H)   All backflow prevention assemblies shall be installed in accordance
with the town's "Backflow Prevention and Cross Connection Control Manual",
(which is incorporated herein by reference as if written below), and/or the
manufacturer's instructions, whichever is most restrictive.
   (I)   All double check valve assemblies, two-inches or larger, must be
installed in a watertight drainable pit wherever belowground installation is
necessary in accordance with detailed specifications provided in the Backflow
Prevention and Cross Connection Control Manual. If drain cannot be provided,
the assembly must be installed above the ground. Double check valve assemblies
may be installed in a vertical position with prior approval from the Backflow
Administrator, provided that the flow of water is in an upward direction.
   (J)   Reduce pressure assemblies must be installed in a horizontal position
and in a location in which no portion of the assembly can become submerged in
any substance under any circumstances. Pit installations are prohibited.
   (K)   Each backflow prevention assembly that is required must function
properly at time of installment. Each customer will be required to test,
maintain, and repair each assembly required which is a part of the customer's
private water system. A certified backflow prevention technician may only
conduct such test. Testing shall be done immediately following installation of
any backflow prevention assembly and on an annual or semiannual basis depending
the degree of hazard.  Reports of the annual or semi-annual testing shall be
submitted to the Town of Landis within 30 days of the test.
   (L)   If repair is found necessary on an assembly it must be retested
following any repair. A complete duplicate copy of any testing and/or repair
shall be sent to the town within 30 days of completion of test or repair. Each
customer must maintain a complete copy of test or repair. Each customer must
maintain a complete copy of any test or repair for no less than five years. All
test and repair records must be maintained on forms approved by the Backflow
Administrator of the town.
   (M)   All rubber components must be replaced every five years or as often as
needed.
   (N)   Any customer installing a reduced pressure (RP) or double check valve
assembly (DCVA) must provide the following information to the Backflow
Administrator within ten days after installation:
      (1)   Service address where assembly is located;
      (2)   Owner;
      (3)   Description of assembly's location;
      (4)   Date of installation;
      (5)   Type of assembly;
      (6)   Manufacturer;
      (7)   Model number;
      (8)   Serial number; and
      (9)   Test results/reports.
   (O)   The Backflow Administrator must approve each backflow assembly
required by this section. Unapproved backflow assembly must be replaced, within
a time set by the Backflow Administrator, with an approved backflow assembly.
For a list of approved backflow assemblies reference the town's "Backflow
Prevention and Cross Connection Control Manual."
   (P)   If it has been determined that a customer must install a backflow
prevention assembly, the Backflow Administrator will provide the customer with
a letter of notification. The following time periods shall be set forth for the
installation of the specified assemblies:
      (1)   Health hazard         60 days (unless other wise stated by the
town)
      (2)   Non-health hazard      90 days  ( unless other wise stated by the
town)
   (Q)   If an imminent hazard or unreasonable threat of contamination or
pollution to the Landis Utilities Water System is detected, the Backflow
Administrator may require the installation of the required backflow assembly
immediately or within a shorter time period than specified in division (P) of
this section.
   (R)   If a customer does not wish for water service to be interrupted when a
backflow assembly is tested, repaired, or replaced, a parallel installation
must be made using an approved assembly of the same degree of hazard. The
parallel line may be of the same size or smaller.
   (S)   The Town of Landis has the right to pursue any and all remedies,
including legal action, to correct contamination resulting from a failed
backflow prevention device.  Responsibility for the proper operation and
maintenance of backflow prevention devices shall belong to the entity owning
the device.
(Ord. passed 3-9-2009)
§ 51.085  DEGREE OF HAZARDS.
   (A)   Determining Degree of Hazard.   
      (1)   No service shall be completed until the Backflow Administrator has
been provided information or has surveyed the private water system to determine
the degree of hazard and make a determination of a backflow prevention assembly
to be installed to protect the public water supply.
      (2)   Any customer making any modification to their private exterior or
interior water system configuration and/or changes the usage of the exterior or
interior water system, which may change the degree of hazard, the customer
shall notify the Backflow Administrator before any modification is made. If the
Backflow Administrator determines that such modification requires a different
backflow prevention assembly, that assembly must be installed before the
modification is made or the usage is changed.
      (3)   The following types of facilities or services have been identified
by Landis  Utilities as having a potential for backflow or non-potable water
into the public water supply system. Therefore, an approved backflow prevention
assembly will be required on all such services according to the degree of
hazard present. Other types of facilities or services not listed in this
division may also be required to install approved backflow prevention
assemblies if determined necessary by the town's Backflow Administrator. As a
minimum requirement, all commercial services will be required to install a
double check valve assembly unless otherwise listed as follows:
      DCVA = Double check valve assembly
      RP = Reduced pressure assembly
      DCDA = Double check detector assembly
      RPDA = Reduced pressure detector assembly
      AG = Air gap
      PVB = Pressure vacuum breaker
      Aircraft and missile plants: RP
      Automotive service stations, dealerships, etc.:
      No health hazard: DCVA
      Health hazard: RP
      Automotive plants: RP
      Auxiliary water systems:
      Approved public/private water supply: DCVA
      Unapproved public/private water supply: AG
      Used water and industrial fluids: RP
      Bakeries:
      No health hazard: DCVA
      Health hazard: Hazard
      Beauty shops/barber shops:
      No health hazard: DCVA
      Health hazard: RB
      Beverage bottling plants: RP
      Breweries: RP
      Buildings--Hotels, apartment houses, public and private buildings, or
other structures having unprotected cross connections:
      (Under five stories) No health hazard: DCVA
      (Under five stories) Health hazard: RP
      (Over five stories) All: RP
      Canneries, packing houses, and rendering plants: RP
      Chemical plants--Manufacturing, processing, compounding or treatment: RP
      Chemically contaminated water system: RP
      Commercial car-wash facilities: RP
      Commercial greenhouses: RP
      Concrete/asphalt plants: RP
      Dairies and cold storage plants: RP
      Dye works: RP
      Film laboratories: RP
      Fire systems:
      No health hazard: DCDA
      Health hazard (booster pumps, foams, antifreeze solution, etc.): RPDA
      Hospitals, medical buildings, sanitarium, morgues, mortuaries, autopsy
facilities, nursing and convalescent homes, medical clinics, and veterinary
hospitals: RP
      Individual commercial sales establishments (department stores):
      No health hazards: DCVA
      Health hazard: RP
      Industrial facilities:
      No health hazard: DCVA
      Health hazard: RP
      Laundries:
      No health hazard: DCVA
      Health hazard (i.e., dry cleaners): RP
      Lawn irrigation systems:
      Health hazard: RP
      Malls or strip malls (frequent tenant change and photo labs, etc.):
      Health hazard: RP
      Metal manufacturing, cleaning processing, and fabricating plants: RP
      Mobile home parks:
      No health hazard: DCVA
      Health hazard: RP
      Oil and gas production, storage or transmission properties: RP
      Paper and paper products plants: RP
      Pest control (exterminating and fumigating): RP
      Plating plants: RP
      Power plants: RP
      Public swimming pools: RP
      Radioactive materials or substances--Plants or facilities handling: RP
      Restaurants:
      No health hazard: DCVA
      Health hazard: RP
      Restricted, classified, or other closed facilities: RP
      Rubber plants (natural or synthetic): RP
      Sand and gravel plants: RP
      Schools, and colleges: RP
      Sewage and storm drain facilities: RP
      Waterfront facilities and industries: RP
      All assemblies and installations shall be subject to inspection and
approval by Landis Utilities.
      (4)   Filling of tanks/tankers or any other container from a Town-owned
fire hydrant is strictly prohibited unless it has been equipped with the proper
meter and backflow protection, at which point Landis Utilities will issue a
permit for that tank/tanker or container. Any unauthorized connection to a fire
hydrant is considered an illegal cross connection to the Landis Utilities water
system and will be subject to fines.
      (5)   If a cross connection control inspector is unable to survey any
portion of a private exterior or interior water system to determine the degree
of hazard, due to confidential activities, a reduced pressure assembly will be
required.
   (B)   Low hazard.
      (1)   All single-family residential homes will be considered a low hazard
and shall have a minimum of a dual check valve device installed at the meter
service. Dual check valves shall not be in-line tested.
      (2)   If no other backflow prevention assembly is specified a double
check valve assembly must be installed on all private water systems.
   (C)   Imminent hazard.
      (1)   If it has been determined that a customer's private water system
has an imminent hazard, such customer must install a backflow prevention
assembly specified by the Backflow Administrator and this section. This
assembly must be installed within 24 hours of notification from the Backflow
Administrator. If the customer fails to install the specified assembly within
the allowed time limit, water service to the customer's private water system
will be terminated and may be subject to specified civil penalties. If the
Backflow Administrator is unable to notify the customer in 24 hours of
determining an imminent hazard exist, the Backflow Administrator may terminate
water service until the specified assembly is installed. These actions may be
carried out under the Safe Drinking Water Act (Title XIV, Section 1431) and the
State Plumbing Code (Appendix D104.2.6).
      (2)   Only a backflow prevention assembly offering a greater degree of
protection may be installed in place of a specified assembly required by this
section.
(Ord. passed 3-9-2009)
§ 51.086  NOTICES.
   Notice of contamination or pollution.
   (A)   If the customer's private exterior of interior water system becomes
contaminated or polluted the customer shall notify Landis Utilities
immediately.
   (B)   If a customer has reason to believe that a backflow incident has
occurred between the customer's private exterior or interior water system and
the Landis Utilities Water System, the customer must notify Landis Utilities
immediately in order that appropriate measures may be taken to isolate and
remove the contamination or pollution.
(Ord. passed 3-9-2009)
§ 51.087  VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Notification of violations.
      (1)   A written notice must be presented to any customer/person who has
been found to be in violation of any part of this subchapter.
      (2)   Such notice must explain the violation and give the time period
within which the violation must be corrected.  The time period set to correct a
violation shall not exceed 30 days after receiving notice unless otherwise
specified by the time period chart (§
51.084(P)).  If the violation has been determined by the Administrator to be an
imminent hazard the customer shall be required to correct the violation
immediately. 
      (3)   In the event a customer is found in violation of this subchapter
and fails to correct the violation in a timely manner or to pay any civil
penalty or expense assessed under this section, water service will be
terminated.
   (B)   The violation of any section of this subchapter may be punished by a
civil penalty listed as follows:
      (1)   Unprotected cross connection involving a private water system,
which has an imminent hazard - $1000 per day not to exceed $10,000.
      (2)   Unprotected cross connection involving a private water system,
which is of a moderate or high hazard - $500.
      (3)   Submitting false records or failure to submit records, which are
required by this subchapter - $500.
      (4)   Failure to test or maintain backflow prevention assemblies as
required $100 per day.
   (C)   Reduction of penalty.
      (1)   The Administrator may reduce or dismiss any civil penalty imposed
under this section if the Administrator has determined that the person charged
with the violation has no past history of violation in a timely manner as set
by the Administrator:
      (2)   No civil penalty shall be reduced if it has been determined the
violation was intentional.
      (3)   Any person violating any part of this subchapter must reimburse the
Town of Landis for any expenses in repairing damage to the public water system
caused by any violation and any expenses incurred for investgating a violation.
(Ord. passed 3-9-2009)
SEWER USE
§ 51.090  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   B.O.D. (denoting BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized
in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory
procedure in five days at 20ºC, as set out herein, expressed in milligrams per
liter.
   C.O.D. (denoting CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of equivalent oxygen
utilized in the chemical oxidation of organic matter as measured by standard
laboratory methods, as set out herein, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   COLOR. The “true color” due to substances in solution which cause any
variation in the hue of the receiving stream and which is expressed in parts
per million.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. B.O.D., suspended solids, pH and fecal coliform
bacteria, and the additional pollutants as are now or may be in the future
specified and controlled in the town’s NPDES permit for its waste water
treatment works, where the works have been designed and used to reduce or
remove the pollutants.
   COOLING WATER. The water discharged from any use such as air conditioning,
cooling or refrigeration, during which the only pollutant added to the water is
heat.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of Public Works of the town or his or her duly
authorized representative.
   DOMESTIC WASTES. Liquid wastes from the noncommercial preparation, cooking
and handling of food or containing human excrement and similar matter from the
sanitary conveniences of dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities
and institutions.
   EXCESSIVE RADIATION DOSE. A dose of radiation in excess of the maximum
permissible dose.
   GARBAGE. Solid waste from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food and from the handling, storage and sale of food.
   HEARING AUTHORITY. The Director of Public Works or his or her duly appointed
deputies, agents or representatives.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant which is not a “compatible pollutant”,
as defined in this chapter.
   INDUSTRIAL USER.
      (1)   Any nongovernmental, nonresidential user of a publicly owned
treatment works which discharges more than the equivalent of 25,000 gallons per
day (gpd) of sanitary wastes and which is identified in the Standard Industrial
Classification Manual, 1972, Office of Management and Budget, as amended and
supplemented, under one of the following divisions:
         (a)   Division A: Agriculture, Forestry and Fishing;
         (b)   Division B: Mining;
         (c)   Division C: Manufacturing;
         (d)   Division E: Transportation, Communications, Electric, Gas and
Sanitary Services; and
         (e)   Division I: Services.
      (2)   Any nongovernmental user of a publicly-owned treatment works which
discharges waste water to the town’s sanitary sewers which contains toxic
pollutants or poisonous solids, liquids or gases in sufficient quantity, either
singly or by intersection with other wastes, to contaminate the sludge of the
town’s systems or to injure or to interfere with any sewage treatment process,
or which constitutes a hazard to humans or animals, creates a nuisance or
creates any hazard in or has an adverse effect on the waters receiving any
discharge from the town’s waste water treatment system.
      (3)   Any commercial user of an individual system constructed with grant
assistance under § 201(h), subpart 35 of the Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. §
1281.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE WATER. The liquid wastes from industrial, manufacturing,
trade or business establishments, as distinct from domestic wastes.
   INFILTRATION. The water entering a sewer system, including sewer service
connections, from the ground, through the means such as, but not limited to,
defective pipes, pipe joints, connections or manhole walls. INFILTRATION does
not include, and is distinguishable from, “inflow”.
   INFLOW. The water discharged into a sewer system, including service
connections from the sources as, but not limited to, roof leaders, cellar, yard
and area drains, foundation drains, cooling water discharges, drains from
springs and swampy areas, manhole covers, cross connections from storm sewers
and combined sewers, catchbasins, storm waters, surface runoff, street
washwaters or drainage. INFLOW does not include, and is distinguished from,
“infiltration”.
   I.O.D. (denoting IMMEDIATE OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized
by an industrial waste in excess of that normally attributable to sewage, as
measured by using standard laboratory methods, as set out herein, expressed in
milligrams per liter.
   MAXIMUM PERMISSIBLE DOSE. A dose of radiation to any part of the body,
internal or external, or both, that, in the light of present knowledge, is not
expected to cause appreciable bodily injury to a person at any time during his
or her lifetime.
   MUNICIPALITY. Any city, town, county, sanitary district, sewer district,
association, other municipality or other public body created under state law or
having jurisdiction over the disposal of domestic or industrial wastes.
   MUNICIPAL USER. Any municipality, as defined in this chapter, which desires
to discharge domestic or industrial waste water into the sanitary sewers of the
town or into sewers which ultimately discharge into the sanitary sewers of the
town, for the purpose of waste water treatment and disposal.
   NH3 (denoting nitrogen as AMMONIA). The initial decomposition of nitrogenous
organic matter as measured by using standard laboratory methods, as set out
herein, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   NPDES (denoting NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM). The
program for issuing, conditioning and denying permits for the discharge of
pollutants from point sources into the navigable waters, the contiguous zone
and the oceans pursuant to § 402 of the Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. §
1342.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, partnership, corporation,
association, group or society, including the state and agencies, districts,
commissions and political subdivisions created by or pursuant to state law.
   pH. The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion
concentration, which indicates the degree of acidity or alkalinity of a
substance. A pH value of seven is neutral, above seven is alkaline and below
seven is acid.
   PPM. Parts per million by weight, expressed in pounds.
   PRETREATMENT. Application of physical, chemical and biological processes to
reduce the amount of pollutants in or to alter the nature of the pollutant
properties of waste water prior to discharging the waste water into the
publicly-owned waste water treatment system.
   PRETREATMENT STANDARDS. All applicable federal rules and regulations
implementing § 307 of the Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317, as well as
any nonconflicting state or local standards. In cases of conflicting standards
or regulations, the more stringent thereof shall be applied.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to the degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and which is controlled by the town.
     RECEIVING STREAM. The body of water, stream or watercourse receiving the
discharge of waters from the waste treatment plant or formed by the water
discharged from the waste treatment plant.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer intended to receive domestic sewage and industrial
waste, except that of the type expressly prohibited by this subchapter, without
admixture of surface and storm water.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial and municipal establishments.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for monitoring, collecting, pumping, treating
and disposing of sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   STORM SEWER OR STORM DRAIN. A sewer which carries storm or surface waters
and drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes.
   STORM WATER. Any water flow occurring during or immediately following any
form of natural precipitation and resulting therefrom.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The total suspended matter that floats on the surface of,
or is suspended in, water, waste water or other liquids, and which is removable
by laboratory filtering.
   TKN (denoting TOTAL KJELDAHL NITROGEN). The sum of the ammonia nitrogen and
organic nitrogen as measured by using standard laboratory methods, as set out
herein, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water not containing any pollutants limited or prohibited
by the effluent standards in effect, or water whose discharge will not cause
any violation of receiving water quality standards.
   USER. Any person who discharges, or causes or permits the discharge of,
waste water into the town’s waste water treatment system.
   USER CLASSIFICATION. A classification of users based on the Standard
Industrial Classification (SIC) Manual prepared by the office of management and
budget.
   WASTE WATER. The liquid- and water-carried domestic or industrial wastes
from dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities and institutions,
whether treated or untreated, together with any ground water, surface water and
storm water that may be present, which is discharged into or permitted to enter
the town’s waste water treatment system.
   WASTE WATER TREATMENT SYSTEM. Any devices, facilities, structures, equipment
or works owned or used by the town for the purpose of the transmission,
storage, treatment, recycling and reclamation of industrial and domestic
wastes, or necessary to recycle or reuse water at the most economical cost over
the estimated life of the system, including intercepting sewers; outfall
sewers; sewage collection systems; pumping, power and other equipment, and
their appurtenances; extensions, improvements, remodeling, additions and
alterations thereof; elements essential to provide a reliable recycled supply,
as standby treatment units and clear well facilities; and the waste water
treatment plant site or land which is used for ultimate disposal of residues
resulting from the treatment.
(Prior Code, § 15-37)  (Ord. passed 10-7-1985)
§ 51.091  PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Waste water discharges generally. No person shall discharge or
deposit, or cause or allow to be discharged or deposited, into the waste water
treatment system any waste water which contains the following, except as
provided under §
51.092:
      (1)   Any clothing, rags, textile remnants or waste, cloth or scraps,
except fibers of scrap that will pass through a one-fourth inch mesh screen or
its equivalent in screening ability;
      (2)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150ºF or 65ºC;
      (3)   Any waters or wastes which may contain a total fat, wax, grease or
oil concentration of more than 100 mg/l, whether emulsified or not, or
containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures
between 32ºF and 150ºF (0ºC and 65.5ºC)  at the point of discharge into the
system;
      (4)   Any liquids, solids or gases which, by reason of their nature or
quantity, are or may be sufficient, either alone or by interaction with other
substances, to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the
sewerage facilities or to the operation of the system. At no time shall two
successive readings on an explosion hazard meter, at the point of discharge
into the sewer system, be more than 5% or any single reading over 10% of the
lower explosive limit (LEL) of the meter. Prohibited materials include, but are
not limited to, gasoline, kerosene, naphtha, benzene, toluene, zylene, ethers,
alcohols, ketones, aldehydes, peroxides, chlorates, perchlorates, bromates,
carbides, hydrides and sulfides;
      (5)   Any garbage that has not been ground or comminuted to a degree that
all particles will be carried freely in suspension under flow conditions
normally prevailing in public sewers, with no particle greater than one-half
inch in any dimension;
      (6)   Any solid or viscous wastes which will or may cause obstruction to
the flow in a sewer, or otherwise interfere with the proper operation of the
waste water treatment system. Prohibited materials include, but are not limited
to, grease, uncomminuted garbage, animal guts and tissues, paunch manure,
bones, hair, hides or fleshings, entrails, whole blood,  feathers, ashes,
cinders, sand, spent lime, stone of marble dust, metal, glass, straws,
shavings, grass clippings, rags, spent grains, spent hops, wastepaper, wood,
plastic, tar, asphalt residues, residues from refining or processing of fuel or
lubricating oil and similar substances;
      (7)   Any waters or wastes in which the suspended solids exceed 300
milligrams per liter;
      (8)   Any waters or wastes in which the total fixed solids exceed 1,500
milligrams per liter;
      (9)   Any waters or wastes in which the B.O.D. exceeds 300 milligrams per
liter;
      (10)   Any waters or wastes in which the C.O.D. exceeds 600 milligrams
per liter;
      (11)   Any waters or wastes in which the TKN exceeds 40 milligrams per
liter;
      (12)   Any waters or wastes in which the I.O.D. exceeds five milligrams
per liter;
      (13)   Any waste which will cause corrosion or deterioration of the
treatment system. All wastes discharged to the public sewer must have a pH
value in the range of six to nine standard units. Prohibited materials include,
but are not limited to, acids, sulfides, concentrated chloride and fluoride
compounds and substances which will react with water to form acid products; and
      (14)   Any waters or wastes containing amounts of potentially toxic
elements exceeding the maximum concentrations for the respective drainage
basins as outlined below:
Grant Creek
Substance Maximum Concentration
Grant Creek
Substance            Maximum Concentration
Antimony             4.2 mg/l
Aluminum             31.5 mg/l
Cadmium              0.2 mg/l
Hexavalent  chromium0.1 mg/l
Chromium             5.0 mg/l
Copper               5.0 mg/l
Mercury              0.1 mg/l
Nickel               5.0 mg/l
Lead                 1.4 mg/l
Silver               0.1 mg/l
Zinc                 0.9 mg/l
 
   (B)   Minimum allowable concentrations. Industries subject to federal
categorical pretreatment standards shall not exceed the maximum allowable
concentrations listed for the respective type of industry when those
concentrations differ from those listed above:
      (1)   Any waters or wastes containing total cyanide or cyanide compounds
in excess of 0.1 mg/l;
      (2)   Any toxic substances in amounts exceeding standards promulgated by
the administrator of the United States Environmental Protection Agency pursuant
to § 307(a) of the Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317(a), and chemical
elements or compounds, phenols or other taste- or odor-producing substances, or
any other substances which are not susceptible to treatment or which may
interfere with the biological processes or efficiency of the treatment system,
or which may pass through the system and harm persons, livestock or aquatic
life utilizing the receiving stream;
      (3)   Any noxious or malodorous solids, liquids or gases, which, either
singly or by interaction with other wastes, are capable of creating a public
nuisance or hazard to life, or are or may be sufficient to prevent entry into a
sewer for its maintenance and repair;
      (4)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of the half-life or
concentration that they do not comply with regulations or orders issued by the
appropriate authority having control over their use or which will or may cause
damage or hazards to the sewerage facilities or personnel operating the system;
      (5)   Any solid radioactive materials or radioactive materials in
solution which can be removed by chemical means and disposed of in solid form;
      (6)   Any materials which form excessive amounts of scum or foam that may
interfere with the operation of the waste treatment works or cause undue
additional labor in connection with its operation. Excessive amounts shall be
determined by the Director;
      (7)   Any waters or wastes containing suspended solids of the character
and quality that unusual attention or expense is required to handle the
materials at the waste treatment plant;
      (8)   Any waters or wastes containing dyes or other color of the
character and in the quantity as to prevent removal by biological processes and
which require special chemical treatment to pass receiving stream standards;
      (9)   Any waste water at a flow rate or containing the concentration or
quantity of any pollutant that exceeds for any period of time longer than 15
minutes more than five times the average 24-hour concentration, quantity or
flow during normal operation and that would cause a treatment process upset and
subsequent loss of treatment efficiency;
      (10)   Any unpolluted water, including, but not limited to, water from
cooling systems or of storm water origin, which will increase the hydraulic
load on the treatment system; and
      (11)   Any waters or wastes in which the ammonia exceeds 15 milligrams
per liter.
   (C)   Inflow of storm water, ground water and the like. No person shall
discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water, surface water, ground
water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, cooling water or unpolluted industrial
or commercial process water into any sanitary sewer. No person shall connect or
cause to be connected to the sanitary sewer system any pipe or conduit which
will allow the discharge of the inflow sources into the sanitary sewer system.
   (D)   Limitations on waste water  pollutants. No person shall discharge or
convey, or permit or allow to be discharged or conveyed, to a public sewer any
waste water containing pollutants of the character or quantity that will:
      (1)   Not be susceptible to treatment or interfere with the process or
efficiency of the treatment system;
      (2)   Constitute a hazard to human or animal life or to the stream or
watercourse receiving the treatment plant effluent;
      (3)   Violate pretreatment standards, as promulgated by the United States
Environmental Protection Agency or the state; and
      (4)   Cause the treatment plant to violate its NPDES permit or applicable
receiving water standards.
   (E)   Special arrangements. Nothing in this section shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the town and any user
of the waste water treatment system whereby waste water of unusual strength or
character is accepted into the system and specially treated, subject to any
payments or user charges as may be applicable. However, any special agreements
or arrangements shall not be less stringent than any applicable federal
pretreatment standard or categorical regulation pursuant to § 307 of the Clean
Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317.
(Prior Code, § 15-38)  (Ord. passed 10-7-1985)
§ 51.092  INDUSTRIAL, MUNICIPAL USER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   In order to promote equalization of flows over a 24-hour period, each
person discharging a waste into the town’s sanitary sewers having the following
average daily volumes over a period of his or her normal processing period in
any one week shall construct and maintain at his or her own expense a suitable
storage facility of the corresponding minimum volumes:
Volume of Waste Discharge in Average Minimum Volume of Storage Tank in
Gallons per Day Discharged           Percentage of Daily Volume of Waste
Volume of Waste Discharge in Average Minimum Volume of Storage Tank in
Gallons per Day Discharged           Percentage of Daily Volume of Waste
0-20,000                             0%
20,001-30,000                        50%
30,001-40,000                        60%
40,001-50,000                        70%
50,001-60,000                        80%
60,001-70,000                        90%
70,001 and above                     100%
 
   (B)   The storage facility shall have its outlet to the sewer controlled by
an approved device, the setting of flow rates being as directed by the
Director. When the processing period is less than seven days in any week, the
person discharging the waste shall arrange the discharge rate so that his or
her storage facility shall be substantially full at the end of his or her
processing period. The storage facility shall be discharged during the period
of shutdown, unless otherwise directed by the Director.
   (C)   Storage facility requirements may be waived by the Director in cases
where a constant rate of flow is discharged provided:
      (1)   The normal operating day extends over a 24-hour period and the rate
of waste flow and load discharged is that, in the opinion of the Director, the
installation of a storage tank would not improve sewer and treatment plant
loading conditions; and
      (2)   All other requirements of this subchapter are fulfilled.
   (D)   Any person discharging industrial wastes into the town sanitary sewer
shall construct and maintain a suitable control manhole to facilitate
observation, measurement and sampling of all wastes, including domestic sewage,
from the industry. The control manhole shall be constructed downstream from any
treatment, storage or other approved works at a suitable and satisfactory
location and built in a manner approved by the Director.
   (E)   Where a storage tank is not required, the control manhole shall be
equipped with a permanent type volume measuring device, as a nozzle, or other
device approved by the Director. The manhole shall be installed by the person
discharging the wastes at his or her own expense and shall be maintained by him
or her so as to be safe, accessible and in proper operating condition at all
times.
   (F)   Plans for the construction of the storage tanks, control manholes and
controlling devices shall be approved by the Director prior to the beginning of
construction.
   (G)   Persons shall provide, at their own expense, the preliminary handling
as may be necessary to control the quantities and rates of discharge of the
waters or wastes over a 24-hour period. Plans, specifications and any other
pertinent information relating to proposed preliminary treatment or handling
facilities shall be submitted for the approval of the Director, and no
construction of the facilities shall be commenced until the approval is
obtained in writing.
   (H)   Any waters or wastes discharged by any person, which have the
following characteristics, may be admitted into the sanitary sewers after 10-7-
1985, when the discharge is approved in writing by the Director:
      (1)   A  B.O.D. greater than 300 mg/l;
      (2)   C.O.D. of more than 600 mg/l;
      (3)   A TKN of more than 40 mg/l;
      (4)   Suspended solids of more than 300 mg/l;
      (5)   Ammonia of not more than 15 mg/l; or
      (6) Other characteristics prohibited in §
51.091.
   (I)   All sewer users shall participate in the user charge as described in §
51.097. For the purposes of this subchapter, normal domestic waste water is
considered to have the following characteristics:
      (1)   B.O.D. of 300 mg/l;
      (2)   C.O.D. of 600 mg/l;
      (3)   TKN of 40 mg/l; and
      (4)   TSS of 300 mg/l.
   (J)   When the concentration of B.O.D., C.O.D., TKN or suspended solids in
the industrial or municipal waste discharge to the town’s sanitary sewers
exceeds the normal characteristics prescribed, a monthly surcharge shall be
imposed upon the offending industrial or municipal user’s sewage flow when the
excess loading calculated using the purchased water flow or metered waste water
flow as hereinafter specified and the unit poundage charge for the actual
B.O.D., C.O.D., TKN and suspended solids loadings being received from the
discharger. This surcharge shall be invoked as herein provided in addition to
the existing regular sewer service charge. The sewer surcharge for each year
shall be established by the town at a regular Council meeting before the
billing for January. This surcharge shall be applied beginning with the January
utility billing and during subsequent months during the calendar year. The
surcharge shall reflect the total cost of treating the excess pounds of
industrial or municipal waste, including necessary costs of administration of
the sewage plants and this subchapter. In addition, each industrial customer
affected by the surcharge shall submit to the Director a current list of raw
chemicals and other materials used in its manufacturing process. The method
used to determine the surcharge amount shall consist of dividing the applicable
audited budget cost for operating the town’s waste water treatment system,
including applicable administrative and plant debt service, for the preceding
fiscal year by the poundages of B.O.D., C.O.D., TKN and suspended solids
removed during treatment in that fiscal year. The four resulting unit per pound
costs are the surcharge rates for each of the four parameters.
   (K)   The surcharges shall be billed and payable monthly on a separate bill
rendered to the proper users by the town.
   (L)   Industrial and major commercial users, including municipalities, will
be billed for any applicable surcharges according to the monthly billing
procedures as described in §
51.097.
   (M)   All applications for the discharge of industrial wastes into the
public sewers shall be made to the Director. Approval will be granted the
applications when evidence is submitted by the applicant that the discharge of
wastes into the public sewer will comply with this subchapter.
   (N)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Director of Public Works, they are necessary for the proper
handling of liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts or any
flammable wastes, sand or other harmful ingredients; except, that the
interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters or dwelling
units. All interceptors shall be maintained by the owner at his or her expense
in continuously efficient operation at all times.
   (O)    Notice shall be given to the Director when normal operations of the
industry will be interrupted for 72 hours or longer and wastes will not be
available for discharge, or when a change of process is contemplated which will
alter demands on the municipal treatment facilities. “Normal operations” shall
include allowance for legal holidays and other announced plant shutdowns.
   (P)   Where preliminary treatment or holding facilities are provided for any
purpose, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective
operation by the owner at his or her expense, and there shall be no discharge
of wastes requiring pretreatment either directly or indirectly to the town’s
sanitary sewer system, without first notifying and obtaining approval from the
Director.
   (Q)   All industrial users that are discharging incompatible or toxic
pollutants shall meet the pretreatment requirements of Best Practicable
Technology, as promulgated by the Environmental Protection Agency.
(Prior Code, § 15-39)  (Ord. passed 10-7-1985)
§ 51.093  PUBLIC SEWER USAGE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every owner of a house, building or other property used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the town
where a public sanitary sewer main is or may in the future be located within
200 feet of the property line on which the house, building and the like is
situated, is hereby required, at the owner’s expense, to connect any toilet or
other sanitary facilities located thereon with the public sewer main in
accordance with the provisions of this subchapter, within 180 days after the
date of receiving notice to do so. When any public sanitary sewer main is
constructed, the 180-day period begins to run when the Director of Public Works
certifies that the new main is operational.
   (B)   When public sewer mains become available to property as described in
division (A) of this section, the property owner shall be made aware that
connection to the public sewer is required and that the connection shall be
made within 180 calendar days from the date of the notification. Nonuse of
public sewer mains shall only be as approved by the Board of Alderpersons on a
case by case basis.
   (C)   Privies, cesspools and septic tanks are prohibited within the
corporate limits, except where public sewer service is not available as
described in division (A) of this section.
(Prior Code, § 15-40)  (Ord. passed 10-7-1985)  Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.094  UNAUTHORIZED CONNECTION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining written approval from the Director. All costs and
expenses incidental to the installation and connection to a sewer main shall be
borne by the owner.
   (B)   All sewer connections must comply with the State Building Code, Volume
II, Plumbing. Plumbing shall be done by a licensed plumber.
(Prior Code, § 15-40)  (Ord. passed 10-7-1985)  Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.095  STORM SEWER DISCHARGE.
   Discharge of sanitary waste water into storm sewers is prohibited without
exception. Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
the sewers as are specifically designed as storm sewers or to a natural outlet
approved by the Director and DEM. Unpolluted industrial cooling water or
process waters may be discharged on approval of the Director and DEM to a storm
sewer or natural outlet and sanitary waste water should be prohibited from
discharge into the storm sewer system.
(Prior Code, § 15-40)  (Ord. passed 10-7-1985)
§ 51.096  PRIVATE SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Where a public sewer main is not available, a building sewer shall be
connected to a private waste water disposal system complying with all
applicable state and local regulations concerning use of the systems. The town,
in conjunction with the County Health Department, shall have the authority to
approve or reject the plans and/or usage of private waste water facilities
presently located within or proposed for location within the corporate limits.
The minimum lot area that shall be approved for a private waste water disposal
system shall be as regulated by state law and the County Health Department,
which the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications and other
information as are deemed necessary. Approval for a private waste water
disposal system shall not become effective until the installation is completed
to the satisfaction of the County Health Department. The local sanitarian shall
be allowed to inspect the work at any state of construction. The type,
capacities, location and layout of a private waste water disposal system shall
comply with all recommendations of the Department of Public Health and Division
of Environmental Management of the state.
   (B)   No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any
natural outlet. The town shall maintain, on property which is not accessible to
the sanitary sewer, a septic tank of a type approved by the State Board of
Health the location and installation of which shall be approved by the County
Health Department and which shall be installed at the property owner’s expense.
The occupant of the property shall pay full water and sewer service charges.
   (C)   At the time a public sewer becomes available to a property served by a
private waste water disposal system, a direct connection shall be made to the
public sewer within 180 days. Under unusual and/or special circumstances, the
Board of Alderpersons may waive this requirement. Application for a waiver must
be submitted to the Director of Public Works. The Director will study the
application, make appropriate comments and have it set before the Board of
Alderpersons for approval or disapproval.
(Prior Code, § 15-41)  (Ord. passed 10-7-1985)
§ 51.097  CHARGE; BILLING; NONPAYMENT.
   (A)   The user charge shall be the charge levied on all users including, but
not limited to, persons or government entities that discharge, or cause or
permit the discharge of, sewage into the public sewerage facilities.
   (B)   The user charge shall reflect at least the costs of operation and
maintenance, including replacement, of the public sewerage facilities.
   (C)   Each user shall pay its proportionate cost (user charge) based on
volume of flow.
   (D)   The Director of the sewerage facilities will review, not less often
than every two years, the sewage contributions of users, the total costs of
operation and maintenance, including replacement, of the sewerage facilities
and the user charge system. The Director will make any recommendations for rate
adjustments to the Board of Alderpersons. The Board will determine the
necessity of any rate changes and will set rates to accomplish the following:
      (1)    Maintain the proportionate distribution of operation and
maintenance costs among all users as provided herein; and
      (2)   Generate sufficient revenue to pay at least the total operation and
maintenance costs necessary to the proper operation and maintenance, including
replacement, of the sewerage facilities.
   (E)   All flow to the sewerage facilities not directly attributable to the
users (for example, infiltration/inflow) shall be distributed among all users
of the sewerage facilities based upon the volume of flow of the users.
   (F)   User charges, surcharges, water charges and any other necessary
charges will be billed according to the following schedules:
      (1)   Industrial, commercial, residential and municipal customers will be
billed on a monthly basis according to the following schedule.
         (a)   The town will mail bills so that customers will receive notice
on the first working day of each month.
         (b)   Payment for the bill is technically past due after the twenty-
fifth of the month for residential customers.
         (c)   A  second notice for a delinquent bill will be mailed within ten
days after the payment due date.
         (d)   If payment is not received from industrial, commercial or
residential customers by the town before the indicated deadline, water service
to the customer will be severed. In the case of municipalities, the town may
seek injunctive relief for nonpayment.
         (e)   Service to a customer will be reconnected only after the town
has received payment for all bills due, together with a $10 reconnect fee.
         (f)   Any applicable surcharges, as contained in §
51.092, will be billed separately from regular monthly charges. Surcharges will
be billed on a monthly basis.
      (2)   Bills will be sent through the United States mail, notifying all
users of the amount and date due. Failure to receive a bill is not an excuse
for nonpayment of bills.
      (3)   In case a user discharging water into the town’s sanitary sewer
system does not procure his or her water supply from the town and becomes
delinquent in the payment of the aforesaid charges, his or her connection with
the town sewer system will be severed and will only be reconnected at his or
her expense. Procedure for payment of the bill is the same as in division (F)
(1) above.
(Prior Code, § 15-42)  (Ord. passed 10-7-1985)
§ 51.098  PUBLIC WORKS RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   The Director and duly authorized employees of the Public Works
Department shall be permitted to enter upon all properties for the purposes of
inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing in accordance with
the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   All tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters and wastes to
which reference is made in this subchapter shall be made in accordance with the
procedure given in the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination
of Water, Sewage and Industrial Wastes, published by the American Public Health
Association. The tests and analyses shall be determined from samples taken at
the control manhole provided in §
51.092(D), or at the point of discharge of any waters or wastes at the site of
their origin on the premises of any person discharging the wastes into the
sanitary sewers.
(Prior Code, § 15-43)  (Ord. passed 10-7-1985)
§ 51.099  DETERMINATION OF FLOW VOLUME.
   The volume of flow used in determining the total discharge of industrial
wastes for payment of the regular sewer charge and the sewer surcharge shall be
based upon:
   (A)   Metered water consumption as shown in the records of meter readings
maintained by the Town Water Department; or
   (B)   At the individual discharger’s option, other flow measuring devices,
which measure the actual volume of waste water discharged to the sewer, the
devices shall be accessibly and safely located, and the measuring system as
specified by the town shall be installed in accordance with plans approved by
the Director. The metering system shall be installed and maintained at the
owner’s expense according to arrangements that may be made with the town.
(Prior Code, § 15-44)  (Ord. passed 10-7-1985)
§ 51.100  DETERMINATION OF WASTE CHARACTER, CONCENTRATION.
   (A)   Inspection. The industrial waste of each person discharging the wastes
into the public sewers shall be subject to periodic inspection, and a
determination of the character and concentration of the wastes shall be made
annually for all industrial users, or more often as may be deemed necessary by
the Director or his or her authorized assistants. The inspection and tests
shall also be made immediately after any process change which may affect the
quantity or quality of the wastes discharged.
   (B)   Samples. Samples shall be collected in the manner as to be
representative of the actual quality of the waste. Laboratory methods used in
the examination of the waste shall be those set forth in Standard Methods, as
hereinbefore described, a copy of which is on file with the Town Administrator/
Town Clerk for inspection by any interested parties.
   (C)   Authority. The determination of the character and concentration of the
industrial wastes by the Director or his or her duly appointed representatives
shall be binding as a basis for charges.
   (D)   Cost. Total costs incident to the supervision, inspection, sampling
and analyzing of wastes shall be included in the surcharge made to persons
discharging wastes into the town’s sanitary sewers.
(Prior Code, § 15-45)  (Ord. passed 10-7-1985)
§ 51.101  PROHIBITED WASTE CONTROL.
   (A)   Regulatory actions by Director. If waste water containing any
substance described in §
51.091 is discharged or proposed to be discharged into the sewer system of the
town or to any sewer system tributary thereto, the Director may take any action
necessary to:
      (1)   Prohibit the discharge of the waste water;
      (2)   Require a discharger to demonstrate that in-plant modifications
will reduce or eliminate the discharge of the substances in conformity with
this subchapter;
      (3)   Obtain flow equalization necessary to reduce or eliminate the
objectionable characteristics or substances so that the discharge will not
violate this subchapter;
      (4)   Require the person making, causing or allowing the discharge to pay
any additional cost or expense incurred by the town for handling and treating
excess loads imposed on the treatment system; and
      (5)   Take the other remedial action as may be deemed to be desirable or
necessary to achieve the purposes of this chapter.
   (B)   Submission of plans. Where pretreatment or equalization of waste water
flows prior to discharge into any part of the waste water treatment system is
required, plans, specifications and other pertinent data or information
relating to the pretreatment or flow control facilities shall first be
submitted to the Director for review and approval. The approval shall not
exempt the discharge of the facilities from compliance with any applicable
code, ordinance, rule, regulation or order of any governmental authority. Any
subsequent alterations or additions to the pretreatment or flow control
facilities shall not be made without due notice to and prior approval of the
Director.
   (C)   Pretreatment facilities operations. If pretreatment or control of
waste flows is required, the facilities shall be maintained in good working
order and operated as efficiently as possible by the owner or operator at his
or her own cost and expense, subject to the requirements of this subchapter and
all other applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
   (D)   Admission to property. Whenever it shall be necessary for the purposes
of this subchapter, the Director, upon the presentation of credentials, may
enter upon any property or premises at reasonable times for the purposes of:
      (1)   Copying any records required to be kept under the provisions of
this subchapter;
      (2)   Inspecting any monitoring equipment or method; and/or
      (3)   Sampling any discharge of waste water to the treatment works, the
Director may enter upon the property at any hour under emergency circumstances.
(Prior Code, § 15-47)  (Ord. passed 10-7-1985)
§ 51.102  ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE.
   (A)   Protection from accidental discharge. Each industrial user shall
provide protection from accidental discharge of prohibited materials or other
wastes regulated by this subchapter. Facilities to prevent accidental discharge
of prohibited materials shall be provided and maintained at the owner’s or
operator’s own cost and expense. Detailed plans showing facilities and
operating procedures to provide this protection shall be submitted to the
Director for review and shall be approved by him or her before construction of
the facility. Review and approval of the plans and operating procedures shall
not relieve the industrial user from the responsibility to modify his or her
facility as necessary to meet the requirements of this subchapter.
   (B)   Report of accidental discharge. If, for any reason, a facility does
not comply with or will be unable to comply with any prohibition or limitations
in this subchapter, the facility responsible for the discharge shall
immediately notify the Director, so that corrective action may be taken to
protect the treatment system. In addition, a written report addressed to the
Director, detailing the date, time and cause of the accidental discharge, the
quantity and characteristics of the discharge and corrective action taken to
prevent future discharges, shall be filed by the responsible industrial
facility within five days of the occurrence of the noncomplying discharge.
(Prior Code, § 15-47)  (Ord. passed 10-7-1985)
§ 51.103  TRAPS, INTERCEPTORS AND SEPARATORS.
   All buildings with special requirements for traps, interceptors and
separators shall conform to the most current edition of the North Carolina
Plumbing Code Chapter 10.
INDUSTRIAL WASTE WATER
§ 51.115  DISCHARGE REPORTS.
   (A)   Every industrial user shall file a periodic discharge report at the
intervals as are designated by the Director. The Director may require any other
industrial users discharging or proposing to discharge into the treatment
system to file the periodic reports.
   (B)   The discharge report shall include but, in the discretion of the
Director shall not be limited to, nature or process, volume, rates of flow,
mass emission rate, production quantities, hours of operation, concentrations
of controlled pollutants or other information which relates to the generation
of waste. In addition to discharge reports, the Director may require
information in the form of the industrial discharge permit application and
self-monitoring reports.
(Prior Code, § 15-48)  (Ord. passed 10-7-1985)
§ 51.116  RECORDS; MONITORING EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   All industrial users who discharge or propose to discharge waste
waters to the waste water treatment system shall maintain the records of
production and related factors, effluent flows and pollutant amounts or
concentrations as are necessary to demonstrate compliance with the requirements
of this subchapter and any applicable state or federal pretreatment standards
or requirements.
   (B)   The records shall be made available upon request by the Director. All
the records relating to compliance with pretreatment standards shall be made
available to officials of the United States Environmental Protection Agency
upon demand. A summary of the data, indicating the industrial user’s compliance
with this subchapter, shall be prepared quarterly and submitted to the
Director.
   (C)   The owner or operator of any premises or facility discharging
industrial wastes into the system shall install, at his or her own cost and
expense, suitable monitoring equipment to facilitate the accurate observation,
sampling and measurement of wastes. The equipment shall be maintained in proper
working order and kept safe and accessible at all times.
   (D)   The monitoring equipment shall be located and maintained on the
industrial user’s premises outside of the building. When the location would be
impractical or cause undue hardship on the user, the Director may allow the
facility to be constructed in the public street or sidewalk area, with the
approval of the public agency having jurisdiction over the street or sidewalk,
and located so that it will not be obstructed by public utilities, landscaping
or parked vehicles.
   (E)   When more than one user can discharge into a common sewer, the
Director may require installation of separate monitoring equipment for each
user. When there is a significant difference in waste water constituents and
characteristics produced by different operations of a single user, the Director
may require that separate monitoring facilities be installed for each separate
discharge.
   (F)   Whether constructed on public or private property, the monitoring
facilities shall be constructed in accordance with the Director’s requirements
and all applicable construction standards and specifications.
(Prior Code, § 15-48)  (Ord. passed 10-7-1985)
§ 51.117  INSPECTION; SAMPLING; ANALYSIS.
   (A)   Compliance determinations. Compliance determinations with respect to
the prohibitions and limitations contained in §
51.091 may be made on the basis of either instantaneous grab samples or
composite samples of waste water. Composite samples may be taken over a 24-hour
period or over a longer or shorter time span, as determined necessary by the
Director to meet the needs of specific circumstances.
   (B)   Standards for analysis of industrial waste waters. Laboratory analysis
of industrial waste water samples shall be performed in accordance with the
current edition of Standard Methods, Methods for Chemical Analysis of Water and
Waste, published by the United States Environmental Protection Agency, or the
Annual Book of Standards, Part 23, Water, Atmospheric Analysis, published by
the American Society for Testing Materials. Analysis of those pollutants not
covered by these publications shall be performed in accordance with procedures
established by the State Department of Natural Resources and Community
Development.
   (C)   Sampling frequency. Sampling of industrial waste water for the purpose
of compliance determination with respect to the prohibitions and limitations
contained in §
51.091 will be done at the intervals as the Director may designate. However, it
is the intention of the Director to conduct compliance sampling or to cause the
sampling to be conducted for all major contributing industries at least once in
every three months.
(Prior Code, § 15-48)  (Ord. passed 10-7-1985)
§ 51.118  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   All industrial users proposing to connect or to discharge into any part of
the waste water treatment system, or any other waste water system which
ultimately discharges its waste water into the town’s system, must first obtain
a discharge permit therefor. All existing industrial users connected to or
discharging to any part of the town’s system, or any other waste water system
which ultimately discharges its waste water into the town’s system, must obtain
a waste water discharge permit within 90 days from and after the effective date
of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 15-49)  (Ord. passed 10-7-1985)
§ 51.119  PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   Users seeking a waste water discharge permit shall complete and file
with the Director an application, on the form prescribed by the Director and
accompanied by the applicable fee. In support of this application, the user
shall submit the following information:
      (1)   Name, address and SIC number of applicant;
      (2)   Volume of waste water to be discharged;
      (3)    Waste water constituents and characteristics, including, but not
limited to, those set forth in §
51.091 as determined by a reliable analytical laboratory;
      (4)   Time and duration of discharge;
      (5)   Average and 60-minute peak waste water flow rates, including daily,
monthly and seasonal variations, if any;
      (6)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans and details
to show all sewers and appurtenance by size, location and elevation;
      (7)   Description of activities, facilities and plant processes on the
premises, including all materials and types of materials which are, or could
be, discharged;
      (8)   Each product produced, by type, amount and rate of production;
      (9)   Number and type of employees, and hours of work; and
      (10)   Any other information as may be deemed by the Director to be
necessary to evaluate the permit application.
   (B)   The Director will evaluate the data furnished by the user and may
require additional information. After evaluation and acceptance of the data
furnished, the Director may issue a waste water discharge permit, subject to
the terms and conditions provided therein.
(Prior Code, § 15-49)  (Ord. passed 10-7-1985)
§ 51.120  PERMIT CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Waste water discharge permits shall be expressly subject to all
provisions of this subchapter and all other regulations, user charges and fees
established by the town. The conditions of waste water discharge permits shall
be uniformly enforced in accordance with this subchapter and applicable state
and federal regulations.
   (B)   Permit conditions shall include the following:
      (1)   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the waste
water to be discharged to the system;
      (2)   The average and maximum waste water constituents and
characteristics;
      (3)   Limits on rate and time of discharge or requirements for flow
regulations and equalization;
      (4)   Requirements for installation of pretreatment, inspection and
sampling facilities and specifications for self-monitoring programs, if
applicable;
      (5)   Requirements for maintaining and submitting technical reports and
plant records relating to waste water discharges;
      (6)   Daily average and daily maximum discharge rates, or other
appropriate conditions when pollutants subject to limitations and prohibitions
are proposed or present in the user’s waste water discharge;
      (7)   Compliance schedules; and
      (8)   Other conditions to ensure compliance with this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 15-49)  (Ord. passed 10-7-1985)
§ 51.121  CONNECTIONS FROM OUTSIDE CORPORATE LIMIT.
   (A)   Any user owning or controlling premises located beyond the corporate
limits and having or desiring to install a plumbing system for the purpose of
discharging domestic sewage or industrial waste into the sanitary sewers of the
town or into sanitary sewers that ultimately discharge into the sanitary sewers
of the town may do so after approval by the Board of Alderpersons, by complying
with the requirements of this subchapter and by securing a permit and paying
applicable tap-on fees and a yearly sewer use charge to be fixed by the Board
of Alderpersons.
(Prior Code, § 15-49)
   (B)   Any municipality having or desiring to install a sewer system for the
purpose of discharging industrial or domestic waste into the sanitary sewers of
the town, or into a sewer system which ultimately discharges into the sanitary
sewer system of the town, may do so after approval by the Board of
Alderpersons, by complying with and adopting this subchapter as its own, by
securing a permit as described in §
51.119, and by payment of any applicable tap-on fees as required by the town.
   (C)   Any municipal user as described in division (A) of this section shall:
      (1)   Require all new industries desiring to discharge industrial or
domestic wastes into that municipality’s sewer system, which ultimately
discharges into the town system, to obtain written permission from the town
before connecting to the sanitary sewers of that municipality. The town shall
be provided with a copy of the permit issued and any subsequent permit renewals
issued by that municipality to the industry. The town shall have access to the
property permitted to discharge by that municipality in accordance with the
provisions described in §
51.101(D);
      (2)   Make a monthly report to the town no later than the fifth day of
that month, stating the number of additional customers added to the sanitary
sewer system during the preceding month. The report will contain information on
the type of customer added and the type of waste water and volume each customer
discharged;
      (3)   Install all plumbing in accordance with the State Plumbing Code;
      (4)   Show evidence, as may be required by the town, that the
municipality is enforcing this subchapter and the Plumbing Code to the
satisfaction of the town; and
      (5)    Construct and maintain, as may be required by the town, at its own
expense, a metering station with necessary pipes, valves and appurtenances,
described in accordance with the town’s specifications and standards, at each
point of discharge of waste water into the town’s sanitary sewer system.
Representatives of the town shall have access to the stations and control of
actual meter readings. The sewer charges invoiced by the town to the
municipality shall be based on these meter readings.
   (D)   Rates charged by the town to municipalities shall be the same as those
charged to sewer users inside the town. Municipalities will be billed for sewer
use as described in §
51.097(F).
   (E)   Technical services may be rendered by the town to the municipality
under a special contractual arrangement.
(Prior Code, § 15-51)  (Ord. passed 10-7-1985)
§ 51.122  PERMIT TERM, MODIFICATION.
   Permits shall be issued for a specified time period, not to exceed two
years. A permit may be issued for a period of less than two years or may be
stated to expire on a specific date. The terms and conditions of the permit may
be subject to modification and change by the Director of Public Works during
the life of the permit, as limitations or requirements as identified in §
51.091 are modified and changed. The user shall be informed of any proposed
changes in his or her permit at least 30 days prior to the effective date
thereof. Any changes or new conditions in the permit shall include a reasonable
time schedule for compliance.
(Prior Code, § 15-49)  (Ord. passed 10-7-1985)
§ 51.123  PERMIT TRANSFER, REVOCATION.
   (A)   Transfer. Waste water discharge permits are issued to a specific user
for a specific operation. A waste water discharge permit shall not be
reassigned or transferred or sold to a new owner, new user, different premises
or a new or changed operation.
   (B)   Revocation. Any user who violates the following conditions of his or
her permit or of this subchapter, or of applicable state and federal
regulations, is subject to having his or her permit revoked. Violations
subjecting a user to possible revocation of his or her permit include, but are
not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Failure of a user to accurately report the waste water constituents
and characteristics of his  or her discharge;
      (2)   Failure of the user to report significant changes in operations or
waste water constituents and characteristics;
      (3)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user’s premises for the purpose
of inspection or monitoring; or
      (4)   Violation of conditions of the permit or of any provisions of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 15-49)  (Ord. passed 10-7-1985)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 51.135  NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   Whenever the Director finds that any person has violated or is violating
this subchapter, or any prohibition, limitation or requirement contained
herein, he or she may serve upon the person a written notice stating the nature
of the violation and providing a reasonable time, not to exceed 30 days, for
the satisfactory correction thereof.
(Prior Code, § 15-52)  (Ord. passed 10-7-1985)
§ 51.136  SHOW CAUSE HEARING.
   (A)   (1)   If the violation is not corrected by timely compliance, the
Director may order any person who causes or allows an unauthorized discharge to
show cause before the hearing authority why service should not be terminated. A
notice shall be served on the offending party, specifying the time and place of
a hearing to be held by the hearing authority regarding the violation, and
directing the offending party to show cause before the authority why an order
should not be made directing the termination of service. The notice of the
hearing shall be served personally or by registered or certified mail (return
receipt requested) at least ten days before the hearing. Service may be made on
any agent or officer of a corporation. The Director may designate any of his or
her agents or any officers or employees of the Legal Department to issue, in
the name of the Director, notices of hearings requesting the attendance and
testimony of witnesses and the production of evidence relevant to any matter
involved in any hearings.
      (2)   The Director may, himself or herself, conduct the hearing and take
the evidence, or may designate any of his or her agents or any officer or
employee of the Legal Department to:
         (a)   Take the evidence; and
         (b)   Transmit a report of the evidence, including transcripts and
other evidence, together with recommendations to the Director for hearing
action thereon.
   (B)   Testimony taken before the hearing authority, or any person designated
by him or her, must be under oath. The findings will be made available to any
member of the public or any party to the hearing upon payment of the usual
charges therefor.
(Prior Code, § 15-52)  (Ord. passed 10-7-1985)
§ 51.137  ORDERS AND DIRECTIVES.
   After the Director has presented the evidence, the hearing authority may
issue an order to the party responsible for the discharge, directing that,
following a specified time period, the sewer service be discontinued unless
adequate treatment facilities, devices or other related appurtenances shall
have been installed or existing treatment facilities, devices or other related
appurtenances are properly operated, and the further orders and directives as
are necessary and appropriate.
(Prior Code, § 15-52)  (Ord. passed 10-7-1985)
§ 51.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter where no other penalty
is provided shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use or to permit the use of
town water in violation of any mandatory restriction set forth in §§
51.070 through
51.073. Any violation of the mandatory provisions of this §§
51.070 through
51.073 shall constitute a misdemeanor, punishable upon conviction by a fine not
to exceed $50 or imprisonment not exceeding 30 days, as provided by G.S. § 14-
4. Each day on which a violation occurs shall be considered to be a separate
violation.
(Prior Code, § 15-35)
   (C)   Pursuant to the provisions of G.S. § 160A-314 and this chapter, water
service may be temporarily discontinued for willful disregard of §§
51.070 through
51.073. All applicable penalty fees may be applied in the event of the service
suspensions. In the event of continued gross noncompliance with §§
51.070 through
51.073, removal of meter and service will be deemed proper, service will be
discontinued, and tap fees and deposits will be forfeited.
(Prior Code, § 15-36)
   (D)   No person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break, damage,
destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of the sewage works. Persons committing the acts
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 15-46)
   (E)   Any discharge in violation of the substantive provisions of §§
51.135 through
51.137 or an order of the hearing authority shall be considered a misdemeanor.
If any person discharges sewage, industrial wastes or other wastes into the
town’s treatment system contrary to the substantive provisions of §§
51.135 through
51.137 or any order of the hearing authority, the Town Attorney may commence an
action for appropriate relief.
(Prior Code, § 15-52)
   (F)   Any person who is found to have violated an order of the Director or
who willfully or negligently fails to comply with any provision of this
section, and the orders, rules and regulations issued hereunder, shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor for each offense. Each day on which a violation shall
occur or continue shall be deemed a separate and distinct offense. In addition
to the statutory fines and penalties allowed by state law for misdemeanors, the
town may file a civil action for a civil penalty not to exceed $10,000 per day
for each day of violation. The penalties may be imposed by the court in
accordance with the Federal Clean Water Act, being U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq. In
addition to the penalties provided herein, the town may recover reasonable
attorneys’ fees, court costs, court reporters’ fees and other expenses of
litigation by appropriate suit at law against the person found to have violated
this section or the orders, rules and regulations issued hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 15-53)  (Ord. passed 10-7-1985; Ord. passed 9-25-1986)
CHAPTER 52:  ELECTRICITY
Section
   
52.01   Electric service regulations adopted by reference
§ 52.01  ELECTRIC SERVICE REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The town’s electric service regulations have not been set out in this
chapter. They have, however, been saved from repeal by the ordinance adopting
this revised codification and copies thereof may be found on file in the office
of the Town Administrator/Town Clerk.
(Prior Code, Chapter 5.1)
TITLE VII:  TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
71.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
72.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
General Rules and Regulations
   
70.01   Authority to regulate traffic
   
70.02   Failure to obey lawful traffic controls
Bicycles
   
70.15   Light required
Motorized Dirt Bikes and All-Terrain Vehicles
   
70.25   Definitions
   
70.26   Established riding area
   
70.27   Specific exemptions
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS
§ 70.01  AUTHORITY TO REGULATE TRAFFIC.
   The Director of Public Works of the town shall have the power to designate,
lay off and indicate, with the approval of the Board of Alderpersons, by
appropriate signs and markings, parking spaces and zones, no parking zones,
limited parking zones, speed limits, truck routes, stop streets and
intersections and yield right-of-way intersections.
(Prior Code, § 8-1.1)  (Ord. passed 1-5-1987)
§ 70.02  FAILURE TO OBEY LAWFUL TRAFFIC CONTROLS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive, operate or use a vehicle
upon the streets of the town contrary to any signs, signals or other traffic
control devices that are placed upon the streets for the purposes of directing
traffic, except upon direction of a police officer and except as otherwise
provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-1.1)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to stop for stop signs,
red lights or red blinking lights in town. Any person violating this section
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 8-1) (Ord. passed 3-18-1954; Ord. passed 1-5-1987)  Penalty, see
§
70.99
BICYCLES
§ 70.15  LIGHT REQUIRED.
   Anyone riding a bicycle at night inside the corporate limits shall be
required to have a light on the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 8-3)  (Ord. passed 3-18-1954)  Penalty, see §
70.99
MOTORIZED DIRT BIKES AND ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES
§ 70.25  DEFINITIONS.
   Unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, the words, combinations of
words, terms, and phrases, used in this subchapter shall have the meanings set
forth as follows:
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE or ATV.  A motorized flotation tired vehicle of not less
than three low pressure tires, but not more than six tires, that is limited in
engine displacement of less than 1600 cubic centimeters and total dry weight
less than 1200 pounds.
   COMPLAINANT.  Includes any officer of the Landis Police Department who makes
personal observation of prohibited activities or any person who either owns,
rents, possesses a lot as defined and subject to this subchapter which is
adversely effected.
   ESTABLISHED RIDING AREA.  Trails or area on a lot used by the operator of a
motorized dirt bike and/or ATV.
   LOT or LOTS.  A lot which is part of an approved subdivision, the map of
which has been recorded with Rowan County Register of Deeds, or a lawful lot
described by metes and bounds, the deed of which has been recorded with the
Rowan County Register of Deeds, or one for which the town has granted a waiver
from platting.
   MOTORIZED DIRT BIKE.  A two-wheeled vehicle being capable of cross-country
travel on natural terrain without benefit of a road or trail.
   OWNER.  Includes any person or entity as established in accordance with the
land records as maintained by the Rowan County Register of Deeds office, or
persons in legal possession of the property in question.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.  Includes any street or other public and/or private
right-of-way as established by either (a) a governmental entity, (b) private
individual or corporate entity pursuant to a plat or survey, the same being
recorded in the Rowan County Register of Deeds office. For the purpose of this
subchapter, it shall not be necessary to show that the Town of Landis has
previously accepted the same.
(Ord. passed 7-13-2009)
§ 70.26  ESTABLISHED RIDING AREA.
   The use of a motorized dirt bike and/or an ATV is not allowed on lots of
less than two acres in size within the Town of Landis.  All lots two acres or
more must comply with the additional conditions to include:
   (A)   Setbacks.  Established riding area for a motorized dirt bike and/or
ATV is to be located no closer than 100 feet from any lot line, or 50 feet if a
fence, approved by the town, has been constructed along the lot line by the lot
owner.
   (B)   Environmental nuisance abatement.  Dust and noise control measures are
to be maintained by the lot owner in a manner to insure that adjoining property
owners are not adversely affected by dust and noise due to Motorized Dirt Bike
and/or ATV use. Observation of these adverse conditions by any officer of the
Landis Police Department, with or without complaint of the stated adjoining
property owners, shall also be deemed sufficient to require dust and noise
controls to be utilized. Said activities being a public nuisance and pursuant
to G.S. § 160A-143, persons or entities shall insure the abatement of the same
as follows.
      (1)   Dust control measures shall include, but are not limited to, the
planting of 12 foot high coniferous trees planted ten feet on center, or the
construction of a six foot minimum board on board style fence.
      (2)   A motorized dirt bike and/or ATV must have a federally approved
spark arrestor, the noise emission may not exceed 99 decibels at a distance of
20 inches at idle and mufflers may not be altered to increase motor noise, or
have a cut-out bypass, or similar device.
      (3)   Operation of a motorized dirt bike and/or ATV shall not be allowed
on either primary or secondary septic sites.
      (4)   Any unvegetated established riding area must be watered down
before, during, and after usage as needed to limit dust.
   (C)   Periods of operation.
      (1)   No more than two riders that are unrelated to the immediate
household members that reside in the dwelling on the lot may operate a
motorized dirt bike and/or ATV on the lot.
      (2)   A motorized dirt bike and/or ATV may only be operated on the lot
during the following times: Monday through Friday, 9:00 a.m. through 7:00 p.m.;
and on Saturdays and Sundays, 1:00 p.m. through 5:00 p.m. Operation of a
motorized dirt bike and/or ATV must cease for a minimum of one hour after every
hour of riding.
   (D)   Operation of a motorized dirt bike or ATV on town owned property shall
be prohibited except as noted in §
70.27(A) of the code for the town.
(Ord. passed 7-13-2009; Am. Ord. passed 8-6-2012)
§ 70.27  SPECIFIC EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Any motorized dirt bike and/or ATV used by the Town of Landis or any
other governmental body in conducting official business.
   (B)   Any motorized dirt bike and/or ATV used for the purpose of lot
maintenance. The validity of said maintenance usage shall be determined by the
Chief of Police, Town of Landis upon prior application for a written permit by
the property owner.
(Ord. passed 7-13-2009)
§ 70.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this section where no other penalty
is provided, shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to break or remove any stop signs
or danger signals or, in any way, to interfere with them. Violators shall be
fined not less than $2, nor more than $50, or imprisoned for 30 days, in the
discretion of the court.
(Prior Code, § 9-1)
   (C)    Violations of §
70.15 shall be subject to a fine of not less than $10.
(Prior Code, § 8-3)  (Ord. passed 3-18-1954)
   (D)   (1)   Fines.  Any person violating §§
70.25 through
70.27 shall be punished by a fine of $50 for the first offense; $100 for the
second offense; and $200 for each subsequent offense, or as a Class 2
misdemeanor subject to incarceration for a term not to exceed 60 days, or by
both fine and imprisonment at the discretion of the court.
      (2)   Responsible parties.
         (a)   In the case of a minor, the parents or legal guardian shall be
jointly and severally liable with the minor for payment of all fines.
         (b)   Failure of the parents or legal guardian to make payment will
result in the filing of a lien on the parents' or legal guardian's property
that includes the fine and administrative costs.
         (c)   Upon an application and finding of indigence, the court may
decline to order fines against the minor, parents or guardian upon surrender/
forfeiture of the motorized dirt bike and/or ATV to the Landis Police
Department.
(Ord. passed 7-13-2009)
CHAPTER 71:  TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Speed limits
      
II.   Stop signs
SCHEDULE I.  SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   On certain state highway system streets. The maximum speed for any
vehicle upon the following described portions of certain state highway system
streets shall be 35 mph.
Street Direction
Street                        Direction
Beaver Street (S.R. 1243)     From the southwest corporate limit to the
                              northeast corporate limit
Chapel Street (S.R. 1242)     From the southwest corporate limit to the
                              northeast corporate limit
East Ryder Street (S.R. 1210) From Main Street (U.S. 29A) southeastward to the
                              corporate limits
Fifth Street (S.R. 1100)      From South Main Street (U.S. 29A) to the western
                              corporate limit
North Main Street (U.S. 29A)  From Ryder Avenue northeastward to the corporate
                              limit
South Main Street (U.S. 29A)  From Ryder Avenue southwestward to East Second
                              Street
West Rice Street (N.C. 153)   From South Main Street (U.S. 29A) northwestward
                              to the corporate limit
West Ryder Avenue (S.R. 1210) From Main Street (U.S. 29A) northwestward to the
                              corporate limit
Zion Street (S.R. 1186)       From West Rice Street southwestward to the
                              corporate limit
 
(Prior Code, § 8-5)
   (B)   In vicinity of Corriher-Lipe Junior High School.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle in
excess of 25 mph from 30 minutes before until 30 minutes after school begins
and ends at Corriher-Lipe Junior High School on school days only on North
Carolina Highway 153 from U.S. Highway 29A northward to South Kimmons Street.
      (2)   Appropriate signs indicating the speed limit shall be placed.
(Prior Code, § 8-5.1)
   (C)   In vicinity of Landis School.
      (1)   The maximum speed for any vehicle upon that section of West Rice
Street beginning at a point 500 feet west of the western property line of
Landis School and extending 400 feet east of the eastern property line of the
school shall be 25 mph from 7:30 a.m. to 8:30 a.m. and from 3:00 p.m. to 4:00
p.m. on each day that the school is in session.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle in
excess of 25 mph from 30 minutes before until 30 minutes after school begins
and ends at Landis Elementary School on school days only on the following
streets.
 
Street                             Direction
Flat Rock Road (S.R. 1210)         From the city limits southeastward to Mt.
                                   Moriah Church Road (S.R. 1197)
Mt. Moriah Church Road (S.R. 1197) For .20 mile in both directions from its
                                   intersection with Flat Rock Road
Ryder Avenue                       For .20 mile southeastward from its
                                   intersection with Mt. Moriah Church Road
 
(Prior Code, § 8-6)
   (D)   Twenty mph on certain streets.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle in
excess of 20 mph on the following streets or parts of streets.
Street Direction
Street           Direction
Church Street     
Colonial Drive   From Mt. Moriah Church Road to Dogwood Lane
Colonial Drive   From Mt. Moriah Church Road to Dogwood Lane
Dogwood Lane     From Colonial Drive to dead end
Dogwood Lane     From Colonial Drive to dead end
Lawing Drive     From Mt. Moriah Church Road to end
West Hoke Street From South Main Street to South Kimmons Street
West Mill Street From South Kimmons Street to Church Street
 
      (2)   Appropriate signs indicating the speed limits shall be placed.
(Prior Code, § 8-6.1)
   (E)   Twenty-five mph on certain streets.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle in
excess of 25 mph on the following streets or parts of streets.
 
Street      Direction
Town Street From East Taylor Street to North Beaver Street
 
      (2)   Appropriate signs indicating the speed limits shall be placed.
(Prior Code, § 8-6.2)
   (F)   Thirty-five mph on certain streets.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle in
excess of 35 mph on the following streets or parts of streets.
Street Direction
Street              Direction
Church Street        
Colonial Drive      From Mt. Moriah Church Road to Dogwood Lane
Dogwood Lane        From Colonial Drive to dead end
East Blume Street   From North Central Avenue to North Chapel Street
East Taylor Street  From North Central Avenue to North Chapel Street
Lawing Drive        From Mt. Moriah Church Road to end
North Chapel Street From East Garden Street to the city limits
Town Street         From East Taylor Street to North Beaver Street
West Hoke Street    From South Main Street to South Kimmons Street
West Mill Street    From South Kimmons Street to Church Street
 
      (2)   Appropriate signs indicating the speed limits shall be placed.
(Prior Code, § 8-6.3)
   (G)   Forty-five mph on certain streets.
      (1) It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle in
excess of 45 mph on the following streets.
 
Street                                 Direction
Flat Rock Road/West Ryder Avenue (S.R. From Mt. Moriah Church Road (S.R. 1197)
1210)                                  eastward
                                       From the northern corporate limit, a
                                       point .08 mile west of Mt. Moriah Church
                                       Road (S.R. 1197), eastward to Mt. Moriah
                                       Church Road (S.R. 1197); except that, a
Flat Rock Road (S.R. 1210)             25-mile per hour school zone shall be in
                                       effect at Landis Elementary School from
                                       30 minutes before to 30 minutes after
                                       school begins and ends on school days
                                       only
                                       From the northern corporate limit, a
                                       point .19 mile south of Flat Rock Road/
                                       West Ryder Avenue (S.R. 1210), northward
                                       to a point 0.05 mile north of Flat Rock
Mt. Moriah Church Road (S.R. 1197)     Road/West Ryder Avenue (S.R. 1210);
                                       except that, a 25-mile per hour school
                                       zone shall be in effect at Landis
                                       Elementary School from 30 minutes before
                                       to 30 minutes after school begins and
                                       ends on school days only
                                       From a point .20 mile north of North
Mt. Moriah Church Road (S.R. 1197)     Meriah Street (S.R. 1190) northward to a
                                       point .19 mile south of Flat Rock Road/
                                       West Ryder Avenue (S.R. 1210)
                                       From the southern corporate limit
U.S. 29A                               approximately 0.04 mile north of Airport
                                       Drive (S.R. 1182), northward to West
                                       Third Street
 
      (2)   Appropriate signs indicating the speed limits shall be placed.
(Prior Code, § 8-6.4)
   (H)   Trucks and other vehicles having over two axles prohibited on certain
streets.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any truck or other vehicle having over two
axles to travel on the following streets or parts of streets.
 
Street            Direction
South Zion Street From West Rice Street to Fifth Street
West Hoke Street  From South Main Street to South Kimmons Street
 
      (2)   Appropriate signs indicating the prohibition shall be placed.
(Prior Code, § 8-7.1)
(Ord. passed 3-2-1964; Ord. passed 12-1-1969; Ord. passed 6-2-1974; Ord. passed
6-3-1974; Ord. passed 4-4-1983; Ord. passed 9-17-1984; Ord. passed 9-9-1985;
Ord. passed 10-7-1985; Ord. passed 1-6-1986; Ord. passed 2-17-1986; Ord. passed
1-5-1987; Ord. passed 2-7-1987; Ord. passed 4-6-1987; Ord. passed 3-4-1989;
Ord. passed 1-6-1992)  Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II.  STOP SIGNS.
   (A)   When stop signs are placed, erected or installed upon streets
intersecting a through street designated as provided in §§
70.01 and
70.02 at the entrance thereto, at the entrance to any intersection or at any
stop intersection so designated, every driver of a vehicle shall stop in
obedience to the signs before entering the intersection and shall not proceed
into or across the intersection until he or she has first determined that it is
clear for him or her to do so.
   (B)   Pursuant to the provisions of division (A) of this section, stop signs
shall be erected at the following intersections. The signs shall require the
driver of any vehicle to stop before entering the intersection. Unless
otherwise specifically provided, stop signs shall not be erected on any
intersecting street at which a traffic control signal light, flashing caution
light or yield right-of-way sign may be placed and maintained.
Stop On Direction Before Entering
Stop On                Direction       Before Entering
Blume Street, East     West            North Central Avenue
Blume Street, East     East            North Chapel Street
Blume Street, East     West            North Correll Street
Blume Street, West     East            North Main Street
Blume Street, West     East            North Meriah Street
Blume Street, West     West            West Ryder Avenue
Beaver Street, North   South           East Ryder Avenue
Beaver Street, South   North           East Ryder Avenue
Bonita Drive           North           Rankin Road
Central Avenue, Ext.   North           North Main Street
Central Avenue, North  South           Central Avenue, Ext.
Central Avenue, South  North and south East Mill Street
Chapel Street, North   South           East Ryder Avenue
Chapel Street, South   North           East Ryder Avenue
Church Street          North           West Ryder Avenue
Coldwater Street       North           East Ryder Avenue
Colonial Drive         West            Mt. Moriah Church Road
Correll Street, North  North and south East Garden Street
Correll Street, North  South           East Ryder Avenue
Correll Street, South  South           South Chapel Street
Correll Street, North  North           East Ryder Avenue
Corriher Street, East  East and west   South Chapel Street
Corriher Street, East  East            East Rice Street
Davis Street, West     West            South Poplar Street
Davis Street, West     West            West Fifth Street
Daybrook Drive         East            North Beaver Street
Dial Street            West            South Beaver Street
Deal Street, South     North           West Mill Street
Deal Street, South     South           West Ridge Avenue
Fifth Street, West     East            South Main Street
First Street, West     East            South Main Street
First Street, West     West            South Valley Street
First Street, West     East and west   South Zion Street
Flat Rock Road         East            Mt. Moriah Church Road
Fourth Street, West    East            South Highland Avenue
Fourth Street, West    East            South Main Street
Fourth Street, West    West            South Zion Street
Garden Street, East    East and west   North Beaver Street
Garden Street, East    West            North Central Avenue
Garden Street, East    East and west   North Chapel Street
Garden Street, East    East            North Upright Street
Garden Street, West    East            North Main Street
Garden Street, West    East            North Meriah Street
Hillside Street        West            South Central Avenue
Hillside Street        South           East Corriher Street
Hoke Street, West      East            South Main Street
Hoke Street, West      East            South Zion Street
Highland Avenue, South North           South Main Street
Highland Avenue, South North and south West Fifth Street
Highland Avenue, South North and south West Third Street
Jefferson Street       South           Old Airport Road
Jefferson Street       North           Pine Street
Kimmons Street, North  South           West Blume Street
Kimmons Street, North  South           West Ryder Avenue
Kimmons Street, South  North and south West Hoke Street
Kimmons Street, South  North and south West Rice Street
Lake Drive             South           Mt. Moriah Church Road
Laurel Street, West    East            North Main Street
Laurel Street, West    West            North Zion Street
Lawing Drive           South           Mt. Moriah Church Road
Limits Street, West    East            North Main Street
Limits Street, West    East            North Zion Street
Linn Street, North     North           East Garden Street
Linn Street, North     South           East Ryder Avenue
Meriah Street          North           Mt. Moriah Church Road
Meriah Street, North   South           West Ryder Avenue
Meriah Street, South   South           West Hoke Street
Meriah Street, South   North and south West Rice Street
Meriah Street, South   North           West Ryder Avenue
Mill Street, East      East            South Beaver Street
Mill Street, East      East            South Chapel Street
Mill Street, East      West            South Main Street
Mill Street, West      East and west   South Kimmons Street
Mill Street, West      East and west   South Meriah Street
Mill Street, West      East            South Zion Street
Mills Drive, East      East and west   South Beaver Street
Mills Drive, East      East            Coldwater Street
Mills Drive, East      West            East Rice Street
Old Airport Road       West            West “A” Street
Partee Road            South           Mt. Moriah Church Road
Pine Street            East            Poplar Street
Pine Street            West            West “A” Street
Poplar Street, South   North           West Fifth Street
Rankin Street          East            West Fifth Street
Rice Street, East      West            South Central Avenue
Rice Street, East      East and west   South Chapel Street
Rice Street, East      East and west   South Correll Street
Ridge Avenue, East     West            South Beaver Street
Ridge Avenue, East     West            South Central Avenue
Ridge Avenue, East     East and west   South Chapel Street
Ridge Avenue, East     East            South Upright Street
Ridge Avenue, West     East and west   South Kimmons Street
Ridge Avenue, West     East            South Main Street
Ridge Avenue, West     East            South Meriah Street
Ridge Avenue, West     West            South Zion Street
Round Street, East     West            South Main Street
Round Street, West     East            South Main Street
Round Street, West     West            South Valley Street
Round Street, West     East and west   South Zion Street
Second Street, West    East            South Zion Street
Sixth Street, West     West            West Fifth Street
Sixth Street, West     East and west   South Highland Avenue
Sixth Street, West     East            South Main Street
South Poplar Street    South           Old Airport Road
South Valley Street    4 way           West Hoke Street
Taylor Street, East    West            North Central Avenue
Taylor Street, East    East and west   North Chapel Street
Taylor Street, East    East            North Zion Street
Third Street, West     East            South Main Street
Third Street, West     West            South Zion Street
Town Street            East            North Beaver Street
Town Street            West            East Taylor Street
Turner Street          South           Dial Street
Turner Street          North           East Mills Drive
Upright Street, North  North           North Beaver Street
Upright Street, North  South           East Ryder Avenue
Upright Street, South  North and south East Mills Drive
Upright Street, South  North           East Ryder Avenue
Valley Street, South   North           West Hoke Street
Valley Street, South   South           West Mill Street
Valley Street, South   North           West Rice Street
Valley Street, South   North           West Ryder Avenue
Vance Street, South    South           West Mill Street
Vance Street, South    North and south West Ridge Avenue
West Ryder Avenue      West            Mt. Moriah Church Road
Windward Lane          East            West Fifth Street
Zion Street, North     North           West Garden Street
Zion Street, North     South           West Ryder Avenue
Zion Street, South     North and south West Fifth Street
Zion Street, South     North and south West Sixth Street
Zion Street, South     North           West Ryder Avenue
 
(Prior Code 8-12.1)  (Ord. passed 1-5-1987; Ord. passed 7-11-2005)  Penalty,
see §
70.99
CHAPTER 72:  PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Restricted parking
      
II.   Loading zones
SCHEDULE I.  RESTRICTED PARKING.
   (A)   Parking on or using motor vehicles to block sidewalks. It shall be
unlawful for any person to park on or block by the use of a motor vehicle any
sidewalk located in the town.
(Prior Code, § 8-7.2)
   (B)   Disabled parking spaces.
      (1)   It is the purpose of this division to protect the health and safety
of physically disabled citizens, to insure an equal access to public facilities
by designating and reserving “disabled only” parking spaces at or near public
facilities and to provide for the enforcement of G.S. § 20-37.6 which makes it
unlawful to park any vehicle in a space designated for physically disabled 
persons when the vehicle does not display the distinguishing license plate or
placard provided by state law.
      (2)   “Disabled only” parking spaces may be designated on any publicly-
owned or controlled street or property, including, but not limited to, streets,
off-street parking lots, parks and recreation facilities.
      (3)   “Disabled only” parking spaces shall be clearly marked with signs
in accordance with G.S. § 20-37.6.
      (4)   The following locations are hereby designated as “disabled only”
parking spaces.
 
Street               Disabled only parking space
                     One disabled parking space on the north side between South
East Mill Street     Central Avenue and South Chapel Street, during the hours
                     of regular church service only
North Central Avenue On the first parking space on the east side at its
                     intersection with Ryder Street
Valley Street        One disabled parking space on the west side between West
                     Hoke Street and West Rice Street
 
      (5)   Any person unlawfully parking a vehicle in a properly designated
disabled only parking space shall be subject to a penalty in the amount of $10,
to be recovered by the town. The violator shall be issued a written citation
requiring payment to be made to the town within 72 hours.
(Prior Code, § 8-7.3)
   (C)   Parking prohibited during school hours. When signs are placed, erected
or installed giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle between 8:00
a.m. and 4:00 p.m. during each school day, from the opening to the closing of
the public school year, upon the following streets.
 
Street                        Direction
South Zion Street             Between West Ridge Avenue and West Rice Street
West Rice Street (north side) From Zion Street to Moriah Street
 
(Prior Code, § 8-8)
   (D)   Parking limited to two hours.
      (1)   Parking shall be limited to two hours on the following streets.
 
Street         Direction
Central Avenue Between East Garden Street and East Mill Street
Main Street     
 
      (2)   Any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of this
section shall upon conviction be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 8-9)
   (E)   Double parking. No double parking will be allowed on the following
streets.
 
Street                          Direction
Central Avenue (either side)    From Mill Street to Ryder Avenue
South Zion Street (either side) From West Mill Street to West Ridge Avenue
West Ridge Avenue (either side) From South Zion Street to South Main Street
 
(Prior Code, § 8-10)
   (F)   Parking prohibited except for purpose of attending regular church
services.
      (1)  It shall be unlawful for any person to park and leave standing any
motor vehicle on the following streets at any time except for the purpose of
attending regular church services.
 
Street                        Direction
East Mill Street (north side) Between South Central Avenue and South Chapel
                              Street
 
      (2)  Appropriate “No Parking” signs shall be erected so as to be plainly
visible to motorists approaching the restricted areas.
(Prior Code, § 8-10)
   (G)   Parking prohibited at any time.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park and leave standing any
motor vehicle on the following streets at any time.
Street Parking Prohibited at any time
Street                                  Parking Prohibited at any time
East Ryder Street (north side)          From Central Avenue to the alley way in
                                        the center of East Ryder Street
                                        From Mt. Moriah Church Road (S.R. 1197)
Flat Rock Road (S.R. 1210) (both sides) northward for .10 mile, north of the
                                        town
Mt. Moriah Church Road (S.R. 1197)      From .20 mile west of Flat Rock Road
(both sides)                            (S.R. 1210) eastward to West Ryder
                                        Avenue (S.R. 1210), north of the town
South Central Avenue (east side)        Between East Mill Street and East Ridge
                                        Avenue
                                        In a southerly direction 167 feet from
South Zion Street (west side)           the intersection of South Zion Street
                                        and West Ryder Street
                                        In a northerly direction 167 feet from
South Zion Street (west side)           the intersection of West Mill Street
                                        and South Zion Street
West Hoke Street (north side)           Between South Valley Street and South
                                        Moriah Street
                                        In a westerly direction 118 feet west
West Mill Street (north side)           from the intersection of South Zion
                                        Street and West Mill Street
                                        Between South Zion Street and South
West Rice Street Hwy 153                Moriah Street, including both east and
                                        westbound lanes of travel
                                        Between South Zion Street and South
                                        Main Street, and the north side of the
West Ridge Avenue (south side)          same street, with the exception of the
                                        first three parking spaces closest to
                                        South Main Street
 
      (2)   Appropriate “No Parking” signs shall be erected so as to be plainly
visible to motorists approaching the above restricted area.
(Prior Code, § 8-12)
(Ord. passed 8-6-1956; Ord. passed 7-13-1960; Ord. passed 1-10-1965; Ord.
passed 11-1-1965; Ord. passed 12-14-1966; Ord. passed 6-1-1970; Ord. passed 8-
6-1973; Ord. passed 3-4-1974; Ord. passed 6-3-1974; Ord. passed 12-16-1974;
Ord. passed 5-7-1979; Ord. passed 6-1-1981; Ord. passed 10-5-1981; Ord. passed
12-6-1982; Ord. passed 6-25-1984; Ord. passed 5-6-1985; Ord. passed 12-7-1987;
Ord. passed 7-11-2005)  Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II.  LOADING ZONES.
   (A)   (1)   The following streets or portions thereof shall be designated as
loading zones.
 
Street
South Zion Street (west side) Between West Ryder Avenue and West Mill Street
 
      (2)   LOADING ZONE shall be defined in this case to include the temporary
parking of large trucks waiting to load or unload at the Linn-Corriher
Corporation docks.
   (B)  Appropriate signs shall be placed on these streets or portions of
streets identifying the same as loading zones.
(Prior Code, § 8-12.2)  (Ord. passed 12-7-1987)
TITLE IX:  GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   FIRE PREVENTION; WEAPONS AND FIREWORKS REGULATIONS
      
92.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
93.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
94.   NUISANCES
      
95.   HEALTH AND SANITATION
      
96.   MINIMUM HOUSING CODE
      
97.   PARADES, PUBLIC MEETINGS, DEMONSTRATIONS
      
98.   PANHANDLING
CHAPTER 90:  ANIMALS
Section
General Regulations
   
90.001   Definitions
   
90.002   Jurisdiction
   
90.003   Fees
   
90.004   Hogs prohibited
Vaccinations
   
90.015   Rabies vaccination; tags
Impoundment
   
90.030   Animals to be impounded
   
90.031   Notice of impoundment
   
90.032   Conditions for release
   
90.033   Minimum retention period
   
90.034   Authority to place or euthanize animals after minimum retention period
   
90.035   Adoption requirements
   
90.036   Voluntary surrender of animal
   
90.037   Rabid animal confined
Animals at Large
   
90.050   Subject to impoundment
   
90.051   Forfeit of animal
   
90.052   Legal authority
   
90.053   Dogs or cats running at large
Vicious Animals
   
90.065   Determination of vicious animal
   
90.066   Prohibition against vicious animal adoption
Animal Bites
   
90.080   Ten-day quarantine, dog or cat
   
90.081   Release after quarantine
   
90.082   Stray to be euthanized
   
90.083   Death of animal during quarantine
   
90.084   Other animals
Injured, Sick or Diseased Animals
   
90.095   Procedure for care
Public Nuisance
   
90.110   Determination of public nuisance
   
90.111   Control of animal
   
90.112   Authority to destroy animal
Animal Cruelty
   
90.125   Definition; prohibited acts
Hearings
   
90.140   Hearing request
   
90.141   Presumption of ownership
Interference With Duties
   
90.155   Prohibition against interference
Horses, Ponies, Cows, Sheep, Goats and Fowl
   
90.170   Permit required for keeping
   
90.171   Permit issuance prerequisites 
   
90.172   Denial of permit
Exotic Animals
   
90.185   Definitions
   
90.186   Prohibitions
   
90.187   Exceptions
 
   
90.999   Penalty
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 90.001  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER.  A county employee designated as Dog Warden, Animal
Control Officer or other designation that may be used whose responsibility
includes animal control.
   AT LARGE.  Any animal that is off the owner’s or keeper’s property and not
under physical restraint or is not sufficiently near the owner or keeper to be
under his or her direct control and is not obedient to that person’s command.
   HARBOR.  An animal shall be deemed to be harbored if it is fed, watered,
sheltered or allowed to remain unmolested on or about any premises over which a
person has control.
   HEALTH DIRECTOR.  The administrative head of the County Health Department or
his or her authorized representative.
   KEEPER.  A person having custody of an animal or who keeps or harbors an
animal or who knowingly permits an animal to remain on or about any premises
occupied or controlled by the person.
   KITTEN.  A cat of either sex under the age of four months.
   OWNER.  Any person owning, keeping, having charge of, sheltering, feeding,
harboring or taking care of any animal. The OWNER of an animal is responsible
for the care, actions and behavior of the animal.
   PERSON.  Any individual, family, group of individuals, corporation,
partnership, firm, organization or institution which may be recognized by law
as a PERSON.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE.  Any animal which is found to be in violation of §§
90.110 through
90.112 of this chapter and whose owner or keeper has been properly notified of
the violation.
   PUP.  A dog of either sex under the age of four months.
   STRAY.  Any animal that is not under restraint, is not on the property of
its owner, is wandering at large, is lost, does not have an owner or does not
bear evidence of the identification of any owner.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL.  Any animal which is found to be in violation of §§
90.065 and
90.066 of this chapter and whose owner or keeper has been properly notified of
the violation.
(Ord. passed 10-1-1990)
§ 90.002  JURISDICTION.
   This chapter shall be effective in all unincorporated areas of the county
and within the corporate limits of municipalities within the county which shall
so agree, by formal resolution, of both the governing body of the municipality
and the Board of Health.
(Ord. passed 10-1-1990)
§ 90.003  FEES.
   Fees charged for animal control activities shall be set at the discretion of
the County Board of Health.
(Ord. passed 10-1-1990)
§ 90.004  HOGS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to keep a hog inside of the town.
( Prior Code, § 3-3)  (Ord. passed 5-31-1986)  Penalty, see §
90.999
VACCINATIONS
§ 90.015  RABIES VACCINATION; TAGS.
   It shall be the duty of the owner or keeper of each dog or cat over four
months of age to have same vaccinated against rabies as follows.
   (A)   Dogs and cats shall be vaccinated pursuant to G.S. § 130A-185.
   (B)   Dogs and cats shall wear the rabies tag at all times.
(Ord. passed 10-1-1990)  Penalty, see §
90.999
IMPOUNDMENT
§ 90.030  ANIMALS TO BE IMPOUNDED.
   An animal within the purview of the categories described below may be taken
up by the Animal Control Officer or other law enforcement officer and impounded
at the County Animal Shelter:
   (A)   Any animal observed at large;
   (B)   Any stray or lost animal;
   (C)   Any animal which is a “public nuisance”;
   (D)   Any animal involved in an animal bite or other exposure; and/or
   (E)   A dog or cat over the age of four months which has not been vaccinated
against rabies pursuant to §
90.015 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-1-1990)
§ 90.031  NOTICE OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   Upon impoundment of an animal, the Animal Control Officer shall notify the
owner or keeper of the animal, if the owner or keeper can be readily
identified, that the animal has been impounded and procedures for reclaiming
the animal.
(Ord. passed 10-1-1990)
§ 90.032  CONDITIONS FOR RELEASE.
   (A)   Impounded animals can be released to their owners or keepers upon
compliance with all applicable laws and payment of all fees at any time
following impoundment.
   (B)   Any owner reclaiming a dog or cat shall:
      (1)   Furnish proof that the dog or cat is presently immunized against
rabies; and/or
      (2)   Have the dog or cat vaccinated by a county veterinarian against
rabies within three days after release and provide a statement of proof of
vaccination and signed by the veterinarian administering the vaccine.
(Ord. passed 10-1-1990)
§ 90.033  MINIMUM RETENTION PERIOD.
   The following animals shall be retained by the Animal Control Officer at the
animal shelter for periods listed below.
   (A)   All animals except injured, sick or diseased animals and those pups or
kittens not capable of nourishment, not reclaimed by the owner, shall be kept a
minimum of three days.
   (B)   All pups and kittens not reclaimed by their owners shall be kept for a
minimum of 24 hours, unless incapable of nourishment.
   (C)   Any injured, sick or diseased animal(s) whose owner cannot be located
may, at the discretion of the Animal Control Officer, be impounded at the
animal shelter and held for a minimum of 12 hours.
   (D)   Pups and kittens incapable of nourishment may be retained for a
minimum of 12 hours as in division (C) of this section.
(Ord. passed 10-1-1990)
§ 90.034  AUTHORITY TO PLACE OR EUTHANIZE ANIMALS AFTER MINIMUM RETENTION
PERIOD.
   Any animal(s) held for the minimum time periods may be placed for adoption
in a suitable home or may be humanely euthanized at the discretion of the
Animal Control Officer.
(Ord. passed 10-1-1990)
§ 90.035  ADOPTION REQUIREMENTS.
   Any person adopting a dog, cat, puppy or kitten shall:
   (A)   Furnish proof that the dog or cat is presently immunized against
rabies;
   (B)   Have the dog or cat vaccinated against rabies within three days after
release and provide a statement of proof or vaccination containing the date of
vaccination and signed by the county veterinarian administering the vaccine;
   (C)   Have the animal spayed or neutered within 60 days after adoption.
Spaying or neutering may be postponed for animals which are too young, upon
presentation to the County Animal Shelter of a statement to that effect, signed
by a licensed veterinarian along with an appointment date indicating when the
procedure is to be performed;
   (D)   Furnish proof that spaying or neutering has been completed. All monies
paid to the County Animal Shelter for the adoption shall be refunded to the
owner of the animal. However, no fees collected for rabies vaccination shall be
refunded; and
   (E)   Return the animal to the County Animal Shelter if the animal has not
been spayed or neutered within the required time period. Ownership of the
animal shall revert to the county and all fees paid in connection with the
adoption of the animal shall be forfeited.
(Ord. passed 10-1-1990)
§ 90.036  VOLUNTARY SURRENDER OF ANIMAL.
   If an owner surrenders his or her animal voluntarily to the shelter and no
other section of this chapter has been violated, the Animal Control Officer may
allow for the immediate adoption or euthanization of the animal.
(Ord. passed 10-1-1990)
§ 90.037  RABID ANIMAL CONFINED.
   The owner of an animal or person who has, in his or her possession or under
his or her control, an animal having rabies or reasonably suspected of having
rabies shall immediately report the animal’s condition to the Animal Control
Officer and confine the animal subject to rules and provisions of G.S. § 130A-
197.
(Ord. passed 10-1-1990)
ANIMALS AT LARGE
§ 90.050  SUBJECT TO IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Any animal found “at large”, as defined by §
90.001 of this chapter, whether or not it is displaying its current, valid
rabies tag, will be subject to pick-up and impoundment.
   (B)   An effort will be made by the County Animal Warden to identify its
owner.
   (C)   Any animal impounded for running at large shall be retained for no
less than three days for redemption by its legal owner.
(Ord. passed 10-1-1990)
§ 90.051  FORFEIT OF ANIMAL.
   (A)   Should any owner elect not to pay the charges assessed against the
animal, it becomes the property of the county by forfeit, and the animal may
then be offered for adoption to any person who, in the judgment of the Warden,
would be capable of caring for the animal in a proper and humane manner and who
will pay the total fees which have accrued on its behalf.
   (B)   Animal Control Officers are not responsible for picking up animals
that are unwanted by their owners.  Owners wishing to surrender their animals
will be responsible for bringing the animals to the shelter.
(Ord. passed 10-1-1990)
§ 90.052  LEGAL AUTHORITY.
   This section shall not apply to incorporated areas within the county unless
governing officials specifically request by formal resolution that the Health
Department enforce this chapter within the corporate limits and the County
Board of Health so agrees.
(Ord. passed 10-1-1990)
§ 90.053  DOGS AND CATS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   No person shall permit any dog or cat owned or harbored by him or her
to run at large within the town, unless accompanied by and under the control of
a responsible person at all times and unless such dog or cat is wearing a
collar with a valid vaccination tag attached thereto as required by §
90.015.
   (B)   Any person who owns, controls or harbors a dog or cat which has bitten
any person or is known to be vicious or dangerous shall keep such dog or cat
confined on his or her own premises, and it shall be unlawful for him or her to
cause or permit such dog or cat to run at large.
(Prior Code, § 3-5)
VICIOUS ANIMALS
§ 90.065  DETERMINATION OF VICIOUS ANIMAL.
   (A)   Any animal which has made an unprovoked attack on a human by biting
or, in any manner, causing abrasions or cuts of the skin, or which has attacked
any livestock or pets resulting in death or injury through physical contact,
may, after investigation supported by evidence, be declared by the Warden as
vicious.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or keeper to permit his or her
animal to run at large after the animal has been declared vicious and the owner
or keeper has been so notified, in writing, by the Health Department.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or person to keep any vicious,
fierce or dangerous animal within the county unless it is confined within a
secure building or enclosure or unless it is securely muzzled and under
restraint by a competent person who, by means of a leash, has the animal firmly
under control at all times.
(Ord. passed 10-1-1990)  Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.066  PROHIBITION AGAINST VICIOUS ANIMAL ADOPTION.
   No animal which has been declared vicious may be adopted from the animal
shelter.
(Ord. passed 10-1-1990)
ANIMAL BITES
§ 90.080  TEN-DAY QUARANTINE, DOG OR CAT.
   Any dog or cat which bites a person shall be reported pursuant to G.S. §
130A-196 to the animal shelter immediately and quarantined for no less than ten
days. It shall be the responsibility of the Animal Control Officer to decide
whether to quarantine the animal at the animal shelter, at the owner’s home or,
at the owner’s expense and request, in a veterinary hospital. Before an owner
is allowed to quarantine his or her animal at home, he or she must satisfy the
Animal Control Officer that the animal will be securely confined at home and
that no threat to other animals or humans exists. If the animal is a dog or
cat, the owner must show proof that the animal has been currently vaccinated
against rabies. If the Animal Control Officer decides that the animal should be
quarantined at the shelter, the owner shall surrender the animal and bear the
expense of the confinement.
(Ord. passed 10-1-1990)
§ 90.081  RELEASE AFTER QUARANTINE.
   (A)   After ten days, if the animal is determined to be free of rabies, the
owner shall be notified by the Animal Control Officer that, upon payment of
fees, he or she can reclaim the animal.
   (B)   However, if the animal does show signs of rabies during the
observation period, the animal shall be beheaded and the head of the animal
shall be sent to the State Laboratory of Public Health for examination.
(Ord. passed 10-1-1990)
§ 90.082  STRAY TO BE EUTHANIZED.
   Any stray dog or cat whose owner cannot be located shall be quarantined at
the shelter and euthanized at the end of the observation period.
(Ord. passed 10-1-1990)
§ 90.083  DEATH OF ANIMAL DURING QUARANTINE.
   Any dog or cat which has been involved in a bite or any animal under
quarantine that dies during the observation shall be immediately beheaded and
the head shall be promptly delivered to the State Laboratory of Public Health
for testing.
(Ord. passed 10-1-1990)
§ 90.084  OTHER ANIMALS.
   All wild carnivores involved in bites will be beheaded immediately and sent
to the State Laboratory of Public Health for testing. Other animals will be
beheaded for testing at the discretion of the Animal Contro1 Officer, after
consultation with the local health director.
(Ord. passed 10-1-1990)
INJURED, SICK OR DISEASED ANIMALS
§ 90.095  PROCEDURE FOR CARE.
   When the owner of an injured, sick or diseased animal can be located, it
will be his or her responsibility to provide veterinary care for the animal. In
the event the owner cannot be located, the injured, sick or diseased animal
will be taken to the animal shelter and held for 12 hours, if it is not severly
injured, sick, diseased or incapable of nourishment. After the 12 hours, the
animal may be adopted with the agreement that the person adopting the animal
will bear the cost of veterinary care. If the animal is severly injured, sick,
diseased or totally incapable of nourishment, the animal may be euthanized in
the field or at the shelter at the discretion of the Animal Control Officer.
(Ord. passed 10-1-1990)
PUBLIC NUISANCE
§ 90.110  DETERMINATION OF PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   Any animal(s) shall be deemed to be a “public nuisance” when it commits the
following acts two or more times or any combination of two or more offenses or
otherwise is declared a public nuisance by a law enforcement officer or an
appropriate public health official:
   (A)   Chases, snaps at or attacks pedestrians, bicyclists, vehicles or
domestic animals;
   (B)   Turns over garbage pails;
   (C)   Damages gardens, flowers, vegetables or other property; or
   (D)   Otherwise is a menace or threat to public health or safety.
(Ord. passed 1-10-1990)
§ 90.111  CONTROL OF ANIMAL.
   It shall be unlawful for an owner or keeper to permit his or her animal to
run at large if the animal is deemed to be a public nuisance provided a law
enforcement officer has determined after investigation that the report is
supported by evidence and the Health Department has notified the owner or
keeper in writing of his or her findings. In these cases, the owner must keep
the animal that has been found to be a nuisance on his or her property at all
times, unless the animal is under physical restraint.
(Ord. passed 1-10-1990)  Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.112  AUTHORITY TO DESTROY ANIMAL.
   Any public nuisance, vicious or feral animal without any recognizable
identification may be destroyed after the Animal Control Officer has been
unsuccessful in his or her attempt, to catch, trap or tranquilize (within one
closed area) the animal. Any feral dog or cat left at the animal shelter may be
impounded or euthanized at the discretion of the Animal Control Officer.
(Ord. passed 1-10-1990)
ANIMAL CRUELTY
§ 90.125  DEFINITION; PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or keeper to willfully fail to
provide animals with sufficient good and wholesome food and water, proper
shelter and protection from the weather, veterinary care when needed to prevent
suffering, and with humane care and treatment. It shall be unlawful for any
person to heat, cruelly ill-treat, torment, overload, overwork or otherwise
abuse animals, or cause or permit any dogfight, cockfight, bullfight or other
combat between animals or between animals and humans.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or keeper to restrain any animal
with any collar, rope, chain or other device which causes a break in the skin
of the animal or is so tight as to severly restrict swallowing or breathing.
   (C)   When an owner or keeper confines a dog or cat at his or her residence
or elsewhere whether by choice or by reason of provisions contained in this
chapter, it shall be unlawful for him or her to allow the area in which the
animal lives to become unsanitary through failure to practice effective
cleaning procedures. Excrement shall be removed frequently to preclude the
breeding and harborage of flies and vermin and disposed of in the county
landfill or buried. The area shall be kept lined when necessary to minimize
excessive odors.
(Ord. passed 1-10-1990)  Penalty, see §
90.999
HEARINGS
§ 90.140  HEARING REQUEST.
   Any owner or keeper of an animal declared to be vicious under §§
90.065 and
90.066 or a public nuisance under §§
90.095 through
90.112 shall be notified by personal delivery, certified mail delivery, or
registered mail delivery of the declaration, and may then request a hearing
before the Health Director if he or she desires to contest the declaration. The
hearing must be requested in writing received by the Director within ten days
after receipt of notice of declaration of viciousness or public nuisance.
(Ord. passed 1-10-1990)
§ 90.141  PRESUMPTION OF OWNERSHIP.
   There is hereby established a rebuttable presumption that the adult tax-
listing property owner (or lessee of the premises, if rental property), at
which the animal is kept, sheltered, harbored or taken care of, is the owner or
keeper of the animal for purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 1-10-1990)
INTERFERENCE WITH DUTIES
§ 90.155  PROHIBITION AGAINST INTERFERENCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, hinder or molest any
Animal Control Officer or his or her agents in the performance of those duties
authorized by this chapter or by the state statutes, or to refuse to release
any animal into the custody of the officer upon direction.
(Ord. passed 1-10-1990)  Penalty, see §
90.999
HORSES, PONIES, COWS, SHEEP, GOATS AND FOWL
§ 90.170  PERMIT REQUIRED FOR KEEPING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, have or maintain any
horses, ponies, cows, sheep, goats or fowl without first applying for and
receiving a permit to do so. Application for a permit shall be made on July 1
of every year, and the annual fee shall be $20 per household. The application
shall list all horses, ponies, cows, sheep, goats or fowl on the premises.
Before a permit is issued, the Chief of Police shall inspect the premises to
determine if the keeping of the horses, ponies, cows, sheep, goats or fowl will
endanger or is likely to endanger, the health, safety, peace, quiet, comfort or
enjoyment of or otherwise become a public nuisance to nearby residents or
occupants or places of business.
(Prior Code, § 3-10)  Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.171  PERMIT ISSUANCE PREREQUISITES.
   (A)   An owner or possessor of horses, ponies, cows, sheep, goats or fowl
must comply with the following provisions before a permit is issued.
      (1)   The horses, ponies, cows, sheep, goats or fowl must be provided
with adequate shelter to protect them from the elements.
      (2)   The shelter shall be kept clean, sanitary and free from
accumulations of animal excrement and objectionable odors.
      (3)   The shelters shall be kept at a minimum of 75 feet from any
property line.
      (4)   Each horse, pony, cow, sheep or goat must have a pasture area of
one-half acre.
   (B)   Every person who possesses and maintains horses, ponies, cows, sheep,
goats or fowl described in this subchapter on 7-8-1985, shall have 90 days to
bring his or her property in compliance with the above provisions, with the
exception of divisions (A)(3) and (4) of this section, which shall specifically
not apply to these persons.
(Prior Code, § 3-12)  (Ord. passed 7-8-1985)
§ 90.172  DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   When a permit is denied for any reason, the applicant shall be given a
written explanation of the reason for denial. Any person who is denied a permit
shall have the right to appeal the decision to the Board of Alderpersons.
(Prior Code, § 3-11)  (Ord. passed 7-8-1985)
EXOTIC ANIMALS
§ 90.185  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EXOTIC ANIMAL.  Species of animals that are exotic to humans. EXOTIC ANIMALS
include, but are not limited to, any or all of the following orders and
families, whether bred in the wild or in captivity, and any or all hybrids. The
animals included herein are specific listings to include those denoted in
parentheses and shall serve as examples and are not to be construed as an
exhaustive list or limitation as to the generality of each group of animals,
unless otherwise specified for the purpose of identification, this subchapter
shall include:
      (1)   Class mammalia.
         (a)   Order Artiodactyla (hippopotamuses, giraffes, camels, deer, not
cattle or swine or sheep or goats);
         (b)   Order Carnivora:
            1.   Family Felidae (lions, tigers, cougars, leopards, ocelots,
servals, pumas, panthers, mountain lions, jaguars, margays, not domestic cats);
            2.   Family Canidae (wolves, coyotes, foxes, jackals, not domestic
dogs);
            3.   Family Ursidae (all bears);
            4.    Family Mustelidae (weasels, skunks, martins, minks, martens,
wolverines, badgers, otters, ermine, mongoose not ferrets);
            5.   Family Procyonidac (raccoons, civits, coatis);
            6.   Family Hyaenidae (hyenas); and
            7.   Family Viverridae (civets, genets, mongooses).
         (c)   Order Edentatia (anteaters, armadillos, sloths);
         (d)   Order Marsupialia (opossums, kangaroos, wallabies, not sugar
gliders);
         (e)   Order Perissodactyla (rhinoceroses, tapirs, not horses or
donkeys or mules);
         (f)   Order Primates (lemurs, monkeys, chimpanzees, gorillas);
         (g)   Order Proboscidae (elephants);
         (h)   Order Rodentia (squirrels, beavers, porcupines, prairie dogs,
not guinea pigs, rats, mice, gerbils or hamsters);
         (i)   Order Raccoons (Procynniddae): all raccoons and civets; and
         (j)    Skunks.
      (2)   Class Reptilia; Order Squamata:
         (a)   Family Varanidae (only water monitors and crocodile monitors);
         (b)   Family Iguanaidae (only green iguanas and rock iguanas);
         (c)   Family Boidae (all species whose adult length has the potential
to exceed eight feet in length);
         (d)    Family Colubridae (only boomslangs and African twig snakes);
         (e)   Family Elapidae (as corals snakes, cobras, mambas and the like):
all species;
         (f)   Family Nactricidae (only keelback snakes); and
         (g)   Family Viperidae (as copperheads, cottonmouths, rattlesnakes and
the like): all species.
      (3)   Order Crocodilia (as crocodiles, alligators, caimans, gavials and
the like): all species.
   PERSON.  Any individual, partnership, corporation, organization, trade or
professional association, firm, limited liability company, joint venture,
association, trust, estate or any other legal entity, and any officer, member,
shareholder, director, employee, agent or representative thereof.
   POSSESSOR.  Any person who owns, possesses, keeps, harbors, brings into the
town limits and/or extraterritorial jurisdiction, has in one’s possession, acts
as a custodian, or has custody or control of an exotic animal as contemplated
herein.
(Ord. passed 3-3-2008)
§ 90.186  PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, possess, keep, harbor,
bring into the town and/or its extraterritorial jurisdiction, have in one’s
possession, act as a custodian, or have custody or control of an exotic animal,
except in compliance with this subchapter.
   (B)   This subchapter shall prohibit and otherwise make it unlawful for any
person, while in the corporate limits and/or within the extraterritorial
jurisdiction, to engage in any activity which otherwise may be deemed for the
purpose of breeding or facilitating the breeding of any exotic animal.
(Ord. passed 3-3-2008)  Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.187  EXCEPTIONS.
   The town does herein acknowledge that there may be those situations wherein
it is appropriate that exceptions be made and acknowledge that the provisions
as otherwise set forth herein shall not apply to:
   (A)   Institutions accredited by the American Zoo and Aquarium Association
(AZA) or under mentorship through the AZA;
   (B)   Housing an exotic animal at the written request of the animal control
authority;
   (C)   Animal control or law enforcement agencies or officers acting under
the authority of this act;
   (D)   Licensed veterinary hospitals or clinics;
   (E)   Any licensed or accredited research or medical institution;
   (F)   Any licensed or accredited educational institution;
   (G)   Any lawfully operated circus or rodeo; and
   (H)   A person temporarily transporting an exotic animal through the
corporate limits if the transit time is not more than 48 hours and the animal
is, at all times, maintained within a confinement sufficient to prevent the
exotic animal from escaping.
(Ord. passed 3-3-2008)
§ 90.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this section where no other penalty
is provided, shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any violation of §§
90.001 through
90.155 shall be a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not more than $50 or
imprisonment for not more than 30 days.
   (C)   Any offender found to be in violation of §§
90.185 through
90.187 shall hereafter be personally advised that he or she is given notice as
to the fact he or she is presently in violation of an ordinance of the town and
must take the necessary steps in order to correct and/or comply with the same
within 24 hours. Any individual failing to bring in compliance any provision of
§§
90.185 through
90.187 shall be in violation of §§
90.185 through
90.187 and shall be guilty of a Class C misdemeanor and shall be fined not more
than $500 per offense. The offense shall be individual for each exotic animal
enumerated until correct measures are taken in order to bring the exotic animal
into compliance in accordance with §§
90.185 through
90.187.
(Ord. passed  10-1-1990; Ord. passed 3-3-2008)
CHAPTER 91:  FIRE PREVENTION; WEAPONS AND FIREWORKS REGULATIONS
Section
Weapons and Fireworks
   
91.01   Discharge of firearms or fireworks
   
91.02   Weapons possession on town property prohibited
Fire Prevention
   
91.15   Rules and regulations administered by Fire Chief
   
91.16   Accumulation and burning of trash
   
91.17   Approach of emergency vehicles
   
91.18   Spectators at fire
WEAPONS AND FIREWORKS
§ 91.01  DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS OR FIREWORKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to fire a gun, pistol, firecracker,
roman-candle or any other explosive within the corporate limits of the town
unless by permission from the Board of Alderpersons.
(Prior Code, § 9-2)  (Ord. passed 3-7-2001)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.02  WEAPONS POSSESSION ON TOWN PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to display or be in possession of any
gun, firearm, knife, dagger, blackjack, club, slingshot, metallic knuckles,
razor, bow and arrow or other deadly weapon of any kind on town property;
except, that law enforcement officers may carry and discharge their guns or
firearms when lawfully acting within the scope of their official duties.
(Prior Code, § 9-11)  (Ord. passed 9-3-1979)  Penalty, see §
10.99
FIRE PREVENTION
§ 91.15  RULES AND REGULATIONS ADMINISTERED BY FIRE CHIEF.
   The provisions of this subchapter, including the Fire Prevention Code, shall
be administered and enforced by the Chief of the Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 6-5)
§ 91.16  ACCUMULATION AND BURNING OF TRASH.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to pile or allow paper, rags, boxes or
other flammable material to accumulate on property owned or occupied by him or
her within a fire district, unless burned within a stove, fireplace, wire
hamper or other suitable container that will prevent the fire from spreading.
(Prior Code, § 6-1)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.17  APPROACH OF EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   During any emergency caused by fire, explosion or other emergency
necessitating the use of fire trucks or other fire-fighting equipment, at least
one avenue of communication between the fire station and the scene of the fire
or other disaster shall be kept entirely free of all vehicles, excepting those
hereinafter enumerated.
   (B)   The route followed by the first fire truck proceeding to the scene of
the fire or other disaster shall be established as one of the avenues of
communication. The police officers on duty may designate one or more additional
lanes of communication between the scene of fire or other disaster and the fire
station or other point needed to be reached by fire equipment, telephone
equipment, electric power equipment, police equipment or ambulances in dealing
with emergency.
   (C)   Streets included in the state or national highway systems are
excepted. While the fire equipment of the city is being used to fight, control
or extinguish any fire or during any emergency or disaster above enumerated, no
person shall impede the progress of any vehicle needed or engaged in dealing
with the emergency on or along the avenue of communication, and no person shall
cause to be driven into or along, or parked on, any street established or
designated as a part of any avenue of communication any vehicle, excepting
those vehicles operated by members of the Fire Department or departments
engaged in fighting the fire or dealing with the emergency with the consent of
the person in charge of the Fire Department; provided that, persons who reside
on premises adjoining the street may drive therein if they do not park their
vehicles in the streets or otherwise impede any vehicle engaged in dealing with
the emergency.
(Prior Code, § 6-2)
§ 91.18  SPECTATORS AT FIRE.
   (A)   Spectators shall remain at a safe distance from the scene of any fire
and shall so conduct themselves as not to interfere in any way with
firefighters and others who are engaged in extinguishing the fire or protecting
persons or property or performing other lawful duties at the scene of the fire.
(Prior Code, § 6-3)
   (B)   Every person present at a fire shall be subject and obedient to the
orders of firefighters and police officers in any matter relating to
extinguishing the fire, removal and protection of persons and property
endangered by fire, smoke or water, the freedom of Fire Department personnel
and apparatus to perform their duties or to function properly, and the
maintenance of order at or near the scene of the fire, and it shall be unlawful
for any person to disobey any order of a firefighter or police officer.
Firefighters and police officers shall have authority to arrest persons who
disobey the orders and hold them in custody until the fire has been
extinguished, at which time the violators shall be dealt with according to law.
(Prior Code, § 6-4)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 92:  ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
92.01   Unlawful to abandoned wrecked or junked vehicles
§ 92.01  UNLAWFUL TO ABANDON WRECKED OR JUNKED VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to abandon, store or leave standing on
any lot or area within the limits of the town any wrecked or junked automobiles
or parts thereof or any other items of property which may be classified as
junk, whether for the purpose of sale, storage or otherwise.  This section
pertains to both private and commercial vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 9-5)  (Ord. passed 5-12-1965)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 93:  STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Regulations
   
93.001   Graffiti prohibited on streets and sidewalks
   
93.002   Sitting, lying or congregating prohibited
   
93.003   Scooters, skateboards, skates prohibited on certain streets
   
93.004   (Reserved)
   
93.005   Occupant to mow grass
   
93.006   Property owner to maintain sidewalks
   
93.007   Ice, snow removal
   
93.008   Storm water discharge upon sidewalk prohibited
   
93.009   Sewage discharge upon street or sidewalk prohibited
Obstructions and Excavations
   
93.020   Permit required to obstruct street or sidewalk
   
93.021   Wholesaler, retailer goods restricted
   
93.022   Removal of sand, dirt, other materials from street prohibited
   
93.023   Permit required prior to creating opening in street or sidewalk
   
93.024   Warnings around opening required
   
93.025   Street, sidewalk opening resurfaced upon completion
Driveways-General Regulations
   
93.040   Permit required
   
93.041   Compliance with code provisions
   
93.042   Public Works supervision
   
93.043   Proximity to public improvements
   
93.044   Minimum service area size
Driveways-Specific Occupancy Requirements
   
93.055   Single-family residential requirements
   
93.056   Duplex residential requirements
   
93.057   Multi-family residential requirements
   
93.058   Joint property driveway requirements
   
93.059   Business property requirements
   
93.060   Industrial plant requirements
   
93.061   Corner lot requirements
Driveways-Construction
   
93.075   Permit for existing driveway construction required
   
93.076   Permit for driveway opening on state highway street
   
93.077   Permit application; construction expense
   
93.078   Replacement of curbs, gutters or sidewalks
   
93.079   Driveway construction material specifications
   
93.080   Nonconforming driveways
   
93.081   Property owner responsible for repair, cleanup and maintenance
   
93.082   Authority to grant variances
   
93.083   Authority to rescind permits
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 93.001  GRAFFITI PROHIBITED ON STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to write, print, paint or stamp any
words, pictures or advertisements upon any street or sidewalk, official traffic
signs excepted.
(Prior Code, § 12-1)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.002  SITTING, LYING OR CONGREGATING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully stand, sit or
lie upon any street or sidewalk within the town in the manner as to impede the
regular flow of traffic or to in any manner disturb the peace of the town.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any persons to congregate on the sidewalk
or streets of the town or in any manner block the sidewalks or streets so as to
stop or, in any manner, interfere with pedestrians or vehicles on the streets
or sidewalks.
(Prior Code, § 9-10)
   (B)   Whenever the free passage of any street or sidewalk in the town shall
be obstructed by a crowd, the persons composing the crowd shall disperse or
move on when so directed by a police officer as herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 12-4)  (Ord. passed 9-13-1965)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.003  SCOOTERS, SKATEBOARDS, SKATES PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a skateboard or scooter, to
use skates or to operate or use any other form of self-propelled or motor-
propelled conveyance, with the exception of wheelchairs or other conveyances
required by disabled persons, upon the sidewalks located in the 100 block of
South Central Avenue and upon the sidewalks located in the 100 block of North
Central Avenue.
(Prior Code, § 12-15.1)  (Ord. passed 7-13-1987)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.004  (RESERVED).
§ 93.005  OCCUPANT TO MOW GRASS.
   It shall be the duty of the occupant of any lot abutting any sidewalk to
keep the grass plot adjoining neatly mowed.
(Prior Code, § 12-9)
§ 93.006  PROPERTY OWNER TO MAINTAIN SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be the duty of all property owners to keep the sidewalks abutting
their property clean and free from weeds.
(Prior Code, § 12-10)
§ 93.007  ICE, SNOW REMOVAL.
   The owner or tenant in possession of any lot or building abutting a paved
sidewalk shall remove, or cause to be removed, by 10:00 a.m. of each day, any
accumulation of ice or snow upon the sidewalk abutting the lot or building.
(Prior Code, § 12-11)
§ 93.008  STORM WATER DISCHARGE UPON SIDEWALK PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit or allow storm water from his
or her premises to be discharged from any collecting pipe or drain upon any
sidewalk within the town. All the pipes or drains shall be constructed below
the sidewalk level.
(Prior Code, § 12-12)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.009  SEWAGE DISCHARGE UPON STREET OR SIDEWALK PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to run, or allow to run, by pipes or
otherwise, any sewage or other offensive liquids of any kind upon the streets
or sidewalks.
(Prior Code, § 12-13)  Penalty, see §
10.99
OBSTRUCTIONS AND EXCAVATIONS
§ 93.020  PERMIT REQUIRED TO OBSTRUCT STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   Except as otherwise provided in this code and any other ordinances of the
town, it shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct or block any street or
sidewalk, except upon permit issued by the Director of Public Works or his or
her authorized representative.
(Prior Code, § 12-16)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.021  WHOLESALER, RETAILER GOODS RESTRICTED.
   No person engaged in either the wholesale or retail business shall obstruct
any sidewalk by placing goods, wares or merchandise thereon.
(Prior Code, § 12-17)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.022  REMOVAL OF SAND, DIRT, OTHER MATERIALS FROM STREET PROHIBITED.
   It all be unlawful for any person to remove any sand, dirt, loam, sod, clay,
gravel or other materials from any of the streets, alleys or sidewalks;
provided, this section shall not be construed to apply to lot owners who are
repairing or constructing sidewalks under the specifications prescribed by the
town.
(Prior Code, § 12-18)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.023  PERMIT REQUIRED PRIOR TO CREATING OPENING IN STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall make any opening in any street or sidewalk of the town
without a permit therefor issued by the Director of Public Works or his or her
authorized representative.
(Prior Code, § 12-19)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.024  WARNINGS AROUND OPENING REQUIRED.
   Every person making an opening in any street or sidewalk of the town shall
protect the same in the daytime by means of a red flag and barricades and, at
night, reel lights of sufficient number shall be placed alongside the
barricades.
(Prior Code, § 12-20)
§ 93.025  STREET, SIDEWALK OPENING RESURFACED UPON COMPLETION.
   All openings made in any street, sidewalk or alley shall, immediately upon
the accomplishment of the purpose for which the same was made, be completely
filled up and the surface thereof shall be made flush with the adjacent surface
of the street.
(Prior Code, § 12-21)
DRIVEWAYS-GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 93.040  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to break out curb for the purpose of
constructing a driveway entrance, or to construct any driveway across the grass
plot or sidewalk, without first obtaining a written permit therefor from the
Director of Public Works or his or her authorized representative.
(Prior Code, § 12-22)  (Ord. passed 11-4-1985)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.041  COMPLIANCE WITH CODE PROVISIONS.
   All driveway entrances constructed or reconstructed upon the street right-
of-way of the town shall be paved in the manner described in this section.
(Prior Code, § 12-24)  (Ord. passed 11-4-1985)
§ 93.042  PUBLIC WORKS SUPERVISION.
   All work performed under the provisions of this section shall be done under
the supervision of the Director of Public Works or his or her authorized
representative.
(Prior Code, § 12-23)  (Ord. passed 11-4-1985)
§ 93.043  PROXIMITY TO PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS.
   No driveway entrance shall be permitted to intersect the radius of any
street corner or interfere with intersections, sidewalks (or no closer than 15
feet to the intersection or right-of-way line, whichever is greater), traffic
signals, lamp standards, fire hydrants or other public improvements, unless
specific approval is given by the Director of Public Works and necessary
adjustments to public improvements or installations are accomplished without
cost to the town.
(Prior Code, § 12-25)  (Ord. passed 11-4-1985)
§ 93.044  MINIMUM SERVICE AREA SIZE.
    The area to which a driveway provides access shall be sufficiently large to
store any vehicles using the driveway completely off the right-of-way and shall
be of sufficient size to allow the function related thereto to be carried out
completely on private property.
(Prior Code, § 12-26)  (Ord. passed 11-4-1985)
DRIVEWAYS-SPECIFIC OCCUPANCY REQUIREMENTS
§ 93.055  SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The width of single-family residential driveway entrances shall be
limited to 18 feet each, as measured along the curb line, with not more than
two entrances to the same property; provided that, property adjacent to both a
local street and either a major or minor thoroughfare, as shown on the adopted
Concord-Kannapolis-Landis-China Grove Thoroughfare Plan, shall be permitted
access only from the local street.
   (B)   When two entrances are constructed to serve the same residence, there
shall be a minimum distance of 25 feet of curb allowed to remain between the
driveway entrances, measured along the curb line.
(Prior Code, § 12-27)  (Ord. passed 11-4-1985)
§ 93.056  DUPLEX RESIDENTIAL REQUIREMENTS.
   The width of driveway entrances shall be limited to 18 feet each, as
measured along the curb line, when the two entrances are made to the same
property; provided, that there shall be a minimum distance of 25 feet of curb
line allowed to remain between the driveways. The width of a single driveway
entrance to serve a duplex shall be limited to 24 feet. There shall be no more
than two entrances to the same property.
(Prior Code, § 12-27)  (Ord. passed 11-4-1985)
§ 93.057  MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL REQUIREMENTS.
   When driveway entrances are constructed to serve apartments, townhouses or
multi-family residences, the entrances may be 24 feet in width, measured at the
curb line, with not more than two  entrances to the same property from the same
street. When two driveway entrances are constructed, there shall be at least 25
feet between driveway entrances, measured at the curb line.
(Prior Code, § 12-27)  (Ord. passed 11-4-1985)
§ 93.058  JOINT PROPERTY DRIVEWAY REQUIREMENTS.
   The width of a joint driveway, as may be authorized by the Director of
Public Works, serving two adjacent pieces of property shall be limited to 24
feet, measured along the curb line; provided that, no other means of driveway
access is reasonably available and the permit for the driveway is signed by the
then owners of the adjacent property. There shall be no more than one joint
driveway for each two adjacent pieces of single-family residential property and
no more than two joint driveways for each two adjacent pieces of duplex or
multi-family residential property.
(Prior Code, § 12-27)  (Ord. passed 11-4-1985)
§ 93.059  BUSINESS PROPERTY REQUIREMENTS.
   Driveway entrances and exits, either or both constructed to serve business
property, shall not exceed 35 feet in width, and not more than two curb
openings shall be permitted from the same street to serve any business or
combined group of businesses such as shopping centers. When two openings are
constructed, there shall be a minimum distance of five feet of curb allowed to
remain between the driveway entrances.
(Prior Code, § 12-27)  (Ord. passed 11-4-1985)
§ 93.060  INDUSTRIAL PLANT REQUIREMENTS.
   Curb openings made to provide entrances or exits to industrial plants may be
50 feet in width, with not more than one such entrance to the same property;
except that, the Director of Public Works may approve, without concurrence of
the Board of Alderpersons, a second entrance, when he or she deems is in the
public interest to facilitate ingress and egress to the property. When two or
more of the industrial driveways are constructed, there shall be a minimum of
50 feet between the entrances, as measured at the curb line.
(Prior Code, § 12-27)  (Ord. passed 11-4-1985)
§ 93.061  CORNER LOT REQUIREMENTS.
   Property having frontage on two intersecting streets within 100 feet of the
intersection of the street, right-of-way lines shall have access only from the
minor or less intensively used street, except as may be authorized under §§
93.055 through
93.083. No driveway entrances shall be located within 75 feet of two
intersecting streets, measured at the curb line.
(Prior Code, § 12-27)  (Ord. passed 11-4-1985)
DRIVEWAYS-CONSTRUCTION
§ 93.075  PERMIT FOR EXISTING DRIVEWAY CONSTRUCTION REQUIRED.
   Existing driveway approaches shall not be relocated, altered or
reconstructed without a permit approving the relocation, alteration or
reconstruction. The driveway approaches, when so relocated, altered or
reconstructed, shall be subject to the limitations set forth in §§
93.040 through
93.044,
93.055 through
93.061 and
93.075 through
93.083.
(Prior Code, § 12-27.1)  (Ord. passed 11-4-1985)
§ 93.076  PERMIT FOR DRIVEWAY OPENING ON STATE HIGHWAY STREET.
   Where the property is to be served by a driveway opening into a state
highway street, a permit as required by the State Department of Transportation,
in accordance with the Manual on Driveway Entrance Regulations, shall be first
submitted to the Director of Public Works for his or her review and approval.
The requirements of this section or those of the Manual on Driveway Entrance
Regulations, whichever are greater, shall be the minimum standards for
development.
(Prior Code, § 12-27.9)  (Ord. passed 11-4-1985)
§ 93.077  PERMIT APPLICATION; CONSTRUCTION EXPENSE.
   When a new driveway or an expanded driveway is requested, the request shall
be made by application to the Director of Public Works and authorized by a
permit issued by the Director. Any new driveway or expansion of any existing
driveway shall be at the applicant’s expense. The applicant may request the
driveway construction to be done by the Department of Public Works and be
charged a fee set by the Board of Alderpersons for driveway construction by the
town, or the applicant may obtain a private contractor to construct the
driveway to the standards and requirements of §§ 
93.040 through
93.044,
93.055 through
93.061 and
93.075 through
93.083 and in accordance with the driveway permit issued.
(Prior Code, § 12-27.2)  (Ord. passed 11-4-1985)
§ 93.078  REPLACEMENT OF CURBS, GUTTERS OR SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   When the use of any driveway approach is changed, making any portion
or all of any driveway approach unnecessary in the opinion of the Director of
Public Works, the owner of the abutting property shall, at his or her own
expense, replace all necessary curbs, gutters and sidewalks within 60 days
after
written notice from the Director of Public Works.
(Prior Code, § 12-27.3)
   (B)   (1)   When any driveway entrance is constructed or reconstructed, any
existing four-inch sidewalk shall be replaced with portland cement concrete of
a thickness of not less than six inches where the driveway crosses the
sidewalk.
      (2)   Where an existing driveway crosses an existing paved sidewalk of
less than six inches in thickness and when the same becomes broken or otherwise
dangerous, the sidewalk shall then be removed and reconstructed for the entire
width of the driveway using portland cement concrete not less than six inches
thick. The newly-constructed section of sidewalk shall be at an elevation or
grade approved by the Director of Public Works or his or her authorized
representative.
(Prior Code, § 12-27.6)  (Ord. passed 11-4-1985)
§ 93.079  DRIVEWAY CONSTRUCTION MATERIAL SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   When portland cement concrete is used to pave a driveway entrance, the
thickness shall not be less than six inches and, where asphaltic concrete is
used, the thickness shall not be less than two inches with a four-inch stone
base.
(Prior Code, § 12-27.5)
   (B)   All entrances to residential driveways constructed shall be paved with
portland cement concrete for a distance of not less than 24 inches from the
back of the curb, and if no paved sidewalk parallels the property line, the
remainder of the distance to the property line may be paved with bituminous
concrete, portland cement concrete or crushed gravel. The foregoing requirement
is subject to the proviso that residential driveways from the streets that do
not have concrete curbs and gutters and do not have paved sidewalks shall be
constructed of crushed gravel, bituminous or portland cement concrete from the
travel portion of the street to the property line.
(Prior Code, § 12-27.7)  (Ord. passed 11-4-1985)
§ 93.080  NONCONFORMING DRIVEWAYS.
   When an existing building or structure which is served by a driveway
approach not conforming to the provisions of this chapter is demolished,
repaired, altered or enlarged in the manner that the repair, alteration or
expansion exceeds 50% of the ad valorem tax valuation of the building or
structure immediately prior to the repair, alteration or expansion, the owner
of the property shall, at his or her own expense, reconstruct the driveway
approaches as to conform to the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 12-27.4)  (Ord. passed 11-4-1985)
§ 93.081  PROPERTY OWNER RESPONSIBLE FOR REPAIR, CLEANUP AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Responsibility for maintenance and repairs to new and existing
driveway entrances or exits shall rest with the property owner. Upon receipt of
a notice to repair damaged pavement, the property owner shall make the
necessary repairs within 60 days in accordance with the requirements set forth
in this section.
(Prior Code, § 12-27.8)
   (B)   The property owner shall be responsible for removing all debris and
surplus materials upon completion of the work and shall maintain the premises
in a safe manner, providing adequate barricades and lights at his or her own
expense to protect the safety of the public using adjacent streets or
sidewalks, and shall hold the town free and harmless from all damages for
liability incurred.
(Prior Code, § 12-27.10)  (Ord. passed 11-4-1985)
§ 93.082  AUTHORITY TO GRANT VARIANCES.
   The Director of Public Works may grant a variance from the standards of this
in accordance with a resolution passed by the Board of Alderpersons, setting
forth the departure and stating the reasons for the departure.
(Prior Code, § 12-27.11)  (Ord. passed 11-4-1985)
§ 93.083  AUTHORITY TO RESCIND PERMITS.
    The Board of Alderpersons shall have the authority to rescind by resolution
any permit granted for a driveway, when the Board of Alderpersons finds the
action to be in the public interest.
(Prior Code, § 12-27.12)  (Ord. passed 11-4-1985)
CHAPTER 94:  NUISANCES
Section
General Regulations
   
94.01   Investigation of nuisance complaint; notice of hearing; hearing
procedure
   
94.02   Order to abate
   
94.03   Town action upon owner request or failure to abate
   
94.04   Cost of abatement; lien
   
94.05   Criminal proceedings, other remedies preserved
Specific Conditions as Nuisances
   
94.20   Noxious weeds or grass
   
94.21   Accumulation of rubbish, trash or junk
   
94.22   Accumulation of offensive animal or vegetable matter
   
94.23   Open storage of abandoned items
   
94.24   Conditions in violation of County Health Department rules and
regulations
Noise Regulations
   
94.35   Purpose
   
94.36   Certain noises prohibited
False Alarms
   
94.50   Definitions
   
94.51   Registration of systems; property transfer notification
   
94.52   Exemptions
   
94.53   Violation
   
94.54   Appeal of fine or denial of registration renewal
 
   
94.99   Penalty
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 94.01  INVESTIGATION OF NUISANCE COMPLAINT; NOTICE OF HEARING; HEARING
PROCEDURE.
   The existence of any of the following conditions on any vacant lot or other
parcel of land within the corporate limits is hereby declared to be dangerous
and prejudicial to the public health or safety and to constitute a public
nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 8-1.1)  (Ord. passed 7-9-1984; Ord. passed 9-14-1987)
§ 94.02  ORDER TO ABATE.
   If a determination is made that conditions constituting a public nuisance
exist, the Town Administrator/Town Clerk shall notify, in writing, the owner of
the premises in question of the conditions constituting the public nuisance and
shall order the prompt abatement thereof within 15 days from the receipt of the
written notice.
(Prior Code, § 8-1.3)  (Ord. passed 7-9-1984; Ord. passed 9-14-1987)
§ 94.03  TOWN ACTION UPON OWNER REQUEST OR FAILURE TO ABATE.
   If the owner, having been ordered to abate a public nuisance, fails,
neglects or refuses to abate or remove the condition constituting the nuisance
within 15 days from receipt of the order, the Town Administrator/Town Clerk
shall cause the condition to be removed or otherwise remedied by having
employees of the town go upon the premises and remove or otherwise abate the
nuisance under the supervision of an officer or employee designated by the Town
Administrator/Town Clerk. Any person who has been ordered to abate a public
nuisance may, within the time allowed by this chapter, request the town, in
writing, to remove the condition, the cost of which shall be paid by the person
making the request.
(Prior Code, § 8-1.4)  (Ord. passed 7-9-1984; Ord. passed 9-14-1987)
§ 94.04  COST OF ABATEMENT; LIEN.
   (A)   The actual cost incurred by the town in removing or otherwise
remedying a public nuisance shall be charged to the owner of the lot or parcel
of land concerned, and it shall be the duty of the Tax Collector to mail a
statement of the charges to the owner or other person in possession of the
premises, with instructions that the charges are due and payable within 30 days
from the receipt thereof.
   (B)   In the event that charges for the removal or abatement of a public
nuisance are not paid within 30 days after the receipt of a statement of
charges as provided for in this section, the charges shall become a lien upon
the land or premises where the public nuisance existed and shall be collected
as unpaid taxes, as provided in G.S. § 160A-193.
(Prior Code, § 8-1.5)  (Ord. passed 7-9-1984; Ord. passed 9-14-1987)
§ 94.05  CRIMINAL PROCEEDINGS, OTHER REMEDIES PRESERVED.
   The procedures set forth in this chapter shall be in addition to any other
remedies that may exist under law for the abatement of public nuisances, and
this chapter shall not prevent the town from proceeding in a criminal action
against any person violating the provisions of this chapter as provided in G.S.
§ 14-4.
(Prior Code, § 8-1.6)  (Ord. passed 7-9-1984; Ord. passed 9-14-1987)
SPECIFIC CONDITIONS AS NUISANCES
§ 94.20  NOXIOUS WEEDS OR GRASS.
   (A)   The existence of any of the following conditions on any vacant lot or
other parcel of land within the corporate limits is hereby declared to be
dangerous and prejudicial to the public health or safety and to constitute a
public nuisance.
   (B)   The uncontrolled growth of noxious weeds or grass to a height in
excess of 18 inches, causing or threatening to cause a hazard detrimental to
the public health or safety.
(Prior Code, § 8-1.1)  (Ord. passed 7-9-1984; Ord. passed 9-14-1987)
§ 94.21  ACCUMULATION OF RUBBISH, TRASH OR JUNK.
   Any accumulation of rubbish, trash or junk, causing or threatening to cause
a fire hazard, causing or threatening to cause the accumulation of stagnant
water or causing or threatening to cause the inhabitation therein of rats,
mice, snakes or vermin of any kind which is or may be dangerous or prejudicial
to the public health.
(Prior Code, § 8-1.1)  (Ord. passed 7-9-1984; Ord. passed 9-14-1987)
§ 94.22  ACCUMULATION OF OFFENSIVE ANIMAL OR VEGETABLE MATTER.
   Any accumulation of animal or vegetable matter that is offensive by virtue
of odors or vapors or by the inhabitation therein of rats, mice, snakes or
vermin of any kind which is or may be dangerous or prejudicial to the public
health.
(Prior Code, § 8-1.1)  (Ord. passed 7-9-1984; Ord. passed 9-14-1987)
§ 94.23  OPEN STORAGE OF ABANDONED ITEMS.
   The open storage of any abandoned icebox, refrigerator, stove, glass,
building material, building rubbish or similar items.
(Prior Code, § 8-1.1)  (Ord. passed 7-9-1984; Ord. passed 9-14-1987)
§ 94.24  CONDITIONS IN VIOLATION OF COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT RULES AND
REGULATIONS.
   Any condition detrimental to the public health which violates the rules and
regulations of the County Health Department.
(Prior Code, § 8-1.1)  (Ord. passed 7-9-1984; Ord. passed 9-14-1987)
NOISE REGULATIONS
§ 94.35  PURPOSE.
   Excessive and unnecessary noise creates a significant threat to the public
health, safety and welfare. It is the intent of this section to strike an
appropriate balance between the right of individuals to obtain information and
derive pleasure by listening to radio and other devices, and the right of the
public to a peaceful and healthful environment.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 94.36  CERTAIN NOISES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to create or assist in creating
any unreasonably loud, disturbing and unnecessary noise in the town. Noise of
such character, intensity and duration as to be detrimental to the public
health, welfare and peace is hereby prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 9-6.1)
   (B)   The following acts, among others, are hereby declared to be loud,
disturbing and unnecessary noises in violation of this section, but the
enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive:
      (1)   The sounding of any horn or signal device on any automobile,
motorcycle, bus or other vehicle, except as a danger signal, so as to create
any unreasonable loud or harsh sound, or the sounding of the device for an
unnecessary and unreasonable period of time;
      (2)   The playing of any radio, phonograph or other musical instrument in
the manner or with such volume, particularly between 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.,
as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of any person in any
dwelling, hotel or other type of residence;
      (3)   The keeping of any animal or bird which, by causing frequent or
long continued noise, shall disturb the comfort and repose of any person in the
vicinity;
      (4)   The use of any automobile, motorcycle or vehicle so out of repair,
so loaded or in the manner as to create loud or unnecessary grating, grinding,
rattling or other noise;
      (5)   The blowing of any steam whistle attached to any stationary boiler,
except to give notice of the time to begin or stop work or as a warning of
danger;
      (6)   The conducting, operating or maintaining of any garage or service
station in any residential area so as to cause loud or offensive noises to be
emitted therefrom between 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. on weekdays or on Sundays;
      (7)   The creation of any excessive noise on any street adjacent to any
school, institution of learning or court while the same is in session, or
within 150 feet of any hospital, which unreasonably and unnecessarily
interferes with the working of the institution; provided that, conspicuous
signs are displayed in the street indicating that the area is a school, court
or hospital area;
      (8)   The erection (including excavation), demolition, alteration or
repair of any building in a residential or business district other than between
7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on weekdays, except in the case of urgent necessity in
the interest of public safety and then only with a permit from the Building
Inspector, which permit may be renewed for a period of three days or less while
the emergency continues; and
      (9)   The shouting and crying of peddlers, barkers, hawkers and vendors
which disturbs the quiet and peace of the neighborhood.
(Prior Code, § 9-6.1)
   (C)   Noise described in divisions (D) and (E) of this section are hereby
declared unreasonable, dangerous to the public health, safety and welfare, and
shall be illegal unless exempted herein.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to play, use or otherwise operate,
either from a motor vehicle or as a pedestrian, any radio, tape player or other
sound amplification device emitting sound that is audible from a distance of 50
or more feet from the source of the sound, unless the device is being used to
request assistance or warn against an unsafe condition.
      (1)   This division shall not apply to any of the following:
         (a)   Public safety personnel, when responding to an emergency call or
engaged in other official business;
         (b)   Persons engaged in a lawful assembly, procession or community
event;
         (c)   The operator of a public utility vehicle, when utilizing two-way
communications equipment;
         (d)   The operator of a vehicle being used for advertising purposes in
accordance with existing ordinances; and
         (e)   The activation of a theft alarm signal device.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful to operate or allow the operation of any motor
vehicle in the city:
      (1)   Which has had its muffler, exhausts and/or other noise-control
equipment removed, altered or maintained in such disrepair as to create
unreasonably loud and disturbing noises;
      (2)   By engaging in jackrabbit starts, spinning tires, racing engines or
other operations which create an unreasonably loud or disturbing noise; and/or
      (3)   Off the boundaries of a public street for racing or other
operations which create unreasonably loud and disturbing noises.
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed 5-18-1981)  Penalty, see §
10.99
FALSE ALARMS
§ 94.50  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM/ALARM SYSTEM.  Any electronic or mechanical device which emits any
signal, whether electronic, audible, silent or recorded, and which is designed,
used or intended for the detection of an unauthorized intrusion or attempted
intrusion into a building, structure or premises to signal an actual or
attempted robbery, or for the detection of fire or products of combustion to
signal a fire or initiate a response for medical assistance.
   ALARM ADMINISTRATOR.  A person or persons designated by the town to
administer, control and review false alarm incidents and the reduction of the
same, that the Administrator shall be as designated by the Chief of Police.
   ALARM COMPANY.  A business, corporation, individual, partnership or other
entity in the business of selling, maintaining, testing, servicing, repairing
or altering fire alarm systems.
   ALARM REGISTRATION (OR PERMITS).  The notification by an alarm user to the
Alarm Administrator that an alarm system has been installed. Individuals
registering their alarm system shall provide the Alarm Administrator a working
phone number for the premises, daytime number, number of other individual
properly designated to respond in user’s physical absence during vacation
periods or unavailability to respond.
   ALARM USER.  Any person, firm, partnership, corporation or other entity who
uses or is in control of any alarm system at its residence or place of
business. In the event premises are rented or leased, that alarm user shall be
determined the possessor of the premises and not the owner excepted in those
situations where the owner has previously made registration of the system.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2008)
§ 94.51  REGISTRATION OF SYSTEMS; PROPERTY TRANSFER NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   No alarm user shall operate, or cause to be operated, an alarm system
at a location within the corporate limits of the town without a valid alarm
registration. Upon the transfer of property, the individual transferring the
property shall immediately notify the town that sale of the property has been
made and provide the necessary contact information of the individual who has
purchased the property.
   (B)   Upon the passing of this subchapter, all individuals within the town
shall within 60 days call and register with the Police Department the
appropriate telephone and/or contact numbers. That information provided by the
alarm user for registration shall be used solely for the purpose of
administering the elements of this subchapter with access restricted to the
Alarm Administrator and designated fire and law enforcement personnel. Public
access to this information shall be prohibited.
   (C)   Upon the ordinance being passed by the Board of Alderpersons, the town
shall advertise to the general public by way of monthly billing to all property
owners of the necessity of the registration.
   (D)   Upon approval of the application by the Alarm Administrator, a permit
shall be issued for a fee of $5 for all existing alarm systems and a fee of $25
for all new permits.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2008)
§ 94.52  EXEMPTIONS.
   Exempt from this subchapter are systems, commercial and/or residential,
which are not integrated with a centralized service provider and/or an alarm
company.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2008)
§ 94.53  VIOLATION.
   An activation of the alarm system that elicits a response by the Police
Department, Fire Department and/or medical personnel, when no situation
requiring the response exists shall be considered a false alarm. This includes
accidental, avoidable and unnecessary alarm activation due to user error,
equipment malfunction, improper or unsuited equipment, but does not include
alarm activation caused by violent conditions of nature or other extraordinary
circumstances not reasonably subject to the control of the alarm user or alarm
system. Alarm activation during alarm testing procedure shall not be counted if
the alarm first notifies the town police or the Alarm Administrator.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2008)
§ 94.54  APPEAL OF FINE OR DENIAL OF REGISTRATION RENEWAL.
   (A)   An alarm user may appeal the assessment of a fine of the Alarm
Administrator. The filing of an appeal with the Alarm Administrator stays the
assessment of the fine until the Alarm Administrator makes a final decision.
The appeal must be in writing and filed with the Alarm Administrator within 20
days following the receipt of notification of a false alarm. The appeal must
set forth the factual basis for the reason of making the appeal. The appeal
should be based upon specific contentions as enumerated by the Alarm
Administrator and the notice served upon the alarm user. In the event the alarm
user is making the appeal based upon hardship, the alarm user should specify
and document with particularity the specific hardship.
   (B)   In the event the Alarm Administrator denies the issuance of a renewal
of an alarm registration, the Administrator shall send written notice of the
action and a statement of the right of appeal to the alarm user. A second level
of appeal is available in cases where an alarm user is not satisfied with the
decision of the Alarm Administrator. The alarm user must file a written appeal
to the Town Administrator/Town Clerk or Administrator within ten days upon
receiving notice of the first appealed decision by the Alarm Administrator. The
second appeal, if utilized, stays the assessment of the fine until the final
decision is made by the Town Administrator. The alarm user must file a written
appeal to the Town Administrator within ten days of the first appealed decision
made by the Alarm Administrator. The second appeal is utilized stays the
assessment of the fine until the final decision is made by the Administrator.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2008)
§ 94.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any alarm system user who operates an alarm system without a
permit as required by §§
94.50 and
94.54  shall be assessed a penalty in the amount of $25 for failure to secure
the permit. If, however, at the time of the first false fire or police alarm,
the alarm user does not obtain a permit, the user will not be assessed a civil
penalty so long as the user obtains a permit within ten days concurrent with
the first false fire or police alarm.
      (2)   If the Police Department and Fire Department respond to more than
four false alarms in a 12-month period, the alarm user shall be assessed with a
single penalty according to the following schedule: fifth and sixth alarms, $50
for a police response and $100 for a fire response; seventh and eighth alarms,
$100 for a police response and $200 for a fire response; ninth and tenth
alarms, $200 for a police response and $300 for a fire response.
      (3)   All audible alarms must be reset and decease to sound after 20
minutes of continuous activation. Alarms that sound continuously in excess of
20 minutes from the time the officer arrives at the alarm location shall be
deemed a false alarm and subject the alarm user to a penalty of $50. Property
owners shall not be subject to civil penalty for a false alarm activated by law
enforcement or firefighters in the line of duty.
      (4)   If the Police Department and/or Fire Department respond to more
than ten false alarms in a 12-month period, the alarm system user shall be
required to cause the alarm system to be inspected by an individual licensed by
the State Alarm Systems and Licensing Board to install and inspect alarm
systems. The individual shall be required to submit to the Alarm Administrator
recommendations to the alarm user as to how the alarm system may be properly
maintained or corrected. In the event the user fails to respond specifically as
directed by the Inspector, the user shall be assessed a penalty of $100 in the
event the situation is not corrected within 30 days. In the alternative, the
alarm user may disconnect and discontinue using the service.
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed 7-1-2008)
CHAPTER 95:  HEALTH AND SANITATION
Section
Abandoned Structures
   
95.01   Findings and purpose
   
95.02   Fire Chief/Code Enforcement Officer duties
   
95.03   Fire Chief/Code Enforcement Officer powers
   
95.04   Enforcement standards
   
95.05   Enforcement investigation; violation notice; hearing procedure
   
95.06   Methods of service
   
95.07   Procedure after hearing
   
95.08   Owner right to petition superior court 
   
95.09   Remedies for failure to comply
   
95.10   Procedure for in rem remedy
   
95.11   Cost of procedure as property lien
   
95.12   Alternative remedies permitted
ABANDONED STRUCTURES
§ 95.01  FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
   It is hereby found that there exists within the town abandoned structures
which the Board of Alderpersons finds to be hazardous to the health, safety and
welfare of the residents of the town due to the attraction of insects or
rodents, conditions creating a fire hazard, dangerous conditions constituting a
threat to children, or frequent use by vagrants as living quarters in the
absence of sanitary facilities. Therefore, pursuant to the authority granted by
G.S. § 160A-441, it is the intent of this chapter to provide for the repair,
closing or demolition of any abandoned structures in accordance with the same
provisions and procedures as are set forth by law for the repair, closing or
demolition of dwellings unit for human habitation.
(Ord. passed 11-17-2003)
§ 95.02  FIRE CHIEF/CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER DUTIES.
   The Fire Chief or Code Enforcement Officer is hereby designated as the town
officer to enforce the provisions of this chapter. It shall be the duty of the
Fire Chief or Code Enforcement Officer:
   (A)   To locate abandoned structures within the town and determine which
structures are in violation of this chapter;
   (B)   To take action pursuant to this chapter as may be necessary to provide
for the repair, closing or demolition of these structures;
   (C)   To keep an accurate record of all enforcement proceedings begun
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter; and
   (D)   To perform other duties as may be prescribed herein or assigned to him
or her by the Board of Alderpersons.
(Ord. passed 11-17-2003)
§ 95.03  FIRE CHIEF/CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER POWERS.
   The Fire Chief or Code Enforcement Officer is authorized to exercise the
powers as may be necessary to carry out the intent of the provisions of this
chapter, including the following powers in addition to others herein granted:
   (A)   To investigate the condition of buildings within the town in order to
determine which structures are abandoned and in violation of this chapter;
   (B)   To enter upon premises for the purpose of making inspections at all
reasonable times;
   (C)   To administer oaths and affirmations, examine witnesses and receive
evidence; and
   (D)   To designate other officers, agents and employees of the town as he or
she deems necessary to carry out the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-17-2003)
§ 95.04  ENFORCEMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Every abandoned structure within the town shall be deemed in violation
of this chapter whenever the structure constitutes a hazard to the health,
safety or welfare of the town citizens as a result of:
      (1)   The attraction of insects or rodents;
      (2)   Conditions creating a fire hazard;
      (3)   Dangerous conditions constituting a threat to children; or
      (4)   Frequent use by vagrants as living quarters in the absence of
sanitary facilities.
   (B)   In making the preliminary determination of whether or not an abandoned
structure is in violation of this chapter, the Fire Chief or Code Enforcement
Officer may, by way of illustration and not limitation, consider the presence
or absence of the following conditions:
      (1)   Holes or cracks in the structure’s floors, walls, ceilings or roof
which might attract or admit rodents and insects, or become breeding places for
rodents and insects;
      (2)   The collection of garbage or rubbish in or near the structure,
which might attract rodents and insects, or become breeding places for rodents
and insects;
      (3)   Violations of the State Building Code, the State Electrical Code or
the Fire Prevention Code, which constitute a fire hazard in the structure;
      (4)   The collection of garbage, rubbish or combustible material, which
constitutes a fire hazard in the structure;
      (5)   The use of the structure or nearby grounds or facilities by
children as a play area;
      (6)   Violations of the State Building Code, which might result in danger
to children using the structure or nearby grounds or facilities as a play area;
and
      (7)   Repeated use of the structure by transients and vagrants, in the
absence of sanitary facilities, for living, sleeping, cooking or eating.
(Ord. passed 11-17-2003)
§ 95.05  ENFORCEMENT INVESTIGATION; VIOLATION NOTICE; HEARING PROCEDURE.
   Whenever a petition is filed with the Fire Chief or Code Enforcement Officer
by at least five residents of the town charging that any structure exists in
violation of this chapter or whenever it appears to the Fire Chief or Code
Enforcement Officer, upon inspection, that any structure exists in violation
hereof, he or she shall, if his or her preliminary investigation discloses a
basis for the charges, issue and cause to be served upon the owner of and
parties in interest in the structure a complaint stating the charges and
containing a notice that a hearing will be held before the Fire Chief or Code
Enforcement Officer at a place therein fixed, not less than ten, nor more than
30, days after the serving of the complaint. The owner or any party in interest
shall have the right to file an answer to the complaint and to appear in
person, or otherwise, and give testimony at the place and time fixed in the
complaint. Notice of the hearing shall also be given to at least one of the
persons signing a petition relating to the structure. Any person desiring to do
so may attend the hearing and give evidence relevant to the matter being heard.
The rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law or equity shall not be
controlling in hearings before the Fire Chief or Code Enforcement Officer.
(Ord. passed 11-17-2003)
§ 95.06  METHODS OF SERVICE.
   Complaints or orders issued by the Fire Chief or Code Enforcement Officer
shall be served upon persons either personally or by registered or certified
mail, but if the whereabouts of the persons are unknown and the same cannot be
ascertained by the Fire Chief or Code Enforcement Officer in the exercise of
reasonable diligence, the Fire Chief or Code Enforcement Officer shall make an
affidavit to that effect, and the serving of the complaint or order upon the
person may be made by publication in a newspaper having general circulation in
the town at least once, no later than the time at which personal service is
required under §§
95.05, 95.07 through 95.09 of this chapter. Where service is made by
publication, a notice of the pending proceedings shall be posted in a
conspicuous place on the premises affected by the complaint or order.
(Ord. passed 11-17-2003)
§ 95.07  PROCEDURE AFTER HEARING.
   (A)   After the notice and hearing, the Fire Chief or Code Enforcement
Officer shall state, in writing, his or her determination whether the structure
violates this chapter.
   (B)   If the Fire Chief or Code Enforcement Officer determines that the
dwelling is in violation he or she shall state, in writing, his or her findings
of fact to support the determination, and shall issue and cause to be served
upon the owner thereof an order directing and requiring the owner to either
repair, alter and improve the structure or else remove or demolish the same
within a specified period of time not to exceed 90 days.
(Ord. passed 11-17-2003)
§ 95.08  OWNER RIGHT TO PETITION SUPERIOR COURT.
   Any person aggrieved by an order issued by the Fire Chief or Code
Enforcement Officer shall have the right, within 30 days after issuance of the
order to petition the superior court for a temporary injunction restraining the
Fire Chief or Code Enforcement Officer pending a final disposition of the
cause, as provided by G.S. § 160A-446(f).
(Ord. passed 11-17-2003)
§ 95.09  REMEDIES FOR FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   (A)   If the owner of any structure shall fail to comply with an order of
the Fire Chief or Code Enforcement Officer within the time specified therein,
the Fire Chief or Code Enforcement Officer may submit to the Board of
Alderpersons at its next regular meeting a resolution directing the Town
Attorney to petition the superior court for an order directing the owner to
comply with the order of the Fire Chief or Code Enforcement Officer, as
authorized by G.S. § 160A-446(g).
   (B)   After failure of an owner of a structure to comply with an order of
the Fire Chief or Code Enforcement Officer within the time specified therein,
if injunctive relief has not been sought or has not been granted as provided in
division (A) above, the Fire Chief or Code Enforcement Officer shall submit to
the Board of Alderpersons an ordinance ordering the Fire Chief or Code
Enforcement Officer to cause the structure to be removed or demolished, as
provided in the original order of the Fire Chief or Code Enforcement Officer,
and pending the removal or demolition, to placard the dwelling as provided by
G.S. § 160A-443.
(Ord. passed 11-17-2003)
§ 95.10  PROCEDURE FOR IN REM REMEDY.
   (A)   After failure of an owner of a structure to comply with an order of
the Fire Chief or Code Enforcement Officer issued pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter, and upon adoption by the Board of Alderpersons of a chapter
authorizing and directing him or her to do so, as provided by G.S. § 160A-443
(5) and §
95.09 of this chapter. The Fire Chief or Code Enforcement Officer shall proceed
to cause the structure either to be repaired or else removed or demolished, as
directed by the ordinance of the Board of Alderpersons and shall cause to be
posted on the main entrance of the structure a placard prohibiting the use or
occupation of the structure. Use or occupation of a building so posted shall
constitute a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Each ordinance shall be recorded in the office of the Register of
Deeds of the county, and shall be indexed in the name of the property owner in
the grantor index, as provided by G.S. § 160A-443(5).
(Ord. passed 11-17-2003)
§ 95.11  COST OF PROCEDURE AS PROPERTY LIEN.
   As provided by G.S. § 160A-443(6), the amount of the cost of any removal or
demolition caused to be made or done by the Fire Chief or Code Enforcement
Officer pursuant to this chapter shall be a lien against the real property upon
which the cost was incurred.  The lien shall be filed, have the same priority
and be enforced and the costs collected as provided by G.S. Chapter 160A,
Article 10.
(Ord. passed 11-17-2003)
§ 95.12  ALTERNATIVE REMEDIES PERMITTED.
   Neither this chapter, nor any of its provisions, shall be construed to
impair or limit, in any way, the power of the town to define and declare
nuisances and to cause their abatement by summary action or otherwise, or to
enforce this chapter by criminal process, and the enforcement of any remedy
herein shall not prevent the enforcement of any other remedy or remedies
provided herein or in other chapters or laws.
(Ord. passed 11-17-2003)
CHAPTER 96:  MINIMUM HOUSING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
96.01   Title; authority; purpose
   
96.02   Jurisdiction
   
96.03   Definitions
   
96.04   Conflict of laws
Administration
   
96.15   Enforcement by Housing Inspector
   
96.16   Powers
   
96.17   Limitation on liability
Standards and Requirements
   
96.30   Minimum fitness standards for habitation
   
96.31   Owner and occupant responsibilities
Enforcement Procedure
   
96.45   Investigation; notice of charges; hearing
   
96.46   Methods of service of process
   
96.47   Post hearing order
   
96.48   Appeal from order
   
96.49   Remedies for failure to comply with order
   
96.50   Costs as lien
   
96.51   Nuisance abatement right preserved
   
96.52   Violations
 
   
96.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Forms
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 96.01  TITLE; AUTHORITY; PURPOSE.
   (A)   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Minimum Housing
Code of the Town of Landis, North Carolina”.
(Prior Code, § 17-1)
   (B)   The enactment of this chapter is authorized pursuant to G.S. Chapter
160A, Article 19, Part 6. It is hereby found and declared that there exists in
the town dwellings which are unfit for human habitation due to dilapidation or
defects, increasing the hazards of fire, accidents and other calamities, lack
of ventilation, light and sanitary conditions, and due to other conditions
rendering the dwelling unsafe or unsanitary, and dangerous and detrimental to
the health, safety and morals, and otherwise inimical to the welfare of the
residents of the town.
   (C)   In order to protect the health, safety and welfare of the residents of
the town, it is the purpose of this chapter to establish minimum standards of
fitness for the occupancy of all buildings used for human habitation, as
expressly authorized by G.S. §§ 160A-441 through 160A-450.
(Prior Code, § 17-2)
§ 96.02  JURISDICTION.
   (A)   This chapter shall govern the administration and enforcement of the
minimum housing requirements for any building designed for human habitation
lying within the corporate limits of the town  and the Partee Road CDBG Target
Area, the Partee Road CDBG Target Area is specifically described as follows:
      Beginning at a point, the point being the intersection of the Landis
corporate limits with the eastern boundary line of Parcel 44-1, Map 130, China
Grove Township; thence in a northern direction along the eastern boundary of
Parcel 44-1 to point of intercept, the southeast corner of Parcel 203; thence
in a northern direction along the eastern boundary of Parcel 203 to point of
intercept, the southeast corner of Parcel 43, Map 130-A, China Grove Township;
thence in a northern direction along the eastern boundaries of Parcels 43, 42,
41, 40, 39, 38, 36-1, and 37, Map 130A, China Grove Township to point of
intercept, the northeast corner of Parcel 37 where it intersects with the
southern right of fray line of McNeely Street; thence in a northern direction
continuing in a straight line across the right-of-way of McNeely Street, to
point of intercept, where the southeastern corner of Parcel 34, Map 130-A,
China Grove Township, intersects with the northern right-of-way line of McNeely
Street;  thence in a northern direction along the eastern boundaries of Parcels
34 and 32 to point of intercept, the point where the northeast corner of Parcel
32 intersects with the southern right-of-way line of Partee Road Ext. (S.R.
1213); thence continuing in a northern direction and in a straight line
crossing the right-of-way of Partee Road Ext. (S.R. 1213) to point of
intercept, the point where the extended straight line intersects with the
southern boundary line of Parcel 31, Map 130, China Grove Township; thence in
an eastern direction along the southern boundary of Parcel 31 to point of
intercept, the southeast corner of Parcel 31; thence in a northern direction
along the eastern boundary of Parcel 31 to point of intercept, the northeast
corner of Parcel 31; thence in a northwestern direction along the north
boundaries of Parcel 31, 30, 29-1, 29 and 28 to point of intercept, the
northwestern most corner of Parcel 28, Map 130, China Grove Township; thence in
a southern direction along the western most boundary line of Parcel 28 to point
of intercept, the northeast corner of Parcel 8-1, Map 121, China Grove
Township; thence in a western direction along the northern boundary of Parcel
8-1 to point of intercept, the northwest boundary of Parcel 8-1; thence in a
southern direction along the western boundaries of Parcels 8-1, 9, 9-1, 10, 10-
1 to point of intercept, the southwest corner of Parcel 10-1 where it
intersects with the northern right-of-way line of an unnamed street; thence in
a southern direction extending in a straight line crossing the right-of-way of
the unnamed street to point of intercept, the northwest corner of Parcel 164,
Map 121, China Grove Township; thence in a southern direction along the western
boundary lines of Parcels 164 and 11-1 to point of intercept, the southwest
corner of Parcel 11-1; thence in an eastern direction along the northern
boundary line of Parcel 160 to point of intercept, the eastern most corner of
Parcel 160; thence in a southwestern direction along the southern boundary line
of Parcel 160 to point of intercept, the northwest corner of Parcel 10-3, Map
130, China Grove Township; thence in a southeastern direction along the western
boundary of Parcel 10-3 to point of intercept, the southwest corner of Parcel
10-3; thence in an eastern direction along the southern boundary line of Parcel
10-3 to point of intercept, the northeast corner of Parcel 9, Map 130, China
Grove Township; thence in a southern direction along the eastern boundary line
of Parcel 9 to point of intercept, the northern most corner of Parcel 12;
thence in a southeastern direction along the eastern boundary line of Parcel 12
to point of intercept, the point where the corporate limits of the town crosses
the eastern boundary line of Parcel 12; thence in a northeastern direction
along the corporate limits of the town to point of intercept, the point where
the corporate limits intersect with the eastern boundary line of Parcel 44-1,
Map 130, the point of beginning.
(Prior Code, § 17-3)
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter shall apply only to vacant dwellings
and dwellings as they become vacant which are designed for human habitation, to
buildings for which a petition is filed with the Housing Inspector by at least
five town residents or by a public authority charging that a dwelling is unfit
for human habitation, and requests made by the Board of Alderpersons.
(Prior Code, § 17-4)
§ 96.03  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASEMENT.  A portion of a building which is located partly underground,
having direct access to light and air from windows located above the level of
the adjoining ground.
   CELLAR.  A portion of a building located partly or wholly underground having
an inadequate access to light and air from windows located partly or wholly
below the level of the adjoining ground.
   CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.  A permit issued by the Director of Inspections or
his or her designated agents, certifying that the named dwelling or dwelling
unit complies with the minimum requirements of this chapter.
   DETERIORATED.  A dwelling is unfit for human habitation and can be repaired,
altered or improved to comply with all of the minimum standards established by
this chapter at a cost not in excess of 50% of its replacement value, as
determined by finding of the Inspector.
   DILAPIDATED.  A dwelling is unfit for human habitation and cannot be
repaired, altered or improved to comply with all of the minimum standards
established by this chapter at a cost in excess of 50% of its replacement
value, determined by finding of the Inspector.
   DWELLING.  Any building which is wholly or partly used or intended to be
used for living or sleeping by human occupants; provided that, temporary
housing, as hereinafter defined, shall not be regarded as a DWELLING.
   DWELLING UNIT.  Any room, or group of rooms located within a dwelling and
forming a single habitable unit with facilities which are used or intended to
be used for living, sleeping, cooking and eating. The terms DWELLING and
DWELLING UNITS shall be interchangeable pursuant to their application in this
chapter.
   EXTERMINATION.  The control and elimination of insects, rodents or other
pests by eliminating their harborage places, by removing or making inaccessible
materials that may serve as their food or by poisoning, spraying, fumigating,
trapping or by any other recognized and legal pest elimination methods approved
by the Inspector.
   GARBAGE.  The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   HABITABLE ROOM.  A room or enclosed floor space used or intended to be used
for living, sleeping, cooking or eating purposes, excluding bathrooms, water
closet compartments, laundries, heater rooms, foyers or communicating
corridors, closets and storage spaces.
   INFESTATION.  The presence, within or around a dwelling, of any insects,
rodents or other pests in such number as to constitute a menace to the health,
safety or welfare of the occupants or to the public.
   INSPECTOR.  The Housing Inspector of the town or any agent of the Inspector
who is authorized by the Inspector.
   MULTIPLE DWELLING.  Any dwelling containing more than two dwelling units.
   OCCUPANT.  Any person over one year of age, living, sleeping, cooking or
eating in, or having actual possession of, a dwelling unit or rooming unit.
   OPERATOR.  Any person who has charge, care or control of a building, or part
thereof, in which dwelling units or rooming units are let.
   OWNER.  Any person who alone, or jointly, or severally with others:
      (1)   Shall have title to any dwelling or dwelling unit, with or without
accompanying actual possession thereof; or
      (2)   Shall have charge, care or control of any dwelling or dwelling
unit, as owner or agent of the owner, or as executor, executrix, administrator,
administratrix, trustee or guardian of the estate of the owner. Any  person
thus representing the actual owner shall be bound to comply with the provisions
of this chapter, and of rules and regulations adopted pursuant thereto, to the
same extent as if he or she were the owner.
   PLUMBING.  All of the following supplied facilities and equipment: gas
pipes, gas burning equipment, water pipes, mechanical garbage disposal units
(mechanical sink grinder), waste pipes, water closets, sinks, installed
dishwashers, lavatories, bathtubs, shower baths, installed clothes washing
machines, catch basin, drains, vents and any other similar supplied fixtures,
together with all connections to water, sewer or gas lines.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY.  The County Housing Authority or any officer who is in
charge of any department or branch of the government of the town, the county or
the state relating to health, fire, building regulations or other activities
concerning dwellings in the town.
   ROOMING HOUSE.  Any dwelling, or that part of any dwelling containing one or
more rooming units, in which space is let by the owner or operator to three or
more persons who are not husband and wife, son or daughter, mother or father or
sister or brother of the owner or operator.
   ROOMING UNIT.  Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit
used or intended to be used for living and sleeping, but not for cooking or
eating purposes.
   RUBBISH.  Combustible and noncombustible waste materials, except garbage and
ashes, and the term shall include paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood, excelsior,
rubber, leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, tin cans, metals, mineral
matter, glass, crockery and dust.
   SKYLIGHT.  An overhead window admitting light and/or air.
   SUPPLIED.  Paid for, furnished, provided by or under the control of the
owner or operator.
   TEMPORARY HOUSING.  Any tent, trailer or other structure used for human
shelter which is designed to be transportable and which is not attached to the
ground, to another structure or to any utilities system on the same premises
for more than 30 consecutive days.
   THIMBLE.  The terra cotta material lining the masonry construction of a
flue.
   UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION.  Conditions that exist in a dwelling which
violate or do not comply with one or more of the minimum standards of fitness
or one or more of the requirements established by this chapter.
   WINDOW.  An opening constructed in a wall or roof and functioning to admit
light or air to the structure, framed and spanned with glass mounted to permit
opening and closing.
(Prior Code, § 17-5)
§ 96.04  CONFLICT OF LAWS.
   In the event any provision, standard or requirement of this chapter is found
to be in conflict with any provision of any other ordinance or code of the
town, the provisions which established the higher standard or more stringent
requirement for the promotion and protection of the health and safety of the
residents of the town shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 17-22)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 96.15  ENFORCEMENT BY HOUSING INSPECTOR.
   The Director of Public Works is hereby designated the public officer to
exercise, by and through his or her duly appointed agents, the duties and
powers of this chapter and shall hold the title of Housing Inspector. The Rowan
County Code Enforcement Department hereby has authority to make inspections.
(Prior Code, § 17-6)
§ 96.16  POWERS.
   (A)   The Inspector shall have authority to request advice and assistance of
any public authority he or she may deem appropriate concerning condition and
location of substandard housing.
(Prior Code, § 17-7)
   (B)   The Inspector may determine that buildings are substandard and unfit
for human habitation if he or she finds, on the basis of the standards and
requirements set forth in this chapter, that conditions exist in the buildings
which are dangerous to the health, safety or welfare of occupants of the
buildings, the occupants of neighboring buildings or other residents of the
town.
(Prior Code, § 17-8)
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Housing Inspector to examine dwellings and
buildings within the jurisdiction and authority of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 17-13)
   (D)   The Housing Inspector is authorized to exercise the powers as may be
necessary to effectuate the purposes and provisions of this chapter, including
the following powers in addition to others also granted:
      (1)   To investigate the dwelling conditions, and to inspect dwellings
and dwelling units located in the town in order to determine which dwellings
and dwelling units are unfit for human habitation, and for the purpose, of
carrying out the objectives of this chapter with respect to the repair, closing
or demolition of the dwellings and dwelling units;
      (2)   To take such action, together with other appropriate departments
and agencies, public and private, as may be necessary to effect rehabilitation
of housing which is deteriorated;
      (3)   To keep a record of the results of inspections made under this
chapter and an inventory of those dwellings that do not meet the minimum
standards of fitness herein prescribed;
      (4)   To administer oaths and affirmations, examine witnesses and receive
evidence;
      (5)   To enter upon premises for the purpose of making examinations and
inspections; provided, the entries shall be made in accordance with this
division (D) and state law, and shall be made in a manner as to cause the least
possible inconvenience to the persons in possession;
      (6)   To appoint and fix the duties of the officers, agents and employees
as he or she deems necessary to assist in carrying out the purposes of this
chapter, and to delegate any of his or her functions and powers to the
officers, agents and employees; and
      (7)   To perform the other duties as may be prescribed herein or by the
Board of Alderpersons.
(Prior Code, § 17-14)
§ 96.17  LIMITATION ON LIABILITY.
   Except as may otherwise be provided by statute or local ordinance, no
officer, agent or employee of the town charged with the enforcement of the
minimum housing ordinance shall be personally liable for any damage that may
accrue to property or persons as a result of any act required or permitted in
the discharge of his or her duties under this chapter. No person who
institutes, or assists in the prosecution of, a criminal proceeding under this
chapter shall be liable to damages hereunder unless he or she acted with malice
and without reasonable grounds for believing that the person accused or
prosecuted was guilty of an unlawful act or omission.
(Prior Code, § 17-9)
STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS
§ 96.30  MINIMUM FITNESS STANDARDS FOR HABITATION.
   The following shall constitute the minimum standards and requirements for
buildings and shall be pertinent in determining fitness for human habitation.
   (A)   Space and use requirements.
      (1)   Any building, or portion thereof, used for human habitation shall
not be less than 350 square feet total floor space.
      (2)   At least one-half of the floor area of every habitable room shall
have a ceiling height of not less than seven feet and six inches.
      (3)   Floor area shall be calculated on the basis of habitable room area.
The floor area of any part of any room where the ceiling height is less than
five feet shall not be considered as part of the floor area computing the total
area of the room to determine maximum permissible occupancy.
      (4)   No cellar shall be used for living purposes.
      (5)   No basement shall be used for living purposes unless:
         (a)   The floor and walls are substantially watertight; or
         (b)   The total window area, total openable window area and ceiling
height are equal to those required for habitable rooms.
   (B)   Light and ventilation requirements.
      (1)   Every habitable room shall have at least one window or skylight
facing directly to the outdoors. The minimum total window area for every
habitable room shall be 10% of the floor area of the room. Whenever the only
window is a skylight-type window in the top of the room, the total window area
of the skylight shall be at least 15% of the total floor area of the room.
      (2)   Every habitable room shall have at least one window or skylight
which can easily be opened or the other device as will adequately ventilate the
room. The total openable window area in every habitable room shall be equal to
at least 4% of the minimum window area size or minimum skylight-type window
size as required, or shall have other approved, equivalent ventilation.
   (C)   Exit requirements.
      (1)   There shall be two main exits, each at least 30 inches wide and six
feet and eight inches high, easily accessible to the occupants. All exit doors
shall be easily operable and remotely located from one another.
      (2)   There shall be platforms, steps and/or handrails provided and
accessible to grade to serve as exits and they shall be maintained in safe
condition.
      (3)   There shall be a safe and unobstructed exit from the interior of
the building to the exterior of the building.
   (D)   Plumbing requirements.
      (1)   Each dwelling unit shall be connected to a potable water supply and
to a public sewer system or other approved sanitary sewer system.
      (2)   Each dwelling unit shall contain not less than a kitchen sink,
lavatory, tub or shower, water closet, and a supply of both cold water and hot
water. All water shall be supplied through an approved pipe distribution system
connected to a potable water supply.
      (3)   All plumbing fixtures shall conform to the standards of the Town
Plumbing Code and shall be maintained in a state of good repair and working
order.
      (4)   All required plumbing fixtures shall be located within the dwelling
unit and be accessible to the occupants of same. The tub or shower shall be
located in a room or rooms affording privacy to the user.
   (E)   Heating requirements.
      (1)    Every dwelling unit shall be weatherproof and capable of being
adequately heated, and the heating equipment in every dwelling unit shall be in
a state of good repair and working order.
      (2)   Heating system shall be properly installed and maintained in good
and safe working conditions and capable of safely and adequately heating all
habitable rooms, bathrooms and water closet compartments in an occupied
building to a temperature of at least 70ºF at a distance of three feet above
floor level with an outside temperature at 20ºF.
      (3)   All gas and oil heating equipment shall be listed by Underwriters
Laboratories or American Gas Association and installed with the provisions of
the Town Heating Code.
      (4)   Liquid fuel stored on the premises shall be stored in accordance
with the provisions of the Town Fire Prevention Code.
      (5)   There shall be no loose bricks in chimneys.
      (6)   There shall be no holes in flues.
      (7)   There shall be no hanging masonry chimneys.
      (8)   Thimbles shall be grouted in tightly.
      (9)   Thimbles shall not be broken or cracked.
      (10)   Thimbles shall be high enough for stovepipe to rise one-fourth
inch per foot minimum.
      (11)   Hearth, where required, shall be at least 16 inches deep and six
inches beyond each side of fireplace opening.
      (12)   No combustible materials shall be within seven inches of the top
and seven inches of either side of fireplace opening.
      (13)   If fireplace opening is closed, it shall be a masonry closure.
      (14)   Stove shall be within six feet of thimble serving the stove.
      (15)   No combustible material shall be within 12 inches of stovepipe.
      (16)   No stovepipe shall be through combustible walls.
      (17)   In apartment buildings, institutional buildings and rooming houses
with central heat, the furnace room shall be enclosed with material having at
least a one-hour protection rating.
   (F)   Electrical requirements.
      (1)   Every dwelling shall be wired for electric lights and convenience
receptacles. Every habitable room shall contain at least two floor- or wall-
type electric convenience receptacles, connected in the manner prescribed by
the Town Electrical Code. There shall be installed in every bathroom, water
closet room, laundry room and furnace room at least one electric light fixture.
      (2)   Every public hall and stairway in every multiple dwelling shall be
adequately lighted by electric lights at all times when natural daylight is not
sufficient.
      (3)   All fixtures, receptacles, equipment and wiring shall be maintained
in a state of good repair, safe, capable of use and installed in accordance
with the Town Electrical Code.
   (G)   Structural requirements.
      (1)   Walls or partitions or supporting members, sills, joists, rafters
or other structural members shall not list, lean or buckle and shall not be
rotted, deteriorated or damaged, and shall not have holes or cracks which might
admit rodents.
      (2)   Floors or roofs shall have adequate supporting members and strength
to be reasonably safe for the purpose used.
      (3)   Foundations, foundation walls, piers or other foundation supports
shall not be deteriorated or damaged.
      (4)   Steps, stairs, landings, porches or other parts or appurtenances
shall be maintained in the condition that they will not fall or collapse.
      (5)   Interior walls and ceilings of all rooms, closets and hallways
shall be finished of suitable materials, which will by use of reasonable
household methods promote sanitation and cleanliness, and shall be maintained
in the  manner so as to enable the occupants to maintain reasonable privacy
between various spaces.
      (6)   The roof flashings, exterior walls, basement walls, floors and all
doors and windows exposed to the weather shall be constructed and maintained so
as to be weather and watertight.
      (7)   There shall be no use of the ground for floors or wood floors on
the ground.
   (H)   Property maintenance.
      (1)   Every foundation wall, exterior wall and exterior roof shall be
substantially weathertight and rodent proof, shall be kept in sound condition
and good repair, shall be capable of affording privacy and shall be safe to use
and capable of supporting the load which normal use may cause to be placed
thereon. Every exterior wall shall be protected with paint or other protective
covering to prevent the entrance or penetration of moisture or weather.
      (2)   Every floor, interior wall and ceiling shall be substantially
watertight and rodent proof; and shall be kept in sound condition and good
repair.
      (3)   Every window, exterior door, basement or cellar door and hatchway
shall be substantially watertight and rodent proof and shall be kept in sound
working condition and good repair.
      (4)   Every outside and inside stair, porch and any appurtenance thereto
shall be safe and capable of supporting the load that normal use may place
thereon and shall be kept in sound condition and good repair.
      (5) Every bathroom floor surface and water closet compartment floor
surface shall be constructed and maintained so as to be reasonably impervious
to water and so as to permit the floor to be easily kept in a safe and sanitary
condition.
      (6)   Every yard shall be properly graded so as to maintain thorough
drainage and so as to prevent the accumulation of stagnant water.
      (7)   Every yard and all exterior property areas shall be kept free of
species of weeds or plant growth which are noxious or detrimental to health.
      (8)   In every dwelling unit windows and doors opening to the outdoors
shall have screens and shall be properly maintained.
      (9)   Grounds and buildings shall be maintained free of infestation of
rodents and/or insects.
      (10)    There shall be adequate sanitary facilities and methods provided
and used for the storage, handling and disposal of garbage and rubbish. These
methods and facilities shall comply with all sanitary and public health
requirements of the town and the County Health Department.
(Prior Code, § 17-10)
§ 96.31  OWNER AND OCCUPANT RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Every occupant of a dwelling unit or an apartment shall:
      (1)   Keep in a clean and sanitary condition that part of the dwelling,
dwelling unit and premises thereof in which he or she occupies and controls;
      (2)    Dispose of all his or her rubbish and garbage in a clean and
sanitary manner by placing it in the supplied storage facilities;
      (3)   Keep all supplied plumbing fixtures therein in a clean and sanitary
condition and shall be responsible for the exercise of reasonable care in the
proper use and operation of same; and
      (4)   Not willfully destroy, deface or impair any of the facilities or
equipment, or any part of the structure of a dwelling or dwelling unit.
(Prior Code, § 17-11)
   (B)   An owner remains liable for violations of this subchapter even though:
      (1)   An obligation is also imposed on the occupants; and
      (2)   The owner has, by agreement, imposed on the occupant the duty of
furnishing required equipment or of complying with this chapter.
   (C)   An owner of a dwelling containing two or more dwelling units shall be
responsible for maintaining in a clean and sanitary condition the shared or
public areas of the dwelling and premises thereof.
(Prior Code, § 17-12)
   (D)   For the purpose of making inspections, the Housing Inspector is
authorized to enter, examine and survey at reasonable times all dwellings,
dwelling units, rooming houses and premises. The owner or occupant of every
dwelling, or rooming unit, or person responsible shall give the Inspector free
access to the dwelling, or rooming unit, and its premises at reasonable times
for the aforementioned purposes. Every occupant of a dwelling shall give the
owner thereof, or his or her agent or employee, access to any part of the
dwelling, and its premises, at reasonable times for the purpose of making the
repairs or alterations as necessary to effect compliance with the provisions of
this chapter or with any lawful order issued pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 17-15)
ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURE
§ 96.45  INVESTIGATION; NOTICE OF CHARGES; HEARING.
   Whenever a petition is filed with the Inspector by a public authority or by
at least five residents of the town charging that any dwelling or dwelling unit
is unfit for human habitation, or whenever it appears to the Inspector, upon
inspection, that any dwelling or dwelling unit is unfit for human habitation,
he or she shall, if his or her preliminary investigation discloses a basis for
the charges, issue and cause to be served upon the owner of and parties in
interest in the dwelling or dwelling unit a complaint stating the charges and
containing a notice that a hearing will be held before the Inspector at a place
therein fixed, not less than ten nor more than 30 days after the serving of the
complaint. The owner or any party in interest shall have the right to file an
answer to the complaint and to appear in person, or otherwise, and give
testimony at the place and time fixed in the complaint. Notice of the hearing
shall also be given to at least one of the persons signing a petition relating
to the dwelling. Any person desiring to do so may attend the hearing and give
evidence relevant in courts of law or equity shall not be controlling in
hearings before the Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 17-16.1)
§ 96.46  METHODS OF SERVICE OF PROCESS.
   Complaints or orders issued by the Inspector shall be served upon persons
either personally or by registered or certified mail. If the whereabouts of the
persons are unknown and the same cannot be ascertained by the Inspector in the
exercise of reasonable diligence, the Inspector shall make an affidavit to that
effect, and the serving of the complaint or order upon the person may be made
by publishing the same at least once no later than the time at which personal
service would be required under the provisions of this chapter in a newspaper
having general circulation in the town. Where service is made by publication, a
notice of the pending proceedings shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the
premises affected by the complaint or order.
(Prior Code, § 17-17)
§ 96.47  POST HEARING ORDER.
   After the notice and hearing, the Inspector shall state, in writing, his or
her determination whether the dwelling or dwelling unit is unfit for human
habitation and, if so, whether it is deteriorated or dilapidated.
   (A)   If the Inspector determines that the dwelling or dwelling unit is
deteriorated, he or she shall state, in writing, his or her findings of fact in
support of the determination, and shall issue and cause to be served upon the
owner thereof an order directing and requiring the owner to repair, alter or
improve the dwelling or dwelling unit to comply with the minimum standards of
fitness established by this chapter within a specified period of time, not to
exceed 90 days. The order may also direct and require the owner to vacate and
close the dwelling or dwelling unit until these repairs, alterations and
improvements have been made.
   (B)   If the Inspector determines that the dwelling is dilapidated, he or
she shall state in writing his  or her findings of fact to support the
determination, and shall issue and cause to be served upon the owner thereof an
order directing and requiring the owner either to repair, alter or improve the
dwelling or dwelling unit to comply with the minimum standards of fitness
established by this chapter, or else to vacate and remove or demolish the same
within a specified period of time not to exceed 90 days.
(Prior Code, § 17-16.2)
§ 96.48  APPEAL FROM ORDER.
   (A)   Inspector.
      (1)   An appeal from any decision or order of the Inspector may be taken
by any person aggrieved thereby. Any appeal from the Inspector shall be taken
within ten days from the rendering of the decision or service of the order and
shall be taken by filing with the Inspector and with the Zoning Board of
Adjustment a notice of appeal, which shall specify the grounds upon which the
appeal is based. Upon the filing of any notice of appeal, the Inspector shall
forthwith transmit to the Board all the papers constituting the record upon
which the decision appealed from was made. When an appeal is from a decision of
the Inspector refusing to allow the person aggrieved thereby to do any act, his
or her decision shall remain in force until modified or reversed. When an
appeal is from a decision of the Inspector requiring the person aggrieved to do
any act, the appeal shall have the effect of suspending the requirement until
the hearing by the Board, unless the Inspector certifies to the Board, after
the notice of appeal is filed with him or her, that by reason of the facts
stated in the certificate (a copy of which shall be furnished the appellant), a
suspension of his or her requirement would cause imminent peril to life or
property, in which case the requirement shall not be suspended except for due
cause shown upon not less than one day’s written notice to the Inspector, by
the Board, or by a court of record upon petition made pursuant to G.S. § 160A-
446(f) and division (B) of this section.
      (2)   The Board shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of all
appeals, shall give due notice to all the parties and shall render its decision
within a reasonable time. Any party may appear in person or by agent or
attorney. The Board may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the
decision or order appealed from, and may make such decision and order as, in
its opinion, ought to be made in the matter and, to that end, it shall have all
the powers of the Inspector, but the concurring vote of four members of the
Board shall be necessary to reverse or modify any decision or order of the
Inspector. The Board shall have power also in passing upon appeals, in any case
where there are practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships in the way of
carrying out the strict letter of the chapter, to adapt the application of the
chapter to the necessities of the case to the end that the spirit of the
ordinance shall be observed, public safety and welfare secured and substantial
justice done.
      (3)   Every decision of the Board shall be subject to review by
proceedings in the nature of certiorari instituted within 15 days of the
decision of the Board, but not otherwise.
(Prior Code, 17-16.4)
   (B)   Petition to Superior Court by owner.  Any person aggrieved by an order
issued by the Inspector or a decision rendered by the Board shall have the
right, within 30 days after issuance of the order or rendering of the decision,
to petition the Superior Court for a temporary injunction restraining the
Inspector pending a final disposition of the cause, as provided by G.S. § 160A-
446(f).
(Prior Code, § 17-16.5)
   (C)   Zoning Board of Adjustment to hear appeals.
      (1)   All, appeals which may be taken from decisions or orders of the
Inspector pursuant to this section shall be heard and determined by the Zoning
Board of Adjustment. As the appeals body, the Board shall have the power to fix
the times and places of its meetings, to adopt necessary rules of procedure and
any other rules and regulations which may be necessary for the proper discharge
of its duties. The Board shall perform the duties prescribed by §
96.48 and shall keep an accurate journal of all its proceedings.
      (2)   If the Zoning Board of Adjustment consists of more than five
members, the chairperson shall designate five members to hear appeals under
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 17-21)
§ 96.49  REMEDIES FOR FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH ORDER.
   (A)   If the owner of any deteriorated dwelling or dwelling unit shall fail
to comply with an order of the Inspector to repair, alter or improve or to
vacate and close the same within the time specified therein, or if the owner of
a dilapidated dwelling or dwelling unit shall fail, to comply with an order of
the Inspector to repair, alter or improve or to vacate and close and remove or
demolish the same within the time specified therein, the inspector shall submit
to the Board of Alderpersons at its next regular meeting a resolution directing
the Town Attorney to petition the superior court for an order directing the
owner to comply with the order of the Inspector, as authorized by G.S. § 160A-
446(g).
   (B)   After failure of an owner of a deteriorated or dilapidated dwelling or
dwelling unit to comply with an order of the Inspector within the time
specified therein, if injunctive relief has not been sought or has not been
granted as provided in division (A) above, the Inspector shall submit to the
Board of Alderpersons an ordinance ordering the Inspector to cause such
dwelling or dwelling unit to be repaired, altered, improved, vacated, closed,
removed or demolished, as provided in the original order of the Inspector, and
pending removal or demolition, to place a placard on the dwelling as provided
by G.S. § 160A-443 and this section.
(Prior Code, § 17-16.3)
   (C)   After failure of an owner of a dwelling or dwelling unit to comply
with an order of the Inspector issued pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter, and upon adoption by the Board of Alderpersons of an ordinance
authorizing and directing him or her to do so, as provided by G.S. § 160A-443
(5) and this section, the Inspector shall proceed to cause the dwelling or
dwelling unit to be repaired, altered or improved to comply with the minimum
standards of fitness established by this chapter, or to be vacated and closed
and removed or demolished, as directed by the ordinance of the Board of
Alderpersons, and shall cause to be posted on the main entrance of such
dwelling or dwelling unit a placard with the following words: “This building is
unfit for human habitation; the use or occupation of this building for human
habitation is prohibited and unlawful.” Occupation of a building so posted
shall constitute a misdemeanor.
   (D)   Each ordinance shall be recorded in the office of the Register of
Deeds in the county wherein the property is located, and shall be indexed in
the name of the property owner in the grantor index, as provided by G.S. §
160A-443(5).
(Prior Code, § 17-18)
§ 96.50  COSTS AS LIEN.
   As provided by G.S. § 160A-443(6), the cost of any repairs, alterations or
improvements, or of vacating and closing, or removal or demolition, caused to
be made or done by the Inspector pursuant to §
96.49 of this chapter shall be a lien against the real property upon which the
cost was incurred. The lien shall be filed, having priority, and be collected
in the same manner as the lien for special assessments established by G.S.
Chapter 160A, Article 10.
(Prior Code, § 17-19)
§ 96.51  NUISANCE ABATEMENT RIGHT PRESERVED.
   Neither this chapter nor any of its provisions shall be construed to limit
or, in any way, impair, the power of the town to define and declare nuisances
and to cause their abatement by summary action or otherwise, or to enforce this
chapter by the criminal process as authorized by G.S. § 14-4 and §
96.04 of this chapter, and the enforcement of any remedy provided herein shall
not prevent the enforcement of any other remedy or remedies provided herein or
in other ordinances or laws.
(Prior Code, § 17-20)
§ 96.52  VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dwelling or dwelling unit to
fail, neglect or refuse to repair, alter, or improve the same, or to vacate and
close and remove or demolish the same, upon order of the Inspector duly made
and served as herein provided, within the time specified in the order. Each day
that any such failure, neglect or refusal to comply with such order continues
shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
(Prior Code, § 17-23.1)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dwelling or dwelling unit,
with respect to which an order has been issued pursuant to §§
96.45,
96.47 through
96.49 of this chapter,  to occupy or permit the occupancy of the same after the
time prescribed in the order for its repair, alteration or improvement or its
vacation and closing. Each day that the occupancy continues after the
prescribed time shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
(Prior Code, § 17-23.2)
Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   The violation of any provision of this chapter shall constitute a
misdemeanor, as provided by G.S. § 14-4.
(Prior Code, § 17-23.3)
   (B)   In addition to the penalty established by division (A) of this
section, and the remedies provided by  other provisions of this chapter, this
chapter may be enforced by an appropriate equitable remedy issued by a court of
competent jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 17-23.4)
APPENDIX A:  FORMS
COMPLAINT AND NOTICE OF HEARING BEFORE BUILDING INSPECTOR
UNDER HOUSING CODE
TO:   Owners and parties in interest in the dwelling (unit) located at
________________________
_______ in the (City) (Town) of ___________________________, North Carolina
   YOU ARE HEREBY NOTIFIED that the dwelling (unit) located at the place
designated above is in a condition that appears to be unfit for human
habitation and to violate the (City) (Town) Housing Code in the following ways:
   1.   (Specify the violation and the applicable Housing Code Section.)
   2.   Etc.
   YOU ARE FURTHER NOTIFIED that a hearing will be held before the Building
Inspector of the (City) (Town) of   _____________________________at his office
in the (City) (Town) Hall at___________   o’clock, ___.m. on the _________day
of _________________ , 20_____ (a time not less than ten nor more than 30 days
after serving of the complaint) for the purpose of finding the facts as to
whether or not the condition of such building falls within the scope of the
above-mentioned sections of the Housing Code. At the hearing, you shall be
entitled to offer such evidence which is relevant or material to the questions
sought to be determined or the remedies sought to be effected.
   YOU ARE FURTHER NOTIFIED that if, upon such hearing, the Building Inspector
shall find that the conditions in the above-described dwelling (unit) do in
fact violate the Housing Code, and do in fact render such dwelling (unit) unfit
for human habitation, the Building Inspector will issue an order in writing
directed to the owner of such dwelling (unit) requiring the owner to remedy
these conditions by repairing the same or by vacating, demolishing or removing
the same, or by taking such other steps as may be necessary to remedy these
conditions. The Building Inspector may make such other orders and take such
other procedures as are authorized under the Housing Code and the General
Statutes of North Carolina.
   Further information as to this matter may be obtained by contacting the
undersigned.
This the _________day of __________________, 20_____ .
                                 _________________________________________
                                          BUILDING INSPECTOR
Note: If the whereabouts of an owner are unknown, this affidavit form should be
executed by the Building Inspector prior to publication in a newspaper. This
form can be used in connection with publication of the complaint (Form #1) or
the findings of fact and order (Form #4).
                                    FILE NO. ______________________________
STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA                 )
COUNTY OF_______________________________)      AFFIDAVIT
(CITY)(TOWN) of ___________________________)      SERVICE BY PUBLICATION
IN RE ABANDONED STRUCTURE LOCATED AT ___________________________________
   (Name of Building Inspector), being first duly sworn, deposes and says:
   1.   That he is the Building Inspector of the (City)(Town) of
___________________________,
duly authorized to enforce the (City ) (Town)  Housing Code against the above-
entitled dwelling (unit); and
   2.   That [name of owner(s) of dwelling (unit)] (is) (are) the owner(s) of
the above-entitled dwelling (unit); and
   3.   That, according to the information and belief of the Building
Inspector, the whereabouts of the owner(s) are unknown and cannot be
ascertained by the Building Inspector in the exercise of reasonable diligence;
and
   4.   That service of the (complaint) (findings of fact and order) must be
made by publication in a newspaper having general circulation in the (City)
(Town), as authorized by G.S. § 160A-445.
                                 ________________________________________
                                          BUILDING INSPECTOR
Sworn to and subscribed before me, this, the _________day of
__________________, 20_____.     
                                 _______________________________________                                             NOTARY
PUBLIC
                                 My Commission Expires:
                                 _______________________________________   
   PROOF OF SERVICE
   COMPLAINT AND NOTICE OF HEARING
Service of the attached Complaint and Notice was made on the _________day of
_________________,
20_____,  by:
   1.   Delivering a copy of Complaint and Notice
to_____________________________ at _________________________________
 
   OR
   2.   Mailing a copy of Complaint and Notice by registered or certified mail
to ______________
_____________ at _________________________________
   OR
   3.   The name or whereabouts of the owner were unknown and could not, after
due diligence, be discovered.  This Notice and Complaint was served by
publication after proper affidavit, as authorized by G.S. § 16CA-445 and by
posting a copy thereof on the outside of the dwelling (unit) located at
___________________________________ on the date mentioned above (specify date
of posting if different from above).
________________________________      ___________________________________________
            DATE                           BUILDING INSPECTOR
Note:   If the complaint is served by registered or certified mail, keep the
return receipt with this form. If the complaint is served by publication, keep
the publisher’s affidavit of publication with this form.
   FINDINGS OF FACT AND ORDER
TO:   Owners and parties in interest of the abandoned dwelling (unit) located
at ________ _________________________ in the (City) (Town) of
____________________________, North
Carolina
The undersigned Housing Inspector of the (City) (Town) of
___________________________ ,  pursuant
to law, conducted a hearing at the time and place stated in the Complaint and
Notice heretofore issued and served, or at a time to which the hearing was
continued with previous notice to the above-named owners and parties in
interest or their agents or attorneys. At the hearing, the Answer, if any,
filed by the owners and parties in interest was read and considered, and the
evidence, contentions, and views of the owners and parties in interest were
carefully analyzed and considered by the undersigned. In addition to other
evidence presented, the undersigned personally inspected the dwelling (unit)
described above, and such inspection and examination has been considered, along
with the other evidence offered at this hearing.
Upon the record and all of the evidence offered and contentions made, the
undersigned Building Inspector does hereby find the following facts:
   1.   The above-named owners and parties in interest with respect to the
dwelling (unit) located at the place specified above were duly served as
required by law with written Complaint and Notice of Hearing which set forth
the Complaint that the dwelling (unit) located at the above address is unfit
for human habitation and violative of the (City) (Town) Housing Code, and the
particulars thereof, and fixed a time and place for a hearing upon the
complaint as provided by law. At the hearing, the following owners, persons in
interest, or their agents or attorneys, were present and participated therein: 
(insert
names).
   2. The building described above violates the (City) (Town) Housing Code, by
reason of the following conditions found to be present and to exist in and
about the structure:
      1.   (Specify the violation and applicable Housing Code section.)
      2.   Etc.
   3.   Due to these conditions the building described above is found to be
(deteriorated) (dilapidated) conditioned within the meaning of the City/Town
Housing Code, and to be unfit for human habitation.
IT IS THEREFORE ORDERED that the owners of the dwelling (unit) named above are
required to bring such dwelling (unit) unto compliance with the Housing Code
repairing, altering or improving the deteriorated structure in order to render
it fit for human habitation or by vacating and closing the structure as a human
habitation (repairing), altering or improving the dilapidated structure in
order to render it fit for human habitation by demolishing or removing the
structure from the premises by a date not later than the _________day of
_________________, 20_____.  (A date not more than 90 days from the date of
this order.)
This, the _________day of ___________________, 20_____.
                                 __________________________________________
                                          BUILDING INSPECTOR
NOTE:   If necessary, the Building Inspector’s order may also require the
dwelling or dwelling unit to be vacated and closed until the necessary repairs
are made.
FILE NO. ______________
PROOF OF SERVICE
FINDINGS OF FACT AND ORDER OF BUILDING INSPECTOR
Service of the attached Finding of Fact and Order was made on the _________day
of ___________________, 20 ____, by:
   1.   Delivering a copy of Findings of Fact and Order to
__________________________________
at ____________________________________________________________
   OR
   2.   Mailing a copy of Findings of Fact and Order by certified or registered
mail to ___________
___________________ at
__________________________________________________________
   OR
   3.   The name or whereabouts of the owner were unknown and could not, after
due diligence, be discovered.   This Findings of Fact and Order was served by
publication, after proper affidavit, as authorized by G.S. § 160A-445, and by
posting a copy thereof on the outside of the dwelling located at
________________________________________________________ on the date mentioned
above (specify date of posting, if different from            ).
____________________________________   ___________________________________________
            DATE                           BUILDING INSPECTOR
Note:
   1.   If the findings of fact and order are served by certified or registered
mail, keep the return receipt with this form. If the findings of fact and order
are served by publication, keep the publisher’s affidavit of publication with
this form.
   2.   If the whereabouts of the owner are unknown, publication should not be
undertaken until the Building Inspector has executed an affidavit to that
effect (see Form #12).
FILE NO. _____________
A RESOLUTION DIRECTING THE (CITY)(TOWN) ATTORNEY TO PETITION THE SUPERIOR COURT
FOR AN ORDER REQUIRING THE OWNER OF CERTAIN PROPERTY TO COMPLY WITH THE HOUSING
CODE AND THE ORDER OF THE BUILDING INSPECTOR ISSUED PURSUANT THERETO.
   WHEREAS, the (Governing Body) of the (City) (Town) of
__________________________ finds
that the dwelling herein described is unfit for human habitation under the
provisions of the Housing Code, and that all of the procedures of the Housing
Code have been complied with; and
   WHEREAS the owner of this dwelling has failed to comply with a lawful order
of the Building Inspector to repair the same to meet the requirements of the
Housing Code, or to demolish the same, within the time therein prescribed;
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the (Governing Body) of the (City) (Town)
of _____________________________ that the (City) (Town) Attorney is hereby
authorized and directed to proceed, as authorized by G.S. § 160A-446(g), to
petition the Superior Court of    ______________
County for an order requiring the owner of the dwelling located at
____________________________
___________________________________in the (City) (Town) of
______________________________,
North Carolina to take such steps as may be necessary to comply fully with the
order of the Building Inspector issued on the _________day of
__________________, 20_____.
   Adopted this __________day of ___________________,  20_____.
                                 __________________________________________
                                                MAYOR
ATTEST:
____________________________________
   (C1TY)(TOWN) CLERK
ORDINANCE DIRECTING THE BUILDING INSPECTOR TO REPAIR THE PROPERTY HEREIN
DESCRIBED AS UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION AND DIRECTING THAT A NOTICE BE PLACED
HEREON THAT THE SAME MAY NOT BE OCCUPIED UNTIL REPAIRED.
   WHEREAS, the (Governing Body) of the (City) (Town) of
_____________________________
finds that the dwelling described herein is unfit for human habitation under
the (City) (Town) Housing Code, and that all of the procedures of the Housing
Code have been complied with; and
   WHEREAS, this dwelling should be repaired to meet the requirements of the
Housing Code, as directed by the Building Inspector, and should be placarded by
placing thereon a notice prohibiting use for human habitation; and
   WHEREAS, the owner of this dwelling has been given a reasonable opportunity
to bring the dwelling up to the standards of the Housing Code in accordance
with G.S. § 160A-443(5) pursuant to an order issued by the Building Inspector
on _______________________________________, and the
owner has failed to comply with the order:
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the (Governing Body) of the (City) (Town)
of ____________________________________________________, that:
   Section 1.  The Building Inspector is hereby authorized and directed to
place placard containing the legend:
   “This building is unfit for human habitation; the use or occupation of this
building for human habitation is prohibited and unlawful.”
   In the building located at the following address:
________________________________________
____________
   Section 2.   The Building Inspector is hereby authorized and directed to
proceed to repair, alter or improve and (if necessary) to vacate and close the
above described dwelling in accordance with the order to the owner thereof
dated the __________day of _________________, 20 _____, and in accordance with
the Housing Code and G.S. § 160A-443.
   Section 3.   The cost of repairs, alterations or improvements, or of
vacating and closing shall constitute a lien against the real property upon
which the cost was incurred. The lien shall be filed in the office of the
(City) (Town) Tax Collector, and shall have the same priority and be collected
in the same manner as the lien for special assessments in G.S. Chapter 160A,
Article 10. Upon completion of the required repairs, alterations or
improvements, the Building Inspector shall certify the cost of same to the Tax
Collector.
   Section 4.   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or cause to be
moved the placard from any building to which it is affixed. It shall likewise
be unlawful for any person to occupy or to permit the occupancy of any building
herein declared to be unfit for human habitation.
(Prior Code,  Ch. 17, Appendix)
CHAPTER 97:  PARADES, PUBLIC MEETINGS, DEMONSTRATIONS
Section
   
97.01   Definitions
   
97.02   Permit required for parade or public meeting
   
97.03   Application for permit
   
97.04   Parade hours restricted
   
97.05   Interference with parades or meetings prohibited
   
97.06   Conduct
   
97.07   Picketing, demonstrations permitted
   
97.08   Interference with pickets prohibited
   
97.09   Authority of police to disperse crowd
§ 97.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section.
   MEETING.  Any assembly together or concert of action between or among five
or more persons for the purpose of protesting any matter or of making known any
position or promotion of the persons, or of or on behalf of any organization or
class of persons, or for the purpose of attracting attention to such assembly.
   PARADE or PROCESSION.  Any assemblage of five or more persons participating
in, or three or more vehicles being operated in, any march, ceremony, show,
exhibition or procession of any kind in or upon the public streets, sidewalks,
alleys parks or other public grounds or places, not including a bona fide
funeral procession.
   PERSON.  Any person, firm, corporation, partnership, association or other
organization, whether formal or informal
(Prior Code, § 12-3)
§ 97.02  PERMIT REQUIRED FOR PARADE OR PUBLIC MEETING.
   (A)   No procession or parade shall occupy, march or proceed along any
street, sidewalk or any other public place, nor shall any person conduct any
public or private meeting on any street, sidewalk or other public place in the
town except in accordance with a permit issued by the Chief of Police and such
other regulations as are set forth in this section which may apply.
(Prior Code, § 12-3)
   (B)   The erection (including excavation), demolition, alteration or repair
of any building in a residential or business district other than between 7:00
a.m. and 6:00 p.m., on weekdays, except in the case of urgent necessity in the
interest of public safety and then only with a permit from the Building
Inspector, which permit may be renewed for a period of three days or less while
the emergency continues.
(Prior Code, § 9-8)
§ 97.03  APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   A written application shall be made to the Chief of Police by any
person desiring to have a parade, setting forth the object, time, place and
route of the parade, or the object, time and place of the meeting.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall have authority to designate the route of the
parade and the portion of the streets or other public places to be used in such
a way as to avoid as much as possible the obstruction or impediment of public
travel or public business. The Chief of Police may refuse to issue a permit for
a parade or meeting unless application therefor is filed with him or her at
least 24 hours before the time thereof.
   (C)   In the absence of the Chief of Police, the ranking officer of the
Police Department present shall act in his or her name and stead.
(Prior Code, § 12-3)
§ 97.04  PARADE HOURS RESTRICTED.
   No parade shall be permitted between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.,
local time, and no parade or procession shall commence or continue after sunset
or commence before sunrise.
(Prior Code, § 12-3)
§ 97.05  INTERFERENCE WITH PARADES OR MEETINGS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to physically interfere with
processions, marches or meetings, or with the persons lawfully engaged therein
in the use of any street, sidewalk or other public place, or to address
profane, indecent, abusive or threatening language or other fighting words to
or at the participants which would tend to provoke the participants or others
to a breach of the peace.
(Prior Code, § 12-3)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 97.06  CONDUCT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct or participate in a
parade or meeting of such character, extent and duration, or of the nature, as
to create a public disturbance, or to operate as a nuisance, or to tend to
create or threaten rioting, disorderly conduct or public or private mischief.
(Prior Code, § 12-3)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person conducting or participating in any
parade or meeting to address profane, indecent, abusive or threatening language
or other fighting words to or at any person which would tend to provoke the
person or others to a breach of peace.
(Prior Code, § 12-3)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 97.07  PICKETING, DEMONSTRATIONS PERMITTED.
   Peaceful picketing, including demonstrating, in the furtherance of a lawful
purpose shall be permitted in the town, provided the same is done under the
following conditions.
   (A)   Picketing shall be conducted only on the sidewalks or other town-owned
area normally used or reserved for pedestrian movement, including easements and
rights-of-way, and shall not be conducted on the portion of a street used
primarily for vehicular traffic.
   (B)   Not more than ten pickets promoting the same objective shall be
permitted to use the sidewalks within one block in the town at any one time.
   (C)   The pickets may carry written or printed placards or signs not
exceeding two feet in width and two feet in height promoting the objective for
which the picketing is done, provided the words used are not defamatory in
nature and would not tend to produce violence. The staff on which the placard
is carried shall not exceed 40 inches in length, must be made of wood shall not
exceed three-fourths of an inch in diameter at any point and must be blunt at
each end.
   (D)   Pickets must march in single file and not abreast and may not march
closer together than 15 feet, except in passing one another.
   (E)   If pickets promoting different objectives desire to use the same
sidewalk for picketing and such use would result in the presence of more than
ten pickets thereon, the Chief of Police shall allot time to each group of
pickets for the use of the sidewalk on an equitable basis, but each group shall
be permitted to picket subject to the provisions of this section at least once
every two hours.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any picket to address profane, indecent,
abusive or threatening language to or at any person, which would tend to
provoke the person or others to a breach of the peace.
(Prior Code, § 12-4)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 97.08  INTERFERENCE WITH PICKETS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to physically interfere with the pickets
in the use of the sidewalk or to address profane, indecent, abusive or
threatening language to or at the pickets, which would tend to provoke the
pickets or others to a breach of the peace.
(Prior Code, § 12-4)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 97.09  AUTHORITY OF POLICE TO DISPERSE CROWD.
   The police officers of the town may, in the event of the assemblage of
persons in such numbers as to tend to intimidate pickets pursuing their lawful
objective through numbers alone or through use of inflammatory words, direct
the dispersal of persons so assembled and may arrest any person who fails to
absent himself or herself from the place of the assemblage when so directed by
the Police.
(Prior Code, § 12-4(c))
CHAPTER 98:  PANHANDLING
Section
   
98.01   Aggressive panhandling; pedestrian interference; vehicular interference
   
98.02   Begging
§ 98.01  AGGRESSIVE PANHANDLING; PEDESTRIAN INTERFERENCE; VEHICULAR
INTERFERENCE.
   (A)   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      AGGRESSIVELY BEG.  To beg with the intent to intimidate another person
into giving money, goods, or other property of value to the one begging.
      AUTOMATIC TELLER MACHINE.  A device linked to a financial institution’s
account records that is capable of carrying out transaction(s), including but
not limited to, account transfers, deposits, withdrawals, balance inquiries,
and mortgage and loan payments.
      BEG.  To ask for money, goods or other property of value as a charity,
whether by words, gestures, signs, or other means.
      INTIMIDATE.  To engage in conduct which would make a reasonable person
fearful or feel compelled to act in a certain manner or to achieve a certain
result.
      OBSTRUCT PEDESTRIAN OR VEHICULAR TRAFFIC.  To walk, stand, sit, lie, or
place an object in such a manner as to block passage by another person or by a
vehicle, or to require another person or vehicle to take evasive action to
avoid physical contact.  Acts constituting an exercise of one’s
constitutionally protected right to protest or to express a particular opinion
of legitimate public import shall not constitute obstruction of pedestrian or
vehicular traffic if conducted in a reasonable, safe, and lawful manner.
   (B)   No person shall intentionally obstruct pedestrian or vehicular traffic
while on the street, sidewalk, or other public place, whether publicly or
privately owned, within the limits of the town.
   (C)   No person shall aggressively beg while on the street, sidewalk, or
other public place, whether publicly or privately owned, within the limits of
the town.
   (D)   When determining whether intimidation is present in a person’s words
or actions pursuant to this chapter, the trier of fact shall consider the time
of day, whether the person begging acted alone or in concert with others, the
relative physical size of the persons involved, any stated or implied threat to
the other person, their immediate companions, or any property in their
immediate possession, as well as all other factors affecting consideration of
whether a reasonable person would feel fearful or compelled to give the person
begging either money or other items of value.
   (E)   Proof of any of the following factors shall constitute prima facie
evidence that the begging in question was done with the intent to intimidate
another:
      (1)   That the begging was conducted within 20 feet of the entrance or
exit from a check cashing business.
      (2)   That the begging was conducted within 20 feet of an automated
teller machine as defined herein or the entrance to or exit from an automated
teller machine facility.
      (3)   That the person begging approached the operator or occupant of a
motor vehicle while the vehicle was located on any street and offered to
perform a service, performed a service without prior grant of permission and
then demanded payment for the service, or offered to sell goods or services for
more than their usual or customary value.
      (4)   That the person begging intentionally touched or caused physical
contact with the other person without consent in the course of begging,
followed the other person before, after, or during the course of begging, or
persisted in begging after the other person had given a response that a
reasonable person would understand to be in the negative to the request.
      (5)   That the person begging employed the use of violent or threatening
words, phrases, or gestures toward the other person in the course of begging.
   (F)   Whoever violates division (B) is guilty of pedestrian or vehicular
interference, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.  If a person has been
previously convicted of a violation of division (B) or any other substantially
similar state statute or municipal ordinance, the offense of pedestrian or
vehicular interference is a misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (G)   Whoever violates division (C) is guilty of aggressive panhandling, a
misdemeanor of the third degree.  If a person has been previously convicted of
a violation of division (C) or any other substantially similar state statute or
municipal ordinance, the offense of pedestrian or vehicular interference is a
misdemeanor of the second degree.
(Ord. passed 9-10-2012)
§ 98.02  BEGGING.
   (A)   No person shall wander about and beg in the street, or from house to
house, or sit, stand or take a position in any public place and beg from
passerby either by words, by the exhibition of a sign, by gesture, by singing,
by playing a musical instrument, or by exhibiting such articles as shoestrings,
lead pencils or cheap merchandise of any description.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 9-10-2012)
TITLE XI:  BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   CABLE TELEVISION
      
111.   TAXICABS
      
112.   ADVERTISING
CHAPTER 110:  CABLE TELEVISION
Section
General Provisions
   
110.001   Title and purpose
   
110.002   Definitions
   
110.003   Operation prohibited except by franchise
   
110.004   Request for proposal; form
   
110.005   Severability
Franchise Agreement
   
110.020   Non-exclusive right
   
110.021   Franchisee acknowledgments
   
110.022   Contract duration
   
110.023   Effect at termination of contract
   
110.024   Termination by expiration of contract
   
110.025   Right of revocation reserved
   
110.026   Foreclosure; appointment of trustee or receiver
   
110.027   Transfer of effective ownership or control
   
110.028   Continuation of service
   
110.029   System sale upon revocation or non-renewal
   
110.030   Review sessions
Franchise Service Area
   
110.045   General extension of service
   
110.046   Service outside corporate limits
   
110.047   Special service areas
Payments By Franchisee
   
110.060   Reimbursements
   
110.061   Compensation
Design and Construction
   
110.075   Emergency override; standby power
   
110.076   System standards; signal carriage; channel access
   
110.077   FCC certificate of compliance
   
110.078   Construction in workmanlike manner
   
110.079   Existing pole and conduit usage
   
110.080   Temporary or permanent changes
   
110.081   Authority to order post-construction improvements
   
110.082   Minimum aboveground clearance compliance
   
110.083   Interference with property rights or fixtures prohibited; maps and
records required
   
110.084   Underground installations
   
110.085   Unauthorized equipment; connection prohibited
Business Operations
   
110.100   Current technology required
   
110.101   Office hours; staffing
   
110.102   Service repair
   
110.103   Complaints
   
110.104   Prohibition of sale or service of parts or accessories; antenna and
equipment
   
110.105   Books and records required
   
110.106   Permits, authorizations; FCC certificate of convenience and necessity
   
110.107   Documents submitted to County Manager
   
110.108   Reports
   
110.109   Full legal compliance
Rates and Charges
   
110.120   General provisions
   
110.121   Initial rates and charges; adjustments
   
110.122   Refunds
   
110.123   Advance payments; installation and reconnection charge
   
110.124   State, federal regulation
   
110.125   Public buildings, facilities
   
110.126   Public access programming charges
Franchise Agreement Administration
   
110.140   Limitation of franchisee recourse
   
110.141   Franchisee obligation continuing
   
110.142   Indemnification of town
   
110.143   Insurance
   
110.144   Performance bond; deposit in lieu of
   
110.145   Reservation of rights by town
   
110.146   Franchisee right to appeal
   
110.147   Subscriber list use prohibited
   
110.148   Right of privacy
   
110.149   Non-discriminatory practices
   
110.150   Individual right to appeal
   
110.151   Optional regulatory commission; Town Administrator/Town Clerk duties
 
   
110.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.001  TITLE AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   This chapter shall be known as the “Landis Cable Television
Ordinance”.
(Prior Code, § 4.1-1)
   (B)   It is the purpose and intent of this chapter to provide for the town a
cable television system which will serve present and future needs of the
citizens and general public of the town, government, public institutions,
commercial enterprises and lawful public and private organizations. The system,
in its establishment, construction, operation, maintenance and regulation,
shall be subject to and in compliance with the terms contained in this chapter
and the franchise agreement referred to herein and all pertinent laws, rules,
regulations, orders and policies of the Federal Communications Commission, the
state, the town and all governmental agencies having jurisdiction over the
same.
(Prior Code, § 4.1-2)  (Ord. passed 9-19-1979)
§ 110.002  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section, provided, that
unless the franchise agreement otherwise requires or a different definition
appears below, the terms used in this chapter shall have the meanings ascribed
to them in applicable regulations of the Federal Communications Commission.
   ACCESS CHANNELS.  Those channels required by Federal Communications
Commission regulations which, by the terms of this chapter or the franchise
agreement, are required to be kept available by the franchisee for partial or
total dedication to public access, educational access, local government access
or leased access.
   CABLE TELEVISION SYSTEM.  Any system which operates for hire the service of
receiving and amplifying programs broadcast by one or more television and/or
radio stations and any other programs originated by a cable television company
or by another party and distributing the programs by wire, cable, microwave or
other means to persons who subscribe to the service. The definition does not
include:
      (1)   Any system which serves fewer than 50 subscribers; or
      (2)   Any system which serves only the residents of one or more apartment
dwellings under common ownership, control or management and any commercial
establishment located on the premises of the apartment complex and any hotel or
motel complex and any condominium development and which transmits only signals
broadcast over the air by stations which may be normally viewed or heard
locally without objectionable interference and which does not provide any
additional service over its facilities.
   CONVERTER.  An electronic device, used at a subscriber’s terminal, which
converts signals to a frequency not susceptible to interference and distortion
within the television receiver of a subscriber and which, by an appropriate
channel selector, also permits a subscriber to view all delivered signals at
designated dial locations.
   FCC REGULATIONS.  The present and future valid rules and regulations
promulgated by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and applicable to
cable systems, presently in force or as hereafter amended.
   FRANCHISE and FRANCHISE AGREEMENT.  Authorization granted pursuant to the
terms of this chapter to construct, operate and maintain a cable television
system within all or a specified area of the town. The FRANCHISE shall be
granted in the form of a franchise agreement, which is separate and distinct
from any license or permit required for the franchise ordinance, and, together
with this chapter, shall contain the terms and conditions upon which a cable
television system may be operated in the town and the privilege of transacting
and carrying on a business within the town as required by other ordinances and
laws of the town.
   FRANCHISE AREA.  All of the town outside of the corporate limits of any
city; provided, that no service shall be required to be delivered to
subscribers who reside in areas not having at least 50 residential units per
cable mile for the first year of the franchise and 45 residential units per
cable mile thereafter, according to the schedule in §
110.045(B).
   FRANCHISEE.  The person granted a franchise by the Board of Alderpersons
under this chapter and the lawful successor, transferee or assignee of the
person.
   GROSS RECEIPTS.  Any and all compensations in whatever form, grant, subsidy,
exchange or otherwise, directly or indirectly received by a franchisee, not
including any taxes on services furnished by the franchisee, imposed directly
on any subscriber or user by a city, county, state or other governmental unit
and collected by the franchisee for the entity.
   MONITORING.  Observing a one-way communications signal or the absence of a
signal, where the observer is neither the subscriber nor the programmer,
whether the signal is observed by visual or electronic means for any purposes
whatsoever.
   PROGRAMMER.  Any person who or which produces or otherwise provides program
material for transmission by video, audio, digital or other signals, either
live or from recorded tapes, to subscribers by means of the cable television
system.
   PROPERTY OF FRANCHISEE.  All property owned, installed or used within the
town by a franchisee in the conduct of a cable television system business under
the authority of a franchise granted pursuant to this chapter.
   SERVICE, BASIC. The total of the following:
      (1)   The transmission of all broadcast radio and video channel signals
provided for in this chapter to subscriber terminals;
      (2)   The transmission of the public, educational, local government and
leased access channel signals;
      (3)   The transmission of the local origination channel signals;
      (4)   The transmission of the other cablecast channel signals as are
required by the FCC to match the number of broadcast channel signals being
transmitted;
      (5)   The installation and reconnection of subscriber service outlets;
      (6)   Transmission of color television signals which it receives in
color; and
      (7)   All broadcast signals which may be carried pursuant to the
applicable federal regulations.
   SERVICE,  NONBASIC.  Any communications service other than basic service
provided over its system by the franchisee directly or as a carrier for its
subsidiaries, affiliates or any other person engaged in communications.
   STREET.  The surface of and the space above and below any public street,
right-of-way, highway, freeway, bridge, lane, path, alley, court, sidewalk,
parkway, drive or communications or utility easement, now or hereafter existing
as within the franchise area.
   SUBSCRIBER OR USER.  Any person or entity receiving for any purpose any
service of the franchisee’s cable television system, including, but not limited
to, the conventional cable television system service of retransmission of
television broadcasts, radio signals, the franchisee’s original cablecasting
and the local government, education and public access channels and other
services as leasing of channels, data and facsimile transmission, pay
television and police, fire and similar public service communication.
   SUBSCRIBER SERVICE DROP.  The extension wiring from the franchisee’s
distribution lines to a subscriber’s building.
   TAPPING.  Observing a two-way communications signal exchange, where the
observer is neither of the communicating parties, whether the communications
signal exchange is observed by visual or electronic means for any purpose
whatsoever.
   TOWN ADMINISTRATOR/TOWN CLERK.  The town’s chief administrative officer or
any designee thereof.
(Prior Code, § 4.1-3)  (Ord. passed 9-19-1979)
§ 110.003  OPERATION PROHIBITED EXCEPT BY FRANCHISE.
   No person shall own or operate a cable television system (CATV), or other
system as defined herein, in the town, except by franchise granted by the Board
of Alderpersons to the franchisee, which shall comply with all of the
provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4.1-5(a))  (Ord. passed 9-19-1979)
§ 110.004  REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL; FORM.
   (A)   The Board of Alderpersons may, by advertisement or any other means,
solicit and call for applications for CATV system franchises, determine and fix
any date upon or after which the same shall be received, or the date after
which the same shall not be received and may make any other determinations and
specify any other times, terms, conditions or limitations respecting the
soliciting, calling for, making and receiving of the applications.
   (B)   Proposals and applications shall be submitted in the form specified by
the Town Administrator/Town Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 4.1-6)  (Ord. passed 9-19-1979)
§ 110.005  SEVERABILITY.
   If an section, sentence, clause or phrase of this chapter is held invalid or
unconstitutional, the invalidity or unconstitutionality shall not affect, the
validity of the remainder of this chapter and any portions in conflict are
hereby repealed; provided, that in the event that the FCC declares any section
invalid, the section will be renegotiated by the town and the franchisee.
(Prior Code, § 4.1-4)  (Ord. passed 9-19-1979)
FRANCHISE AGREEMENT
§ 110.020  NON-EXCLUSIVE RIGHT.
   The franchise agreement shall grant to the franchisee the right, privilege
and franchise to construct, operate and maintain a CATV system in the town for
a period of 15 years. The franchise shall not be exclusive and the town
reserves the right to grant a similar franchise to any other entity at any time
during the period of the franchise issued pursuant to this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4.1-5)  (Ord. passed 9-19-1979)
§ 110.021  FRANCHISE ACKNOWLEDGMENTS.
   (A)   The franchise agreement, together with the provisions of this chapter,
shall constitute the terms and conditions upon which the franchisee may
exercise the rights described herein. In the event this chapter or the
franchise agreement conflict with mandatory regulations of the FCC or other
governmental body having jurisdiction, the same shall, only insofar as the
conflict shall exist, be deemed of no effect and the remaining provisions of
this chapter and the agreement shall remain in full force and effect. The
franchise agreement shall contain the representations, warranties and
agreements as shall be agreed upon between the Board and the franchisee. The
applicant awarded a franchise by the Board’s resolution shall execute a
franchise agreement agreeing to the terms and provisions of this chapter, the
proposal and any conditions or provisions that may be negotiated between the
town and the franchisee. In no event shall the terms of the franchise agreement
conflict with any provision of this chapter, FCC regulations or any other law.
   (B)   At the minimum the franchise agreement shall contain representations
by the franchise that:
      (1)   It accepts and agrees to all of the provisions of this chapter and
any supplementary specifications, as to construction, operation or maintenance
of the system, which the Board may include in the franchise agreement;
      (2)   It has examined all of the provisions of this chapter and waives
any claims that any provisions hereof are unreasonable, arbitrary or void;
      (3)   It recognizes the right of the Board to make reasonable amendments
to this chapter or the franchise agreement during the term of the franchise;
provided, that no change shall compromise the franchisee’s ability to perform
satisfactorily its obligations or rights under this chapter or the franchise
agreement. It further recognizes and agrees that the Board shall, in no way, be
bound to renew the franchise at the end of any franchise term; and
      (4)   It acknowledges that its rights hereunder are subject to the police
power of the town to adopt and enforce general ordinances necessary to the
safety and welfare of the public and it agrees to comply with all applicable
general laws enacted by the Board pursuant to the power.
   (C)   In addition, the franchise agreement may contain specific standards
that will be met related to signal quality and technical standards of
construction, operation and maintenance of the system.
(Prior Code, § 4.1-8)
   (D)   Upon award of the franchise by the Board of Alderpersons and following
execution of the franchise agreement, it shall be mandatory for the franchisee
diligently and expeditiously to pursue the construction and operation of a CATV
system for the citizens of the town and following construction of the system,
it shall be mandatory for the franchisee to provide continuous regular service
to its subscribers.
(Prior Code, § 4.1-7)  (Ord. passed 9-19-1979)
§ 110.022  CONTRACT DURATION.
   The franchise and rights therein granted shall take effect and be in force
for a period of 15 years from and after the grant and acceptance date of the
franchise, which shall be effected by the execution of the franchise agreement,
which shall occur not more than 30 days from the adoption of a resolution by
the Board of Alderpersons designating the franchisee, unless the time is
extended by the Alderpersons.
(Prior Code, § 4.1-10)  (Ord. passed 9-19-1979)
§ 110.023  EFFECT AT TERMINATION OF CONTRACT.
    Upon termination of the franchise for whatever reason, including expiration
or revocation, the Board of Alderpersons shall have the right to determine
whether the franchisee shall be eligible to continue to operate and maintain
the CATV system.
(Prior Code, § 4.1-10)  (Ord. passed 9-19-1979)
§ 110.024  TERMINATION BY EXPIRATION OF CONTRACT.
   (A)   Upon the expiration of the term of the franchise and subject to
approval by the Board of Alderpersons, the franchisee may negotiate renewal of
its franchise for an additional period, not inconsistent with FCC rules and
regulations.
   (B)   The franchisee shall notify the Board in writing no less than one year
in advance of the expiration date of its desire to renew or not to renew the
franchise. The Board may propose certain franchise modifications to the
franchisee and make any given renewal contingent upon acceptance of the
modifications. Renewal shall be preceded by a public hearing held at least 30
days in advance of a decision by the Board of Alderpersons. A renewal may be
granted not more than two years prior to the expiration of any existing term.
The Board of Alderpersons may determine whether or not the franchisee has
performed satisfactorily its obligations under the franchise by reviewing the
following:
      (1)   Technical developments and performance of the system;
      (2)   Programming;
      (3)   Other services offered;
      (4)   Cost of service;
      (5)   Compliance with any requirement in this chapter or in FCC
regulations;
      (6)   Annual and other reports made to the Board or the FCC;
      (7)   Extension of service; and
      (8)   Other matters of concern.
   (C)   In the event the current franchisee is determined by the Board of
Alderpersons to have performed unsatisfactorily, new applicants shall be sought
and evaluated by the Board and the Town Administrator/Town Clerk and a
franchise award may be made according to the application and award procedures
set forth in this chapter.
   (D)   Upon failure to renew the franchise following expiration of the term
of the franchise, the Board shall have the right of first refusal to purchase
the CATV system. Should the Board decide to purchase the system, it shall do so
at a price not to exceed its then fair market value. In determining the fair
value of the system, the original cost of all tangible and intangible property,
as well as the salvage value, the book value, the replacement cost, cash flow
and other factors, including outstanding debts of the system to be assumed by
the Board, may be considered. Under no circumstances shall any valuation be
made for “good will” or any right or privilege granted by this chapter. Should
a dispute arise over the determination of the fair value of the system, the
dispute shall be resolved by arbitration, as provided in §
110.025.
(Prior Code, § 4.1-10)  (Ord. passed 9-19-1979)
§ 110.025  RIGHT OF REVOCATION RESERVED.
   (A)   The Board of Alderpersons may terminate the franchise conferred under
this chapter at any time prior to a date of expiration, upon a finding that the
franchisee has failed to cure one or more of the following defects:
      (1)   Material breach, whether by act or omission, of any terms or
conditions of this chapter or the franchise agreement;
      (2)   Material misrepresentation of fact in the application for or
negotiation of the franchise;
      (3)   Insolvency of the franchisee, inability or unwillingness of the
franchisee to pay its just debts when they accrue or application of the
franchisee for adjudication as a bankrupt;
      (4)   Failure to provide subscribers or users with adequate service in
the best interest of the public convenience and welfare;
      (5)   Failure to have obtained authorization from all required
governmental agencies and acceptable pole attachment agreements within 12
months after execution of the franchise agreement; provided, that the period of
12 months may be extended by the Board of Alderpersons, if the franchisee is
diligently pursuing the authorization and the delay is not caused by any fault
of the franchisee or results from strikes, natural disaster or other
occurrences over which the franchisee would have no control; or
      (6)   Failure to have full service available as provided in §§
110.045 through
110.047.
   (B)   The franchisee shall have 60 days to remedy defects, following written
notice by the Town Administrator/Town Clerk to the franchisee of the defect. If
any defect continues beyond the 60 days (or any extension thereof granted by
the Board of Alderpersons) without written proof that corrective action has
been taken or is being actively and expeditiously pursued, the Board of
Alderpersons shall call a public hearing on the termination of the franchise.
Immediately following the public hearing, the Board of Alderpersons may, by
resolution, declare that the franchise be terminated. At least ten days prior
to the Board of Alderpersons’s meeting at which the public hearing will be
held, the Town Administrator/Town Clerk shall cause to be served upon the
franchisee a written notice of the public hearing on the question of
termination. The notice shall state the time and place of the meeting. In the
event that the Board revokes the franchise, the Board shall have the right of
first refusal to purchase the CATV system at a price not to exceed its
depreciated book value (that is, original cost of property less accumulated
depreciation). The book value or assumption of debt, whichever is larger
(provided debt is no larger than the recognized mortgage value of the system)
shall be determined by the Board in accordance with generally accepted
appraisal and accounting principles. Under no circumstances shall any valuation
be made for “good will” or any right or privilege granted by this chapter.
Should a dispute arise over the determination of the fair value of the system,
the dispute shall be resolved by a panel of three appraisers, one to be
selected by the Board, one to be selected by the franchisee and the third to be
selected by the other two appraisers. Should the Board and the franchisee fail
to agree on the third appraiser, the choice shall be made by the senior
resident judge of the superior court of the judicial district in which the town
is located.
   (C)   Should the Board revoke the franchise and fail to purchase the system,
new applicants shall be sought and evaluated by the Town Administrator/Town
Clerk and Board of Alderpersons and a franchise award may be made according to
the application and award procedures set forth in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4.1-10)  (Ord. passed 9-19-1979)
§ 110.026  FORECLOSURE; APPOINTMENT OF TRUSTEE OR RECEIVER.
   (A)   Upon the foreclosure or other judicial sale of all or a substantial
part of the system, or upon the termination of any lease covering all or a
substantial part of the system, the franchisee shall notify the Board of
Alderpersons of the fact. The notification shall be treated as a notification
that a transfer in control of the franchise has taken place and the provisions
of §
110.027 of this chapter governing the consent of the Board of Alderpersons to
the change in control of the franchise shall apply.
   (B)   The Board of Alderpersons shall have the right to cancel the franchise
120 days after the appointment of a receiver or trustee, to take over and
conduct the business of the company, whether in receivership, reorganization,
bankruptcy or other action or proceeding, unless the receivership or
trusteeship shall have vacated prior to the expiration of the 120 days, or
unless:
      (1)   Within 120 days after his or her election or appointment, the
receiver or trustee shall have fully complied with all the provisions of this
chapter and remedied all defaults hereunder; and
      (2)   The receiver or trustee, within the 120 days, shall have executed
an agreement, duly approved by the court having jurisdiction in the premises,
whereby the receiver or trustee assumes and agrees to be bound by each and
every provision of this chapter and the certificate granted to the company.
(Prior Code, § 4.1-10)  (Ord. passed 9-19-1979)
§ 110.027  TRANSFER OF EFFECTIVE OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL.
   (A)   No transfer of effective ownership or control of the CATV system may
take place, whether by force or voluntary sale, lease, mortgage, assignment,
encumbrance or any other form of disposition, without prior notice to and
approval by the Board of Alderpersons. The notice shall include full
identifying particulars of the proposed transaction and the Board of
Alderpersons shall act by resolution.
   (B)   The franchisee shall not issue any additional capital stock and shall
not permit the transfer of more than 10% of its presently outstanding shares
without the prior written consent of the Board of Alderpersons. No sale, lease,
assignment or transfer shall be effective until the vendee, lessee, assignee or
transferee has filed with the Board its acceptance of this grant.
   (C)   In the absence of extraordinary circumstances, the Board of
Alderpersons will not approve any transactions before completion of
construction of energized cable passing before each dwelling unit, as specified
in §§
110.045 through
110.047.
   (D)   Prior approval of the Board of Alderpersons shall be required where
ownership or control of more than 10% of the right of control of or interest in
the franchise is acquired by a person or a group of persons acting in concert,
none of whom already own or control 10% or more of the right of control or
interest, singularly or collectively; provided, that the Board of Alderperson’s
approval shall not be unreasonably withheld after proper application is made
therefor.
   (E)   “Transfer of effective ownership or control” shall not include:
      (1)   Pledge or hypothecation or mortgage or similar instrument
transferring conditional ownership or all or part of the system’s assets to a
lender or creditor in the ordinary course of business, so long as the lender
does not thereby acquire the right to control the system’s operations, but no
transfer of conditional title can be made absolute or become effective without
prior approval of the Board of Alderpersons; or
      (2)   The disposition of facilities or equipment no longer required in
the conduct of business.
   (F)   The franchisee may hypothecate its interest under this chapter and the
franchise agreement and in the CATV system to be constructed pursuant thereto
for the purpose of securing a loan, the entire proceeds of which will be
utilized in construction and operation of its CATV system in the franchise
area. All terms and conditions contained in the hypothecation agreement shall
be subject to the prior approval of the Board of Alderpersons and the successor
in interest shall own and operate the CATV system subject to all provisions of
this chapter and the franchise agreement.
(Prior Code, § 4.1-10)  (Ord. passed 9-19-1979)
§ 110.028  CONTINUATION OF SERVICE.
   The franchisee shall be required to provide continuous service to all
subscribers in return for payment of the established fee. If the franchise
agreement becomes void for whatever reason, including normal expiration,
revocation or foreclosure, the franchisee is required, at the option of the
Board and as a part of the franchise, to continue to operate the system until
an orderly change of operation is effected. In the event the franchisee fails
to operate the system or allows a lapse in service without prior approval of
the Board of Alderpersons, the Board or its agent shall operate the system
until the time as a new operator is selected. If the Board is required to
fulfill this obligation for the franchisee, the franchisee shall reimburse the
Board for any costs or damages that are the result of the franchisee’s failure
to perform.
(Prior Code, § 4.1-10)  (Ord. passed 9-19-1979)
§ 110.029  SYSTEM SALE UPON REVOCATION OR NON-RENEWAL.
   In the event the Board elects to revoke the franchise or fails to renew the
franchise and providing the Board elects not to purchase the system, the Board
may require that the system be sold to a franchisee designated by the Board of
Alderpersons, at a purchase price that shall be equivalent to the fair market
value determines in the same manner described in §
110.024 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4.1-10)  (Ord. passed 9-19-1979)
§ 110.030  REVIEW SESSIONS.
   (A)   Because of the regulatory, technical, financial, marketing and legal
uncertainties associated with cable communications, the franchisee shall agree
to the following review provisions, in order to provide for a maximum degree of
flexibility in the franchise and to help achieve a continued advanced and
modern system for the town.
      (1)   The Board and the franchisee shall hold scheduled review sessions
within 30 days of the fifth and tenth anniversary dates of the franchisee’s
obtaining certification for the system from the FCC.
      (2)   Special review sessions may be held in the Board’s meeting place at
any time during the term of the franchise, upon reasonable notice by either
party to the other. A special review session shall be held in the event any
clause or section of this chapter is voided, nullified, deleted or modified by
the authority of any regulatory agency, including the FCC and the franchisee
will comply with the FCC rules within one year from adoption of the new rule.
   (B)   The following topics shall be discussed at every scheduled review
session: Service, rate structures, free or discounted services, application of
new technologies, state of the art, system performances, services provided,
programming offered, customer complaints, privacy in human rights, amendments
to this chapter, undergrounding provisions, judicial and FCC rulings and
extension of service. In addition, other topics may be discussed as determined
by the Board.
   (C)   At either a scheduled or special review session, a public hearing may
be called, if and as determined by the Board of Alderpersons.
(Prior Code, § 4.1-10)  (Ord. passed 9-19-1979)
FRANCHISE SERVICE AREA
§ 110.045  GENERAL EXTENSION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   The franchise is for the area described in §
110.002.
   (B)   The franchisee agrees to make available basic CATV service to all
residents of the town within the basic service area, subject to the provisions
of §
110.047 of this chapter. The franchisee shall accomplish significant
construction within one year after receiving Commission certification and shall
thereafter equitably and reasonably extend energized trunk cables into a
substantial percentage of its franchise area each year; the percentage shall be
not less than:
      (1)   Fifty percent at the end of two years;
      (2)   Seventy percent at the end of three years;
      (3)   Eighty percent at the end of four years; and
      (4)   Ninety percent at the end of five years.
(Prior Code, § 4.1-11(b))  (Ord. passed 9-19-1979)
§ 110.046  SERVICE OUTSIDE CORPORATE LIMITS.
   The franchisee may negotiate with any citizen or group of citizens outside
the corporate limits for the extension of CATV service.  Service may be
extended to areas outside the corporate limits, provided there is no
deterioration of service to citizens inside the corporate limits that results
from the extension and provided all residents of the town have service
available if they desire it. Negotiations for extension of service shall in no
way result in any change in rate schedules.
(Prior Code, § 4.1-11)  (Ord. passed 9-19-1979)
§ 110.047  SPECIAL SERVICE AREAS.
   The franchisee shall provide its service to residents of the town in areas
where the average density of dwelling units is equivalent to or greater than
the rate of 50 homes per linear mile. The franchisee shall extend its service
to the areas and only the standard installation charge specified in the rate
resolution will apply in the areas. Special installation charges may be made
where the average rate of dwelling units per mile is less than the equivalent
of 50 dwelling units per mile; provided, that the special charges shall not
exceed the direct cost to the franchisee of the installation. Decisions over
provision and extension of service by the franchisee as well as charges may be
appealed to the Board of Alderpersons.
(Prior Code, § 4.1-11)  (Ord. passed 9-19-1979)
PAYMENTS BY FRANCHISEE
§ 110.060  REIMBURSEMENTS.
   The franchisee shall pay the town a sum of money which will, when added to
application fees received, reimburse all costs and expenses incurred by the
town in connection with preparation of this chapter and the franchise agreement
and the granting of a franchise, including, but not limited to, consultant
fees, travel expenses and all other direct costs; provided, that the town shall
submit a detailed schedule of all the costs. The payment shall be made within
30 days after the Clerk furnishes the franchisee with a written statement of
the expenses.
(Prior Code, § 4.1-12)  (Ord. passed 9-19-1979)
§ 110.061  COMPENSATION.
   As compensation for the authorization granted pursuant to this chapter and
in consideration for permission to use the easements which the town controls
for the construction, operation and maintenance of a CATV system within the
town, the franchisee shall pay to the town quarterly, on or before the first
day of July, October, January and April for the preceding quarter, an amount
equal to 3% of the gross revenues. This payment shall be in addition to any
other fees or payments made to the town by the franchisee, as pole rental,
business licenses and other fees not based on gross revenues. Should the FCC
regulations be amended in the future to allow the town to receive a fee from
its franchisee from other than the previously mentioned revenues, the
franchisee shall immediately commence making the additional payments to the
town as are authorized to the full extent of the authorization. Payment shall
be accompanied by a certified report showing the basis for the computation and
the other relevant facts as may be required by the Board. No acceptance of any
payment shall be construed as an accord that the amount paid is, in fact, the
correct amount, nor shall the acceptance of payment be construed as a release
of any claim the town may have for further or additional sums payable under the
provisions of this chapter. All amounts paid shall be subject to recomputation
by the town within 60 days of the receipt of the franchisee’s annual report.
This time limitation shall not apply should the franchisee provide false or
erroneous information. In the event that recomputation results in additional
revenue to be paid to the town, the amount shall be subject to an interest
charge at the highest rate permitted by law. Nothing in this provision shall
limit the franchisee’s liability to pay other local taxes and charges.
(Prior Code, § 4.1-12)  (Ord. passed 9-19-1979)
DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION
§ 110.075  EMERGENCY OVERRIDE; STANDBY POWER.
   (A)   The cable system shall include an “emergency alert” capability which
will permit the chairperson or his or her designee to override, by remote
control, the video and/or audio of all channels simultaneously broadcasting in
the case of public emergencies. The franchisee shall designate a channel which
will be used for emergency broadcasts.
   (B)   The franchisee shall maintain equipment capable of providing standby
powering for the head-end. The equipment shall be constructed so as to
automatically notify the cable office when it is in operation and to
automatically revert to the standby mode when the AC power returns.
(Prior Code, § 4.1-13) (Ord. passed 9-19-1979)
§ 110.076  SYSTEM STANDARDS; SIGNAL CARRIAGE; CHANNEL ACCESS.
   (A)   The franchisee shall install and maintain a cable system which shall
be in accordance with the highest and best accepted standards of the industry,
to the end that subscribers shall receive the best possible service. In
addition, the franchisee shall comply with all requirements of all duly
constituted regulatory agencies having jurisdiction over cable television or
the operator of the cable system.
   (B)   At all times the signal carriage and channel utilization shall conform
to the regulations of the FCC, state and other regulatory agencies which are
not in conflict therewith. The operator shall provide at least one access
channel for each of the following activities, as each of these channels is
defined under FCC regulations:
      (1)   Public access;
      (2)   Educational access;
      (3)   Government access; and
      (4)   Leased access.
   (C)   Under the test of utilization as prescribed by FCC rules, the operator
shall make available additional educational access channels of each type for
local use, activated on a schedule as provided in the applicable FCC rules.
(Prior Code, § 4.1-13) (Ord. passed 9-19-1979)
§ 110.077  FCC CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE.
   The franchisee shall be diligent in obtaining a certificate of compliance
from the FCC.  The franchisee shall provide the town with copies of all filings
with the FCC or any other agency or person in connection with the application
and shall complete formal submission of all documents required by the FCC for
its full consideration of the application for the certificate of compliance no
later than four months after the effective date of the franchise agreement.
(Prior Code, § 4.1-14)  (Ord. passed 9-19-1979)
§ 110.078  CONSTRUCTION IN WORKMANLIKE MANNER.
   (A)   All wires, cables, amplifiers and other property shall be constructed
and installed in an orderly and workmanlike manner consistent with all
applicable requirements of the National Electrical Code state and local
electrical codes and all pole attachment agreements. All cables and wires shall
be installed parallel with existing telephone and electric wires whenever
possible.  Multiple cable configurations shall be arranged in parallel and
bundled, with due respect for engineering and safety considerations.
   (B)   All installations shall be underground in those areas of the town
where electric service is underground at the time of installation. In areas
where electric utility facilities are aboveground at the time of installation,
the franchisee may install its service aboveground, with the understanding
that, at the time as those facilities are required to be placed underground by
the town, the franchisee shall likewise place its services underground without
additional cost to the subscribers or the town. It shall be the policy of the
Board that underground installation, even when not required, is preferable to
the placement of additional poles.
(Prior Code, § 4.1-14) (Ord. passed 9-19-1979)
§ 110.079  EXISTING POLE AND CONDUIT USAGE.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter, or any franchise granted hereunder, shall
authorize the franchisee to erect and maintain in the town new poles, where
existing poles are servicing the area.
   (B)   The franchisee shall obtain permission from the Board of Alderpersons
before erecting any new poles or underground conduits, where none exist at the
time the franchisee seeks to install his or her network.
(Prior Code, § 4.1-14) (Ord. passed 9-19-1979)
§ 110.080  TEMPORARY OR PERMANENT CHANGES.
   (A)   A franchisee shall, at its expense, protect, support, temporarily
disconnect, relocate in the same street or other public place or remove from
the road or other public place any property of the franchisee when required by
the town or state by reason of traffic conditions, public safety, road
vacation, road construction, change or establishment of road grade,
installation of sewers, drains and water pipes, power lines or any other type
of structure or improvement by public agencies.
   (B)   The franchisee shall, on the request of any person holding a building
moving permit, temporarily raise or lower its wires to permit the moving of the
building. The expense of the temporary removal, raising or lowering of wires
shall be paid by the person requesting the same and the franchisee shall have
the authority to require the payment in advance. The franchisee shall be given
not less than five days’ advance notice of any move contemplated to arrange for
temporary wire changes.
(Prior Code, § 4.1-14)  (Ord. passed 9-19-1979)
§ 110.081  AUTHORITY TO ORDER POST-CONSTRUCTION IMPROVEMENTS.
   The Board of Alderpersons may require any part or all of the system to be
improved or upgraded (including, without limitation, the increasing of channel
capacity and the furnishing of two-way transmissions), if a reasonable need is
found therefor after a public hearing has been called for that purpose and may
order the improvement or upgrading of the system to be effected by the
franchisee within a reasonable time thereafter, provided, that no change shall
compromise the franchisee’s ability to perform satisfactorily its obligations
or rights under this chapter or the franchise agreement.
(Prior Code, § 4.1-14)  (Ord. passed 9-19-1979)
§ 110.082  MINIMUM ABOVEGROUND CLEARANCE COMPLIANCE.
   The franchisee’s distribution system in the public roads shall comply with
all applicable laws, regulations and ordinances and all of its wires and cables
suspended from poles in the roads shall comply with the minimum clearances
aboveground required for telephone lines, cables, wires and conduits.
(Prior Code, § 4.1-14)  (Ord. passed 9-19-1979)
§ 110.083  INTERFERENCE WITH PROPERTY RIGHTS OR FIXTURES PROHIBITED; MAPS AND
RECORDS REQUIRED.
   All wires, conduits, cable and other property and facilities of the
franchisee shall be so located constructed, installed and maintained as not to
endanger or unnecessarily interfere with the usual and customary trade traffic
and travel upon the roads and public places of the town. The franchisee shall
keep and maintain all of its property in good condition, order and repair. The
franchisee shall keep accurate maps and records of all of its facilities and
furnish copies of the maps and records as requested by the Board of
Alderpersons pursuant to §
110.108. A franchisee shall not place poles or other equipment where they will
interfere with the rights or reasonable convenience of adjoining property
owners, or with any gas, electric or telephone fixtures or with any water
hydrants or mains.
(Prior Code, § 4.1-14)  (Ord. passed 9-19-1979)
§ 110.084  UNDERGROUND INSTALLATIONS.
   Should any subscriber wish to have underground service in any area normally
provided service via overhead (aerial) construction, the subscriber requesting
the underground service shall pay all costs attendant to underground
construction plus10%, less the normal costs of the equivalent overhead
installation, if the overhead service does not exist to the subscriber’s
residence.
(Prior Code, § 4.1-14)  (Ord. passed 9-19-1979)
§ 110.085  UNAUTHORIZED EQUIPMENT; CONNECTION PROHIBITED.
   No equipment, cable or other apparatus shall be connected between the
franchisee’s CATV system and the subscriber’s receiver, except as furnished and
installed by the franchisee.
(Prior Code, § 4.1-14)  (Ord. passed 9-19-1979)
BUSINESS OPERATIONS
§ 110.100  CURRENT TECHNOLOGY REQUIRED.
   The franchisee shall upgrade its facilities, equipment and service so that
its system is as advanced as the current state of production technology will
allow. The franchisee shall install additional channel capacity as required to
keep channel capacity in excess of demand therefor by users. At all times, the
cable system shall be no less advanced than any other system of comparable size
and age, excepting only systems which are experimental, pilot or demonstration.
The Board of Alderpersons shall order the franchisee to comply with this
section in case of specific violations, which it may investigate upon complaint
or on its own motion.
(Prior Code, § 4.1-15)  (Ord. passed 9-19-1979)
§ 110.101  OFFICE HOURS; STAFFING.
   The franchisee shall maintain an office that is open during all business
hours, has a publicly listed telephone number and is so operated that
complaints and requests for repairs or adjustments may be received on a 24-hour
basis. The franchisee shall have a resident manager and engineer and shall have
office, marketing, technical and studio staffs professionally trained in the
cable communications industry.
(Prior Code, § 4.1-16)  (Ord. passed 9-19-1979)
§ 110.102  SERVICE REPAIR.
   (A)   Whenever it is necessary to interrupt service to subscribers for the
purpose of maintenance, alteration or repair, the franchisee shall make every
effort to do so at a time that will cause the least amount of subscriber
inconvenience and unless the interruption is unforeseen and immediately
necessary, the franchisee shall give reasonable advance notice thereof to the
affected subscribers.
(Prior Code, § 4.1-17)
   (B)   The franchisee shall provide a service force seven days a week for all
complaints and requests for adjustments. The force shall be capable of
responding to subscriber complaints within 24 hours of receipt of the
complaint. Total loss of service attributable to the cable system shall be
cleared within 24 hours, except to the extent that restoration of service is
prevented by strikes, fires, injunction or other cause beyond the franchisee’s
control.
(Prior Code, § 4.1-18)
(Ord. passed 9-19-1979)
§ 110.103  COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   The franchisee shall keep an accurate log listing chronologically all
complaints and trouble calls received from its subscribers. This log shall
include appropriate identification of the subscriber and service affected, the
time, date and nature of the report, the action taken to clear trouble or
satisfy the complaint and the date and time of final disposition. This log
shall be kept on file for five days and shall be available for inspection by
the Town Administrator/Town Clerk upon request at any time within this period.
The franchisee shall submit to the Board of Alderpersons each month a summary
of the number and types of complaints received.
(Prior Code, § 4.1-19)
   (B)   For recurrent complaints regarding service deficiencies other than
total or partial loss of service, as “ghosting,” weak audio signal, distortion
and the like, the Town Administrator/Town Clerk may require the franchisee to
investigate and report to him or her the causes and cures thereof and the Town
Administrator/Town Clerk may also conduct his or her own investigation.
Thereafter, the Town Administrator/Town Clerk may order specified remedial
action to be taken within reasonably feasible time limits. If the action is not
taken or is ineffective or if, within 30 days the franchisee files with the
Board of Alderpersons a notice of objection to the order, the Board of
Alderpersons may conduct a hearing and may, if the evidence warrants a finding
of fault on the part of the franchisee, take appropriate action pursuant to the
terms of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4.1-20)
   (C)   A franchisee shall ensure that all subscribers, programmers and
members of the general public have recourse to a satisfactory hearing of any
complaint. The Board shall work closely with a franchisee and members of the
public to establish procedures for handling and settling complaints. A
franchisee shall present to the Board of Alderpersons for its approval, no
later than six months after the execution of the franchise agreement, a set of
rules, regulations and procedures reasonably designed for the prompt handling
and settling of complaints.
(Prior Code, § 4.1-21) (Ord. passed 9-19-1979)
§ 110.104  PROHIBITION OF SALE OR SERVICE OF PARTS OR ACCESSORIES; ANTENNA AND
EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   The franchisee shall not engage in the sale, service, repair, rental
or leasing of television receivers, radio receivers, parts or accessories and
shall not require or attempt to influence its subscribers to deal with any
particular person in regard thereto.  Further, the franchisee shall not require
the removal of or offer to remove any existing antenna as a condition of
providing cable service.
(Prior Code, § 4.1-22)
   (B)   A user of cable cast facilities may not be required to use the
franchisee’ s production equipment but must be allowed to use any other
production equipment that is compatible with the franchisee’s facilities. The
franchisee is encouraged to use standard quality equipment.
(Prior Code, § 4.1-23) (Ord. passed 9-19-1979)
§ 110.105  BOOKS AND RECORDS REQUIRED.
   The franchisee shall keep complete and accurate books of accounts and
records of its business under and in connection with its franchise. All the
books and records shall be maintained at the franchisee’s business office. The
town shall have access to all the books and records at any time during
reasonable business hours and may examine officers and employees informally or
under oath in respect thereto. Access shall also be given to the county, on
request, to all supplementary or underlying financial and engineering records
and reports.
(Prior Code, § 4.1-24)  (Ord. passed 9-19-1979)
§ 110.106  PERMITS, AUTHORIZATIONS; FCC CERTIFICATE OF CONVENIENCE AND
NECESSITY.
   The franchisee shall diligently apply for all necessary permits, agreements,
authorizations and contracts required in the conduct of its business and shall
diligently pursue the acquisition thereof, including necessary pole attachment
contracts, necessary authorizations from the Federal Aviation Administration to
construct the receiving antenna towers as may be required and any necessary
authorization or waivers from the FCC and when the permit is obtained, a copy
thereof shall be promptly filed by the franchisee with the Town Administrator/
Town Clerk. The franchisee shall apply for the FCC certificate of convenience
and necessity within 120 days from the date of the execution of the franchise
agreement.
(Prior Code, § 4.1-25)  (Ord. passed 9-19-1979)
§ 110.107  DOCUMENTS SUBMITTED TO COUNTY MANAGER.
   Copies of all communications, including petitions, applications, pleadings
and reports, as well as official correspondence, sent to or received from the
Federal Communications Commission, Securities and Exchange Commission or any
other federal or state regulatory commission or agency having jurisdiction in
respect to any matters affecting CATV operations authorized pursuant to this
franchise shall also be submitted simultaneously to the County Manager.
(Prior Code, § 4.1-26)  (Ord. passed 9-19-1979)
§ 110.108  REPORTS.
   (A)   A franchisee shall prepare and furnish to the town, at the times and
in the form prescribed by the Town Administrator/Town Clerk or Board of
Alderpersons, the reports with respect to its operation, affairs, transactions
or property as may be reasonably necessary or appropriate to the performance of
any of the functions of the town in connection with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4.1-27)
   (B)   The following reports must be filed with the Town Administrator/Town
Clerk when the specified event occurs:
      (1)   Any instrument of change in or transfer of an interest in the
franchisee or its assets or franchise;
      (2)   Any change in or addition to the directors or officers of the
franchisee;
      (3)   Any contract or transaction with an affiliated company, respecting
the cable system, together with full particulars and a copy of any written
agreement or a written summary of any verbal agreement; and
      (4)   Any changes in the franchisee’s rules and regulations governing the
conduct of its business.
(Prior Code, § 4.1-28)
   (C)   The franchisee shall file with the Town Administrator/Town Clerk on a
quarterly basis:
      (1)   Construction progress reports until the system is complete;
      (2)   Quarterly financial reports as required in §
110.061; and
      (3)   Complete, unaudited financial statements, including operating
statements, source and application of funds and balance sheets for the
quarterly accounting period then ended, within 30 days of the end of each
period.
(Prior Code, § 4.1-29)
   (D)   The following reports shall be filed by the franchisee with the Town
Administrator/Town Clerk annually, no later than February 1, except where
otherwise provided:
      (1)   A summary of complaints received during the preceding calendar
year, showing the nature of each complaint, area of the town, disposition and
complaints subsequent to disposition;
      (2)   A total facilities report together with a current system map,
showing the location and total miles of plant and equipment installed and/or
operating at the close of the preceding calendar year;
      (3)   A map of the system;
      (4)   One copy of each type of agreement currently offered to subscribers
and to users;
      (5)   A complete set of current rules and regulations of the operator,
incorporating the latest amendments filed with the Town Administrator/Town
Clerk;
      (6)   A complete financial audit statement, including a statement of
income, to be certified by a public accountant, to be submitted no later than
August 15 for the preceding fiscal year ending June 30; and
      (7)   Reports on other topics as the Board of Alderpersons may direct.
(Prior Code, § 4.1-30)  (Ord. passed 9-19-1979)
§ 110.109  FULL LEGAL COMPLIANCE.
   The franchisee shall agree to comply fully with all local ordinances, state
and federal laws and rules issued by all regulatory agencies now or hereafter
in existence.
(Prior Code, § 4.1-31)  (Ord. passed 9-19-1979)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 110.120  GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   The charges made to subscribers for services by the franchisee under this
chapter shall be fair and reasonable and no higher than necessary to meet all
costs of the service, assuming efficient and economical management and provide
a fair return on the original cost, less depreciation, of the properties
devoted to the service, without regard to any subsequent sale or transfer of
cost of the properties. The franchisee shall receive no consideration
whatsoever from its subscribers for or in connection with its service to its
subscribers other than in accordance with this section, without approval of the
Board of Alderpersons. The franchisee shall not charge rates in excess of the
rate schedule appearing in the franchise agreement.
(Prior Code, § 4.1-32)  (Ord. passed 9-19-1979)
§ 110.121  INITIAL RATES AND CHARGES; ADJUSTMENTS.
    Initial rates and charges shall be those rates in force in the
unincorporated areas of the county at the time of adoption of this chapter, as
those rates and charges shall have been fixed by the County Board of
Commissioners. Thereafter, the franchisee may request rate adjustments at any
time by petition to the County Board of Commissioners; provided, that the
subscriber rates and charges in the town shall be the same as those rates and
charges in the unincorporated areas of the county. In no event shall rates be
changed without approval of the County Board of Commissioners; except, that
nothing in this provision shall prohibit the reduction or waiving of charges in
conjunction with promotional campaigns for the purpose of attracting
subscribers.
(Prior Code, § 4.1-33)  (Ord. passed 9-19-1979)
§ 110.122  REFUNDS.
   (A)   If any subscriber terminates any monthly service during the first six
months of the service, because of failure of a franchisee to render the service
offered, the franchisee shall refund to the subscriber an amount equal to all
charges paid by the subscriber during the period in which no service was
received. If any subscriber terminates for any reason any monthly service prior
to the end of a prepaid period, a pro rata portion of any prepaid subscriber
service fee shall be refunded to the subscriber by the franchisee, using the
number of months as the basis.
   (B)   A full refund for less than 15 days in a single month shall be the
basis for periods less than one month.
(Prior Code, § 4.1-34)  (Ord. passed 9-19-1979)
§ 110.123  ADVANCE PAYMENTS; INSTALLATION AND RECONNECTION CHARGE.
   (A)   A franchisee may require subscribers to pay the installation charge in
advance and to pay for each month of basic service in advance at the beginning
of each month. No other advance payment or deposit of any kind shall be
required by a franchisee for basic subscriber service. Other than for a
converter, nothing in this division shall be construed to prohibit charges for
or waiver for charges for initial installation or reconnection.
(Prior Code, § 4.1-35)
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided elsewhere in this chapter, a franchisee
may make a charge to subscribers for the installation of service outlets and
for the reconnection of service outlets. The rates for the connection or
reconnection shall be as authorized in the rate schedule.
(Prior Code, § 4.1-36) (Ord. passed 9-19-1979)
§ 110.124  STATE, FEDERAL REGULATION.
   If, in the future, the state or the United States government, or any
regulatory agency thereof, regulates the rates of the franchisee for the
service provided for in the franchise, this division shall be of no effect
during the regulation to the extent of any conflict therewith.
(Prior Code, § 4.1-37)  (Ord. passed 9-19-1979)
§ 110.125  PUBLIC BUILDINGS, FACILITIES.
   (A)   (1)   The franchisee shall, without charge for installation,
maintenance or service, make single installations of its standard CATV service
facilities to those public buildings operated by the town, when the building is
located on the franchisee’s system and when the system is constructed
consistent with the requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   The installations shall be made at the reasonable locations as
shall be requested by the Board of Alderpersons. Any charge for relocation of
the installation shall, however, be charged at actual cost.
      (3)   Additional installations at the same location may be made at normal
charge. No monthly service charges shall be made for distribution of the
franchisee’s signals within the publicly owned buildings.
   (B)   In addition, the franchisee shall, without charge for installation,
maintenance or service, make single installations of its standard community
service facilities at any other town facility identified in the franchise
agreement. Further, no installation to any of the abovementioned locations
shall be made until requested in writing by the Board of Alderpersons.
(Prior Code, § 4.1-38)  (Ord. passed 9-19-1979)
§ 110.126  PUBLIC ACCESS PROGRAMMING CHARGES.
   (A)   Charges to users of the franchisee’s production facilities for public
access programming shall not exceed actual costs incurred. The charges shall be
publicly posted and made available at no cost to anyone upon request.
   (B)   Charges shall be clearly and completely stated in the operating rules
for public access programming. The charges may be amended only upon approval by
the Board of Alderpersons.
   (C)   The franchisee shall furnish standard playback facilities and labor at
actual cost incurred for the public access channel.
(Prior Code, § 4.1-39)  (Ord. passed 9-19-1979)
FRANCHISE AGREEMENT ADMINISTRATION
§ 110.140  LIMITATION OF FRANCHISEE RECOURSE.
   The franchisee shall have no recourse whatsoever against the town or its
officers, boards, commissions, agents or employees for any loss, cost, expense
or damage arising out of any provision or requirement of the franchise or
because of its enforcement.
(Prior Code, § 4.1-40)  (Ord. passed 9-19-1979)
§ 110.141  FRANCHISE OBLIGATION CONTINUING.
   (A)   The franchisee shall not be relieved of its obligation to comply
promptly with any of the provisions of the franchise by any failure of the town
to enforce prompt compliance.
(Prior Code, § 4.1-41)
   (B)   Neither the provisions of this chapter nor any bonds accepted by the
town pursuant hereto, nor any damage recovered by the town hereunder, shall be
construed to excuse unfaithful performance by the franchisee or limit the
liability of the franchisee under this chapter or the franchise for damages,
either to the full amount of the bond or otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 4.1-45)  (Ord. passed 9-19-1979)
§ 110.142  INDEMNIFICATION OF TOWN.
   The franchisee shall indemnify and hold harmless the town at all times
during the term of the franchise and shall specifically agree that it will pay
all damages and penalties which the town may legally be required to pay as a
result of granting the franchise.  The damages and penalties shall include, but
not be limited to, damages arising out of copyright infringements and other
damages arising out of the installation, operation or maintenance of the CATV
system authorized by the franchise, whether or not any act or omission
complained of is authorized, allowed or prohibited by the franchisee. In case
suit shall be filed against the town, either independently or jointly with the
franchisee, to recover for any claim or damages, the franchisee, upon notice by
the town, shall defend the town against the action and in the event of a final
judgment being obtained against the town, either independently or jointly with
the franchisee, solely by reason of the acts of the franchisee, the franchisee
will pay the judgment and all costs and hold the town harmless therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 4.1-43)  (Ord. passed 9-19-1979)
§ 110.143  INSURANCE.
   The franchisee shall be required to maintain insurance in the forms and in
the companies as shall be approved by the Board of Alderpersons, with the town
named as the coinsured, the approval not to be unreasonably withheld, to
protect the town and franchisee from and against any and all claims, injuries
or damages to persons or property, both real and personal, caused by the
construction, erection, operation or maintenance of any aspect of the system.
The amount of the insurance shall not be less than the following:
   (A)   General liability insurance.
 
Bodily injury, per person       $500,000
Bodily injury, per occurrence   $1,000,000
Property damage, per occurrence $500,000
 
   (B)   Automobile insurance.
 
Bodily injury, per person       $100,000
Bodily injury, per occurrence   $300,000
Property damage, per occurrence $300,000
 
   (C)   Coverage may be changed from time to time during the term of the
franchise.
   (D)   Worker’s compensation insurance shall also be provided as required by
state law.
   (E)   All the insurance coverage shall provide a 30-day notice to the Town
Administrator/Town Clerk in the event of material alteration or cancellation of
any coverage afforded in the policies prior to the date the material alteration
or cancellation shall become effective.
   (F)   A certificate of coverage for all policies required by this section
shall be furnished to and filed with the Town Administrator/Town Clerk prior to
the commencement of operations or expiration of prior policies, as the case may
be.
(Prior Code, § 4.1-44)  (Ord. passed 9-19-1979)
§ 110.144  PERFORMANCE BOND; DEPOSIT IN LIEU OF.
   (A)   The franchisee shall, concurrently with its acceptance of this
franchise, file with the Town Administrator/Town Clerk and, at all times
thereafter, maintain in full force and effect for the term of the franchise or
any renewal thereof, at the franchisee’s sole expense, a corporate surety bond
in a responsible company licensed to do business in the state and approved by
the town, in the amount of $10,000, renewable annually and conditioned upon the
faithful performance of the franchisee and in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter and upon the further condition that, in the event the franchisee
shall fail to comply with any one or more of the provisions of the franchise,
there shall be recoverable jointly and severally from the principal and surety
of the bond any damages or loss suffered by the town as a result thereof,
including the full amount of any compensation, indemnification or cost of
removal or abandonment of any property of the franchisee as prescribed hereby,
plus a reasonable allowance for attorneys’ fees and costs, up to the full
amount of the bond, the condition to be a continuing obligation for the
duration of the franchise and any renewal thereof and thereafter until the
franchisee has liquidated all of its obligations with the town that may have
arisen from the acceptance of the franchise or renewal by the franchisee or
from its exercise of any privileges or rights herein granted. The bond shall
provide that at least 30 days’ prior written notice of intention not to renew,
cancellation or material change be given to the town by filing the same with
the Town Administrator/Town Clerk. Notwithstanding the above provisions of this
section, the Board of Alderpersons may, in its sole discretion, waive the bond
or reduce the required amount thereof after two years of operation of a system
under the franchise by the franchisee, its successors or assigns, which, in the
sole opinion of the Board of Alderpersons, has been satisfactory. Failure to
keep a performance bond in force at all times as herein provided shall
constitute an event of default.
(Prior Code, § 4.1-46)
   (B)   In lieu of the performance bond by a surety company as provided in §
110.144, the franchisee may file and deposit with the Town Administrator/Town
Clerk a performance bond without a corporate surety but secured by a
certificate of deposit in some bank or savings and loan association in the
state, in the sum of $10,000, conditioned in the same manner as the performance
bond of a surety company as described in §
110.144.  The income from the deposit shall be payable to the franchisee. As an
alternative, the franchisee may provide the other security as may be approved
by the Board of Alderpersons, but absent the approval, it shall provide a bond
or deposit in lieu thereof as above provided.
(Prior Code, § 4.1-47)  (Ord. passed 9-19-1979)
§ 110.145  RESERVATION OF RIGHTS BY TOWN.
   (A)   Right to purchase system.  The town shall have the right to purchase
the system, as specified elsewhere in this chapter.
   (B)   Right to inspect records and examine officers and employees.  The town
shall have the right to inspect all books and records and examine officers and
employees as specified in §
110.105.
   (C)   Right to inspect plans and construction.  The town reserves the right,
but shall not have the duty, to inspect plans and construction of any facility
to be used in connection with the cable system, irrespective of its location.
   (D)   Right of intervention.  The franchisee shall not oppose intervention
by the town in any suit or proceeding to which the franchisee is a party.
   (E)   Right to require removal of property.  The town reserves the right,
not inconsistent with any other provision of this chapter, to require the
franchisee to remove any of its property from publicly owned property at the
franchisee’s own expense.
(Prior Code, § 4.1-48)  (Ord. passed 9-19-1979)
§ 110.146  FRANCHISEE RIGHT TO APPEAL.
   The franchisee shall have the right to appeal any provision, requirement or
ruling of the Town Administrator/Town Clerk to the Board of Alderpersons.
(Prior Code, § 4.1-49)  (Ord. passed 9-19-1979)
§ 110.147  SUBSCRIBER LIST USE PROHIBITED.
   The franchisee shall be prohibited from using or allowing the use of
subscriber lists for any purpose unconnected with the provision of service over
the system.
(Prior Code, § 4.1-50)  (Ord. passed 9-19-1979)
§ 110.148  RIGHT OF PRIVACY.
   (A)   No monitoring of any terminal connected to the system shall take place
without specific written authorization by the user of the terminal in question
on each occasion; provided, that the franchisee may provide for system-wide,
non-individually addressed “sweeps,” or the franchisee’s acquisition of
information for purposes of verifying system integrity, controlling return path
transmissions or billing for pay services.
(Prior Code, § 4.1-50)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to tape or monitor a system line without
authorization from the parties whose communication might be overheard;
provided, that the franchisee may provide for system-wide, non-individually
addressed “sweeps,” or the franchisee’s acquisition of information for purposes
of verifying system integrity, controlling return path transmissions or billing
for pay services.
(Prior Code, § 4.1-50)  (Ord. passed 9-19-1979)  Penalty, see §
110.999
§ 110.149  NON-DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICES.
   (A)   The franchisee shall not, in its rates or charges or in making
available the services or facilities of its system, or in its rules or
regulations, or in any other respect, make or grant preferences or advantages
to any subscriber or potential subscriber to the system and shall not subject
any persons to any prejudice or disadvantage. This provision shall not be
deemed to prohibit promotional campaigns to stimulate subscriptions to the
system or other legitimate uses thereof, nor shall it be deemed to prohibit the
establishment of a graduated scale of charges and classified rate schedules to
which any customer coming within the classifications shall be entitled.
   (B)   The entire system of the franchisee shall be operated in a manner
consistent with the principle of fairness and equal accessibility of its
facilities, equipment, channels, studios and other services to all citizens,
businesses, public agencies or other entities having a legitimate use for the
system and no one shall be arbitrarily excluded from its use. Allocation of use
of the facilities shall be made according to the rules or decisions of
regulatory agencies affecting the same and where the rules or decisions are not
effective to resolve a dispute between conflicting users or potential users,
the matter shall be submitted for resolution to the Town Administrator/Town
Clerk, subject to appeal to the Board of Alderpersons.
   (C)   In the carrying out of the construction, maintenance and operation of
the CATV system, the franchisee shall not discriminate against any employee or
applicant for employment because of race, creed, color, marital status, age,
sex or national origin.
   (D)   The franchisee shall post in conspicuous places, available to
employees and applicants for employment, notices setting forth the provisions
of this nondiscrimination clause.
   (E)   The franchisee shall, in all solicitations or advertisements for
employees placed by or on behalf of the franchisee, state that all qualified
applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race,
creed, color, sex, marital status, age or national origin.
(Prior Code, § 4.1-50)
(Ord. passed 9-19-1979)
§ 110.150  INDIVIDUAL RIGHT TO APPEAL.
   Any affected person shall have the right to appeal any provision,
requirement or ruling of the Town Administrator/Town Clerk to the Board of
Alderpersons.
(Prior Code, § 4.1-50)  (Ord. passed 9-19-1979)
§ 110.151  OPTIONAL REGULATORY COMMISSION; TOWN ADMINISTRATOR/TOWN CLERK
DUTIES.
   The Board of Alderpersons reserves the option to designate a Regulatory
Commission to promote and develop access to the CATV system. Membership, term
and functions of that Commission shall be established by resolution when the
Board of Alderpersons chooses to exercise the option. In the absence of a
Regulatory Commission, the Board of Alderpersons requires of the Town
Administrator/Town Clerk performance of the following functions:
   (A)   Advise the Board of Alderpersons on applications for franchises,
unless the Board of Alderpersons shall otherwise provide for the handling of
this function;
   (B)   Advise the Board of Alderpersons on matters which might constitute
grounds for revocation of the franchise in accordance with this chapter;
   (C)   Resolve disagreements among franchisees, subscribers and public and
private users of the system. The decisions of the Town Administrator/Town Clerk
shall be appealable to the Board of Alderpersons;
   (D)   Advise the Board of Alderpersons on the regulation of rates in
accordance with this chapter. The advisory function shall be in the form of a
written report to the Board of Alderpersons, which shall include
recommendations to the Board of Alderpersons and the facts upon which the
recommendations are based;
   (E)   Coordinate franchisee and town activities for the best use of public
facilities and channels of the system;
   (F)   Advise the Board of Alderpersons regarding general policy relating to
the services provided subscribers and the operation and use of public channels,
with a view to maximizing the diversity of programs and services to
subscribers. The use of public channels shall be allocated on a first-come,
first-served basis, subject to limitations on monopolization of system time or
prime time;
   (G)   Require an audit of all franchisee records required by this chapter
and, in his or her discretion, require the preparation and filing of
information additional to that required herein;
   (H)   Make an annual report to the Board of Alderpersons, including an
account of franchise fees received and distributed, the total number of hours
of utilization of public channels and hourly subtotals for various programming
categories and a review of any plans submitted during the year by franchisee(s)
for development of new services; and
   (I)   Conduct evaluations of the system at least every five years with the
franchisee and, pursuant thereto, make recommendations to the Board of
Alderpersons for amendments to this chapter or the franchise agreement.
(Prior Code, § 4.1-51)  (Ord. passed 9-19-1979)
§ 110.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   A breach by the franchisee of the franchise agreement, in addition to
constituting a breach of contract, shall constitute a violation of this
chapter. The cost of any litigation incurred by the town to enforce this
chapter or the franchise granted pursuant hereto, or the franchise agreement,
or any cost in relation thereto, or in relation to the cancellation or
termination of a franchise, shall be reimbursed to the town by the franchisee.
The costs shall include filing fees, costs of depositions, discovery and expert
witnesses, all other expenses of suit and a reasonable attorney’s fee.
   (B)   Violation of material provisions of this chapter shall subject the
franchisee to the following penalties.
      (1)   Failure of the franchisee to meet performance standards, as
determined by the Town Administrator/Town Clerk, to which it has agreed may
result in a rebate of rates or charges to subscribers affected; provided, that
the Town Administrator/Town Clerk shall provide ten days’ written notice of the
failure to the franchisee. Any rebate may be charged to the performance bond.
      (2)   For failure to provide data and reports as requested by the County
Manager or the Board of Alderpersons and as required by this chapter, the
penalty shall be $50 per day for each day not delivered. This penalty may be
chargeable to the performance bond.
      (3)   For failure to complete construction and installation of the cable
system, unless the Board of Alderpersons approves the delay because of reasons
beyond the control of the franchisee, the franchise term may be reduced one
year for each three-month period that the system has failed to meet performance
standards.
      (4)   The franchisee may appeal any penalty which it considers
unreasonable to the Board of Alderpersons.
(Prior Code, § 4.1-42)  (Ord. passed 9-19-1979)
CHAPTER 111:  TAXICABS
Section
Certificate of Operation
   
111.01   Requirement of certificate
   
111.02   Application
   
111.03   Posting of certificate
   
111.04   Refusal of issuance; revocation
Operation Rules and Regulations
   
111.15   Bond, insurance; amounts
   
111.16   Depot or lot required
   
111.17   Business solicitation
   
111.18   Posting of rates
CERTIFICATE OF OPERATION
§ 111.01  REQUIREMENT OF CERTIFICATE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or drive for hire what is
commonly known as a taxi or jitney, without obtaining a certificate of
identification from the town.
(Prior Code, § 14-1)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.02  APPLICATION.
   Application for a certificate to operate or drive a taxicab or jitney for
hire shall be filed with the Board of Alderpersons, with an affidavit attached
signed by two citizens certifying to the applicant’s good character.
(Prior Code, § 14-2)
§ 111.03  POSTING OF CERTIFICATE.
   Every operator or driver of a taxicab or jitney under permit, as provided in
this chapter, shall post conspicuously in the taxicab or jitney that he or she
is driving, the certificate of identification issued to him or her by the town.
(Prior Code, § 14-3)
§ 111.04  REFUSAL OF ISSUANCE; REVOCATION.
   The Mayor may, in his or her discretion, refuse to issue or may revoke the
certificate of any vehicle for hire or the certificate of any operator or
driver of any vehicle for hire for any of the following reasons:
   (A)   Conviction of a felony against the state or conviction of any offense
against another state which would have been a felony if committed in the state;
   (B)   Violation of any federal or state law relating to the use, possession
or sale of alcoholic beverages or narcotic or barbiturate drugs;
   (C)   Addiction to or habitual use of alcoholic beverages or narcotic or
barbiturate drugs;
   (D)   Violation of any federal or state law relating to prostitution;
   (E)   Noncitizenship in the United States; and
   (F)   Habitual violation of traffic laws or ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 14-4)
OPERATION RULES AND REGULATIONS
§ 111.15  BOND, INSURANCE; AMOUNTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any taxicab whose operator is
engaged in the business of transporting passengers for hire over the public
streets of the town without first posting bond in the sum of $25,000 with the
Town Administrator/Town Clerk or taking out liability insurance in the
following minimum amounts for each taxicab:
   (A)   Fifty thousand dollars because of bodily injury to or death of one
person in any one accident;
   (B)   Subject to the limit for one person, $100,000 because of bodily injury
to or death of two or more persons in any one accident; and
   (C)   Twenty-five thousand dollars because of injury to or destruction of
property of others in any one accident.
(Prior Code, § 14-5)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.16  DEPOT OR LOT REQUIRED.
   Every taxicab operated within the town shall have depot terminal or parking
lot on private property and shall not be permitted to use the public streets of
the town except for the purpose of transporting, loading and unloading of
passengers and their baggage.
(Prior Code, § 14-6)
§ 111.17  BUSINESS SOLICITATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any operator or driver of a taxicab or jitney for
hire to solicit patronage on any street or sidewalk or in any building of the
town, except within the confines of his or her own parking lot or terminal.
(Prior Code, § 14-7)  Penalty see §
10.99
§ 111.18  POSTING OF RATES.
   Every taxicab operated within the town or within a distance of three miles
thereof, shall have at all times prominently posted and displayed in the
taxicab, so as to be visible to the passengers therein, the rates or fares for
the use of the cab.
(Prior Code, § 14-8)
CHAPTER 112:  ADVERTISING
Section
   
112.01   Prohibition on public property
   
112.02   Prohibition on private property without permission of owner
   
112.03   Prohibition of political advertising on public property
§ 112.01  PROHIBITION ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to tack, staple, post, tie or otherwise
attach any advertising sign, poster or placard upon any pole, tree, post,
building or other structure located on public property in the town.
(Prior Code, § 9-8.1)  (Ord. passed 3-6-1978)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.02  PROHIBITION ON PRIVATE PROPERTY WITHOUT PERMISSION OF OWNER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to tack, post, staple, tie or otherwise
attach any advertising sign, poster or placard upon any pole, tree, post,
building or other structure located on private property in the town without the
express written consent of the property owner.
(Prior Code, § 9-8.1)  (Ord. passed 3-6-1978)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.03  PROHIBITION OF POLITICAL ADVERTISING ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   Nothwithstanding the above provisions, it shall be unlawful to post, staple
or otherwise attach any printed or graphic material or any type of political
material upon any public property of the town, including rights-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 9-8.1)  (Ord. passed 3-6-1978)  Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XIII:  GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST THE PUBLIC MORALS
CHAPTER 130:  GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Fishing in town lakes
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01  FISHING IN TOWN LAKES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to fish in the town lakes at any time
except as outlined.
   (A)   No fishing shall be allowed in Lake Wright at any time.
   (B)   (1)   Fishing is allowed by permit only in Lake Corriher and the Town
Reservoir.
      (2)   The town Department of Parks shall establish permits, fees, rules
and regulations for the purpose of recreational fishing.
(Prior Code, § 9-4)  (Ord. passed 7-15-1955; Am. Ord. passed 8-6-2012) 
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99  PENALTY.
   Any person convicted of violating §
130.01 is subject to a fine not exceeding $50.
(Prior Code, § 9-4)  (Ord. passed 7-15-1955)
CHAPTER 131:  OFFENSES AGAINST THE PUBLIC MORALS
Section
Sex Offenders
   
131.01   Definitions
   
131.02   Parks, recreation areas, greenways prohibited to sex offenders
   
131.03   Notice
Juvenile Curfew
   
131.10   Purpose
   
131.11   Definitions
   
131.12   Violation by juvenile
   
131.13   Violation by parent or guardian
   
131.14   Violation by owner, operator, employee of establishment; defense
   
131.15   Exceptions
   
131.16   Police enforcement
 
   
131.99   Penalty
SEX OFFENDERS
§ 131.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARKS, RECREATION AREAS and GREENWAYS.
      (1)   Any town-owned, leased, operated or maintained land which is
designated by the town as a park, recreation facility and/or greenway. The
areas shall be clearly outlined on a map posted in the lobby of the Town Hall.
      (2)   The map shall be entitled protected areas.
   REGISTERED SEX OFFENDER. An individual who is registered by any state or
federal agency as a sex offender and whose name is published on any state or
federal registered sex offender listing, including, but not limited to, the sex
offender registry established in G.S. Ch. 14, Art. 27A.
(Ord. passed 12-3-2007)
§ 131.02  PARKS, RECREATION AREAS, GREENWAYS PROHIBITED TO SEX OFFENDERS.
   No registered sex offender shall enter into or upon any town parks,
recreation areas and greenways operated by the town. Each entry into the areas,
regardless of the time period between the entries, shall constitute a separate
offense under this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 12-3-2007)  Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.03  NOTICE.
   (A)   The Town Administrator or his or her designee shall post this
regulation in the lobby of the Town Hall.
   (B)   Any offender found to be in violation of this subchapter shall
hereafter be personally advised that they are banned from entry and subject to
criminal prosecution for criminal trespass for repeated violations.
(Ord. passed 12-3-2007)
JUVENILE CURFEW
§ 131.10  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to protect juveniles from victimization
and exposure to criminal activity by establishing a curfew for juveniles under
the age of 16 years in the town. This subchapter is intended to reinforce and
promote the role of the parent or guardian in training and guiding children,
and promote the health, safety and welfare of both juveniles and adults by
creating an environment offering better protection and security for all
concerned.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 131.11  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following words and phrases shall
have the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section.
   DIRECT ROUTE. The shortest reasonable path of travel or commonly used route
to reach a final destination without a detour or stop along the way.
   EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting state
that requires immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited to, fire,
accident, natural or human-made disasters or any other situation requiring
immediate action to prevent injury or death. This term shall also include any
action that is reasonably necessary in order to respond to the medical needs of
a family member of the juvenile.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Any privately-owned place of business operated for profit to
which the public has access or is invited including, but not limited to, any
place of amusement or entertainment.
   GUARDIAN. A person who is court appointed to be the guardian of a juvenile.
   JUVENILE. Any person under the age of 16 years.
   OWNER/OPERATOR. Any individual, firm, association, partnership or
corporation operating, managing or conducting any establishment including the
employees, members or partners of an association or partnership and the
officers of a corporation.
   PARENT. A person who is a natural parent, adoptive parent, foster parent,
stepparent or a person to whom legal custody has been given by court order.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any place that is generally open and used by the public or a
substantial group of the public, whether it is publicly or privately owned.
This includes, but is not limited to, streets, sidewalks, highways, alleys,
rights-of-way, public vehicular areas, parking lots, transportation facilities,
theaters, restaurants, shops, schools and school grounds, places of business,
playgrounds, parks, similar areas that are open to the public and other common
areas open to or accessible to the public.
   REMAIN. To linger or stay in a public place or fail to leave the premises
when requested to do so by a police officer, or fail to leave the premises of
an establishment when requested to do so by the owner/operator or employee of
the premises.
   RESTRICTED HOURS. The time referred to herein is based upon the prevailing
standard of time, whether Eastern Standard Time or Eastern Daylight Savings
Time as observed by the town. The RESTRICTED HOURS are as follows:
      (1)   11:00 p.m. on any Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday
until 6:00 a.m. of the following day; and
      (2)   12:01 a.m. until 6:00 a.m. on any Friday or Saturday.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 131.12  VIOLATION BY JUVENILE.
   (A)   Except as provided by §
131.15 of this subchapter, the following offenses constitute a violation of
this subchapter.
   (B)   A juvenile commits an offense by being present or remaining in any
public place or on the premises of any establishment within the town during the
restricted hours.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 131.13  VIOLATION BY PARENT OR GUARDIAN.
   (A)   A parent or guardian of a juvenile commits an offense if he or she
knowingly permits or by insufficient control, allows the juvenile to remain in
any public place or on the premises of any establishment within the town during
the restricted hours. The term KNOWINGLY includes that a parent should have
reasonable knowledge as to the whereabouts of a juvenile in that parent’s legal
custody. It shall, therefore, be no defense that a parent was indifferent to
the activities, conduct or location of the juvenile.
   (B)   It shall be a violation of this subchapter for a parent or guardian to
refuse to take custody during the restricted hours of a juvenile for whom the
parent or guardian is responsible.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.14  VIOLATION BY OWNER, OPERATOR, EMPLOYEE OF ESTABLISHMENT; DEFENSE.
   (A)   The owner, operator or any employee of an establishment commits an
offense if he or she knowingly allows a juvenile to remain upon the premises of
the establishment during the restricted hours. The term KNOWINGLY includes
knowledge that an operator or employee should reasonably be expected to have
concerning the patrons of an establishment. The standard for “knowingly” shall
be applied through an objective test, whether a reasonable person in the
operator’s or employee’s position should have known that the patron was a
juvenile in violation of this subchapter.
   (B)   It is a defense to prosecution under division (A) of this section that
the owner, operator or employee of an establishment promptly notified the
Police Department that a juvenile was present on the premises of the
establishment during the restricted hours and refused to leave.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.15  EXCEPTIONS.
   A juvenile who is in a public place or establishment during the restricted
hours shall not be in violation of this subchapter if the juvenile is:
   (A)   Accompanied by his or her parent or guardian;
   (B)   Accompanied by an adult 18 years of age or older authorized by the
parent or guardian of the juvenile to take the parent’s or guardian’s place in
accompanying the juvenile for a designated period of time and purpose within a
specified area;
   (C)   On an errand, using a direct route, at the direction of the juvenile’s
parent or guardian until the hour of 12:30 a.m.;
   (D)   In a motor vehicle with parental consent engaged in interstate travel
through the town or originating or terminating travel in the town;
   (E)   Engaged in lawful employment activity or using a direct route to or
from a place of employment;
   (F)   Reacting or responding to an emergency;
   (G)   Attending or traveling to or from, by a direct route, an official
school, religious or recreational activity that is supervised by adults and
sponsored by a public or private school, the town, other governmental entity,
civic organization or another similar entity that accepts responsibility for
the juvenile;
   (H)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution as free exercise of religion, freedom of speech and the right of
assembly;
   (I)   Married or emancipated; or
   (J)    When authorized by special permit issued by the Chief of Police or
his or her designee, carried on the person of the juvenile.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 131.16  POLICE ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Before taking any enforcement action under this subchapter, a police
officer shall ask the apparent offender’s age and reason for being in a public
place or establishment during restricted hours.
   (B)   The officer shall not prepare a juvenile contact report, issue a
citation or make an arrest unless the officer reasonably believes that an
offense has occurred and no exception or defense as listed in §§
131.14 and
131.15 is present.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 131.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this section where no other penalty
is provided shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Anyone who is found in violation of §§
131.01 through
131.03 shall be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor and shall be fined not more
than $500 per offense and/or 30 days in jail as set forth in G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed 12-3-2007)
   (C)   A juvenile who violates any provision of §§
131.10 through
131.16 is subject to be adjudicated delinquent. The court may, in its
discretion, impose any dispositional alternatives that are provided in the
North Carolina Juvenile Code for any juvenile who is delinquent.
   (D)   Any person other than a juvenile who violates any provision of §§
131.10 through
131.16 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine not to
exceed $100, and/or imprisonment in the discretion of the court in accordance
with G.S. § 14-4.
TITLE XV:  LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
      
152.   ZONING
      
153.   STORM WATER QUALITY MANAGEMENT AND DISCHARGE CONTROL
      
154.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
CHAPTER 150:  BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Building Codes
   
150.01   Application of code rules and regulations
   
150.02   Building Code adopted by reference
   
150.03   Plumbing Code adopted by reference
   
150.04   Heating, Air Conditioning, Refrigeration and Ventilation Code adopted
by reference
   
150.05   Electrical Code adopted by reference, amended
   
150.06   National and State Fire Codes adopted
   
150.07   Fire Prevention Code citation and jurisdiction
   
150.08   Permits
   
150.09   Appeal from denial of permits
   
150.10   Permits for new materials, processes, occupancies
   
150.11   Residential Building Code adopted by reference
   
150.12   Code amendments adopted by reference
   
150.13   Code compliance required
   
150.14   Official copies on file
Insulation and Energy Conservation Contractors
   
150.30   Enactment authority
   
150.31   Enforcement
BUILDING CODES
§ 150.01  APPLICATION OF CODE RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter and of the regulatory codes herein adopted
shall apply to the following:
   (A)   The location, design, materials, equipment, construction,
reconstruction, alteration, repair, maintenance, moving, demolition, removal,
use and occupancy of every building or structure or any appurtenances connected
or attached to the building or structure;
   (B)   The installation, erection, alteration, repair, use and maintenance of
plumbing systems consisting of house sewers, building drains, waste and vent
systems, hot and cold water supply systems and all fixtures and appurtenances
thereof; and
   (C)   The installation, erection, alteration, repair, use and maintenance of
mechanical systems consisting of heating, ventilating, air conditioning and
refrigeration systems, fuel burning equipment and appurtenances thereof.
(Prior Code, § 4-6)
§ 150.02  BUILDING CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The most current edition of the State Building Code, as adopted by the State
Building Code Council and as amended, is hereby adopted by reference as fully
as though set forth herein as the Building Code of the town to the extent the
Code is applicable for safe and stable design, methods of construction, minimum
standards, and use of materials in building of structures hereafter erected,
enlarged, altered, repaired or otherwise constructed or reconstructed.
(Prior Code, § 4-7)
§ 150.03  PLUMBING CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The most current edition of the State Plumbing Code, as adopted and
published by the State Building Code Council and as amended, is hereby adopted
by reference as fully as though set forth herein as the Plumbing Code for the
town.
(Prior Code, § 4-8)
§ 150.04  HEATING, AIR CONDITIONING, REFRIGERATION AND VENTILATION CODE ADOPTED
BY REFERENCE.
   The most current edition of the State Mechanical Codes, as adopted and
published by the State Building Code Council and as amended, is hereby adopted
by reference as fully as though set forth herein as the Heating Code for the
town.
(Prior Code, § 4-9)
§ 150.05  ELECTRICAL CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE, AMENDED.
   The most current edition of the National Electrical Code, as adopted by the
State Building Code Council and as amended, is hereby adopted by reference as
fully as though set forth herein as the Electrical Code for the town.
(Prior Code, § 4-10)
§ 150.06  NATIONAL AND STATE FIRE CODES ADOPTED.
   For the purpose of prescribing regulations governing conditions hazardous to
life and property from fire or explosion, there are hereby adopted those
certain codes known as the most current North Carolina State Fire Code and the
most current National Fire Protection Association Code, being particularly the
current edition thereof and the whole thereof, save and except the portions as
are hereinafter deleted, modified or amended by this subchapter, and the codes,
copies of which are and shall remain on file in the office of the Town
Administrator/Town Clerk, are hereby incorporated in and made a part of this
section as fully as though they were set out at length herein.
(Prior Code, § 6-6)
§ 150.07  FIRE PREVENTION CODE CITATION AND JURISDICTION.
   (A)   The National Fire Codes adopted by this subchapter shall be known and
may be cited as the Fire Prevention Code.
   (B)   The provisions of the Fire Prevention Code shall be applicable within
the town limits.
(Prior Code, § 6-7)
§ 150.08  PERMITS.
   (A)   All permits required or authorized by the Fire Prevention Code shall
be issued by the Rowan County Fire Marshall’s office. Each permit shall be
valid for the period of time specified therein, not to exceed one year, and may
be made subject to renewal; provided that, where an annual license is required
by the town in addition to a permit required by the Fire Prevention Code, a
permit may be issued for an indefinite period.
   (B)   The Rowan County Fire Marshall’s office, in consultation with the
Rowan County Board of Commissioners, may promulgate a schedule of fees for the
issuance of permits and making of inspections required or authorized by the
Fire Prevention Code, and the schedule, when approved by the Board of
Alderpersons and placed on file in the office of the Town Administrator/Town
Clerk, shall govern the fees to be charged by the town for the permits and
inspections to which they are thereby made applicable.
(Prior Code, § 6-14)
§ 150.09  APPEAL FROM DENIAL OF PERMITS.
   Whenever the Rowan County Fire Marshall’s office shall disapprove an
application or refuse to grant a permit applied for, or when it is claimed that
the provisions of the Fire Prevention Code do not apply or that the true intent
and meaning thereof have been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the
applicant may appeal from the decision of the Fire Marshall’s office to the
Board of County Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 6-16)
§ 150.10  PERMITS FOR NEW MATERIALS, PROCESSES, OCCUPANCIES.
   The Rowan County Fire Marshall’s office and the Building Inspector shall act
as a committee to determine and specify, after giving affected persons an
opportunity to be heard, any new materials, processes or occupancies which
shall require permits, in addition to those now enumerated in the Fire
Prevention Code. The County Fire Marshall’s office shall post the list in a
conspicuous place in his or her office, and distribute copies thereof to
interested persons.
(Prior Code, § 6-17)
§ 150.11  RESIDENTIAL BUILDING CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The most current edition of the State Residential Building Code as adopted
by the State Building Inspectors Association and as published by the State
Building Code Council and amended, is hereby adopted by reference as fully as
though set forth herein as the Residential Building Code for one- and two-
family residential buildings in the town.
(Prior Code, § 4-12)
§ 150.12  CODE AMENDMENTS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   Amendments to the regulatory codes adopted by reference herein, which are
from time to time adopted and published by the agencies or organizations
referred to herein, shall be effective in the town at the time the amendments
are adopted by the State Building Code Council.
(Prior Code, § 4-13)
§ 150.13  CODE COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   All buildings or structures which are hereafter constructed,
reconstructed, erected, altered, extended, enlarged, repaired, demolished or
moved shall conform to the requirements, minimum standards and other provisions
of either the State Building Code, “General Construction”, or the State Uniform
Building Code, whichever is applicable, or of both if both are applicable.
   (B)   Every building or structure intended for human habitation, occupancy
or use shall have plumbing, plumbing systems or plumbing fixtures installed,
constructed, altered, extended, repaired or reconstructed in accordance with
the minimum standards, requirements and other provisions of the State Plumbing
Code.
   (C)   All mechanical systems consisting of heating, ventilating, air
conditioning and refrigeration systems, fuel burning equipment and
appurtenances thereto shall be installed, erected, altered, repaired, used and
maintained in accordance with the minimum standards, requirements and other
provisions of the State Mechanical Code.
   (D)   All electrical wiring, installations and appurtenances thereto shall
be erected, altered, repaired, used and maintained in accordance with the
minimum standards, requirements and other provisions of the National Electrical
Code as adopted by the State Building Code Council.
(Prior Code, § 4-14)
§ 150.14  OFFICIAL COPIES ON FILE.
   An official copy of each regulatory code adopted herein and official copies
of all amendments thereto shall be kept on file in the office of the Town
Administrator/Town Clerk. The copies shall be the official copies of the codes
and the amendments.
(Prior Code, § 4-15)
INSULATION AND ENERGY CONSERVATION CONTRACTORS
§ 150.30  ENACTMENT AUTHORITY.
   This subchapter is adopted pursuant to G.S. Chapter 143, Article 9D and §
160A-194.
(Prior Code, § 4-21)  (Ord. passed 1-9-1978)
§ 150.31  ENFORCEMENT.
   Any and all enforcement shall be by the Rowan County Code Enforcement
Department using the most current codes as adopted by the State Building Code
Council.
CHAPTER 151:  SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
   
151.01   Subdivision ordinance adopted by reference
§ 151.01  SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The town’s subdivision regulations are hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Prior Code, Chapter 13)
CHAPTER 152:  ZONING
Section
   
152.01   Zoning ordinance adopted by reference
§ 152.01  ZONING ORDINANCE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE
   The town’s zoning ordinance regulations are hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Prior Code, Chapter 16)
CHAPTER 153:  STORM WATER QUALITY MANAGEMENT  AND DISCHARGE CONTROL
Section
Title, Purpose and General Provisions
   
153.001   Title; authority
   
153.002   Purpose and intent
   
153.003   Applicability; exceptions
   
153.004   Definitions
   
153.005   Interpretation
   
153.006   Permits
   
153.007   Fees
   
153.008   Applicability and vested rights
   
153.009   Responsibility for administration
   
153.010   Variances and appeals
   
153.011   Severability
   
153.012   Regulatory consistency
   
153.013   Ultimate responsibility of discharger
   
153.014   Storm water management
   
153.015   Stream buffers
Discharge Prohibitions
   
153.030   Illegal discharges
   
153.031   Illicit connections
   
153.032   Waste disposal prohibitions
   
153.033   Discharges in violation of industrial or construction activity NPDES
storm water discharge permit
Regulations and Requirements
   
153.050   Requirement to prevent, control, and reduce storm water pollutants
   
153.051   Requirement to eliminate illegal discharges
   
153.052   Requirement to eliminate or secure approval for illicit connections
   
153.053   Watercourse protection
   
153.054   Requirement to remediate
   
153.055   Requirement to monitor and analyze
   
153.056   Notification of spills
Inspection and Monitoring
   
153.075   Authority to inspect
   
153.076   Authority to sample, establish sampling devices, and test
Enforcement
   
153.090   Violations
   
153.091   Notice of violation
   
153.092   Appeal
   
153.093   Abatement cost; lien
   
153.094   Urgency abatement
   
153.095   Violations
   
153.096   Compensatory action
   
153.097   Violations deemed a public nuisance
   
153.098   Potential liability for violation of Federal Clean Water Act
 
   
153.999   Penalty
TITLE, PURPOSE AND GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001  TITLE; AUTHORITY.
   (A)   This chapter shall be known as the “Storm Water Quality Management and
Discharge Control Ordinance” of the town and may be so cited.
   (B)   Under G.S. Chapter 160A, the town has the responsibility and authority
to regulate land use and development, enforce ordinances within its
jurisdiction, and to adopt regulations designed to promote the public health,
safety and general welfare of its citizenry.
(Ord. passed 7-15-2008)
§ 153.002  PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose and intent of this chapter is to:
   (A)   Ensure the health, safety and general welfare of citizens, and protect
and enhance the water quality of watercourses and water bodies in a manner
pursuant to and consistent with the Federal Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. §§ 1251
et seq.) by reducing pollutants in storm water discharges to the maximum extent
practicable and by prohibiting non-storm water discharges to the storm drain
system;
   (B)   Establish minimum criteria to control and minimize the quantitative
and qualitative impacts of storm water runoff from development within the town;
and
   (C)   Encourage sustainable development.  Prudent site planning should
include special consideration for preserving natural drainage ways, maximizing
infiltration, slowing storm water runoff from individual sites in route to
streams and rivers by use of effective runoff management, structural and
nonstructural best management practices, drainage structures and storm water
facilities.
(Ord. passed 7-15-2008)
§ 153.003  APPLICABILITY; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all areas within the
planning jurisdictional limits of the town. This chapter shall be permanently
on file in the town municipal building. The town may furnish additional policy,
criteria, and information, including specifications and standards, and may
provide the information in the form of a Storm Water Technical Standards
Manual. That manual may be updated and expanded, from time to time, at the
discretion of the local review authority, based on improvements in engineering,
science, monitoring and local maintenance experience.
   (B)   This storm water management chapter shall not apply to those
activities exempted in specific sections of this chapter, or as identified
below:
      (1)   Existing permitted developments may be continued and maintained.
Expansion to existing structures, classified as existing development, must meet
the provisions of this chapter; and
      (2)   Activities on a bona fide farm unless the activity is for non-farm
purpose.
(Ord. passed 7-15-2008)
§ 153.004  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter,, the following words and phrases shall
have the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section.
   APPLICANT.  An owner or developer of a site who executes the storm water
permit application pursuant to this chapter.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES.  Activities, practices and procedures to prevent
or reduce the discharge of pollutants directly or indirectly to the storm drain
system and waters of the United States. BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPS)
include, but are not limited to: treatment facilities to remove pollutants from
storm water; operating and maintenance procedures; facility management
practices to control runoff, spillage or leaks of non-storm water, waste
disposal and drainage from materials storage; erosion and sediment control
practices; and the prohibition of specific activities, practices and procedures
and the other provisions as the town determines appropriate for the control of
pollutants. Please refer to the town’s Storm Water Technical Standards Manual
for further information and for specific BMP requirements.
   BONA FIDE FARM.  Any tract of land containing at least one acre which is
used for activities relating to production, and activities incidental to
production of crops, fruits, vegetables, ornamental and flowering plants,
grasses and grains, forest products, dairy, livestock, fish and shellfish,
poultry and other agricultural products having a domestic or foreign market,
and excludes commercial and industrial processing.
   BUILDING.  Any structure, either temporary or permanent, having walls and a
roof, designed for a shelter of any person, animal or property.
   BUILT-UPON AREA.  The portion of a development that is covered by impervious
or partially impervious cover including buildings, pavement, gravel areas
( such as roads, parking lots, paths), recreation facilities (such as tennis
courts), and the like. Slatted decks and the water area of a swimming pool or
pond are considered pervious.
   CHANNEL.  A natural or artificial watercourse with a definite bed and banks
that conducts flowing water.
   CHANNEL BANK.  The location of the upper edge of the active channel above
which the water spreads into the overbanks on either side of the channel or the
elevation of the two-year frequency storm. Where the CHANNEL BANK is not well
defined, the channel bank shall be considered the edge of the waterline during
a two-year frequency storm.
   CLEAN WATER ACT.  The Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. §§ 1251
et seq.) and any subsequent amendments thereto.
   CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY.  Activities subject to National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System (NPDES) construction permits or the County Erosion and
Sediment Control Program. These include construction projects resulting in land
disturbance. The ACTIVITIES include, but are not limited to, clearing and
grubbing, grading, excavating and demolition.
   DESIGN STORM.  The specific frequency and, if necessary, duration of the
rainfall event to be used in design to meet the criteria established in the
Storm Water Technical Standards Manual.
   DEVELOPMENT.  Any land disturbing activity, which adds to or changes the
amount of impervious or partially impervious cover on a land area or which
otherwise decreases the infiltration of precipitation into the soil.
   DRAINAGE STRUCTURES.  Includes swales, channels, storm sewers, curb inlets,
yard inlets, culverts and other structures designed to convey storm water.
   GRANDFATHERED RIGHTS.  See VESTED RIGHTS.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS.  Any material, including any substance, waste or
combination thereof, which, because of its quantity, concentration or physical,
chemical or infectious characteristics may cause or significantly contribute
to, a substantial present or potential hazard to human health, safety, property
or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, disposed of or
otherwise managed.
   ILLICIT CONNECTIONS.  An illicit connection is defined as either of the
following:
      (1)   Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or subsurface,
which allows an illegal discharge to enter the storm drain system including,
but not limited to, any conveyances which allow any non-storm water discharge
including sewage, process wastewater and wash water to enter the storm drain
system and any connections to the storm drain system from indoor drains and
sinks, regardless of whether the drain or connection had been previously
allowed, permitted or approved by a government agency; or
      (2)   Any drain or conveyance connected from a commercial or industrial
land use to the storm drain system which has not been documented in plans, maps
or equivalent records and approved by the town.
   ILLICIT DISCHARGE.  Any unlawful disposal, placement, emptying, dumping,
spillage, leakage, pumping, pouring or other discharge of any substance other
than storm water into a storm water conveyance system, the waters of the state
or upon the land that the substance is likely to reach a storm water conveyance
system or waters of the state constitutes an illegal discharge, except as
exempted in §
153.055 of this chapter.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE.  Any surface which in whole or in part, restricts or
prevents the natural absorption of water into the ground. The SURFACES may
include, but not be limited to compacted earth, traffic-bearing gravel,
concrete, asphalt or other paving material, and all area covered by the
footprint of buildings or structures. Uncovered slatted decks and the water
area of a swimming pool, pond or other water body are considered pervious.
   INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY.  Activities subject to NPDES Industrial Permits as
defined in 40 C.F.R. § 122.26(b)(14).
   INTERMITTENT STREAMS.  A natural drainage way, which shows up as a blue line
on the most recent version of the USGS 7.5-minute quadrangle maps or as a
demarcated stream on the most recent version of the maps of the Soil Survey of
Rowan County from the U.S. Department of Agriculture, and has a contributing
drainage area of 300 acres or less, shall be considered an intermittent stream
for the purposes of this chapter.
   LAND DISTURBING ACTIVITIES.  The use of land by any person that results in a
change in the natural cover or topography that may contribute to or alter the
quantity and or quality of storm water runoff.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) STORM WATER
DISCHARGE PERMITS.  General, group and individual storm water discharge permits
that regulate facilities defined in Federal NPDES regulations pursuant to the
Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
   NATURAL DRAINAGE WAY.  An incised channel with a defined channel bed and
banks that are part of the natural topography. Construction channels as the as
drainage ditches shall not be considered a NATURAL DRAINAGE WAY unless the
constructed channel was a natural drainage way that has been relocated, widened
or otherwise altered.
   NON-STORM WATER DISCHARGE.  Any discharge to the storm drain system that is
not composed entirely of storm water.
   OWNER.  A property owner, his or her heirs, successors or assigns; a legal
entity with control over the management of a property; or any other person or
corporation that occupies a position that controls the operation, maintenance
and/or repair to a property.
   PERENNIAL STREAM.  Streams that have essentially continuous flows or are
shown as blue lines on the most recent version of the United States Geological
Survey (USGS) 1:24,000 (7.5 min.) scale topographic maps or are demarcated on
the most recent version of maps of the Soil Survey of Rowan County, prepared by
the U.S. Department of Agriculture, and that have a contributing drainage area
of more than 300 acres shall be considered a perennial stream for the purposes
of this chapter.
   POLLUTANT.  Anything that causes or contributes to pollution. POLLUTANTS
shall include, but are not limited to: paints, varnishes, and solvents; oil and
other automotive fluids; non-hazardous liquid and solid wastes and yard wastes;
refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter or other discarded or abandoned objects,
articles and accumulations, so that same may cause or contribute to pollution;
floatables; pesticides, herbicides and fertilizers; hazardous substances and
wastes; untreated commercial car wash water and industrial discharges,
contaminated fountain drains and cooling waters; sewage, fecal coliform and
pathogens; dissolved and particulate metals; animal wastes; wastes and residues
that result from constructing a structure (including, but not limited to,
sediments, slurries and concrete rinsates); and noxious or offensive matter of
any kind.
   POLLUTION.  The human-made or human-induced alteration of the quality of
waters by waste to a degree which unreasonably affects or has the potential to
unreasonably affect, either the waters for beneficial uses or the facilities
which serve these beneficial uses.
   PREMISES.  Any building, lot, parcel of land or portion of land whether
improved or unimproved including adjacent sidewalks and parking strips.
   RIPARIAN BUFFER.  An area of trees, shrubs or other vegetation that is
adjacent to a natural drainage way or surface water. RIPARIAN BUFFERS reduce
the impact of upland sources by trapping, filtering, and converting nutrients,
sediments and other chemicals, and maintain the integrity of the natural
drainage way. For the purposes of this chapter, a natural drainage way or
surface water shall be present if the feature is approximately shown on the
most recent version of the 1:24,000 (7.5 min.) quadrangle topographic maps
prepared by the United States Geological Survey (UGSG) or on the latest version
of the Soil Survey of Rowan County as prepared by the U.S. Department of
Agriculture Natural Resource Conservation Service (NRCS).
   SHEET FLOW.  The evert flow of water across the land surface so that there
is no discernable concentration of water.
   SOIL EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL PLAN.  The graphic plans including
narrative where appropriate, required by the state, by the county, and by the
town as a prerequisite for a construction permit. The purpose of this plan is
to explain existing conditions and proposed grading of land including any
development and to describe the activities and measures to be undertaken to
control soil erosion and sedimentation.
   STORM DRAIN SYSTEM.  Publicly-owned facilities operated by the town by which
storm water is collected and/or conveyed, including, but not limited to, any
roads with drainage systems, streets, gutters, curbs, inlets, piped storm
drains, pumping facilities, retention and detention basins, natural and human-
made or altered drainage channels, reservoirs, and other drainage structures
which are within the town and are not part of a publicly-owned treatment works
as defined in 40 C.F.R. § 122.2.
   STORM WATER.  Any surface flow, runoff and drainage consisting entirely of
water from atmospheric precipitation.
   STORM WATER ADMINISTRATOR.  The person designated by the Town Administrator
of the town to have authority to review and approve storm water permits and
storm water management plans. The Storm Water Administrator shall also be
responsible for inspecting development and making sure the provisions of this
chapter are being followed.
   STORM WATER FACILITIES.  Devices designed specifically to detain or retain
storm water for water quantity or water quality control. These devices shall
not include those drainage structures that provide incidental water quantity or
water quality control. These devices include, but are not limited to, wet
ponds, dry ponds, bioretention areas, filter strips or infiltration trenches.
   STORM WATER TECHNICAL STANDARDS MANUAL.  The manual of design, performance
and review criteria adopted by Town Board of Alderpersons for the
administration of the storm water program.
   STREAM BUFFER.  Strips of land adjacent to streams and rivers which are
retrained in their natural vegetated, re-vegetated or reforested state through
the preservation of appropriate perennial vegetation.
   STRUCTURAL STORM WATER FACILITY.  A constructed facility, designed by a
qualified professional, under 15A NCAC 2H.1008(c) or other application code,
for the purpose of managing storm water flow and quality.
   STRUCTURE.  Buildings, wells, screened enclosures, fences, advertising
signs, billboards, poster panels, swimming pools, manufactured houses, modular
houses and underground shelters.
   TOWN.  The Town of Landis, North Carolina.
   VEGETATIVE BUFFER.  An area that has a dense ground cover of herbaceous or
woody species, which provides for diffusion and infiltration of runoff and
filtering of pollutants.
   VESTED RIGHTS.  A right to perform some action based on prior approvals,
explicit or implicit, even if that action would otherwise result in a violation
of a current ordinance, regulation, standard or other requirement.
   WATER-DEPENDENT STRUCTURES.  Requires the access or proximity to or sitting
within surface waters to fulfill its basic purpose, as boat ramps, boat houses,
docks and bulkheads. Ancillary facilities as restaurants, outlets for boat
supplies, parking lots and commercial boat storage areas are not considered
WATER-DEPENDENT STRUCTURES.
   WATERS OF THE UNITED STATES.  Surface watercourses and water bodies as
defined in 40 C.F.R. § 122.2, including all natural waterways and definite
channels and depressions in the earth that may carry water, even though the
waterways may only carry water during rains and storms and may not carry storm
water at and during all times and seasons.
   WETLAND.  Those areas regulated under § 404 of the Clean Water Act as
identified under guidelines employed by the United States Army Corps of
Engineers in evaluating permit applications under 33 U.S.C. § 1344 and
applicable federal regulations. WETLANDS also include areas defined by the
state as ISOLATED WETLANDS.
(Ord. passed 7-15-2008)
§ 153.005  INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   In interpreting and applying this chapter, the requirements are
intended to be minimum requirements that are imposed and are to be conformed
to, and are in addition to, and not in lieu of, all other legal requirements.
   (B)   This chapter  shall not be deemed to interfere with or annul or
otherwise affect in any manner whatsoever any ordinance, rules, regulations,
permits or easements, covenants, or other agreements between parties, provided,
however, that, where this chapter imposes greater restrictions and controls
with respect to storm water management, the provisions of this chapter shall
prevail.
   (C)   This chapter shall not be interpreted to mean that the town accepts
responsibility for the maintenance and upkeep of storm water facilities located
and/or situated entirely or partially on private property. Maintenance, upgrade
and/or improvements to existing and/or new storm water facilities located and/
or situated entirely or partially on private property shall remain the
responsibility of the property owner.
(Ord. passed 7-15-2008)
§ 153.006  PERMITS.
   (A)   Except where provided elsewhere, development shall not commence
without obtaining a storm water permit pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   The storm water permit application shall be made by, or on behalf of,
the owner(s) or developer(s) of the site for which the permit is sought. The
application shall be filed with the town on a form supplied by the town and
shall be accompanied with the information identified in the Storm Water
Technical Standards Manual.
   (C)   Storm water permit shall not be issued until the following conditions
are met:
      (1)   Approval by the Storm Water Administrator of the supporting
information;
      (2)   Submission and approval of any required easements;
      (3)   Submission and approval of any required inspection and maintenance
agreements; and
      (4)   Payment of all fees.
   (D)   If the development requires a sediment and erosion control permit, the
storm water permit will be conditional upon the owner receiving the sediment
and erosion permit and upon the filing of a copy of the approved Sediment and
Erosion Control Plan and associated Permit to the Storm Water Administrator.
   (E)   The storm water permit will be valid for one year from the date of
issuance or if significant changes in the development are made that change the
intent of the permit. Significant changes shall be determined by the Storm
Water Administrator. If significant changes are made, the original storm water
permit shall not be valid and a new permit shall be required.
(Ord. passed 7-15-2008)
§ 153.007  FEES.
   A list of fees associated with this chapter is available at the town Storm
Water Administrator’s Office.
(Ord. passed 7-15-2008)
§ 153.008  APPLICABILITY AND VESTED RIGHTS.
   (A)   This chapter  shall apply to all water entering the storm drain system
generated on any developed and undeveloped lands lying within the planning
jurisdiction of the town including any amendments or revisions thereto.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter shall be applied to the maximum extent
that they do not contravene vested rights. Vested rights shall be based upon
the following criteria:
      (1)   Having an outstanding building permit in compliance with G.S. §§
153A-344.1 or 160A-385.1;
      (2)   Having an approved site specific or phased development plan in
compliance with G.S. §§ 153A-344.1 or 160A-385.1; or
      (3)   For projects that require a state permit, as landfills, NPDES
wastewater discharges, land application or residuals and road construction
activities, shall be considered to have vested rights if a State permit was
issued prior to the effective date of the adoption of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-15-2008)
§ 153.009  RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION.
      The Storm Water Administrator of the town shall administer, implement and
enforce the provisions of this chapter. Any powers granted or duties imposed
upon the Storm Water Administrator may be delegated in writing by the Storm
Water Administrator to persons or entities acting in the beneficial interest of
or in the employ of the town.
(Ord. passed 7-15-2008)
§ 153.010  VARIANCES AND APPEALS.
   (A)   An interested party may appeal any final order or other decision of
the Storm Water Administrator.  All appeals must be filed in a timely manner,
but not more than 30 days after a final order or other decision of the Storm
Water Administrator. Appeals must be filed on forms obtained from the office of
the Storm Water Administrator and must be filed with the Storm Water
Administrator. A notice of appeal shall be considered filed when delivered to
the Storm Water Administrator’s office in  a form deemed complete  and
acceptable to the Storm Water Administrator. The Storm Water Administrator
shall enter the date and time of filing on the notice. An Appeals Officer
appointed by the Town Board of Alderpersons will consider all the applications
for variance or other appeal. The Appeals Officer shall schedule a hearing of
the appeal within 14 days of the filing of a notice of appeal and shall rule on
the appeal within 14 days of the hearing of the appeal.
   (B)   An interested party may appeal any final order or other decision of
the Appeals Officer. All appeals must be filed in a timely manner, but not more
than 30 days after a final order or other decision of the Appeals Officer.
Appeals must be filed on forms obtained from the office of the Storm Water
Administrator and must be filed in the office of the Town Administrator. A
notice of appeal shall be considered filed when delivered to the Town
Administrator’s office in a form deemed complete and acceptable to the Town
Administrator. The Town Administrator shall enter the date and time of filing
on the notice. A Technical Review Committee appointed by the Town Board of
Alderpersons will consider an appeal of any decision of the Appeals Officer.
The Technical Review Committee shall schedule a public hearing of the appeal
within 30 days of the filing of a notice of appeal, shall provide appropriate
public notice of that hearing, and shall rule on the appeal within 30 days of
the public hearing of the appeal.
(Ord. passed 7-15-2008)
§ 153.011  SEVERABILITY.
   The provisions of this chapter are hereby declared to be severable. If any
provision, clause, sentence or paragraph of this chapter, or the application
thereof to any person, establishment or circumstances shall be held invalid,
invalidity shall not affect the other provisions or application of this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-15-2008)
§ 153.012  REGULATORY CONSISTENCY.
   This chapter shall be construed to assure consistency with the requirements
fo the Clean Water Act and acts amendatory thereof or supplementary thereto, or
any applicable implementing regulations.
(Ord. passed 7-15-2008)
§ 153.013  ULTIMATE RESPONSIBILITY OF DISCHARGER.
   The standards set forth herein and promulgated pursuant to this chapter, are
minimum standards; therefore, this chapter does not intend nor imply that
compliance by any person will ensure that there will be no contamination,
pollution or unauthorized discharge of pollutants into waters of the United
States. caused by the person. This chapter shall not create liability on the
part of the town, or any agent or employee thereof for any damages that result
from any discharger’s reliance on this chapter, or any administrative decision
lawfully made thereunder.
(Ord. passed 7-15-2008)
§ 153.014  STORM WATER MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   Storm water shall be conveyed through development in an adequately
designed drainage system of natural drainage ways, grass swales, storm sewers,
culverts, inlets and channels. Drainage systems shall be designed, constructed
and maintained so as to provide natural infiltration, control flooding, extend
the time of concentration of storm water runoff, and to control to the maximum
extent practicable the impacts of development. Where the above conditions are
met and where a development does not require the preparation of a Storm Water
Management Plan, as provided in division (B) of this section, obtaining a town
storm water permit is not required.
   (B)   Storm water management plans must be prepared for, and shall be
approved by, the Storm Water Administrator pursuant to the application for a
storm water permit for:
      (1)   All proposed developments that will exceed 20,000 square feet of
cumulative impervious coverage. All the developments shall be required to
construct a complete drainage system sufficient to mitigate the impacts of the
design rainfall events identified in the Storm Water Technical Standards Manual
and below;
      (2)   Any activity that disturbs land within a designated stream buffer
area, except when the disturbance is designated as exempt or allowable in the
Storm Water Technical Standards Manual;
      (3)   Any filling or excavation of a parcel in excess of 1,000 cubic feet
of material, or any filling or excavation that would impact an adjoining parcel
by resulting in the alternation of the drainage path, or the ponding of water,
or a change in the storm water flow on the adjoining parcel; and
      (4)   Any activity or development that will ultimately result in the
disturbance of a total area of one or more acres, except for the following:
         (a)   Activity on a bona fide farm, unless the activity is for non-
farm purposes; or
         (b)   Activities on forestland for the production and harvesting of
timber and timber products.
   (C)   Storm water management plans shall:
      (1)   Include drawings, maps, supporting calculations, specifications and
summaries as outlined in the Storm Water Technical Standards Manual.
      (2)    Demonstrate through accepted engineering practices described in
the Storm Water Technical Standards Manual the impacts of the proposed
development. Impacts of the proposed developments may include:
         (a)   Effects on existing upstream and/or downstream drainage systems
and property;
         (b)   Ability of the natural drainage way to handle additional storm
water runoff;
         (c)   Water quality impacts on receiving waters; and
         (d)   Site-specific criteria.
      (3)   Demonstrate through accepted engineering practices described in the
Storm Water Technical Standards Manual that storm water runoff is adequately
conveyed through the development in a drainage system designed to meet the
criteria described in the Storm Water Technical Standards Manual. The project
shall control and treat the runoff from the first one inch of rain. Runoff
volume drawdown time must be a minimum of 48 hours, but not more than 120
hours. High-density projects must discharge the storage volume at a rate equal
to or less than the pre-development discharge rate for the one-year, 24- hour
storm. All structural storm water treatment systems must be designed to achieve
85% average annual removal of total suspended solids; fecal coliform, and other
pollutants to levels identified in the Storm Water Technical Standards Manual.
Post development runoff rate shall not exceed pre-development runoff rate
unless a maximum discharge rate has been adopted for the applicable drainage
basin and the discharge does not exceed that rate. If a maximum discharge rate
has not been adopted for the applicable drainage basin, post development
discharge rate may not exceed pre-development discharge rate. Storm water
volumes resulting from the proposed development shall be detained within the
development and released at a rate no greater than existed prior to the
development. Detention facilities shall be designed to maintain the pre-
developed runoff rate from the one-year and ten-year design storm events, and
other events as specifically required by the town’s Storm Water Technical
Standards Manual.
      (4)   Demonstrate through accepted engineering practices described in the
Storm Water Technical Standards Manual that storm water facilities control the
impacts of the development to the maximum extend practicable and that those
facilities are designed to meet the criteria described in the Storm Water
Technical Standards Manual.
      (5)   All storm water management plans submitted for developments that
incorporate structural storm water facilities or developments where the density
exceeds 24% built-upon area must be designed to meet or exceed the criteria
contained in 15A NCAC 2H .1008(c) and must be signed and sealed by a qualified
professional.
   (D)   Storm water facilities inspection and maintenance requirements. A
written inspection and maintenance agreement in a form acceptable to the Storm
Water Administrator and executed by the applicant of the storm water permit and
the owners of the facility, if different than the applicant, shall be provided
prior to receiving a storm water permit. The agreement shall provide the
following:
      (1)   Shall bind the parties thereto and all subsequent owners,
successors and assigns;
      (2)   The required inspection maintenance and access of the facility as
defined in the Storm Water Technical Standards Manual;
      (3)   If the town directs the correction, repair, replacement or
maintenance of the facility in writing and the actions are not satisfactorily
performed within a reasonable time (but not greater than 60 days), the town
may, after reasonable notice, enter the land and perform all the necessary work
and may assess the owner(s) of the facility with the cost of the work
performed. The owner(s) served by the facility shall be jointly responsible to
the town for the maintenance of the facility and liable for any costs incurred
by the town pursuant to the agreement and all properties are jointly subject to
the imposition of liens for the costs;
      (4)   The inspection and maintenance agreement shall be recorded in the
Register of Deeds at the expense of the applicant; and
      (5)   Storm water facilities shall be included in an easement. The
easement shall include the area of the facility, area of ponded water and
enough area for access and maintenance. The easement shall be recorded in the
Register of Deeds at the expense of the applicant.
(Ord. passed 7-15-2008)
§ 153.015  STREAM BUFFERS.
   (A)   Stream buffers shall be maintained on all sides of perennial and
intermittent streams, lakes and other natural waterways as provided in the
Storm Water Technical Standards Manual.
   (B)   The following are exempt from this stream buffer requirement:
      (1)   Areas along streams or other waterways that are mapped on the USGS
quadrangle map or NRCS soils map where such streams or waterways do not
actually exist on the ground.
      (2)   Ponds and lakes created for animal watering, irrigation, or other
agricultural uses that are not part of a natural drainage way.
      (3)   Where application of these requirements would prevent all
prospective use of a lot platted and recorded prior to the effective date of
this chapter.
      (4)   Water dependent structures provided that those structures shall be
designed, constructed, and maintained to provide the maximum practicable
nutrient and bacterial removal, have the least practicable adverse effects on
aquatic habitat, and to otherwise protect water quality.
      (5)   Roads, bridges, storm water management facilities, ponds, and
utilities where no other practical alternative exists.  These structures shall
be located, designed, constructed, and maintained to have minimal disturbance,
provide the maximum practicable nutrient and bacterial removal, have the least
practicable adverse effects on aquatic habitat, and to otherwise protect water
quality.
      (6)   Ditches and manmade conveyances other than modified natural
streams.
   (C)   The stream buffer shall be measured from the top of channel bank
landward:
      (1)   The size of the stream buffer for a perennial stream shall be an
undisturbed area measured from the average annual stream bank perpendicularly
for a distance of 50 feet plus four (4) times the average percent of slope of
area adjacent to the stream. This slope shall be calculated by measuring a
distance of 250 feet from the center of the stream.  The percent of slope for
this distance shall serve as the determining factor.  However, the maximum
distance shall note exceed 120 feet from the edge of the stream.  An additional
20 foot vegetated setback from the stream buffer shall be required on perennial
streams.
      (2)   The size of the stream buffer for an intermittent stream shall be
measured from the average annual stream bank perpendicularly for a distance of
30 feet.  The first 20 feet shall be an undisturbed area.
   (D)   The following activities shall not be allowed in buffer areas:
      (1)   New on-site sewage systems, which utilize ground absorption.
      (2)   New structures, except as specifically provided in the Storm Water
Technical Standards Manual.
   (E)   The stream buffer shall be maintained by the landowner or homeowners
association to maintain sheet flow to the maximum extent practical to provide
for diffusion and infiltration of runoff and filtering pollutants into the
affected stream and consistent with maintenance criteria as set out in the
Storm Water Technical Standards Manual.
   (F)   Stream buffer areas shall be designated on recorded plats as
easements.  The plat shall be included with the Storm Water Permit Application.
(Ord. passed 7-15-2008)
DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS
§ 153.030  ILLEGAL DISCHARGES.
   No person shall cause or allow the discharge, emission, disposal, pouring or
pumping directly or indirectly into the town storm drain system, watercourses,
any storm water conveyance, the waters of the state or upon the land in manner
and amount that the substance is likely to reach a storm water conveyance or
the waters of the state, any liquid, solid, gas or other substance, other than
storm water. The commencement, conduct or continuance of any illegal discharge
to the storm drain system is prohibited except as described as follows:
   (A)   Discharges from the following activities will not be considered a
source of pollutants to the storm drain system and to waters of the United
States when properly managed to ensure that no potential pollutants are
present, and therefore they shall not be considered illegal discharges unless
determined to cause a violation of the provisions of this chapter; water line
flushing; uncontaminated pumped ground water; discharges from potable water
sources; landscape irrigation; irrigation water; lawn watering; diverted stream
flows; rising ground water; uncontaminated ground water infiltration (as
defined at 40 C.F.R. § 35.2005(20)) to the storm drain system; uncontaminated
foundation and footing drains; uncontaminated water from crawl space pumps; air
conditioning condensation; uncontaminated roof drains; springs; individual
residential car washing; flows from riparian habitats and wetlands;
dechlorinated swimming pool discharges; street wash waters; and other non-storm
water discharges for which a valid NPDES discharge permit has been approved and
issued by the state, and provided that any of the discharges to the municipal
separate storm sewer system shall be authorized by the town.
   (B)   The prohibition shall not apply to any non-storm water discharge
permitted under an NPDES permit, waiver or waste discharge order issued to the
discharger and administered by the state under the authority of the Federal
Environmental Protection Agency, provided that the discharger is in full
compliance with all requirements of the permit, waiver or order and other
applicable laws and regulations, and provided that written notification of the
permitted discharge has been filed with the Storm Water Administrator, in a
form acceptable to the Storm Water Administrator, for any discharge to the
storm drain system.
   (C)   With written concurrence of the State Department of Environment and
Natural Resources, the Storm Water Administrator may exempt in writing other
non-storm water discharges, which are not a source of pollutants to the storm
drain system or waters of the United States.
(Ord. passed 7-15-2008)
§ 153.031  ILLICIT CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Connections to a storm water conveyance or storm water conveyance
system that allow the discharge of non-storm water, other than the exclusions
described in §
153.030, are unlawful.
   (B)   Where the connections exist in violation of this section and the
connections were made prior to the adoption of this provision or any other
ordinance prohibiting the connections, the property owner or the person using
the connection shall remove the connection within one year following the
effective date of this chapter. However, the one-year grace period shall not
apply to connections which may result in the discharge of hazardous materials
or other discharges which pose an immediate threat to health and safety or are
likely to result in immediate injury and harm to real or personal property,
natural resources, wildlife or habitat.
   (C)   Where it is determined that the connection:
      (1)   May result in the discharge of hazardous materials or may pose an
immediate threat to health and safety or is likely to result in immediate
injury and harm to real or personal property, natural resources, wildlife or
habitat; or
      (2)   Was made in violation of any applicable regulation or ordinance,
other than this section;
the Storm Water Administrator shall designate the time within which the
connection shall be removed. In setting the time limit for compliance, the
Storm Water Administrator shall take into consideration:
         (a)   The quantity and complexity of the work;
         (b)   The consequences of delay;
         (c)   The potential harm to the environment, to the public health and
to public and private property; and
         (d)   The cost of remedying the damage.
   (D)   The construction, use, maintenance or continued existence of illicit
connections to the storm drain system is prohibited.
(Ord. passed 7-15-2008)
§ 153.032  WASTE DISPOSAL PROHIBITIONS.
   No person shall throw, deposit, leave, maintain, keep or permit to be
thrown, deposited, left or maintained, in or upon any public or private
property, driveway, parking area, street, alley, sidewalk, component of the
storm drain system or water of the United States, any refuse, rubbish, garbage,
litter or other discarded or abandoned objects, articles and accumulations, so
that the same may cause or contribute to pollution. Wastes deposited in streets
in proper waste receptacles for the purposes of collection are exempted from
this prohibition.
(Ord. passed 7-15-2008)
§ 153.033  DISCHARGES IN VIOLATION OF INDUSTRIAL OR CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY NPDES
STORM WATER DISCHARGE PERMIT.
   Any person subject to an industrial or construction activity NPDES storm
water discharge permit shall comply with all provisions of such permit. Proof
of compliance with said permit may be required in a form acceptable to the
Storm Water Administrator prior to or as a condition of a subdivision map, site
plan, building permit, or development or improvement plan; upon inspection of
the facility; during any enforcement proceeding or action; or for any other
reasonable cause.
(Ord. passed 7-15-2008)
REGULATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS
§ 153.050  REQUIREMENT TO PREVENT, CONTROL, AND REDUCE STORM WATER POLLUTANTS.
   (A)   Authorization to Adopt and Impose Best Management Practices. The Town
will adopt requirements identifying Best Management Practices for any activity,
operation, or facility that may cause or contribute to pollution or
contamination of storm water, the storm drain system, or waters of the U.S. as
documented in a separate Storm Water Technical Standards Manual. Where BMPs
requirements are promulgated by the Town or any Federal, State of North
Carolina, or regional agency for any activity, operation, or facility which
would otherwise cause the discharge of pollutants to the storm drain system or
water of the U.S., every person undertaking such activity or operation, or
owning or operating such facility shall comply with such requirements.  The
Storm Water Administrator will report to Town Board of Aldermen annually, or as
otherwise needed, on the status of implementation of BMPs, the pollutants of
concern to be addressed the next year, and any new BMPs to be developed. BMPs
developed under this program will be incorporated as part of the Storm Water
Technical Standards Manual.
   (B)   New Development and Redevelopment. The Town may adopt requirements
identifying appropriate BMPs to control the volume, rate, and potential
pollutant load of storm water runoff from new development and redevelopment
projects as may be appropriate to minimize the generation, transport, and
discharge of pollutants. The Town shall incorporate such requirements in any
land use entitlement and construction or building-related permit to be issued
relative to such development or redevelopment. The owner and developer shall
comply with the terms, provisions, and conditions of such land use entitlements
and building permits as required in this chapter.
   (C)   Responsibility to Implement Best Management Practices. Notwithstanding
the presence or absence of requirements promulgated pursuant to divisions (A)
and (B), any person engaged in activities or operations, or owning facilities
or property which will or may result in pollutants entering storm water, the
storm drain system, or waters of the U.S. shall implement BMPs to the maximum
extent practicable to prevent and reduce such pollutants. The owner or operator
of a commercial or industrial establishment shall provide reasonable protection
from accidental discharge of prohibited materials or other wastes into the
municipal storm drain system or watercourses. Facilities to prevent accidental
discharge of prohibited materials or other wastes shall be provided and
maintained at the owner or operator's expense. BMPs required by the town can be
obtained from the Storm Water Administrator’s Office by requesting the BMP
information appropriate to a commercial or industrial activity from the Storm
Water Technical Standards Manual.
(Ord. passed 7-15-2008)
§ 153.051  REQUIREMENT TO ELIMINATE ILLEGAL DISCHARGES.
   Notwithstanding the requirements of §§
153.090 and
153.999 herein, the Storm Water Administrator may require by written notice
that a person responsible for an illegal discharge immediately or by a
specified date, discontinues the discharge and, if necessary, take measures to
eliminate the source of the discharge to prevent the occurrence of future
illegal discharges.
(Ord. passed 7-15-2008)
§ 153.052  REQUIREMENT TO ELIMINATE OR SECURE APPROVAL FOR ILLICIT CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   The Storm Water Administrator may require by written notice that a
person responsible for an illicit connection to the storm drain system comply
with the requirements of this chapter, to eliminate or secure approval for the
connection by a specified date, regardless of whether or not the connection or
discharges to it had been established or approved prior to the effective date
of this chapter.
   (B)   If, subsequent to eliminating a connection found to be in violation of
this chapter, the responsible person can demonstrate that an illegal discharge
will no longer occur, the person may request town approval to reconnect. The
reconnection or reinstallation of the connection shall be at the responsible
person's expense.
(Ord. passed 7-15-2008)
§ 153.053  WATERCOURSE PROTECTION.
   Every person owning property through which a watercourse passes or the
person's lessee, shall keep and maintain that part of the watercourse within
the property reasonably free of trash, debris, excessive vegetation and other
obstacles that would pollute, contaminate or significantly retard the flow of
water through the watercourse. In addition, the owner or lessee shall maintain
existing privately owned structures within or adjacent to a watercourse, so
that the structures will not become a hazard to the use, function or physical
integrity of the watercourse. The owner or lessee shall not remove healthy bank
vegetation beyond that actually necessary for maintenance, nor remove the
vegetation in the manner as to increase the vulnerability of the watercourse to
erosion. The property owner shall be responsible for maintaining and
stabilizing that portion of the watercourse that is within their property lines
in order to protect against erosion and degradation of the watercourse
originating or contributed from their property. Any disturbance or modification
of a watercourse must be conducted in a manner consistent with and, where
required, under a valid permit issued by the state and the  U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers.
(Ord. passed 7-15-2008)
§ 153.054  REQUIREMENT TO REMEDIATE.
   Whenever the Storm Water Administrator finds that a discharge of pollutants
is taking place or has occurred which will result in or has resulted in
pollution of storm water, the storm drain system or water of the United States,
the Storm Water Administrator may require by written notice to the owner of the
property and/or the responsible person that the pollution be remediated and the
affected property restored within a specified time pursuant to the provisions
of §§
153.075,
153.076 and
153.090 through
153.098.
(Ord. passed 7-15-2008)
§ 153.055  REQUIREMENT TO MONITOR AND ANALYZE.
   The Storm Water Administrator may require by written notice of requirement
that any person engaged in any activity and/or owning or operating any facility
which may cause or contribute to storm water pollution, illegal discharges and/
or non-storm water discharges to the storm drain system or waters of the United
States, undertake at the person's expense the monitoring and analyses and
furnish the reports as deemed necessary to determine compliance with this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-15-2008)
§ 153.056  NOTIFICATION OF SPILLS.
   Notwithstanding other requirements of law, as soon as any person responsible
for a facility or operation or responsible for emergency response for a
facility or operation has information of any known or suspected release of
materials which are resulting or may result in illegal discharges or pollutants
discharging into storm water, the storm drain system or waters of the United
States from the facility, the person shall take all necessary steps to ensure
the discovery, containment and cleanup of the release. In the event of the a
release of a hazardous material, the person shall immediately notify emergency
response officials of the occurrence via emergency dispatch services (911). In
the event of a release of nonhazardous materials, the person shall notify the
Storm Water Administrator's Office in person or by phone or facsimile no later
than 5:00 p.m. of the next business day. Notifications in person or by phone
shall be confirmed by written notice addressed and mailed to the town's Public
Works Department within three business days of the phone notice. If the
discharge of prohibited materials emanates from a commercial or industrial
establishment, the owner or operator of the establishment shall also retain an
on-site written record of the discharge and the actions taken to prevent its
recurrence. The records shall be retained for at least three years.
(Ord. passed 7-15-2008)
INSPECTION AND MONITORING
§ 153.075  AUTHORITY TO INSPECT.
   Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce any provision of this
chapter, or whenever the Storm Water Administrator has cause to believe that
there exists or potentially exists, in or upon any premises any condition which
constitutes a violation of this chapter, the Director may enter the premises at
all reasonable times to inspect the same and to inspect and copy records
related to storm water compliance. In the event the owner or occupant refuses
entry after a request to enter and inspect has been made, the town is hereby
empowered to seek assistance from any court of competent jurisdiction in
obtaining the entry. The authority to inspect, and take associated enforcement
actions under this chapter, shall extend to all components of the drainage and
storm water management facilities that drain to the waters of the state or to
waters of the United States on any public or private property, regardless of
when those facilities were constructed.
(Ord. passed 7-15-2008)
§ 153.076  AUTHORITY TO SAMPLE, ESTABLISH SAMPLING DEVICES, AND TEST.
   During any inspection as provided herein, the Storm Water Administrator may
take any samples and perform any testing deemed necessary to aid in the pursuit
of the inquiry or to record site activities.
(Ord. passed 7-15-2008)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 153.090 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Whenever, by the provisions of this chapter, the performance of any
act is required or the performance of any act is prohibited, or whenever any
regulation or limitation is imposed on the use of any land, or on the erection,
alteration or the use or change of use of a structure, a failure to comply with
the provisions shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
   (B)   The owner, tenant or occupant of any land or structure, or part
thereof, and any architect, engineer, builder, contractor, agent or other
person who participates in, assists, directs, creates or maintains any
situation that is contrary to the requirements of this chapter may be held
responsible for the violation and be subject to the penalties and remedies
provided herein.
   (C)   Failure to follow an approved storm water management plan or permit
shall constitute a violation of this chapter and subject to the penalties and
remedies provided herein.
   (D)   Procedures upon discovery of violations shall be as follows:
      (1)   Upon determination that any provision of this section is being
violated, the Storm Water Administrator shall deliver a written notice by
personal service or by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested,
to the person(s) responsible for such violation, indicating the nature of the
violation and ordering the action necessary to correct it.  Additional written
notices may be sent at the Storm Water Administrator's discretion.
      (2)   The final written notice, which may also be the initial notice,
shall state the action the Storm Water Administrator intends to take if the
violation in not corrected, and shall advise that the Storm Water
Administrator's order may be appealed as provided in §
153.010 Variances and Appeals.
      (3)   In cases when delay would seriously threaten the effective
enforcement of this chapter, or pose a danger to the public health, safety, or
general welfare, the Storm Water Administrator may seek enforcement without
prior written notice by invoking any of the penalties or remedies contained in
§
153.999.
(Ord. passed 7-15-2008)
§ 153.091  NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Whenever the Storm Water Administrator finds that a person has
violated a prohibition or failed to meet a requirement of this chapter, the
Storm Water Administrator may order compliance by written notice of violation
to the responsible person. The notice may require without limitation:
      (1)   The performance of monitoring, analyses and reporting;
      (2)   The elimination of illicit connections or discharges;
      (3)   That violating discharges, practices or operations shall cease and
desist;
      (4)   The abatement or remediation of storm water pollution or
contamination hazards and the restoration of any affected property;
      (5)   Payment of a fine to cover administrative and remediation costs; or
      (6)   The implementation of source control or treatment BMPs.
   (B)   If abatement of a violation and/or restoration of affected property is
required, the notice shall set forth a deadline within which the remediation or
restoration must be completed. The notice shall further advise that, should the
violator fail to remediate or restore within the established deadline, the work
will be done by the Storm Water Administrator, or a contractor designated by
the Storm Water Administrator, and the expense thereof shall be charged to the
violator pursuant to §
153.093.
(Ord. passed 7-15-2008)
§ 153.092  APPEAL.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of §
153.094, any person receiving a notice of violation under §
153.091 may appeal the determination of the Storm Water Administrator under the
process provided in §
153.010.
(Ord. passed 7-15-2008)
§ 153.093  ABATEMENT COST; LIEN.
   (A)   If the violation has not been corrected pursuant to the requirements
set forth in the notice of violation or in the event of an appeal under §
153.092 within ten days of the decision of the Appeals Officer or of the
Technical Review Committee, upholding the decision of the Storm Water
Administrator, then the Storm Water Administrator or a contractor designated by
the Storm Water Administrator shall enter upon the subject private property and
is authorized to take any and all measures necessary to abate the violation
and/or restore the property. It shall be unlawful for any person, owner, agent
or person in possession of any premises to refuse to allow the town or
designated contractor to enter upon the premises for the purposes set forth
above.
   (B)   Within 30 days after abatement of the nuisance by town, the Storm
Water Administrator shall notify the property owner of the cost of abatement,
including administrative costs. The property owner may file a written protest
objecting to the amount of the assessment with the Town Administrator within 15
days. The Town Administrator shall set the matter for public hearing by the
Town Board of Alderpersons. The decision of the Town Board of Alderpersons
shall be set forth by resolution and shall be final.
   (C)   If the amount due is not paid within ten days of the decision of the
Town Board of Alderpersons or the  expiration of the time in which to file an
appeal under this section, the charges shall become a special assessment
against the property and shall constitute a lien on the property for the amount
of the assessment. A copy of the resolution shall be turned over to the county
so that the county may enter the amounts of the assessment against the parcel
as it appears on the current assessment roll, and the tax collector shall
include the amount of the assessment on the bill for taxes levied against the
parcel of land.
(Ord. passed  7-15-2008)
§ 153.094  URGENCY ABATEMENT.
   The Storm Water Administrator is authorized to require immediate abatement
of any violation of this chapter that constitutes an immediate threat to the
health, safety, or well-being of the public. If any such violation is not
abated immediately as directed by the Storm Water Administrator, the Storm
Water Administrator is authorized to enter onto private property and to take
any and all measures required to remediate the violation. Any expense related
to such remediation undertaken by the Storm Water Administrator shall be fully
reimbursed by the property owner and/or responsible party. Any relief obtained
under this section shall not prevent the Storm Water Administrator from seeking
other and further relief authorized under this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-15-2008)
§ 153.095  VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision or fail to
comply with any of the requirements of this chapter. A violation of or failure
to comply with any of the requirements of this chapter shall constitute a
misdemeanor and shall be punished as set forth in town code.
(Ord. passed 7-15-2008)
§ 153.096  COMPENSATORY ACTION.
   In lieu of enforcement proceedings, penalties, and remedies authorized by
this chapter, the Storm Water Administrator may impose upon violator
alternative compensatory actions, such as storm drain stenciling, attendance at
compliance workshops, creek cleanup, or other appropriate actions.
(Ord. passed 7-15-2008)
§ 153.097  VIOLATIONS DEEMED A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   In addition to the enforcement processes and penalties herein before
provided, any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter, is a threat to public health, safety and welfare,
and is declared and deemed a nuisance, and may be summarily abated or restored
by the town at the violator’s expense, and/or a civil action to abate, enjoin
or otherwise compel the cessation of the nuisance may be taken by the town.
(Ord. passed 7-15-2008)
§ 153.098  POTENTIAL LIABILITY FOR VIOLATION OF FEDERAL CLEAN WATER ACT.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter or any provision of
any requirement issued pursuant to this chapter may also be in violation of the
Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq. and may be subject to the
sanctions of those acts including civil and criminal penalties. Any enforcement
action authorized under this chapter shall also include written notice to the
violator of the potential liability.
(Ord. passed 7-15-2008)
§ 153.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   Penalties and remedies shall be as follows.
      (1)   Any violation of any provision of this chapter shall constitute a
misdemeanor and shall subject the violator to the maximum fine permissible
under state law.
      (2)   Any act constituting a violation of this chapter shall also subject
the offender to a civil penalty up to the full amount of penalty to which the
town is subject for violations of its Phase II storm water permit, or $27,500
per day for each violation. If the offender fails to pay the penalty within ten
days of receiving final written notice of a violation, the penalty may be
recovered by the town in a civil action in the nature of a debt. A civil
penalty may not be appealed to the Storm Water Administrator if the offender
received a final written notice of violation and did not file the appeal within
30 days.
      (3)   Any person who negligently violates any permit condition of the
Phase II Storm water permit issued to the town is subject to criminal penalties
of $2,500 to $25,000 per day of violation, or imprisonment for not more than
one year, or both.
      (4)   Any person who knowingly violates conditions of the Phase II Storm
water permit issued to the town is subject to criminal penalties of $5,000 to
$50,000 per day of violation, or imprisonment for not more than three years, or
both.
      (5)   Any person who violates a condition of the Phase II Storm water
permit issued to the town may be assessed an administrative penalty not to
exceed $11,000 per violation with the maximum amount not to exceed $137,500.
      (6)   Each day that any violation continues after receipt of the final
written notice of the violation shall constitute a separate violation and a
separate offense for purposes of the penalties and remedies specified herein.
      (7)   In addition to the penalties and remedies above, the town may
institute any appropriate action or proceedings to prevent, restrain or abate a
violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Any person that allows, acts in concert, participates, directs or
assists directly or indirectly in an illegal discharge shall be subject to
civil penalties as follows:
      (1)   For first time offenders, if the quantity of the discharge is equal
to or less than five gallons and consists of domestic or household products,
the person shall be assessed a civil penalty not to exceed $100 per violation
or per day for any continuing violation. If the quantity of the discharge is
greater than five gallons or contains non-domestic substances or if the person
cannot provide clear and convincing evidence of the volume and nature of the
substance discharged, the person shall be assessed a civil penalty not to
exceed $1,000 per violation or per day for continuing violation.
      (2)   For repeat offenders, the amount of the penalty shall be double the
amount assessed for the previous penalty not to exceed $10,000 per violation or
per day for any continuing violation.
      (3)   The Storm Water Administrator shall take the following into
consideration when determining the civil penalty amount:
         (a)   The degree and extent of harm to the environment, public health
and property;
         (b)   The cost of remedying the damage;
         (c)   The willfulness of the violation;
         (d)   The duration of the violation;
         (e)   The violator’s prior record in complying or failing to comply
with this chapter; and
         (f)   The amount of money saved by the violator by noncompliance.
      (4)   If the offender fails to pay the penalty within ten days of
receiving final written notice of a violation, the town in a civil action may
recover the penalty. A civil penalty may be appealed under the process provided
in §
153.010. A civil penalty may not be appealed if the offender received a final
written notice of violation and penalty and did not file an appeal within 30
days.
      (5)   Each day that any violation continues after receipt of the final
written notice of the violation shall constitute a separate violation and a
separate offense for purposes of the penalties and remedies specified herein.
      (6)   In addition to the penalties and remedies above, the town may
institute any appropriate action or proceedings to prevent, restrain, correct
or abate a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-15-2008)
CHAPTER 154:  FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Rules and Provisions
   
154.001   Statutory authorization
   
154.002   Findings of fact
   
154.003   Purpose; objectives
   
154.004   Definitions
   
154.005   Coverage area; establishment basis
   
154.006   Construction of terms
   
154.007   Compliance
   
154.008   Disclaimer of liability
Zoning Administrator; General Administration
   
154.020   Permit procedure
   
154.021   Zoning Administrator as enforcement officer
   
154.022   Zoning Administrator responsibilities
   
154.023   Inspections
   
154.024   Stop orders
   
154.025   Permit revocation
   
154.026   Notice and correction of violations
   
154.027   Procedure for failure to correct 
   
154.028   Order to take corrective action after hearing
   
154.029   Right to appeal
   
154.030   Failure to comply
Variance
   
154.045   Board of Alderpersons to hear
   
154.046   Appeal from Board decision
   
154.047   Historic places exception
   
154.048   Variance decision criteria
   
154.049   Flood level increase
   
154.050   Conditions for variance
Flood Hazard Reduction Standards; General Standards
   
154.065   Anchors for new construction, substantial improvements
   
154.066   Anchors for manufactured homes
   
154.067   Methods and materials for new construction, substantial improvements
   
154.068   Design and location of service facilities
   
154.069   Water and sewage system design 
   
154.070   On-site waste disposal systems
   
154.071   Compliance with new construction requirements
Specific Standards
   
154.085   Residential construction
   
154.086   Non-residential construction
   
154.087   Elevated buildings
   
154.088   Floodways
   
154.089   Small streams
   
154.090   Subdivision proposals
   
154.091   Shallow flooding areas
 
   
154.999   Penalty
GENERAL RULES AND PROVISIONS
§ 154.001  STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   In the legislature of G.S. Chapters 160, Article 19, Parts 3, 5, and 8 and
of Chapter 160A, Article 8, delegated the responsibility to local governmental
units to adopt regulations designed to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare of its citizenry. Therefore, the Board of Alderpersons of the
town, does ordain this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-1-1987)
§ 154.002  FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the town are subject to periodic inundation
which results in loss of life, property, health and safety hazards, disruption
of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public expenditures for
flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base, all of which
adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in flood plains causing increases in flood heights and velocities, and by the
occupancy in flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods or hazardous to
other lands which are inadequately elevated, flood-proofed or otherwise
protected from flood damages.
(Ord. passed 6-1-1987)
§ 154.003  PURPOSE; OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety
and general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
      (1)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety and
property due to water or erosion hazards or which result in damaging increases
in erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
      (2)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve the uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
      (3)   Control the alteration of natural flood plains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
      (4)   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase erosion or flood damage; and
      (5)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
   (B)   The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To protect human life and health;
      (2)   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
      (3)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      (4)   To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
      (5)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities as the water
and gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located
in flood plains;
      (6)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use
and development of flood prime areas in the manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
      (7)   To ensure that potential home buyers are notified that property is
in a flood area.
(Ord. passed 6-1-1987)
§ 154.004  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
   ADDITION (to any existing building).  Any walled and roofed expansion to the
perimeter of a building in which the addition is connected by a common load-
bearing wall other than fire wall. Any walled and roofed addition which is
connected by a fire wall or is separated by independent perimeter load-bearing
walls is new construction.
   APPEAL.  A request for a review of the Zoning Administrator’s interpretation
of any provision of this chapter or a request for a variance.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING.  A designated AO or VO Zone on a community’s Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with base flood depths from one to three feet where a
clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate, and where velocity flow may be evident.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.  The land in the flood plain within a
community subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
   BASE FLOOD.  The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year.
   BASEMENT.  The lowest level or story which has its floor subgrade on all
sides.
   BREAKAWAY WALLS.  Any type of walls, whether solid or lattice, and whether
constructed of concrete, masonry, wood, metal, plastic or any other suitable
building material, which are not part of the structural support of the building
and which are so designed as to breakaway, under abnormally high tides or wave
action, without damage to the structural integrity of the building on which
they are used or any buildings to which they might be carried by flood waters.
   BUILDING.  Any structure built for support, shelter or enclosure for any
occupancy or storage.
   DEVELOPMENT.  Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations.
   ELEVATED BUILDING.  A non-basement building built to have the lowest flood
elevated above the ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter
walls, pilings, columns (posts and piers), shear walls or breakaway walls.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION.  A parcel
(or contiguous parcels) of land divided into two or more manufactured home lots
for rent or sale for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lot
on which the manufactured home is to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, either final site grading or the pouring of concrete
pads, and the construction of streets) is completed before the effective date
of this chapter.
   FLOOD  or FLOODING.  A general and temporary condition of partial or
complete inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM).  An official map of a community, issued by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency, where the boundaries of the areas of
special flood hazard have been defined as Zone A.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM).  An official map of a community, on which
the Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the areas of
special flood hazard and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY.  The official report provided by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the
Flood Boundary Floodway Map and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOODWAY.  The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
   FLOOR.  The top surface of an enclosed area in a building (including
basement), as top of slab in concrete slab construction or top of wood flooring
in wood frame construction. The term does not include the floor of a garage
used solely for parking vehicles.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT FACILITY.  A facility which cannot be used for its
intended purpose unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to
water, as the docking or port facility necessary for the loading and unloading
of cargo or passengers, shipbuilding, ship repair or seafood processing
facilities. The term does not include long-term storage, manufacture, sales or
service facilities.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE.  The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface, prior to construction, next to the proposed walls of the structure.
   LEVEE.  A human-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM.  A flood protection system which consists of a levee or
levees, and associated structures, as the closure and drainage devices, which
are constructed and operated in accordance with sound and engineering
practices.
   LOWEST FLOOR.  The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or floor resistant enclosure usable solely for parking
of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement area
is not considered a building’s lowest floor provided that the enclosure is not
built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable non-
elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME.  A structure, transportable in one or more sections,
which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term also
includes park trailers, travel trailers and similar transportable structures
placed on a site for 180 consecutive days or longer and intended to be improved
property.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.  A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL.  The average height of the sea for all stages of the tide.
It is used as a reference for establishing various elevations within the flood
plain. For purposes of this chapter, the term is synonymous with NATIONAL
GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD).
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD).  As corrected in 1929 is a vertical
control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the
flood plain.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION.  Structures for which the “start of construction”
commenced on or after the effective date of this chapter.
   REMEDY A VIOLATION.  To bring the structure or other development into
compliance with state or local flood plain management regulations, or, if this
is not possible, to reduce the impacts of its noncompliance. Ways that impacts
may be reduced include protecting the structure or other affected development
from flood damages, implementing the enforcement provisions of the ordinance or
otherwise deterring future similar violations or reducing federal financial
exposure with regard to the structure or other development.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION.  Substantial improvement, and means the date the
building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair,
reconstruction or improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The
actual START means the first placement of permanent construction of a structure
(including a manufactured home) on a site, as the pouring of slabs or footings,
installation of piles, construction of columns or any work beyond the stage of
excavation or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent
construction does not include land preparation, as the clearing, grading and
filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor
does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers or foundations or
the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the
property of accessory buildings, as the garages or sheds not occupied as
dwelling units or not part of the main structure.
   STRUCTURE.  A walled and roofed building that is principally above ground, a
manufactured home, a gas or liquid storage tank or other human-made facilities
or infrastructures.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.  Any repair, reconstruction or improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the
structure, either before the improvement or repair is started, or if the
structure has been damaged and is being restored, before the damage occurred.
For the purposes of this definition, SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is considered to
occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural
part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration affects the
external dimensions of the structure. The term does not, however, include
either any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing state
and local health, sanitary or safety code specifications which are solely
necessary to assure safe living conditions or any alteration of a structure
listed on the National Register of Historic Places or a State Inventory of
Historic Places. The effects of SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT shall be cumulative for
20 years.
   VARIANCE.  A grant of relief to a person from the requirements of this
chapter which permits construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this
chapter or where specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship.
   VIOLATION.
      (1)   The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s flood plain management regulations.
      (2)   A structure or other development without the elevation certificate,
other certifications or other evidence of compliance required in §§
154.020 through
154.091 is presumed to be in violation until the time as that documentation is
provided.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.  A person appointed by the Board of Alderpersons of
the town whose duty is to enforce and administer the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-1-1987)
§ 154.005  COVERAGE AREA; ESTABLISHMENT BASIS.
   (A)   This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within
the jurisdiction of the town.
   (B)   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency in its Flood Insurance Study for the town, dated 6-2-1977,
with accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Maps, Flood Boundary and Floodway Maps,
and other supporting data, as well as any revisions thereto are adopted by
reference and declared to be a part of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-1-1987)
§ 154.006  CONSTRUCTION OF TERMS.
   (A)   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any
existing easement, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter
and another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent
restrictions shall prevail.
   (B)   In the interpretation and application of this subchapter all
provisions shall be considered as minimum requirements, liberally construed in
favor of the governing body, and deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other
powers granted under state statutes.
(Ord. passed 6-1-1987)
§ 154.007  COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted or
structurally altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and
other applicable regulations.
(Ord. passed 6-1-1987)
§ 154.008  DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within the areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the town or by any officer or
employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this
chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Ord. passed 6-1-1987)
ZONING ADMINISTRATOR; GENERAL ADMINISTRATION
§ 154.020  PERMIT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   A development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities.
   (B)   Application for a development permit shall be made to the Zoning
Administrator on forms furnished by him or her and may include, but not be
limited to, the following plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature,
location, dimensions, and elevations of the area in question; existing or
proposed structures, fill, storage of materials, drainage facilities and the
location of the foregoing. Specifically, the following information is required:
      (1)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the proposed lowest
floor (including basement) of all structures;
      (2)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any nonresidential
structure has been flood-proofed;
      (3) Provide a certificate from a registered professional engineer or
architect that the non-residential flood-proofed structure meets the flood-
proofing criteria in §
154.086;
      (4)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development; and
      (5)   Provide a floor elevation or flood-proofing certification after the
lowest floor is completed, or in instances where the structure is subject to
the regulations applicable to coastal high hazard areas, after placement of the
horizontal structural members of the lowest floor. Within 21 calendar days of
establishment of the lowest floor elevation or flood-proofing by whatever
construction means or upon placement of the horizontal structural members of
the lowest floor, whichever is applicable, it shall be the duty of the permit
holder to submit to the Zoning Administrator a certification of the elevation
of the lowest floor, flood-proofed elevation or the elevation of the bottom of
the horizontal structural members of the lowest floor, whichever is applicable,
as built, in relation to mean sea level. The certification shall be prepared by
or under the direct supervision of a registered land surveyor or professional
engineer and certified by same. When flood-proofing is utilized for a
particular building, the certification shall be prepared by or under the direct
supervision of a professional engineer or architect and certified by same. Any
work done within the 21-day calendar period and prior to submission of the
certification shall be at the permit holder’s risk. The Zoning Administrator
shall review the floor elevation survey data submitted. Deficiencies detected
by the review shall be corrected by the permit holder immediately and prior to
further progressive work being permitted to proceed. Failure to submit the
survey or failure to make the corrections required hereby, shall be cause to
issue a stop-work order for the project.
(Ord. passed 6-1-1987)
§ 154.021  ZONING ADMINISTRATOR AS ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   The Zoning Administrator is hereby appointed to administer and implement the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-1-1987)
§ 154.022  ZONING ADMINISTRATOR RESPONSIBILITIES.
   Duties of the Zoning Administrator shall include, but not be limited to:
   (A)   Review all development permits to assure that the permit requirements
of this chapter have been satisfied;
   (B)   Advise permittee that additional federal or state permits may be
required, and if specific federal or state permits are known, require that
copies of the permits be provided and maintained on file with the development
permit;
   (C)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Department of Crime Control
and Public Safety, Division of Emergency Management, State Coordinator for the
National Flood Insurance Program prior to any alteration or relocation of a
watercourse, and submit evidence of the notification to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency;
   (D)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of the watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is not
diminished;
   (E)   Prevent encroachments within floodways unless the certification and
flood hazard reduction provisions of §
154.004 are met;
   (F)   Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level)
of the lowest flood (including basement) of all new or substantially improved
structures, in accordance with §
154.020;
   (G)   Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level)
to which the new or substantially improved structures have been flood-proofed,
in accordance with §
154.020;
   (H)   When flood-proofing is utilized for a particular structure, the Zoning
Administrator shall obtain certifications from a registered professional
engineer or architect in accordance with §
154.020;
   (I)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of boundaries
of the areas of special flood hazard (for example, where there appears to be a
conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions), the Zoning
Administrator shall make the necessary interpretation. The person contesting
the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal
the interpretation as provided in this subchapter;
   (J)   When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance
with §§
154.023 through
154.030, then the Zoning Administrator shall obtain, review and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation data, floodway data and preliminary maps
available from a federal, state or other source, including data developed
pursuant to §
154.090, in order to administer the provisions of this chapter; and
   (K)   All records pertaining to the provisions of this chapter be maintained
in the office of the Zoning Administrator and shall be open for public
inspection.
(Ord. passed 6-1-1987)
§ 154.023  INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Inspections of work in progress. As the work pursuant to a permit
progresses, the Zoning Administrator shall make as many inspections of the work
as may be necessary to ensure that the work is being done according to the
provisions of the local ordinance and the terms of the permit. In exercising
this power, the Administrator has a right, upon presentation of proper
credentials, to enter on any premises within the territorial jurisdiction at
any reasonable hour for the purposes of inspection or other enforcement action.
   (B)   Periodic inspections. The Zoning Administrator and each member of his
or her inspections department shall have a right, upon presentation of proper
credentials, to enter on any premises within the territorial jurisdiction of
the department at any reasonable hour for the purposes of inspection or other
enforcement action.
(Ord. passed 6-1-1987)
§ 154.024  STOP ORDERS.
   Whenever a building or part thereof is being constructed, reconstructed,
altered or repaired in violation of this chapter, the Administrator may order
the work to be immediately stopped. The stop order shall be in writing and
directed to the person doing the work. The stop order shall state the specific
work to be stopped, the specific reasons for the stoppage, and the conditions
under which the work may be resumed. Violation of a stop order constitutes a
misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 6-1-1987)
§ 154.025  PERMIT REVOCATION.
   The Zoning Administrator may revoke and require the return of the
development permit by notifying the permit holder in writing stating the reason
for the revocation. Permits shall be revoked for any substantial departure from
the approved application, plans or specifications; for refusal or failure to
comply with the requirements of state or local laws; or for false statements or
misrepresentations made in securing the permit. Any permit mistakenly issued in
violation of an applicable state or local law may also be revoked.
(Ord. passed 6-1-1987)
§ 154.026  NOTICE AND CORRECTION OF VIOLATIONS.
    When the Zoning Administrator finds violations of applicable state and
local laws, it shall be his or her duty to notify the owner or occupant of the
building of the violation. The owner or occupant shall each immediately remedy
the violations of law in the property he or she owns.
(Ord. passed 6-1-1987)
§ 154.027  PROCEDURE FOR FAILURE TO CORRECT.
   If the owner of a building or property shall fail to take prompt corrective
action, the Administrator shall give him or her written notice by certified or
registered mail to his or her last known address or by personal service:
   (A)   The building or property is in violation of this chapter;
   (B)   A hearing will be held before the Zoning Administrator at a designated
place and time, not later than ten days after the date of the notice, at which
time the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or by counsel and to
present arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter; and
   (C)   Following the hearing, the Zoning Administrator may issue the order to
alter, vacate or demolish the building; or to remove fill as appears
appropriate.
(Ord. passed 6-1-1987)
§ 154.028  ORDER TO TAKE CORRECTIVE ACTION AFTER HEARING.
   If, upon a hearing held pursuant to the notice prescribed above, the
Administrator shall find that the building or development is in violation of
this chapter, he or she shall make an order in writing to the owner, requiring
the owner to remedy the violation, within the period, not less than 60 days,
the Administrator may prescribe; provided, that where the Administrator finds
that there is imminent danger to life or other property, he or she may order
that corrective action be taken in the lesser period as may be feasible.
(Ord. passed 6-1-1987)
§ 154.029  RIGHT TO APPEAL.
   (A)   Any owner who has received an order to take corrective action may
appeal from the order to the Town Board of Alderpersons by giving notice of
appeal in writing to the Administrator and the Town Administrator/Town Clerk
within ten days following issuance of the final order.
   (B)   In the absence of an appeal, the order of the Administrator shall be
final.
   (C)   The Board of Alderpersons shall hear an appeal within a reasonable
time and may affirm, modify and affirm or revoke the order.
(Ord. passed 6-1-1987)
§ 154.030  FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   If the owner of a building or property fails to comply with an order to take
corrective action from which no appeal has been taken or fails to comply with
an order of the Board of Alderpersons following an appeal, he or she shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished in the discretion of the court.
(Ord. passed 6-1-1987)
VARIANCE
§ 154.045  BOARD OF ALDERPERSONS TO HEAR.
   (A)   The Board of Alderpersons as established by the town shall hear and
decide appeals and requests for variances from the requirements of this
chapter.
   (B)   The Board of Alderpersons shall hear and decide appeals when it is
alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision or determination made by
the Zoning Administrator in the enforcement and administration of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-1-1987)
§ 154.046  APPEAL FROM BOARD DECISION.
   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Board of Alderpersons or any
taxpayer may appeal the decision to Superior Court, as provided in G.S. Chapter
7A.
(Ord. passed 6-1-1987)
§ 154.047  HISTORIC PLACES EXCEPTION.
   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Inventory of Historic Places without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of this section.
(Ord. passed 6-1-1987)
§ 154.048  VARIANCE DECISION CRITERIA.
   In passing upon the applications, the Board of Alderpersons shall consider
all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in
other sections of this chapter, and:
   (A)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the injury
of others;
   (B)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
   (C)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of the damage on the individual owner;
   (D)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
   (E)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
   (F)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding or
erosion damage, for the proposed use;
   (G)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
   (H)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
flood plain management program for that area;
   (I)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
   (J)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site; and
   (K)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
as the sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and bridges.
(Ord. passed 6-1-1987)
§ 154.049  FLOOD LEVEL INCREASE.
   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any increase
in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
(Ord. passed 6-1-1987)
§ 154.050  CONDITIONS FOR VARIANCE.
   (A)   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of
this chapter, the Board of Alderpersons may attach the conditions to the
granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of this
chapter.
   (B)   (1) Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued upon a showing of good and
sufficient cause,  a determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship, and a determination that the granting of a
variance will not result in increased flood heights, additional threats to
public safety, extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on
or victimization of the public or conflict with existing local laws or
ordinances.
      (3)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation and the
elevation to which the structure is to be built and a written statement that
the cost of flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk
resulting from the reduced lowest floor elevation. The notification shall be
maintained with a record of all variance actions.
      (4)   The Zoning Administrator shall maintain the records of all actions
and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency upon
request.
(Ord. passed 6-1-1987)
FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION STANDARDS; GENERAL STANDARDS
§ 154.065  ANCHORS FOR NEW CONSTRUCTION, SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENTS.
   In all areas of special flood hazard the following provisions are required.
All new construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure.
(Ord. passed 6-1-1987)
§ 154.066  ANCHORS FOR MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   (A)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or
lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use
of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors.
   (B)   This standard shall be in addition to and consistent with applicable
state requirements for resisting wind forces.
(Ord. passed 6-1-1987)
§ 154.067  METHODS AND MATERIALS FOR NEW CONSTRUCTION, SUBSTANTIAL
IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
   (B)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damages.
(Ord. passed 6-1-1987)
§ 154.068  DESIGN AND LOCATION OF SERVICE FACILITIES.
   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning equipment and
other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding.
(Ord. passed 6-1-1987)
§ 154.069  WATER AND SEWAGE SYSTEM DESIGN.
   (A)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (B)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into flood waters.
(Ord. passed 6-1-1987)
§ 154.070  ON-SITE WASTE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS.
   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to avoid
impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
(Ord. passed 6-1-1987)
§ 154.071  COMPLIANCE WITH NEW CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvements to a structure, which
is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, shall meet the
requirements of “new construction” as contained in this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-1-1987)
SPECIFIC STANDARDS
§ 154.085  RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   In all areas of special flood hazard where base flood elevation data
has been provided as set forth in §
154.020, the following provisions are required.
   (B)   New construction or substantial improvement of any residential
structure shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated no lower
than one foot above the base flood elevation. Should solid foundation perimeter
walls be used to elevate a structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the
unimpeded movements of flood waters shall be provided.
(Ord. passed 6-1-1987)
§ 154.086  NON-RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION.
   New construction or substantial improvement of any commercial, industrial or
non-residential structure shall have the lowest floor, including basement,
elevated no lower than one foot above the level of the base flood elevation.
Structures located in A-zones may be flood-proofed in lieu of elevation
provided that all areas of the structure below the required elevation are water
tight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water, using
structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and the effect of buoyancy. A registered professional
engineer or architect shall certify that the standards of this division are
satisfied. The certification shall be provided to the official as set forth in
§
154.020.
(Ord. passed 6-1-1987)
§ 154.087  ELEVATED BUILDINGS.
   New construction or substantial improvements of elevated buildings that
include fully enclosed areas formed by foundation and other exterior walls
below the base flood elevation shall be designed to preclude finished living
space and designed to allow for the entry and exit of floodwaters to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls.
   (A)   Designs for complying with this requirement must either be certified
by a professional engineer or architect or meet the following minimum criteria:
      (1)   Provide a minimum of two openings having a total net area of not
less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding;
      (2)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above
grade; and
      (3) Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions.
   (B)   Electrical, plumbing and other utility connections are prohibited
below the base flood elevation.
   (C)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow
for parking of vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door) or
entry to the living area (stairway or elevator).
   (D)   The interior portion of the enclosed area shall not be partitioned or
finished into separate rooms.
(Ord. passed 6-1-1987)
§ 154.088  FLOODWAYS.
   Located within areas of special flood hazard established in §
154.005, are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of flood waters which carry debris,
potential projectiles and has erosion potential, the following provisions shall
apply:
   (A)   Prohibit encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements and other developments unless certification (with supporting
technical data) by a registered professional engineer is provided demonstrating
that encroachments shall not result in any increase in flood levels during
occurrence of the base flood discharge;
   (B)   If §
154.088 is satisfied, all new construction and substantial improvements shall
comply with all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of §
154.004; and
   (C)   Prohibit the placement of manufactured homes (mobile homes), except in
an existing manufactured homes (mobile homes) park or subdivision. A
replacement manufactured home may be placed on a lot in an existing
manufactured home park or subdivision provided the anchoring standards of §
154.066, and the elevation standards of §
154.085 are met.
(Ord. passed 6-1-1987)
§ 154.089  SMALL STREAMS.
   Located within the areas of special flood hazard established in §
154.005, where small streams exist but where no base flood data has been
provided or where no floodways have been provided, the following provisions
apply:
   (A)   No encroachments, including fill material or structures shall be
located within a distance of the stream bank equal to the width of the stream
at the top of bank or 20 feet each side from top of bank, whichever is greater,
unless certification by a registered professional engineer is provided
demonstrating that the encroachments shall not result in any increase in flood
levels during the occurrence of the base flood discharge; and
   (B)   New construction or substantial improvements of structures shall be
elevated or flood-proofed in accordance with elevations established in
accordance with §
154.022. When base flood elevation data is not available from a federal, state
or other source, the lowest floor, including basement, shall be elevated, at
least two feet above the highest adjacent grade.
(Ord. passed 6-1-1987)
§ 154.090  SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
as the sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (D)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development (including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions) which are greater than the lesser of 50 lots or five acres.
(Ord. passed 6-1-1987)
§ 154.091  SHALLOW FLOODING AREAS.
   Located within the areas of special flood hazard established in §
154.005, are areas designated as shallow flooding. These areas have special
flood hazards associated with base flood depths of one to three feet where a
clearly defined channel does not exist and where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate; therefore, the following provisions apply:
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to the
depth number specified on the Flood Insurance Rate Map, in feet, above the
highest adjacent grade. If no depth number is specified, the lowest floor,
including basement, shall be elevated, at least two feet above the highest
adjacent grade; and
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements of nonresidential
structures shall:
      (1)   Have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to the depth
number specified on the Flood Insurance Rate Map, in feet, above the highest
adjacent grade. If no depth number is specified, the lowest floor, including
basement shall be elevated at least two feet above the highest adjacent grade;
or
      (2)   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be
completely flood-proofed to or above that level and, so that any space below
that level is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of
water and with structural components having the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and efforts of buoyancy.
(Ord. passed 6-1-1987)
§ 154.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter where no other penalty
is provided, shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with
any of its requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with grants of variance or special exceptions, shall
constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to
comply with any of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined
not more than $50 or imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both, and in
addition shall pay all costs and expenses involved in the case. Each day the
violation continues shall be considered a separate offense. Nothing herein
contained shall prevent the town from taking the other lawful action as is
necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. passed 6-1-1987)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
[Reserved]
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to North Carolina General Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUTES
G.S. Section Code Section
G.S. Section              Code Section
1-593                     10.05
Ch. 7A                    154.046
                          51.999,
                          94.05;
14-4                      Ch. 96, App. A;
                          96.51;
                          131.99
14-4(a)                   10.99
Ch. 14, Art. 27A          131.01
16CA-445                  Ch. 96, App. A
20-37.6                   Ch. 72, Sch. I
Ch. 58, Art. 80           31.127
60A-443                   Ch. 96, App. A
69-17                     31.127
69-19                     31.128
130A-185                  90.015
130A-196                  90.080
130A-197                  90.037
Ch. 143, Art.9D           150.30
153A-344.1                153.008
Ch. 160, Art. 19, Part 3  154.001
Ch. 160, Art. 19, Part 5  154.001
Ch. 160, Art. 19, Part 8  154.001
Ch. 160A                  153.001
160A-29 - 160A-58.6       51.057
160A-143                  70.26
160A-175                  10.99
160A-193                  94.04
160A-194                  150.30
160A-314                  51.999
160A-360                  31.095
160A-360 - 160A-366       31.097
160A-385.1                153.008
160A-441                  95.01
160A-441 - 160A-450       96.01
160A-443                  95.08,
                          96.49
                          95.10,
160A-443(5)               96.49,
                          Ch. 96, App. A
160A-443(6)               95.11,
                          96.50
160A-445                  Ch. 96, App. A
160A-446(f)               95.08,
                          96.48
                          95.08,
160A-446(g)               96.49,
                          Ch. 96, App. A
Ch. 160A, Art. 8          154.001
                          95.11,
Ch. 160A, Art. 10         96.50,
                          Ch. 96, App. A;
                          95.11
Ch. 160A, Art. 19, Part 6 96.01
164-7                     10.14
                          
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section 2010 Code Section
Prior Code Section 2010 Code Section
1-1                10.01
1-2                10.05
1-3                10.19
1-4                10.04
1-6                10.99
2-2                31.001
2-3                30.01
2-3.1              30.02
2-4                30.02
2-5                30.02
2-6                30.02
2-7                30.15
2-8                30.17
2-9                30.16
2-10               30.17
2-11               30.17
2-12               30.17
2-13               30.17
2-14               30.19
2-15               30.20
2-16               30.20
2-17               30.21
2-18               30.21
2-19               30.20
2-21               31.015
2-22               31.030
2-23               31.030
2-24               31.030
2-25               31.031
2-26               31.032
2-27               31.032
2-28               31.032
2-29               31.033
2-30               31.034
2-31               31.035
2-32               31.050
2-33               31.050
2-34               31.050
2-35               31.050
2-36               31.050
2-37               31.050
2-38               31.065
2-39               31.066
2-40               31.066
2-41               31.066
2-42               31.066
2-43               31.066
2-44               31.080
2-45               31.081
2-46               31.081
2-47               31.095
2-47.1             31.095
2-48               31.096
2-49               31.097
3-3                90.004
3-5                90.053
3-10               90.170
3-11               90.172
3-12               90.171
4-6                150.01
4-7                150.02
4-8                150.03
4-9                150.04
4-10               150.05
4-12               150.11
4-13               150.12
4-14               150.13
4-15               150.14
4-21               150.30
4.1-1              110.001
4.1-2              110.001
4.1-3              110.002
4.1-4              110.005
4.1-5              110.020
4.1-5(a)           110.003
4.1-6              110.004
4.1-7              110.021
4.1-8              110.021
4.1-10             110.022 -
                   110.030
4.1-11             110.046,
                   110.047
4.1-11(b)          110.045
4.1-12             110.060,
                   110.061
4.1-13             110.075,
                   110.076
4.1-14             110.077 -
                   110.085
4.1-15             110.100
4.1-16             110.101
4.1-17             110.102
4.1-18             110.102
4.1-19             110.103
4.1-20             110.103
4.1-21             110.103
4.1-22             110.104
4.1-23             110.104
4.1-24             110.105
4.1-25             110.106
4.1-26             110.107
4.1-27             110.108
4.1-28             110.108
4.1-29             110.108
4.1-30             110.108
4.1-31             110.109
4.1-32             110.120
4.1-33             110.121
4.1-34             110.122
4.1-35             110.123
4.1-36             110.123
4.1-37             110.124
4.1-38             110.125
4.1-39             110.126
4.1-40             110.140
4.1-41             110.141
4.1-42             110.999
4.1-43             110.142
4.1-44             110.143
4.1-45             110.141
4.1-46             110.144
4.1-47             110.144
4.1-48             110.145
4.1-49             110.146
4.1-50             110.147 -
                   110.150
4.1-51             110.151
Ch. 5.1            52.01
6-1                91.16
6-2                91.17
6-3                91.18
6-4                91.18
6-5                91.15
6-6                150.06
6-7                150.07
6-14               150.08
6-16               150.09
6-17               150.10
6-19               31.125
6-20               31.126
6-21               31.125
6-22               31.126
6-23               31.126
6-24               31.126
6-25               31.126
6-26               31.127
6-26.1             31.127
6-27               31.128
6-28               31.128
7-1                50.01
7-2                50.02
7-3                50.03
7-4                50.15
7-5                50.30
7-6                50.45
7-7                50.60
7-8                50.61
8-1                70.02
                   70.01,
                   70.02,
8-1.1              94.01,
                   94.20 -
                   94.24
8-1.3              94.02
8-1.4              94.03
8-1.5              94.04
8-1.6              94.05
8-3                70.15,
                   70.99
8-5                Ch. 71, Sch. I
8-5.1              Ch. 71, Sch. I
8-6                Ch. 71, Sch. I
8-6.1              Ch. 71, Sch. I
8-6.2              Ch. 71, Sch. I
8-6.3              Ch. 71, Sch. I
8-6.4              Ch. 71, Sch. I
8-7.1              Ch. 71, Sch. I
8-7.2              Ch. 72, Sch. I
8-7.3              Ch. 72, Sch. I
8-8                Ch. 72, Sch. I
8-9                Ch. 72, Sch. I
8-10               Ch. 72, Sch. I
8-12               Ch. 72, Sch. I
8-12.1             Ch. 71, Sch. II
8-12.2             Ch. 72, Sch. II
9-1                70.99
9-2                91.01
9-4                130.01,
                   130.99
9-5                92.01
9-6.1              94.36
9-8                97.02
9-8.1              112.01 -
                   112.03
9-10               93.002
9-11               91.02
11-1               31.110
11-3               31.110
11-4               31.111
11-5               31.112
11-6               31.112
11-7               31.113
11-8               31.114
11-9               31.115
12-1               93.001
12-3               97.01 -
                   97.06
                   93.002,
12-4               97.07,
                   97.08
12-4(c)            97.09
12-9               93.005
12-10              93.006
12-11              93.007
12-12              93.008
12-13              93.009
12-15.1            93.003
12-16              93.020
12-17              93.021
12-18              93.022
12-19              93.023
12-20              93.024
12-21              93.025
12-22              93.040
12-23              93.042
12-24              93.041
12-25              93.043
12-26              93.044
12-27              93.055 -
                   93.061
12-27.1            93.075
12-27.2            93.077
12-27.3            93.078
12-27.4            93.080
12-27.5            93.079
12-27.6            93.078
12-27.7            93.079
12-27.8            93.081
12-27.9            93.076
12-27.10           93.081
12-27.11           93.082
12-27.12           93.083
Ch. 13             151.01
14-1               111.01
14-2               111.02
14-3               111.03
14-4               111.04
14-5               111.15
14-6               111.16
14-7               111.17
14-8               111.18
15-1               51.002
15-2               51.003
15-3               51.004
15-4               51.005
15-5               51.006
15-6               51.007
15-7               51.007
15-12              51.008
15-13              51.020
15-14              51.021
15-15              51.022
15-16              51.023
15-17              51.024
15-18              51.035
15-19              51.036
15-20              51.037
15-21              51.037
15-22              51.038
15-22              51.072
15-23              51.039
15-25              51.055
15-26              51.056
15-26              51.057
15-27              51.058
15-28              51.070
15-29              51.071
15-30              51.072
15-31              51.072
15-32              51.072
15-34              51.073
15-35              51.999
15-36              51.999
15-37              51.090
15-38              51.091
15-39              51.092
15-40              51.093 -
                   51.095
15-41              51.096
15-42              51.097
15-43              51.098
15-44              51.099
15-45              51.100
15-46              51.999
15-47              51.101
15-47              51.102
15-48              51.115 -
                   51.117
15-49              51.118 -
                   51.123
15-50              51.059
15-51              51.121
                   51.135 -
15-52              51.137,
                   51.999
15-53              51.999
15-54              51.001
Ch. 16             152.01
17-1               96.01
17-2               96.01
17-3               96.02
17-4               96.02
17-5               96.03
17-6               96.15
17-7               96.16
17-8               96.16
17-9               96.17
17-10              96.30
17-11              96.31
17-12              96.31
17-13              96.16
17-14              96.16
17-15              96.31
17-16.1            96.45
17-16.2            96.47
17-16.3            96.49
17-16.4            96.48
17-16.5            96.48
17-17              96.46
17-18              96.49
17-19              96.50
17-20              96.51
17-21              96.48
17-22              96.04
17-23.1            96.52
17-23.2            96.52
17-23.3            96.99
17-23.4            96.99
Ch. 17, Appendix   Ch. 96. App. A
                   
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     131.10 -
–      - -         131.16,
                     131.99
                     94.35,
–      - -         94.36,
                     94.99
                     70.02,
–      3-18-1954   70.15,
                     70.99
–      7-15-1955   130.01,
                     130.99
–      8-6-1956    Ch. 72, Sch. I
–      7-13-1960   Ch. 72, Sch. I
–      3-2-1964    Ch. 71, Sch. I
–      1-10-1965   Ch. 72, Sch. I
–      5-12-1965   92.01
–      9-13-1965   93.002
–      11-1-1965   Ch. 72, Sch. I
–      12-14-1966  Ch. 72, Sch. I
–      12-1-1969   Ch. 71, Sch. I
–      6-1-1970    Ch. 72, Sch. I
–      2-1-1971    31.095 -
                     31.097
–      4-1-1972    31.095 -
                     31.097
–      8-6-1973    Ch. 72, Sch. I
–      10-10-1973  31.127
–      3-4-1974    Ch. 72, Sch. I
–      6-2-1974    Ch. 71, Sch. I
–      6-3-1974    Ch. 71, Sch. I;
                     Ch. 72, Sch. I
–      12-16-1974  Ch. 72, Sch. I
–      1-9-1978    150.30
–      3-6-1978    112.01 -
                     112.03
–      5-7-1979    Ch. 72, Sch. I
–      9-3-1979    91.02
                     110.001 -
                     110.005,
                     110.020 -
                     110.030,
                     110.045 -
                     110.047,
                     110.060,
                     110.061,
–      9-19-1979   110.075 -
                     110.085,
                     110.100 -
                     110.109,
                     110.120 -
                     110.126,
                     110.140 -
                     110.151,
                     110.999
–      5-18-1981   94.36
–      6-1-1981    Ch. 72, Sch. I
–      10-5-1981   Ch. 72, Sch. I
–      3-1-1982    51.023
–      12-6-1982   Ch. 72, Sch. I
–      4-4-1983    Ch. 71, Sch. I
–      6-25-1984   Ch. 72, Sch. I
                     94.01 -
–      7-9-1984    94.05,
                     94.20 -
                     94.24
–      9-17-1984   51.022;
                     Ch. 71, Sch. I
–      11-5-1984   31.095
–      5-6-1985    Ch. 72, Sch. I
–      7-8-1985    90.171,
                     90.172
–      9-9-1985    Ch. 71, Sch. I
                     51.001,
                     51.059,
                     51.090 -
                     51.102,
–      10-7-1985   51.115 -
                     51.123,
                     51.135 -
                     51.137,
                     51.999;
                     Ch. 71, Sch. I
                     93.040 -
                     93.044,
–      11-4-1985   93.055 -
                     93.061,
                     93.075 -
                     93.083
–      1-6-1986    Ch. 71, Sch. I
–      2-17-1986   Ch. 71, Sch. I
–      5-31-1986   90.004
                     51.070 -
–      9-25-1986   51.073,
                     51.999
–      11-3-1986   51.055 -
                     51.058
                     70.01,
–      1-5-1987    70.02;
                     Ch. 71, Schs. I,
                     II
–      2-7-1987    Ch. 71, Sch. I
–      4-6-1987    Ch. 71, Sch. I
–      5-4-1987    31.096
                     154.001 -
                     154.008,
                     154.020 -
                     154.030,
                     154.045 -
–      6-1-1987    154.050,
                     154.065 -
                     154.071,
                     154.085 -
                     154.091,
                     154.999
–      7-13-1987   93.003
–      8-10-1987   31.095
                     94.01 -
–      9-14-1987   94.05,
                     94.20 -
                     94.24
–      12-7-1987   Ch. 72, Schs. I,
                     II
–      3-4-1989    Ch. 71, Sch. I
–      3-6-1989    33.01
–      10-2-1989   51.022
                     90.001 -
                     90.003,
                     90.015,
                     90.030 -
                     90.037,
                     90.050 -
                     90.052,
                     90.065,
                     90.066,
–      1-10-1990   90.080 -
                     90.084,
                     90.095,
                     90.110 -
                     90.112,
                     90.125,
                     90.140,
                     90.141,
                     90.155,
                     90.999
–      1-7-1991    32.01
–      4-1-1991    51.023
–      1-6-1992    Ch. 71, Sch. I
–      3-2-1992    31.126
–      10-5-1992   51.037
–      11-1-1992   30.03
–      3-7-2001    91.01
–      11-17-2003  95.01 -
                     95.12
–      6-7-2004    31.115
–      7-11-2005   Ch. 71, Sch. II;
                     Ch. 72, Sch. I
                     131.01 -
–      12-3-2007   131.03,
                     131.99
                     90.185 -
–      3-3-2008    90.187,
                     90.999
                     94.50 -
–      7-1-2008    94.54,
                     94.99
                     153.001 -
                     153.015,
                     153.030 -
                     153.033,
                     153.050 -
–      7-15-2008   153.056,
                     153.075,
                     153.076,
                     153.090 -
                     153.098,
                     153.999
                     51.073,
–      3-9-2009    51.081 -
                     51.087
                     70.25 -
–      7-13-2009   70.27,
                     70.99
–      8-6-2012    70.26
–      8-6-2012    130.01
–      9-10-2012   98.01,
                     98.02
                    
 
