TOWN OF LIBERTY, NC
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-10 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through 8-8-2023; and
State legislation current through North Carolina Legislative Service, 2023
Pamphlet #4
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TOWN OFFICIALS
TOWN COUNCIL
MAYOR         Filmore York
MEMBER        Chris Compton
MEMBER        Don Herndon
MEMBER        J.R. Beard
MEMBER        Tyson E. Nixon
MEMBER        Larry Coble
TOWN OFFICIALS
TOWN MANAGER  Scott Kidd
TOWN ATTORNEY William H. Flowe
TOWN CLERK    Jessica Brown
THE CHARTER OF THE TOWN OF LIBERTY
(Chapter 579 of the Session Laws of 1981)
SECTION 1 INCORPORATION.
   The Town of Liberty, heretofore incorporated by the General Assembly, shall
continue to operate as a body politic and corporate under the name and style of
the ‘Town of Liberty’.
SECTION 2 CORPORATE BOUNDARIES.
   The corporate boundaries of the Town of Liberty shall be those boundaries
established by Chapter 37 of the Public-Local and Private Laws of 1935 as
amended by annexations conducted since the effective date of that act.
SECTION 3 CORPORATE POWERS.
   The Town of Liberty shall and its officers and employees shall operate and
conduct the business of the town subject to the provisions set forth in Chapter
160A of the North Carolina General Statutes and other ‘general law,’ except as
otherwise provided in the town ‘Charter.’ (As the terms in quotations are
defined in G.S. 160A-1).
SECTION 4 MAYOR AND COUNCIL.
   (a)   In the Town of Liberty there shall be a council composed of five
members and a mayor elected by the voters of the entire town as herein
provided. The mayor shall be elected for a term of two years, and the council
members shall be elected for staggered terms of four years.
   (b)   The municipal elections in Liberty shall be nonpartisan and decided by
a simple plurality. No primary elections shall be held. The municipal elections
shall be held and conducted pursuant to the applicable provisions of Chapter
163 of the General Statutes, particularly Articles 23 and 24 thereof.
   (c)   In the municipal elections to be held on Tuesday after the first
Monday in November, 1981, and every two years thereafter, the mayor shall be
elected for a term of two years. In this election and the municipal elections
held every four years thereafter, three council members shall be elected to
succeed the council members whose terms expire in 1981. In the municipal
elections to be held in November, 1983, and every four years thereafter, two
council members shall be elected to succeed the two council members whose terms
expire in 1983.
SECTION 5 COUNCIL/MANAGER FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   (a)   The Town of Liberty shall operate under the council/manager form of
government in accordance with Part 2 of Article 7 of Chapter 160A of the North
Carolina General Statutes and any charter provisions not in conflict therewith.
   (b)   The manager shall be appointed to serve at the pleasure of the
council.
SECTION 6 ATTORNEY, CLERK, AND TAX COLLECTOR. 
   (a)   The council shall appoint a town attorney to serve at its pleasure and
to be its legal advisor.
   (b)   The town clerk shall be appointed by the manager.
   (c)   As provided in G.S. 105-349, the council shall either appoint a tax
collector or confer the duties of tax collector upon a qualified employee
appointed by the manager.
SECTION 7 CONTRACTS AND DOCUMENTS.
   (a)   Unless otherwise provided by law, no contract shall be binding upon
the Town of Liberty unless it is either:
      (1)   Made by or pursuant to an ordinance or resolution that authorizes
the town to enter into a contract for an identified purpose;
      (2)   Reduced to writing and approved the council; or
      (3)   Authorized by ordinance or resolution referring generally to a
class of contracts (which classification may be on the basis of amount, subject
matter, or other basis) that may be executed by designated officials on behalf
of the town.
   (b)   Unless otherwise provided by ordinance or resolution or by general
law, no contract or deed shall be binding upon the town unless signed by the
town manager and attested by the town clerk.
   (c)   Unless otherwise provided by ordinance or resolution or by general
law, the manager or his designee shall have authority to sign on behalf of the
town all licenses or permits issued by the town or other official documents
except contracts and deeds.
SECTION 8 LEASING OF TOWN OWNED PROPERTY.
   Any property owned by the Town of Liberty, whether originally acquired for
governmental or other purposes, may be leased by the town council for a term
not to exceed 10 years if, in the opinion of the council, the property will not
be needed by the city during the period of the lease. A lease may be made by
the council after notice has been given in the manner and for the length of
time prescribed by the council. In any case where
the lessee enters into a binding obligation to erect, upon property owned by
the city, improvements to cost not less than one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000), the council may rent or lease that property for a term not to
exceed 40 years upon such terms as in the judgement of the council will promote
the best interests of the town. Any property or portion thereof owned by the
town may be reasonably improved and renovated by the town either at its own
expense or by mutual joint arrangement with other parties.
SECTION 9 ASSESSMENTS FOR STREET IMPROVEMENTS.
   (a)   In addition to the authority that may now or hereafter be granted by
general law to the Town of Liberty for making street improvements and providing
for the assessment of costs thereof against abutting property owners, the town
council is authorized to make street improvements and assess the cost thereof
in accordance with the requirements of this section.
   (b)   Whenever a majority of the owners owning a majority of the lineal
footage of property abutting a street which is not more than six blocks in
length or a maximum total distance of 3,000 linear feet, are unwilling or fail
to petition for a needed street improvement, the town council may order such
improvement without petition, and may assess the total cost, or any part
thereof, less the cost at street intersections, against the abutting property
owners at an equal rate per front foot; provided, no street improvement without
petition shall be ordered or undertaken and the cost thereof assessed to
abutting property owners as authorized herein unless and until the town council
finds as a fact:
      (1)   That the street improvement project does not exceed six blocks in
length or a maximum total distance of 3,000 linear feet; and
      (2)   That such street or part thereof is unsafe for vehicular traffic
and it is in the best public interest to make such improvement; or
      (3)   That it is in the best public interest and for the welfare of the
citizens of the town to connect two streets already paved.
   (c)   Street improvements authorized by this section shall include grading,
regrading, surfacing or resurfacing, widening, and the construction or
reconstruction of curbs, gutters and street drainage facilities.
   (d)   In ordering street improvements and levying assessments for the cost
thereof under the authority granted by this section, the town council shall
pass and publish a resolution in substantial compliances with G.S. 160A-223,
levy the assessments and prepare an assessment roll in compliance with G.S.
160A-227 and G.S. 160A-228 and advertise and conduct a public hearing in
compliance with G.S. 160A-224 and G.S. 160A-225; provided, no improvement
authorized herein or the procedure authorized hereby shall be applicable or
permit assessments for sidewalk or utility improvements. In addition, the
provisions of G.S. 160A-229 through G.S. 160A-238 shall be applicable when the
authority authorized by this act is exercised.
   (e)   The authority granted to the Town of Liberty by this section shall not
be exercised by the town council unless four of the five members of the town
council who are present and voting at a regular or special meeting cast their
vote in favor of the use of this method for improving a street or part of a
street in accordance with the requirements of this section.
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      Chapter
         
10.   GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time; computing time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinances
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend code; effect of new ordinances
   
10.18   Section histories; section headings; statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the Town of Liberty shall be
designated as the Code of Liberty, North Carolina and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CHARTER. The Charter of the Town of Liberty, North Carolina.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or
sections.
      COMPUTATION OF TIME. The time within which an act is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first day and including the last day; and if the last
day is Saturday, Sunday or a legal holiday, that day shall be excluded.
      COUNCIL. The Mayor and Council, or governing body, of the Town of
Liberty, North Carolina.
      COUNTY. The County of Randolph, North Carolina.
      G.S. or GENERAL STATUTES. The latest edition of the General Statutes of
North Carolina, as amended.
      GENDER. Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine
and neuter.
      GOVERNOR. The Governor of North Carolina.
      JOINT AUTHORITY. All words giving a joint authority to 3 or more persons
or officers shall be construed as giving the authority to a majority of persons
or officers.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      NUMBER. Words used in the singular include the plural, and the plural
includes the singular number.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in those cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of this municipality unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
      OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD. Whenever certain hours are named in this code,
they shall mean standard time or daylight saving time as may be in current use
in this town.
      OWNER. Applied to any property, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety, of the whole
or a part of the property.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Every species of property except real property.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      PROPERTY. Includes real and personal property.
      REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIDEWALK. Any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of North Carolina.
      STREET. Any public way, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard,
parkway, dedicated alley, lane, viaduct, bridge and the approaches thereto
within the town and shall mean the entire width of the right-of-way between
abutting property lines.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      TENANT or OCCUPANT. When applied to a building or land, shall include any
person who occupies the whole or a part of the building or land, whether alone
or with others.
      TENSE. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well
as the past and present.
      TOWN. The Town of Liberty, in the County of Randolph, North Carolina.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
      ZONING ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. One designated by the Council.
Statutory reference:
   Computation of time, see G.S. § 1-593
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this town shall be by the following
rules, unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of an act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this town exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, that spelling shall be corrected and
the word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this town for the transaction of all
municipal business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME; COMPUTING TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Saturday, Sunday, or a legal holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   (A)   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced.
   (B)   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   (A)   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other
ordinances pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in
full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary
implication.
   (B)   Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code shall be
construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
      (1)   Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture
incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective
date of this code;
      (2)   Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment
of money for the town or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the town or
any evidence of the town's indebtedness;
      (3)   Any contract or obligation assumed by the town;
      (4)   Any ordinance fixing the salary of any town officer or employee;
      (5)   Any right or franchise granted by the town;
      (6)   Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating,
relocating, opening, widening, paving and the like, any street or public way in
the town;
      (7)   Any appropriation ordinance;
      (8)   Any ordinance which, by its own terms, is effective for a stated or
limited term;
      (9)   Any ordinance providing for local improvements and assessing taxes
therefor;
      (10)   Any zoning ordinance or zoning map amendment;
      (11)   Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any subdivision plat;
      (12)   Any ordinance describing or altering the boundaries of the town;
      (13)   The administrative ordinances or resolutions of the town not in
conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this code;
      (14)   Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes not included herein;
      (15)   Any ordinance establishing or prescribing street grades in the
town; and/or
      (16)   Any personnel ordinance.
   (C)   Nor shall any ordinance be construed to revive any ordinance or part
thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance which is repealed by
this chapter; and all ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full
force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length herein.
Statutory reference:
   Statutes not repealed by General Statutes, see G.S. § 164-7
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication
shall take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
   (B)   Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from their
passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND CODE; EFFECT OF NEW ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal or
in any way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering
system hereof and printed for inclusion herein. When subsequent ordinances
repeal any chapter, section or subsection, or any portion thereof, the repealed
portions may be excluded from this code by omission from reprinted pages. The
subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted in the case of
repeal, shall be prima facie evidence that the subsequent ordinances numbered
or omitted are readopted as a new code by the town.
   (B)   Amendments to any of the provisions of the code shall be made by
amending provisions by specific reference to the section number of this code in
language substantially similar to the following: “Section ______ of the Code of
Ordinances, Town of Liberty, North Carolina, is hereby amended as follows....”
The new provisions shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (C)   If a new section not heretofore existing in the code is to be added,
language substantially similar to the following shall be used: “The Code of
Ordinances, Town of Liberty, North Carolina, is hereby amended by adding a
section, to be numbered _______________, which section shall read as
follows:....” The new section shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (D)   All sections, articles, chapters or provisions desired to be repealed
must be specifically repealed by section, article or chapter number, as the
case may be.
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; SECTION HEADINGS; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance and the most recent 3 amending ordinances, if
any, are listed following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10,
passed 5-13-1960; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980;
Am. Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text
of the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example: (G.S. §
160A-11) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1985)
      (2)   A statutory cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
   § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see G.S. §§ 132-1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the prior code of ordinances
of the town, the prior code section number shall be indicated in the history by
“(Prior Code, § ).” The history notes following sections and the references
scattered throughout the code are not part of the code, but are merely for the
benefit for the user of the code.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of any
section or division of this code of ordinances for which no other penalty is
provided, or failing or neglecting or refusing to comply with same, shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor and subject to a fine not to
exceed $50 or imprisonment not to exceed 30 days, and each day that any of the
provisions of this code of ordinances are violated shall constitute a separate
offense.
(G.S. § 14-4(a))
Statutory reference:
   For provisions concerning enforcement of ordinances, see G.S. § 160A-175
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      Chapter
         
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
31.   DEPARTMENTS AND ORGANIZATIONS
         
32.   LIBRARY
         
33.   TOWN COUNCIL; OFFICERS; EMPLOYEES
         
34.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
         
35.   NATIONAL INCIDENT MANAGEMENT
         
36.   HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION
         
37.   AFFIRMATIVE ACTION PLAN
         
38.   SMOKING POLICY
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.01   Manager
   
30.02   Surplus personal property
   
30.03   Clerk
   
30.04   Attorney
   
30.05   Finance Officer
   
30.06   Budget Director
   
30.07   Tax Collector
   
30.08   Personnel responsibilities of Manager
   
30.09   Position classification plan
   
30.10   Pay plan
§ 30.01 MANAGER.
   (A)   Appointment.
      (1)   The Council shall appoint a Manager to serve at its pleasure.
      (2)   The Manager shall be appointed solely on the basis of his or her
executive and administrative qualifications.
      (3)   He or she need not be a resident of the town or state at the time
of his or her appointment.
   (B)   Power and duties.
      (1)   The Manager shall be the Chief Administrator of the town.
      (2)   He or she shall be responsible to the Council for administering all
municipal affairs placed in his or her charge by them, and in addition to those
powers and duties assigned to him or her by the Town Charter and by other
provisions of law, he or she shall:
         (a)   Appoint and suspend or remove all town officers and employees
not elected by the people, except those whose appointment or removal is
otherwise provided for by law, in accordance with general personnel rules,
regulations, policies or ordinances as the Council may adopt;
         (b)   Direct and supervise the administration of all departments,
officers and agencies of the town, subject to the general direction and control
of the Council, except as otherwise provided by law;
         (c)   Attend all meetings of the Council and recommend any measure
that he or she deems expedient;
         (d)   See that all laws of the state, the Town Charter, and the
ordinances, resolutions and regulations of the Council are faithfully executed
within the town;
         (e)   Prepare and submit the annual budget and capital program to the
Council;
         (f)   Annually submit to the Council and make available to the public
a complete report of the finances and administrative activities of the town as
of the end of the fiscal year;
         (g)   Make any other reports that the Council may require concerning
operations of town departments, offices and agencies; and
         (h)   Perform any other duties that may be required or authorized by
the Council.
(1981 Code, § 3-1)
§ 30.02 SURPLUS PERSONAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   The Town Manager is hereby authorized, pursuant to G.S. § 160A-266(c),
to dispose of any surplus personal property owned by the Town of Liberty,
whenever he or she determines, in his or her discretion, that:
      (1)   The item or group of items has a fair market value of less than
$5,000;
      (2)   The property is no longer necessary for the conduct of public
business; and
      (3)   Sound property management principles and financial considerations
indicate that the interests of the town would best be served by disposing of
the property.
   (B)   The Town Manager may dispose of any surplus personal property by any
means which he or she judges reasonably calculated to yield the highest
attainable sale price in money or other consideration, including but not
limited to the methods of sale provided in G.S. Ch. 160A, Article 12. The sale
may be public or private, and with or without notice and minimum waiting
period.
   (C)   The surplus property shall be sold to the party who tenders the
highest offer, or exchanged for any property or services useful to the town if
greater value may be obtained in that manner, and the Town Manager is hereby
authorized to execute and deliver any applicable title documents.
   (D)   If no offers are received within a reasonable time, the Town Manager
may retain the property, obtain any reasonably available salvage value, or
cause it to be disposed of as waste material.
   (E)   No surplus property may be donated to any individual or organization
except by resolution of the Town Council.
   (F)   The Town Manager shall, on or before the first day of February, report
in writing to the Town Council on any property disposed of under these
provisions from July 1 through December 31 of the previous year, and shall, on
or before the first day of August, report in writing to the Town Council on any
property disposed of under these provisions from January 1 through June 30 of
that year.
   (G)   The written report shall generally describe the property sold or
exchanged, to whom it was sold, or with whom exchanged, and the amount of money
or other consideration received for each sale or exchange since the last report
was submitted.
(Ord. passed 2-22-1999)
§ 30.03 CLERK.
   (A)   Appointment. There shall be a Town Clerk, who shall be appointed as
provided in the Town Charter.
   (B)   Duties. The Town Clerk shall:
      (1)   Give notice of meetings of the Council;
      (2)   Keep a journal of the proceedings of the Council;
      (3)   Record in a book kept for the purpose all ordinances and
resolutions;
      (4)   Be the custodian of all town records; and
      (5)   Perform other duties as are prescribed by law or by the Town
Charter or required by the Council or by the Manager.
(1981 Code, § 3-2)
§ 30.04 ATTORNEY.
   The Council shall appoint a Town Attorney to serve at its pleasure and shall
prescribe his or her duties and fix his or her rate of compensation.
(1981 Code, § 3-3)
§ 30.05 FINANCE OFFICER.
   (A)   Appointment. The Town Manager shall appoint a Finance Officer.
   (B)   Duties. The duties of the Finance Officer shall be to:
      (1)   Keep the town's accounts in accordance with generally accepted
principles of governmental accounting and the rules and regulations of the
Local Government Commission;
      (2)   Disburse all funds of the town in strict compliance with the Local
Government Budget and Fiscal Control Act, the budget ordinance, and each
project ordinance, and pre-audit obligations and disbursements as required by
the Local Government Budget and Fiscal Control Act;
      (3)   Prepare and file with the Council a statement of the financial
condition of the town whenever requested to do so by the Council or the
Manager;
      (4)   Receive and deposit all monies accruing to the town and supervise
the receipt and deposit of money by other duly authorized officers or
employees;
      (5)   Maintain all records concerning the town's bonded debt, and
determine the amount of money that will be required for debt service during
each fiscal year, and maintain all sinking funds;
      (6)   Supervise the investment of the town's idle funds; and
      (7)   Perform other duties as may be assigned to him or her by law, by
the Manager, the budget officer, the Council or by rules and regulations of the
Local Government Commission.
(1981 Code, § 3-4)
§ 30.06 BUDGET DIRECTOR.
   The Town Manager shall be the Budget Director. The Budget Director shall
perform those duties and responsibilities assigned to him or her by the Local
Government Budget and Fiscal Control Act, being G.S. §§ 159-7 through 159-42.
(1981 Code, § 3-5)
§ 30.07 TAX COLLECTOR.
   (A)   Appointment.
      (1)   There shall be a Tax Collector, who shall be appointed as provided
in the Town Charter.
      (2)   The Tax Collector shall not begin his or her duties until he or she
has furnished a bond in accordance with G.S. § 105-349(c), nor shall he or she
continue collecting taxes after the bond has expired without renewal.
   (B)   Duties. In addition to other duties and responsibilities provided by
law, the Tax Collector shall:
      (1)   Employ all lawful means to collect all property, dog license,
privilege and franchise taxes with which he or she is charged by the Council;
      (2)   Perform duties in connection with the preparation of the tax
records and tax receipts as the Council may direct under the provisions of G.S.
§§ 105-319 and 105-320;
      (3)   Keep adequate records of all collections he or she makes;
      (4)   Account for all monies coming into his or her hands, in a form and
detail as may be required by the Finance Officer;
      (5)   Make settlement at the times required by G.S. § 105-373 and at any
other times the Council may require him or her to do so;
      (6)   Submit to the Council at each of its regular meetings a report of
the amount he or she has collected on each year's taxes with which he or she is
charged, the amount remaining uncollected and the steps he or she is taking to
encourage or enforce payment of uncollected taxes;
      (7)   Send bills or notices of taxes due to taxpayers if instructed to do
so by the Council; and
      (8)   Visit delinquent taxpayers to encourage payment of taxes if
instructed to do so by the Council.
   (C)   Deputy Tax Collector. The Council may appoint 1 or more Deputy Tax
Collectors. The term of office, removal procedures and bonding requirements of
the Deputy Tax Collector shall be identical to those of the Tax Collector.
   (D)   Oath of office. The Tax Collector and any Deputy Tax Collector
appointed shall take and subscribe the following oath and file it with the Town
Clerk.
“I, _______, do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support and maintain the
Constitution and laws of the United States, and the Constitution and laws of
North Carolina not inconsistent therewith, and that I will faithfully discharge
the duties of my office as (Deputy) Tax Collector of the Town of ________ and
that I will not allow my actions as Tax Collector to be influenced by personal
or political friendships or obligations, so help me God."
_________________________________________
Signature
(1981 Code, § 3-6)
§ 30.08 PERSONNEL RESPONSIBILITIES OF MANAGER.
   (A)   The Manager shall be responsible to the Council for the administration
and technical direction of the personnel program.
   (B)   The Manager shall appoint, suspend and remove all officers and
employees except those elected by the people or those whose appointment is
otherwise provided for by law.
   (C)   The Manager shall make appointments, dismissals and suspensions in
accordance with the Charter and other policies and procedures specified in this
code (Personnel Policies).
   (D)   More specifically, the Manager shall:
      (1)   Recommend rules and revisions to the personnel system to the
Council for consideration;
      (2)   Determine the administrative, professional and managerial positions
to be excluded from entitlement to overtime compensation;
      (3)   Establish and maintain a roster of all persons in the town service,
setting forth each officer and employee, class title of position, salary, any
changes in class title and status and like data as may be deemed desirable or
useful;
      (4)   Develop and administer recruiting programs as may be necessary to
obtain an adequate supply of competent applicants to meet the needs of the
town;
      (5)   Develop and coordinate training and education programs for town
employees;
      (6)   Investigate periodically the operation and effect of the town's
personnel policies and report his or her findings and recommendations to the
Council;
      (7)   Perform other personnel duties as may be assigned to him or her by
this code or by the Council.
(1981 Code, § 3-10)
§ 30.09 POSITION CLASSIFICATION PLAN.
   (A)   The Manager shall be responsible for the administration and
maintenance of the position classification plan so that it will accurately
reflect the duties performed by employees in the classes to which their
positions are allocated.
   (B)   Department heads shall be responsible for bringing to the attention of
the Manager the need for new positions and material changes in the nature of
duties, responsibilities, working conditions or other factors affecting the
classifications of existing positions.
   (C)   New positions shall be established only with the approval of the
Council, after which the Town Manager shall either allocate the new position to
the appropriate class within the existing classification plan or recommend to
the Council that it amend the position classification plan to establish a new
class to which the new position may be allocated.
   (D)   When the Manager finds that a substantial change has occurred in the
nature or level of duties and responsibilities of an existing position, he or
she shall:
      (1)   Direct that the existing class specification be revised;
      (2)   Reallocate the position to the appropriate class within the
existing classification plan; or
      (3)   Recommend that the Council amend the position classification plan
to establish a new class to which the position may be allocated.
   (E)   The Council may, upon the recommendation of the Manager, add classes
of positions to or delete them from the position classification plan.
(1981 Code, § 3-11)
§ 30.10 PAY PLAN.
   (A)   The Manager shall be responsible for the administration and
maintenance of the pay plan.
   (B)   The pay plan is intended to provide equitable compensation for all
positions when considered in relation to each other, to general rates of pay
for similar employment in the private sector and in other public jurisdictions
in the area, to changes in the cost of living, to financial conditions of the
city and other factors.
   (C)   To this end, the Manager shall from time to time make comparative
studies of all factors affecting the level of salary ranges and shall recommend
to the Council the changes in salary ranges as appear to be warranted.
(1981 Code, § 3-12)
CHAPTER 31: DEPARTMENTS AND ORGANIZATIONS
Section
   
31.01   Police Department
   
31.02   Auxiliary Police Department
   
31.03   Fire Department
   
31.04   Building Inspections Department
   
31.05   Public Works Department
   
31.06   Recreation Department
§ 31.01 POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The Police Department shall consist of a Chief of Police and as many
other police officers as may be provided for from time to time by the Council.
   (B)   As provided in G.S. Ch. 160A, Article 13 police officers shall:
      (1)   Take, subscribe and file with the Clerk the oath of office
prescribed by Article VI, Section 7 of the North Carolina Constitution; and
      (2)   Have all the powers invested in law enforcement officers by statute
or common law within the corporate limits of the town and within 1 mile thereof
and on all property owned or leased by the town.
(1981 Code, § 3-15)
§ 31.02 AUXILIARY POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Pursuant to G.S. § 160A-282(a) and (b), a town may, by ordinance,
provide for the organization of an Auxiliary Police Department made up of
volunteer members; and by enactment of an ordinance, may provide that while
undergoing official training and while performing duties on behalf of the town
pursuant to orders or instructions of the Chief of Police of the town,
auxiliary law enforcement personnel shall be entitled to benefits under the
North Carolina Workers Compensation Act and to any fringe benefits for which
volunteer personnel qualify.
   (B)   There is hereby established within the Town Police Department, as a
division thereof, an Auxiliary Police Division.
   (C)   The Auxiliary Police Division shall be a volunteer organization, whose
members shall serve without compensation, composed of as many members as may
from time to time be determined by the Chief of Police and approved by the Town
Manager.
(Ord. passed 11-22-2004)
§ 31.03 FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The Fire Department shall consist of a Fire Chief and as many other
volunteer or full time employee firefighters as may be provided for from time
to time by the Town Council.
   (B)   The Fire Department shall have the duties and responsibilities related
to the prevention and extinguishment of fires as may be assigned by the Town
Council or the Town Manager.
(1981 Code, § 3-16)
§ 31.04 BUILDING INSPECTIONS DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   There shall be a Building Inspections Department which shall have the
authority and responsibility to enforce the North Carolina State Building Code.
   (B)   The Building Inspections Department shall have the authority and shall
follow the procedures set forth in G.S. §§ 160A-360 through 160A-459 of the
North Carolina State Building Code.
   (C)   From time to time the Council may make arrangements to have the
functions of the Building Inspections Department performed by other than town
employees, as provided in G.S. § 160A-413.
(1981 Code, § 3-20)
§ 31.05 PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The Department of Public Works shall consist of a Director of Public
Works and as many other employees as the Town Council may authorize from time
to time.
   (B)   The Public Works Department shall have duties and responsibilities
related to streets, water and sewer utilities, solid waste collection and other
public works as may be assigned by the Council or the Manager.
(1981 Code, § 3-26)
§ 31.06 RECREATION DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The Recreation Department shall consist of the Recreation Director and
as many other employees as may be authorized from time to time by the Council.
   (B)   The Recreation Department shall have duties and responsibilities
relating to recreation as may be assigned by the Council or the Manager.
(1981 Code, § 3-31)
CHAPTER 32: LIBRARY
Section
   
32.01   Established
   
32.02   Library Advisory Board
   
32.03   Librarian
§ 32.01 ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Liberty Public Library, to be owned and
operated by the Town of Liberty. All residents of the town shall be entitled to
the free use of this library.
   (B)   As provided in G.S. § 153A-268, the town may appropriate for library
purposes any funds not otherwise limited as to use by law.
   (C)   As provided in G.S. § 153A-269, title to all property acquired by the
town for library purposes shall be in the name of the town.
   (D)   In addition, if property is given, granted, devised, bequeathed or
otherwise conveyed to the Liberty Public Library or the Board of Trustees
thereof, it shall be deemed to have been conveyed to the Town of Liberty and
shall be held in the name of the town.
(1981 Code, § 3-36)
§ 32.02 LIBRARY ADVISORY BOARD.
   (A)   There shall be a 7-member Library Advisory Board appointed by the
Council. The members of this Board shall serve 6-year staggered terms.
Initially, 2 members shall be appointed for 2-year terms, 2 members shall be
appointed for 4-year terms and 2 members shall be appointed for 6-year terms.
   (B)   All members shall serve until their successors are appointed and
qualified, and vacancies shall be filled by the Council for the unexpired term.
The Council may remove any member for incapacity, unfitness, misconduct or
neglect of duty. Members shall serve without compensation.
   (C)   The Library Advisory Board shall have the following powers and duties:
      (1)   To adopt bylaws, consistent with the provisions of this chapter, as
it finds necessary or convenient for its operations;
      (2)   To select annually from among its membership a Chairperson, Vice
Chairperson and other officers in accordance with its bylaws;
      (3)   To advise the Council and the Manager concerning all aspects of the
operation of the Liberty Public Library; and
      (4)   To advise or assist the Council in the preparation of the annual
report to the Department of Cultural Resources.
(1981 Code, § 3-37)
§ 32.03 LIBRARIAN.
   The Liberty Public Library shall be operated as a Department of the Town of
Liberty, under the supervision of a Chief Librarian or Director of Library
Services appointed by the Manager.
(1981 Code, § 3-38)
CHAPTER 33: TOWN COUNCIL; OFFICERS; EMPLOYEES
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Oaths and bonds of officers and employees
   
33.02   Qualifications for office
   
33.03   Appointments
   
33.04   Reference to Robert’s Rules of Order
Meetings
   
33.15   Regular meetings
   
33.16   Special meetings
   
33.17   Emergency meetings
   
33.18   Continued or recessed meetings
   
33.19   Agenda
   
33.20   Order of business
   
33.21   Presiding officer
   
33.22   Quorum
   
33.23   Taking official action
   
33.24   Debate
   
33.25   Voting
   
33.26   Adoption of ordinances
   
33.27   Executive sessions
   
33.28   Public hearings
   
33.29   Minutes
Motions
   
33.40   Substantive and procedural motions
   
33.41   Motion to amend
   
33.42   Motions to dispose of issue without deciding merits
   
33.43   Revive or reconsider an issue
   
33.44   Reconsideration of matters disposed of on the merits
   
33.45   Motion to terminate debate
   
33.46   Miscellaneous motions
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 OATHS AND BONDS OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   All officers and employees appointed by the Council shall serve at the
pleasure of the Council except as otherwise provided by law, and shall receive
for their services compensation as may be established annually in the budget
ordinance.
   (B)   The Council shall prescribe the required bond for each officer or
employee that it deems necessary to be bonded, and no officer or employee may
begin the duties of his or her office until the required bond has been
obtained.
   (C)   All town officers shall take the following oath before beginning their
duties:
"I, ______________, do solemnly swear (affirm) that I will support and maintain
the Constitution and laws of the United States and the Constitution and laws of
North Carolina not inconsistent therewith and that I will faithfully discharge
the duties of my office as ____________, so help me God."
   (D)   This oath may be administered by the Mayor or by any other official
authorized to administer oaths by G.S. § 11-7.1, and shall be subscribed and
filed with the Town Clerk.
(1981 Code, § 3-43)
§ 33.02 QUALIFICATIONS FOR OFFICE.
   Upon the motion of any member, the Council shall determine the
qualifications of any member. Any office may be declared vacant by majority
vote of the Council membership if the member fails to meet any of the statutory
or constitutional requirements of office.
(1981 Code, § 2-31)
§ 33.03 APPOINTMENTS.
   The Council may use the following procedure to appoint individuals to
various subordinate boards and offices:
   (A)   The Mayor shall open the floor to nominations, whereupon the names of
possible appointees shall be put forward by the members and debated. Upon the
conclusion of the debate, the Mayor shall propose each name in alphabetical
order, and the members shall cast their votes;
   (B)   If only 1 appointee is to be selected, the voting shall continue until
1 nominee receives a majority of the votes cast, whereupon he or she shall be
appointed; and
   (C)   If more than 1 appointee is to be selected, then each member shall
have as many votes as there are slots to be filled. A member must cast all of
his or her votes, and cast them for different nominees. The nominees receiving
the highest number of votes shall be appointed.
(1981 Code, § 2-32)
§ 33.04 REFERENCE TO ROBERT'S RULES OF ORDER.
   Robert's Rules of Order shall govern all procedural matters not addressed by
the provisions of this chapter. However, no action taken by the Council shall
be invalidated by a failure to abide by Robert's Rules of Order.
(1981 Code, § 2-33)
MEETINGS
§ 33.15 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   The Council shall hold a regular meeting on the fourth Monday of each month,
unless that day is a legal holiday, in which case the meeting shall be held on
the next day. The meeting shall be held at Town Hall. Town Council shall review
and determine meeting times at each December Council meeting following
municipal elections.
(1981 Code, § 2-1) (Am. Ord. passed 5-27-2014; Am. Ord. passed 1-25-2016; Am.
Ord. passed 3-26-2018)
§ 33.16 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   A special meeting is any non-emergency meeting of the Council held at
any time other than that specified in §
33.15 above.
   (B)   The Mayor, Mayor Pro Tempore or any 2 members of the Council may at
any time call a special meeting by signing a written statement stating the time
and place of the meeting and the subjects to be considered.
   (C)   Notice of the meeting shall be given to Council members as provided in
this subsection, preferably 48 hours, but not less than 6 hours before the
meeting:
      (1)   Written notice shall be delivered personally to each Council
member; or
      (2)   If notice cannot be personally delivered, notice may be left at the
Council member's usual place of dwelling. In this event, the Town Clerk shall
make every reasonable effort to contact the Council member by telephone.
   (D)   Special meetings may also be held when all Council members are present
and consent thereto or when those not present have signed a written waiver of
notice, provided that the notice to the media required by division (E) below is
given.
   (E)   The Town Clerk shall give notice of a special meeting to the public
and the media, at least 48 hours before the meeting, by:
      (1)   Posting a notice of the time and place of the meeting on the town's
principal bulletin board;
      (2)   Mailing or delivering notice of the meeting to each of the media
who has requested it in accordance with the Open Meetings Law; and
      (3)   Mailing or delivering notice of the meeting to any person who has
filed with the Clerk a written request for it in accordance with the Open
Meetings Law.
   (F)   Only those items of business specified in the notice may be transacted
at a special meeting unless all members are present or have signed a written
waiver of notice.
(1981 Code, § 2-2)
§ 33.17 EMERGENCY MEETINGS.
   (A)   An emergency meeting is a meeting of the Council called because of
generally unexpected circumstances that require immediate consideration.
   (B)   The Mayor, the Mayor Pro Tempore or any 2 members of the Council may
at any time call an emergency meeting by signing a written statement stating
the time and place of the meeting and the subjects to be considered.
   (C)   Notice of the meeting shall be given to Council members in the same
manner as notice of special meetings.
   (D)   Emergency meetings may also be held when all Council members are
present and consent thereto or when those not present have signed a written
waiver of notice, provided that the notice to the media required by division
(E) below is given.
   (E)   The Town Clerk shall give notice of an emergency meeting to each of
the media who has requested it in accordance with the Open Meetings Law. This
notice shall be given either by telephone or by the same method used to notify
Council members and shall be given immediately after the notice has been given
to those members.
   (F)   Only business connected with the emergency may be transacted at an
emergency meeting.
(1981 Code, § 2-3)
§ 33.18 CONTINUED OR RECESSED MEETINGS.
   (A)   By majority vote the Council may continue or recess any regular,
special or emergency meeting to any place and time specified in the motion to
continue or recess the meeting.
   (B)   No further notice need be given of any continued or recessed session
of a meeting set in accordance with division (A) above.
(1981 Code, § 2-4)
§ 33.19 AGENDA.
   (A)   Preparation. The Manager shall prepare the agenda for the meeting.
   (B)   Requests to be placed on agenda. A request to have any item of
business placed on the agenda must be received by the Manager in sufficient
time so that the agenda may be printed and distributed in accordance with
division (E) below, and to this end the Manager may establish an appropriate
deadline to receive the requests.
   (C)   Requests to address Council.
      (1)   Any individual or group that wishes to address the Council shall
make a request to be on the agenda to the Manager.
      (2)   However, the Council shall determine at the meeting whether the
individual or group will be heard by the Council.
   (D)   Contents.
      (1)   The agenda shall include, for each item of business placed on it,
as much background information on the subject as is available and feasible to
reproduce.
      (2)   Whenever possible a copy of all proposed ordinances shall be
attached to the agenda and distributed simultaneously.
   (E)   Inspection and distribution.
      (1)   Copies of the agenda and attachments shall be available for public
inspection as soon as they are completed.
      (2)   The Manager shall mail or deliver copies of the agenda and
attachments to the Council members in sufficient time to ensure that they are
received prior to the meeting.
      (3)   Additional copies of the agenda may be available for the press and
interested members of the public.
   (F)   Additions.
      (1)   The Council may, by consensus or majority vote of the Council
membership, add an item of business that is not on the agenda.
      (2)   Unless otherwise specified by the Council, additions to the agenda
shall be taken up at the conclusion of all other regular business.
(1981 Code, § 2-6)
§ 33.20 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   Items of business shall be taken up at a meeting in the order that
they appear on the agenda, except as provided in division (D) below.
   (B)   Items shall be placed on the agenda according to the order of business
established by the Council upon recommendation of the Manager.
   (C)   In establishing the order of business, the Council may authorize broad
categories of business to be included as agenda items, such as “members of the
public wishing to be heard,” or “matters by the manager” or “matters by the
attorney.”
   (D)   Items may be considered out of order by consent of all members present
or by majority vote upon a motion.
(1981 Code, § 2-7)
§ 33.21 PRESIDING OFFICER.
   (A)   The Mayor shall preside at meetings of the Council, except as provided
in division (C) below. A member must be recognized by the Mayor in order to
address the Council.
   (B)   As presiding officer, the Mayor shall have the following powers, in
addition to those conferred elsewhere in this chapter:
      (1)   To rule motions in or out of order, including the right to rule out
of order any motion patently offered for obstructive or dilatory purposes;
      (2)   To determine whether a speaker has gone beyond reasonable standards
of courtesy in his or her remarks and to entertain and rule upon objections
from other members on this ground;
      (3)   To entertain and answer questions of parliamentary law or
procedure, subject to being overruled by a 2/3 vote of the membership of the
Council;
      (4)   To call a brief recess at any time; and
      (5)   To adjourn in the event of an emergency.
   (C)   If the Mayor becomes actively engaged in debate on a particular
proposal, he or she may delegate the duty to preside over the debate to the
Mayor Pro Tempore or to any other member of the Council who is not so engaged
and who acquiesces in the delegation.
   (D)   The temporary Chairperson may only preside over the debate and may not
participate in it; however, he or she does not forfeit his or her right to vote
on the issue by acting as temporary Chairperson. The Chairperson shall resume
the duty to preside as soon as action upon the matter is concluded.
(1981 Code, § 2-8)
§ 33.22 QUORUM.
   (A)   A majority of the actual membership of the Council plus the Mayor,
excluding vacant seats, shall constitute a quorum.
   (B)   A quorum is necessary for the Council to take any official action.
   (C)   A member who has withdrawn from a meeting without being excused by
majority vote of the remaining members present shall be counted as present for
purposes of determining whether a quorum is present.
(1981 Code, § 2-9)
§ 33.23 TAKING OFFICIAL ACTION.
   (A)   The Council shall proceed by motion. A motion, when duly seconded,
brings the matter before the Council for its consideration.
   (B)   A motion may be withdrawn by the introducer at any time prior to a
vote if the member who seconded the motion concurs.
   (C)   Subject to §
33.26 below and other provisions of law, official action of the Council shall
be by majority vote.
(1981 Code, § 2-10)
§ 33.24 DEBATE.
   Once a motion has been stated and seconded, the Mayor shall open the floor
to debate upon it. The Mayor shall preside over the debate according to the
following general principles:
   (A)   The member who makes the motion is entitled to speak first;
   (B)   A member who has not spoken on the issue shall be recognized before
someone who has already spoken; and
   (C)   To the extent possible, the debate shall alternate between proponents
and opponents of the measure.
(1981 Code, § 2-11)
§ 33.25 VOTING.
   (A)   Once a member is physically present at a Council meeting, any
subsequent failure to vote shall be recorded as an affirmative vote unless the
member has been excused from voting in accordance with division (B) below or
has been allowed to withdraw from the meeting in accordance with division (C)
below.
   (B)   A member may be excused from voting on a particular issue by majority
vote of the remaining members present if the matter at issue involved that
member's own financial interest or official conduct.
   (C)   A member may be allowed to withdraw from the entire remainder of a
meeting by majority vote of the remaining members present for any good and
sufficient reason other than the member's desire to avoid voting on matters to
be considered at that meeting.
   (D)   A motion to allow a member to be excused from voting or excused from
the remainder of the meeting is only in order if made by or at the initiative
of the member directly affected.
   (E)   A roll call vote shall be taken upon the request of any member.
   (F)   When this chapter specifies that action shall be taken by majority
vote or fails to specify the vote required, that shall be interpreted to mean a
vote of the majority of those present and not excused from voting.
   (G)   When a 2/3 vote is required, that shall be interpreted to mean a vote
of 2/3 of those present and not excused from voting.
   (H)   When a vote of a certain percentage of the Council membership is
required, that shall be interpreted to mean the specified percentage of all
seats on the Council, excluding vacant seats.
(1981 Code, § 2-12)
§ 33.26 ADOPTION OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   An affirmative vote equal to a majority of all the members of the
Council not excused from voting on the question in issue (including the Mayor's
vote in case of an equal division) shall be required to adopt an ordinance or
take any action having the effect of an ordinance.
   (B)   Subject to the provisions of G.S. Ch. 159 (Local Government Finance),
no ordinance nor any action having the effect of any ordinance may be finally
adopted on the date on which it is introduced except by an affirmative vote
equal to or greater than 2/3 of the Council membership.
   (C)   When an ordinance requires a public hearing, the ordinance shall be
considered introduced at the meeting when the Council sets a date for the
public hearing.
   (D)   Franchise ordinances and amendments shall not be finally adopted until
passed at 2 regular meetings of the Council.
(1981 Code, § 2-13)
§ 33.27 EXECUTIVE SESSIONS.
   (A)   The Council may hold executive sessions in accordance with the Open
Meetings Law (G.S. Ch. 143, Art. 33C) and other provisions of law.
   (B)   The Council shall commence an executive session by a majority vote to
do so and shall terminate an executive session in the same manner. Tape
recordings and minutes shall be kept of all executive sessions.
   (C)   The tape recordings shall be retained for a period of 3 years, and the
minutes shall be retained with the town's permanent records.
   (D)   The tape recordings and minutes shall be kept under lock and key;
provided, the recordings or minutes may be made available for public inspection
upon the majority vote of a quorum of the Town Council.
(1981 Code, § 2-14)
§ 33.28 PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   (A)   Public hearings required by law or deemed advisable by the Council
shall be scheduled pursuant to a motion adopted by a majority vote setting
forth the subject, date, place and time of the hearing as well as any rules
regarding the length of time of each speaker and other matters regarding the
conduct of the hearing.
   (B)   At the appointed time the Mayor shall call the hearing to order and
then preside over it.
   (C)   Upon the expiration of the allotted time, or when there are no
individuals who wish to speak who have not done so, the Mayor shall declare the
hearing ended.
   (D)   A quorum of the Council shall be required at all public hearings
required by state law.
(1981 Code, § 2-15)
§ 33.29 MINUTES.
   Minutes shall be kept of all meetings of the Council.
(1981 Code, § 2-16)
MOTIONS
§ 33.40 SUBSTANTIVE AND PROCEDURAL MOTIONS.
   (A)   A SUBSTANTIVE MOTION is a motion that seeks to have the Council
exercise any of its powers, duties or responsibilities.
   (B)   A MOTION TO AMEND A SUBSTANTIVE MOTION is also a substantive motion. A
substantive motion, other than to amend, is out of order while another
substantive motion is pending.
   (C)   A PROCEDURAL MOTION is a motion that relates either to the manner in
which the Council conducts its business in general or the manner in which the
Council deals with a particular substantive issue or substantive motion that is
before it.
   (D)   Unless otherwise specifically provided, all motions authorized by this
subchapter may be amended and debated.
(1981 Code, § 2-21)
§ 33.41 MOTION TO AMEND.
   (A)   An amendment to a motion must be germane to the subject matter of the
motion, but it may achieve the opposite effect of the motion.
   (B)   There may be an amendment to the motion, and an amendment to an
amendment, but no further amendments.
   (C)   Any amendment to a proposed ordinance shall be reduced to writing upon
the call of any member.
(1981 Code, § 2-22)
§ 33.42 MOTIONS TO DISPOSE OF ISSUE WITHOUT DECIDING MERITS.
   (A)   Motion to defer consideration until a date certain. This motion
requires that a date be set when without further action by the Council a matter
will again be placed on the agenda.
   (B)   Motion to defer consideration indefinitely. Adoption of this motion
removes the issue from the Council's consideration until a time as a motion to
revive consideration is adopted (see §
33.43(A) below) or a new motion dealing with the same issue is introduced and
seconded (see §
33.44(A) below).
   (C)   Motion to refer to a committee. Unless this motion includes an
instruction to report the matter back by a date certain, or unless a motion is
adopted under §
33.43(B), a matter referred to a committee remains there until returned to the
Council by the committee.
(1981 Code, § 2-23)
§ 33.43 REVIVE OR RECONSIDER AN ISSUE.
   (A)   Motion to revive consideration of an issue. Adoption of this motion
brings an issue back before the Council for its consideration, regardless of
whether the issue had been deferred indefinitely or to a date certain.
   (B)   Motion to recall an issue from committee. Adoption of this motion may
bring a matter immediately before the Council, or the motion may direct a
committee to report an issue back to the Council by a date certain.
   (C)   Motion to reconsider a vote. This motion may be made only at the
meeting at which the vote in question was taken and only by a member who voted
with the prevailing side. If adopted, the effect is to negate the earlier vote
and then bring the matter back before the Council as if the earlier vote had
never taken place.
(1981 Code, § 2-24)
§ 33.44 RECONSIDERATION OF MATTERS DISPOSED OF ON THE MERITS.
   (A)   Renewal of motions. A motion that is defeated may be renewed at any
subsequent meeting unless a motion has been adopted in accordance with division
(B) below.
   (B)   Motion to prevent reconsideration for six months.
      (1)   This motion is in order immediately following the defeat of a
substantive motion and at no other time.
      (2)   It requires a 2/3 vote for adoption.
      (3)   A matter concerning which this motion has been adopted may be
brought before the Council prior to the expiration of 6 months pursuant to a
vote to suspend the rules.
      (4)   This motion does not bind a new Council.
(1981 Code, § 2-25)
§ 33.45 MOTION TO TERMINATE DEBATE.
   (A)   A motion to call the previous question is a motion to cut off debate
on a matter under consideration and put the matter to a vote.
   (B)   This motion shall be in order at anytime, but unless each Council
member present has had an opportunity to speak at least once on the issue, the
motion requires a 2/3 vote for adoption.
   (C)   This motion is not debatable and may not be amended.
(1981 Code, § 2-26)
§ 33.46 MISCELLANEOUS MOTIONS.
   In addition to others authorized by this chapter, the following motion shall
be in order:
   (A)   Divide a complex question and consider it by paragraph;
   (B)   Suspend the rules. This motion shall require a 2/3 vote for adoption;
   (C)   Take a recess; and
   (D)   Adjourn. This motion may not be amended.
(1981 Code, § 2-27)
CHAPTER 34: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
34.01   State of emergency defined
   
34.02   State of emergency declared by Mayor
   
34.03   Contents of proclamation
   
34.04   Publication of proclamation
   
34.05   Effect of proclamation; curfew
   
34.06   Termination of state of emergency
 
   
34.99   Penalty
§ 34.01 STATE OF EMERGENCY DEFINED.
   A state of emergency exists whenever, during times of public crisis,
disaster, rioting, catastrophe or similar public emergency, for any reason town
public safety authorities are unable to maintain public order or afford
adequate protection for lives, safety or property, or whenever the occurrence
of any like condition is imminent.
(1981 Code, § 9-1)
§ 34.02 STATE OF EMERGENCY DECLARED BY MAYOR.
   (A)   Whenever the Mayor finds that a state of emergency exists within all
or a portion of the town, he or she shall issue a proclamation declaring a
state of emergency in accordance with §§
34.03 and
34.04 below.
   (B)   This proclamation, and any prohibitions and restrictions made
effective by it, shall take effect immediately upon publication unless the
proclamation sets a later time.
(1981 Code, § 9-2)
§ 34.03 CONTENTS OF PROCLAMATION.
   The proclamation issued by the Mayor shall declare to all persons that a
state of emergency exists and shall set forth:
   (A)   The area within which the state of emergency exists, which may be the
entire town or a specifically described portion of it;
   (B)   The date and time from which the proclamation shall be effective;
   (C)   Any restrictions and prohibitions that shall be effective during the
state of emergency and the penalties for violations; and
   (D)   The date and time when the state of emergency shall terminate, unless
extended or earlier terminated in accordance with §
34.06.
(1981 Code, § 9-3)
§ 34.04 PUBLICATION OF PROCLAMATION.
   (A)   For the purpose of making effective the prohibitions and restrictions
imposed by the proclamation, publication may consist of reports of the
substance of the proclamation's contents, including prohibitions and
restrictions, in the mass communications media serving the affected area or
other effective methods of disseminating the necessary information quickly.
   (B)   Notwithstanding division (A) above, the full text of the proclamation
shall be published as soon as practicable in 1 or more newspapers serving the
affected area and may be posted in various places or otherwise disseminated to
give the clearest notice practicable of its contents.
(1981 Code, § 9-4)
§ 34.05 EFFECT OF PROCLAMATION; CURFEW.
   (A)   A proclamation of a state of emergency shall activate any local civil
preparedness plan and shall authorize the town to seek assistance from the
county, state and federal governments in accordance with the provisions of G.S.
Ch. 166A.
   (B)   The Mayor is authorized in the proclamation to impose a curfew
applicable to all persons within the area described in the proclamation. The
curfew may be made effective during all or any portion of any day during the
state of emergency. During the curfew, no person may, within the area affected
by the curfew:
      (1)   Possess off his or her own premises, buy, sell, give away or
otherwise transfer or dispose of any explosives, firearms ammunition or
dangerous weapon of any kind;
      (2)   Sell beer, wines or intoxicating beverages of any kind or possess
or consume the same off his or her own premises;
      (3)   Sell gasoline or any similar petroleum products except when pumped
or piped directly into the tank of a motor vehicle; or
      (4)   Travel upon any public street or highway or upon public property
unless the person is in search of medical assistance, food or other commodity
or service necessary to sustain the well-being of himself or herself or his or
her family or some member thereof or unless the person is engaged in the
performance of some function necessary to preserve the public health or safety,
such as police and fire officers, other emergency service personnel, utility
employees, doctors and nurses and the like.
(1981 Code, § 9-5) Penalty, see §
34.99
§ 34.06 TERMINATION OF STATE OF EMERGENCY.
   A state of emergency and any restrictions imposed in connection therewith
shall automatically terminate at the end of 5 days after it becomes effective,
except that the same:
   (A)   May be continued for another 5-day period by the publication of a new
proclamation; or
   (B)   May be earlier terminated by the Mayor, who may issue a proclamation
declaring the state of emergency to be over at any time he or she concludes
that to be the case, and who shall issue a proclamation if the Council
concludes that the state of emergency has ended.
(1981 Code, § 9-6)
§ 34.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   As provided by G.S. § 14-288.12(e), any person who violates any
provision of §
34.05(B) above after a curfew has been imposed pursuant to this chapter shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not more than $50 or
imprisonment for not more than 30 days, or both.
(1981 Code, § 9-7)
CHAPTER 35: NATIONAL INCIDENT MANAGEMENT
Section
   
35.01   Short title
   
35.02   Intent and purpose
   
35.03   Definitions
   
35.04   Adoption of NIMS
   
35.05   Appointment and duties of coordinator
   
35.06   Conflicting regulations; applicability
 
   
35.99   Penalty
§ 35.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited and referred to as The National
Incident Management System (NIMS) Chapter for the Town of Liberty.
(Ord. passed 9-26-2005)
§ 35.02 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is the intent and purpose of this chapter to formally recognize the
National Incident Management System, and adopt the principles and policies of
the NIMS that will ensure the complete and efficient utilization of all of the
Town of Liberty's resources to combat disaster resulting from enemy actions, or
other disasters as defined herein.
   (B)   It is also the purpose of the NIMS to provide a consistent nationwide
approach for federal, state, territorial, tribal and local governments to work
effectively and efficiently together, to prepare for, prevent, respond to and
recover from domestic incidents, regardless of cause, size or complexity.
   (C)   It is also the purpose of the NIMS to provide a common foundation for
day to day operations, training and other preparedness efforts, and to
communicate and share information with other responders and with the public, as
well as to order resources to assist with a response efforts, and to integrate
new technologies and standards to support incident management.
(Ord. passed 9-26-2005)
§ 35.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COORDINATOR. The Coordinator of the Randolph County Emergency Management
Agency, as appointed and prescribed in this chapter.
   DISASTER. An event included but not limited to actual or threatened enemy
attack, sabotage, extraordinary fire, flood, storm, epidemic, accident,
chemical spill or other impending or actual calamity, which endangers or
threatens to endanger the health, life or property of constituted government.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT. Basic governmental functions of maintaining public
peace, health and safety during an emergency. This term includes plans and
preparations for protection and relief, as well as recovery and plans and
preparations for protection and relief, as well as recovery and rehabilitation
from effects of an attack by the forces of an enemy nation or the agents
thereof, or a disaster as defined herein. It does not, however, include any
activity that is the primary responsibility of the military forces of the
United States.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT FORCES. The employees, equipment and facilities of all
town departments, boards, councils, institutions and commissions, that are
assigned the duties of responding to emergencies within the Town of Liberty, as
well as all volunteer personnel, and all equipment and facilities obtained from
or by volunteer persons or agencies that are assigned the duties of responding
to emergencies within the Town of Liberty.
   INCIDENT COMMAND SYSTEM (ICS). The combination of facilities, equipment,
personnel, procedures and communications operating within a common
organizational structure, designed to aid in domestic incident management
activities, as outlined under Appendix A of the NIMS Document.
   NATIONAL INCIDENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (NIMS). A document produced by the
Department of Homeland Security under the direction of Presidential Directive-
5, that strengthens response capabilities through a balance between flexibility
and standardization, and use of common doctrine, terminology, concepts,
principles and processes.
   NIMS INTEGRATION CENTER (NIC). The federal agency established to develop and
provide strategic direction and facilitation of the NIMS, by supporting both
routine maintenance and continuous refinement of the system and its components.
(Ord. passed 9-26-2005)
§ 35.04 ADOPTION OF NIMS.
   (A)   The Town of Liberty formally adopts the NIMS as: its system of
response to a disaster; a common foundation for training and preparedness; a
method of communicating and sharing information with other responders and with
the public; a standard for ordering resources to assist with response efforts;
and as a system for integrating new technologies and standards to support
incident management.
   (B)   The NIMS principles and policies are to be adhered to by all emergency
management forces and across all functional disciplines within the Town of
Liberty, Randolph County, North Carolina.
   (C)   The Town of Liberty shall institutionalize the use of the ICS as
outlined in Appendix A of the NIMS document, in order to enhance command,
control and communication capabilities.
(Ord. passed 9-26-2005)
§ 35.05 APPOINTMENT AND DUTIES OF COORDINATOR.
   (A)   The Randolph County Director of Emergency Services shall serve as the
Coordinator of NIMS operations, pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   The Coordinator shall have the following duties and responsibilities:
      (1)   To consult with other agencies, municipalities and affected
organizations in Randolph County and recommend levels of NIMS training.
However, it shall be the responsibility of each agency to implement the
training and to ensure its own commitment to NIMS; and
      (2)   To oversee Randolph County's commitment to the NIMS through
planning, training and implementation.
(Ord. passed 9-26-2005)
§ 35.06 CONFLICTING REGULATIONS; APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   At all times when the orders, rules and regulations made and
promulgated pursuant to this chapter are in effect, they shall supersede all
existing ordinances, orders, rules and regulations insofar as the latter may be
inconsistent therewith.
   (B)   The Town of Liberty hereby ratifies and adopts this chapter, including
all forms and conditions specified herein.
(Ord. passed 9-26-2005)
§ 35.99 PENALTY.
   It shall be a misdemeanor for any person to violate any of the provisions of
this chapter or plans issued pursuant to the authority contained herein, or to
willfully obstruct, hinder or delay any member of the Emergency Management
Organization as herein defined in the enforcement of the provisions of this
chapter, or any plan issued hereunder.
(Ord. passed 9-26-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 36: HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION
Section
   
36.01   Creation and membership
   
36.02   Meetings; records; procedure
   
36.03   General powers and duties
   
36.04   Authority; appropriations; conferences
   
36.05   Historic districts and landmarks
   
36.06   Certificate of appropriateness required
   
36.07   Application for certificate of appropriateness
   
36.08   Action on application for certificate of appropriateness
   
36.09   Hearings for certificate of appropriateness
   
36.10   Appeal of decision
   
36.11   Administrative approval of minor works
   
36.12   Review criteria
   
36.13   Certain changes not prohibited
   
36.14   Conflict with other laws
   
36.15   Enforcement and remedies
   
36.16   Delay in demolition of landmarks and buildings within historic
districts
§ 36.01 CREATION AND MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Liberty Historic Preservation Commission
(Commission) under the authority of G.S. Ch. 160A, Article 19, Part 3C.
   (B)   The Historic Preservation Commission shall consist of 7 members
appointed by the Town Council. All members shall reside within the zoning
jurisdiction of the town.
   (C)   A majority of the members of the Commission shall have demonstrated
special interest, experience or education in history, architecture, archaeology
or related fields.
   (D)   The Commission shall serve without compensation. The Commission may
appoint advisory bodies and committees as appropriate.
   (E)   Members of the Commission shall serve terms of 4 years. Terms shall be
staggered.
   (F)   Four of the initial members shall be appointed for 4-year terms and
three for 2-year terms. A member may be reappointed for a second consecutive
term, but after 2 consecutive terms a member shall be ineligible for
reappointment until 1 calendar year has elapsed from the date of the
termination of his or her second term.
(Ord. passed 3-27-1998)
§ 36.02 MEETINGS; RECORDS; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Meetings, nature of meeting and attendance.
      (1)   The Historic Preservation Commission shall establish a meeting
time, and shall meet at least quarterly and more often as it shall determine
and require.
      (2)   All meetings of the Commission shall be open to the public and
reasonable notice of the time and place thereof shall be given to the public.
All meetings shall conform to the North Carolina Open Meetings Law, being G.S.
Ch. 143, Art. 33C.
      (3)   Any member of the Historic Preservation Commission who misses more
than 3 consecutive regular meetings or more than half the regular meetings in a
calendar year shall lose his or her status as a member of the Commission and
shall be replaced or reappointed by the Town Council.
      (4)   Absence due to sickness, death or other emergencies of like nature
shall be recognized as approved absences and shall not affect the member's
status on the Commission except that in the event of a long illness or other
like cause for prolonged absence, the member shall be replaced.
   (B)   Keeping of records, annual report.
      (1)   The Historic Preservation Commission shall keep permanent minutes
of all its meetings.
      (2)   The minutes shall record attendance of its members and its
resolutions, discussions, findings and actions, which record shall be a public
record.
      (3)   The Commission shall submit an annual report on its activities to
the Town Council.
   (C)   Rules of procedure and design guidelines.
      (1)   The Historic Preservation Commission shall adopt and publish rules
of procedure governing its meetings and the conduct of official business, the
appointment of members, terms of office, the election of officers and related
matters.
      (2)   The Commission shall also prepare and adopt detailed architectural
and historical guidelines for altering, restoring, moving or demolishing
properties designated as landmarks or within historic districts prior to taking
any official action on certificates of appropriateness concerning like matters.
(Ord. passed 3-27-1998)
§ 36.03 GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   Within the zoning jurisdiction of the Town of Liberty the Historic
Preservation Commission is authorized and empowered to undertake actions
reasonably necessary to the discharge and conduct of its duties and
responsibilities as outlined in this chapter and G.S. Ch. 160A, Article 19,
Part 3C, including but not limited to the following:
   (A)   Undertake an inventory of properties of historical, prehistorical,
architectural and/or cultural significance;
   (B)   Recommend to the Town Council areas to be designated by ordinance as
historic districts and individual structures, buildings, sites, areas or
objects to be designated by ordinance as landmarks;
   (C)   Recommend to the Town Council that designation of any area as a
historic district, or part thereof, or designation of any building, structure,
site, area or object as a landmark be revoked or removed for cause;
   (D)   Review and act upon proposals for alterations, demolitions or new
construction within historic districts, or for the alteration or demolition of
designated landmarks pursuant to G.S. Ch. 160A, Article 19, Part 3C and this
chapter;
   (E)   Conduct an educational program with respect to historic properties and
districts within the jurisdiction of the town;
   (F)   (1)   Cooperate with the state and federal government in pursuance of
the purposes of G.S. Ch. 160A, Article 19, Part 3C and this chapter; to offer
or request assistance, aid, guidance or advice concerning matters under its
purview or of mutual interest.
      (2)   The Town Council, or the Commission when authorized by the Town
Council, may contract with the state or the United States, or any agency of
either, or with any other organization provided the terms are not inconsistent
with state or federal law;
   (G)   Enter, solely in performance of its official duties and only at
reasonable times, upon private lands for examination or survey thereof.
However, no member, employee or agent of the Commission may enter any private
building or structure without express consent of the owner or occupant thereof;
   (H)   Prepare and recommend the official adoption of a preservation element
as part of the Town of Liberty Comprehensive Plan;
   (I)   Acquire by any lawful means the fee or any lesser included interest,
including options to purchase, to properties within established districts or to
any properties designated as landmarks, to hold, manage, preserve, restore and
improve the same, and to exchange or dispose of the property by public or
private sale, lease or otherwise, subject to covenants or other legally binding
restrictions which will secure appropriate rights of public access and promote
the preservation of the property;
   (J)   Restore, preserve and operate historic properties;
   (K)   Negotiate at any time with the owner of a building, structure, site,
area or object for its acquisition or its preservation, when the action is
reasonably necessary or appropriate; and
   (L)   Receive and spend funds appropriated by the Town Council for operation
and performance of the duties of the Preservation Commission; and accept grants
of funds from private individuals or organizations for preservation purposes.
(Ord. passed 3-27-1998)
§ 36.04 AUTHORITY; APPROPRIATIONS; CONFERENCES.
   (A)   Authority to inform public. The Historic Preservation Commission shall
have the power to promote public interest in and an understanding of its
recommendations, and to that end it may publish and distribute copies of its
recommendations and may employ other means of publicity and education as it may
determine.
   (B)   Appropriations; authority for members, employees to attend historic
preservation conferences; payment of expenses.
      (1)   The Town Council may appropriate to the Historic Preservation
Commission funds in any amount that it determines to be necessary for the
expenses of the operation of the Commission, and may make available any
additional amounts necessary for the acquisition, restoration, preservation,
operation and management of historic buildings, structures, sites, areas or
objects designated as historic landmarks or within designated historic
districts, or of land on which buildings or structures are located, or to which
they may be removed.
      (2)   Members of the Historic Preservation Commission, when duly
authorized by the Commission, may attend historic preservation conferences or
hearings upon pending historic legislation, and the Commission may, by formal
and affirmative vote pay, within the Commission’s budget, reasonable traveling
expenses incident to attendance.
(Ord. passed 3-27-1998)
§ 36.05 HISTORIC DISTRICTS AND LANDMARKS.
   (A)   Historic districts.
      (1)   Historic districts may be established under §§
154.080 through
154.097 as overlay districts. All uses permitted in any primary zoning
district, whether by right or as a special use, shall be permitted in a
historic district.
      (2)   Historic districts may from time to time be designated, amended or
repealed, provided however that no district shall be recommended for
designation unless it is deemed to be of special significance in terms of its
historical, prehistorical, architectural or cultural importance. A district
must also possess integrity of design, setting, workmanship, materials, feeling
and/or association. No district shall be designated, amended or repealed until
the following designation procedure has been carried out:
         (a)   An investigation and report describing the significance of the
buildings, structures, features, sites or surroundings included in any proposed
district, and a description of the boundaries of a district shall have
prepared; and
         (b)   The Department of Cultural Resources, acting through the State
Historic Preservation Officer or his or her designee, shall have made an
analysis of and developed recommendations concerning the report and description
of proposed boundaries. Failure of the Department to submit its written
analysis and recommendations to the Town Council within 30 calendar days after
a written request for analysis and recommendations have been received by the
Department of Cultural Resources shall relieve the Town Council of any
responsibility for awaiting the analysis and recommendations, and the Town
Council may at any time thereafter take any necessary action to adopt or amend
its Zoning Chapter.
      (3)   The Town Council may also, in its discretion, refer the report and
the proposed boundaries to any other interested body for its recommendations
prior to taking action to amend the Zoning Chapter.
      (4)   With respect to any changes in the boundaries of a district
subsequent to its initial establishment, or the creation of additional
districts within the jurisdiction, the investigative studies and reports
required by division (A)(2)(a) above shall be prepared by the Commission and
shall be referred to the Planning Board for its review and comment according to
the procedures set forth in the Zoning Chapter changes in the boundaries of an
initial district or proposal for additional districts shall be submitted to the
Department of Cultural Resources in accordance with the provisions of division
(A)(2)(b) above.
      (5)   Upon receipt of these reports and recommendations the Town Council
may proceed in the same manner as would otherwise be required for the adoption
or amendment of any appropriate Zoning Chapter provisions.
   (B)   Historic landmarks.
      (1)   Upon complying with the required landmark designation procedures
set forth herein, the Town Council may adopt and from time to time amend or
repeal an ordinance designating one or more historic landmarks.
      (2)   No property shall be recommended for designation by ordinance as a
landmark unless it is deemed and found by the Historic Preservation Commission
to be of special significance in terms of its historical, prehistorical,
architectural or cultural importance, and to possess integrity of design,
setting, workmanship, materials, feeling and/or association.
      (3)   The ordinance shall describe each property designated in the
ordinance, the name or names of the owner or owners of the property, those
elements of the property that are integral to its historical, architectural or
prehistorical value, including the land area of the property so designated, and
any other information the Town Council deems necessary.
      (4)   For each building, structure, site, area or object so designated as
a landmark, the ordinance shall require that the waiting period set forth in
this chapter be observed prior to its demolition.
      (5)   A suitable sign for each property designated as a landmark may be
placed on the property with the owner's consent; otherwise the sign may be
placed on a nearby public right-of-way.
      (6)   No property shall be designated as a landmark until the following
steps have been taken.
         (a)   As a guide for the identification and evaluation or landmarks,
the Historic Preservation Commission shall, at the earliest possible time and
consistent with the resources available to it, undertake an inventory of
properties of historical, architectural, prehistorical and cultural
significance within the Zoning jurisdiction of the Town of Liberty. The
inventories and any additions or revisions thereof shall be submitted as
expeditiously as possible to the Division of Archives and History, North
Carolina Department of Cultural Resources.
         (b)   The Commission shall make or cause to be made an investigation
and report on the historic, architectural, prehistorical, educational or
cultural significance of each building, structure, site, area or object
proposed for designation or acquisition. The report shall be forwarded to the
Division of Archives and History, North Carolina Department of Cultural
Resources.
         (c)   The Department of Cultural Resources, acting through the State
Historic Preservation Officer, or his or her designee, shall either upon
request of the Department or at the initiative of the Commission be given an
opportunity to review and comment upon the substance and effect of the
designation of any landmark. All comments will be provided in writing. If the
Department does not submit its comments to the Commission within 30 days
following receipt by the Department of the report, the Commission and the Town
Council shall be relieved of any responsibility to consider the comments.
         (d)   The Commission and the Town Council shall hold a joint public
hearing (or separate public hearings) on the proposed ordinance. Reasonable
notice of the time and place thereof shall be given.
         (e)   Following the public hearing(s) the Town Council may adopt the
landmark ordinance as proposed, adopt the ordinance with any amendments it
deems necessary, or reject the proposed ordinance.
         (f)   Upon adoption of the landmark ordinance the owners and occupants
of each landmark shall be given written notification of the designation insofar
as reasonable diligence permits. One copy of the ordinance and all amendments
thereto shall be filed by the Commission in the office of the Register of Deeds
of Randolph County. Each designated landmark shall be indexed according to the
name of the owner of the property in the grantor and grantee indexes in the
Register of Deeds office and the Commission shall pay a reasonable fee for
filing and indexing. A second copy of the ordinance and all amendments thereto
shall be kept on file in the office of the Town Clerk and be made available for
public inspection at any reasonable time. A third copy of the ordinance and all
amendments thereto shall be given to the Randolph County Building Inspector.
The fact that a building, structure, site, area or object has been designated
as a landmark shall be clearly indicated on all tax maps maintained by Randolph
County for the period as the designation remains in effect.
         (g)   Upon the adoption of the landmark ordinance or any amendments
thereto, it shall be the duty of the Commission to give notice thereof to the
Tax Supervisor of Randolph County. The designation and any recorded
restrictions upon the property limiting its use for preservation purposes shall
be considered by the Tax Supervisor in appraising it for tax purposes.
(Ord. passed 3-27-1998)
§ 36.06 CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS REQUIRED.
   (A)   From and after the designation of a landmark or a historic district,
no exterior portion of any building or other structure (including masonry
walls, fences, light fixtures, steps and pavement, or other appurtenant
features), nor any above-ground utility structure nor any type of outdoor
advertising sign shall be erected, altered, restored, moved or demolished on
the landmark or within a historic district until after an application for a
certificate of appropriateness as to exterior features has been submitted to
and approved by the Commission.
   (B)   A certificate is required to be issued by the Commission prior to the
issuance of a zoning permit, building permit or other permit granted for the
purposes of constructing, altering, moving or demolishing structures, which
certificate may be issued subject to reasonable conditions necessary to carry
out the purposes of this chapter. A certificate of appropriateness shall be
required whether or not a zoning, building or other permit is required.
   (C)   For purposes of this chapter, EXTERIOR FEATURES shall include the
architectural style, general design and general arrangement of the exterior of
a building or other structure, including the kind and texture of the building
material, the size and scale of the building, and the type and style of all
windows, doors, light fixtures, signs and other appurtenant features.
   (D)   Exterior features may also include historic signs, color, any
significant landscape, and archaeological and natural features of the area. In
the case of outdoor advertising signs, EXTERIOR FEATURES shall be construed to
mean the style, material, size and location of all like signs.
   (E)   The State of North Carolina (including its agencies, political
subdivisions and instrumentalities), the Town of Liberty and all public
utilities shall be required to obtain a certificate of appropriateness for
construction, alteration, moving or demolition within a historic district or of
designated landmarks, except as provided in §§
36.13 and
154.080(D).
(Ord. passed 3-27-1998)
§ 36.07 APPLICATION FOR CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS.
   (A)   Applications for a certificate of appropriateness shall be obtained
from and when completed, filed with the Zoning Administrator. The application
shall be filed at least 2 weeks prior to the next regularly scheduled meeting
of the Historic Preservation Commission.
   (B)   Each application shall be accompanied by sketches, drawings,
photographs, specifications, descriptions and other information of sufficient
detail to clearly show the proposed exterior alterations, additions, changes or
new construction.
   (C)   The names and mailing addresses of property owners filing and/or
subject to the application and the addresses of property within 100 feet on all
sides of the property which is the subject of the application must also be
filed. No application which does not include the aforementioned information
will be accepted.
   (D)   It shall be the policy of the Commission, in regard to applications
involving new construction or extensive alterations and/or additions to
existing structures, that a sub-committee of the Commission shall be available
to meet with persons involved in planned or pending applications in order to
advise them informally at an early stage in the development process concerning
the Commission's guidelines, the nature of the area where the proposed project
will take place, and other relevant factors.
   (E)   The members of the sub-committee, collectively and individually, shall
refrain from any indication of approval or disapproval. Advice or opinions
given by any member of the sub-committee at an informal meeting shall not be
considered official or binding upon the Commission.
(Ord. passed 3-27-1998)
§ 36.08 ACTION ON APPLICATION FOR CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator shall notify, by mail, not less than 1 week
prior to the meeting at which the matter is to be heard, the owners of property
within 100 feet on all sides of the subject property.
   (B)   Applications for certificates of appropriateness shall be acted upon
within 90 days after filing, otherwise the application shall be deemed to be
approved and a certificate shall be issued. An extension of time may be granted
by mutual consent of the Historic Preservation Commission and the applicant.
   (C)   As part of the review procedures the Commission may view the premises
and seek the advice of the Department of Cultural Resources or other like
expert advice as it may deem necessary under the circumstances. The Commission
may hold a public hearing on any application when deemed necessary.
   (D)   The action on an application shall be approval, approval with
conditions or denial and the decision of the Commission must be supported by
specific findings of fact indicating the extent to which the application is or
is not congruous with the special character of the historic district or
landmark.
(Ord. passed 3-27-1998)
§ 36.09 HEARINGS FOR CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS.
   (A)   Prior to the issuance or denial of a certificate of appropriateness
the applicant and other property owners likely to be materially affected by the
application shall be given an opportunity to be heard. All meetings of the
Historic Preservation Commission shall be open to the public in accordance with
the North Carolina Open Meetings Law, G.S. Ch.143, Article 33C.
   (B)   The Commission shall have no jurisdiction over interior arrangement,
except as provided below, and shall take no action under this chapter except to
prevent the construction, reconstruction, alteration, restoration, moving or
demolition of buildings, structures, appurtenant features, outdoor advertising
signs or other significant features which would be incongruous with the special
character of the historic district or landmark.
   (C)   The jurisdiction of the Commission over interior spaces shall be
limited to specific interior features of architectural, artistic or historical
significance in publicly owned landmarks; and of privately owned landmarks for
which consent for interior review has been given by the owners.
   (D)   Consent of an owner for interior review shall bind future owners and/
or successors in title, provided the consent has been filed in the Randolph
County Register of Deeds’ office and indexed according to the name of the owner
of the property in the grantor and grantee indexes.
   (E)   The landmark designation shall specify the interior features to be
reviewed and the specific nature of the Commission's jurisdiction over the
interior.
   (F)   All of the provisions of this chapter shall apply to construction,
alteration, moving and demolition by the State of North Carolina, its political
subdivisions, agencies and instrumentalities, provided however they shall not
apply to interiors of buildings or structures owned by the State of North
Carolina.
(Ord. passed 3-27-1998)
§ 36.10 APPEAL OF DECISION.
   (A)   An appeal may be taken to the Board of Adjustment from the Historic
Preservation Commission's action in granting or denying any certificate by any
aggrieved party and shall be in the nature of certiorari.
   (B)   Written notice of the intent to appeal must be sent to the Commission,
postmarked within 30 days following the decision. An appeal from the Board of
Adjustment's decision shall be heard by the Superior Court of Randolph County.
   (C)   The State of North Carolina or any of its agencies shall have a right
of appeal to the North Carolina Historical Commission, which shall render its
decision within 30 days from the date that a notice of appeal by the state is
received by the North Carolina Historical Commission.
   (D)   The decision of the North Carolina Historical Commission shall be
final and binding upon both the state and the Liberty Historic Preservation
Commission.
(Ord. passed 3-27-1998)
§ 36.11 ADMINISTRATIVE APPROVAL OF MINOR WORKS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding §
36.08 above, upon receipt of a completed application the Zoning Administrator
may issue a certificate of appropriateness for minor works.
   (B)   Minor works are defined as those exterior changes which do not involve
substantial alterations, additions or removals that could impair the integrity
of the property and/or district as a whole.
   (C)   Minor works shall be limited to those listed in the Historic
Preservation Commission's Architectural and Historic Guidelines.
   (D)   No application may be denied without the formal action of the
Commission.
   (E)   All minor works applications approved by the Zoning Administrator
shall be forwarded to the Commission in time for its next scheduled meeting.
(Ord. passed 3-27-1998)
§ 36.12 REVIEW CRITERIA.
   (A)   No certificate of appropriateness shall be granted unless the Historic
Preservation Commission finds that the application complies with the detailed
architectural and historic guidelines adopted by the Commission for review of
changes and new construction.
   (B)   It is the intent of this chapter to ensure insofar as possible that
construction, reconstruction, alteration, restoration, moving or demolition of
buildings, structures, appurtenant fixtures, outdoor advertising signs or other
significant features in the district or of landmarks shall be congruous with
the special character of the district or landmark.
   (C)   In considering new construction, the Commission may encourage
contemporary design which is harmonious with the character of the district.
   (D)   In granting a certificate of appropriateness, the Commission shall
take into account the historic or architectural significance of the structure
under consideration and the exterior form and appearance of any proposed
additions or modifications to that structure as well as the effect of the
change or additions upon other structures in the vicinity.
   (E)   The Secretary of the Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation and
Guidelines for Rehabilitating Historic Buildings shall be the sole principles
and guidelines used in reviewing applications of the State of North Carolina or
any of its agencies for certificates of appropriateness.
(Ord. passed 3-27-1998)
§ 36.13 CERTAIN CHANGES NOT PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent the ordinary
maintenance or repair of any exterior architectural feature in a historic
district or of a landmark which does not involve a change in design, materials
or outer appearance thereof; nor the ordinary maintenance or repair of streets,
sidewalks, pavement markings, street signs or traffic signs; the construction,
reconstruction, alteration, restoration or demolition of any like feature which
the Building Inspector shall certify is required for public safety because of
an unsafe or dangerous condition.
   (B)   Nothing herein shall be construed to prevent the maintenance, or in
the event of an emergency, the immediate restoration of any existing above-
ground utility structure without approval by the Historic Preservation
Commission.
(Ord. passed 3-27-1998)
§ 36.14 CONFLICT WITH OTHER LAWS.
   (A)   Whenever this chapter requires a longer waiting period or imposes
other higher standards with respect to a designated historic landmark or
district than are established under any other statute, charter provision,
ordinance or regulation, this chapter shall govern.
   (B)   Whenever the provisions of any other statute, charter provision,
ordinance or regulation require a longer waiting period or impose other higher
standards than are established under this chapter, other statute, charter
provision, ordinance or regulation shall govern.
(Ord. passed 3-27-1998)
§ 36.15 ENFORCEMENT AND REMEDIES.
   (A)   Compliance with the terms of a certificate of appropriateness shall be
enforced by the Zoning Administrator. Failure to comply with a certificate
shall be a violation of the Town of Liberty Zoning Chapter and is punishable
according to established procedures and penalties for the violations.
   (B)   In case any building, structure, site, area or object designated as a
landmark or within a historic district is about to be demolished, whether as a
result of deliberate neglect or otherwise, materially altered, remodeled,
removed or destroyed except in compliance with this chapter, the Town Council,
the Commission, or other party aggrieved by the action may institute any
appropriate action or proceeding to prevent the unlawful demolition,
destruction, material alteration, remodeling or removal; to restrain, correct
or abate the violation; or to prevent any illegal act or conduct with respect
to the building, structure, site, area or object.
(Ord. passed 3-27-1998)
§ 36.16 DELAY IN DEMOLITION OF LANDMARKS AND BUILDINGS WITHIN HISTORIC
DISTRICTS.
   (A)   (1)   An application for a certificate of appropriateness authorizing
the demolition, removal or destruction of a designated landmark or a building,
structure or site within a historic district may not be denied except as
provided in division (C) below. However, the effective date of a like
certificate may be delayed for up to 365 days from the date of approval.
      (2)   The period of delay shall be reduced by the Historic Preservation
Commission if it finds that the owner would suffer extreme hardship or be
permanently deprived of all beneficial use or return from the property by
virtue of the delay.
      (3)   During the delay period the Commission shall negotiate with the
owner in an effort to find a means of preserving the building, structure or
site.
      (4)   If the Commission finds that a building, structure or site has no
special significance or value toward maintaining the character of a district,
it shall waive all or part of the period of delay and authorize earlier
demolition or removal.
      (5)   If the Commission has voted to recommend the designation of a
landmark or the designation of an area as a historic district, and final
designation has not been made by the Town Council, the demolition or
destruction of any building, structure or site in the proposed district or of
the designated landmark may be delayed by the Commission for up to 180 days or
until the Town Council takes final action on the designation, whichever occurs
first.
   (B)   The Town Council may enact an ordinance to prevent the demolition by
neglect of any designated landmark or any structure or building within a
established historic district. The ordinance shall provide appropriate
safeguards to protect property owners from undue hardship.
   (C)   An application for a certificate of appropriateness authorizing the
demolition of a building, structure or site determined by the State Historic
Preservation Officer as having statewide significance as defined in the
criteria of the National Register of Historic Places may be denied except where
the Commission finds that the owner would suffer extreme hardship or be
permanently deprived of all beneficial use or return by virtue of the denial.
(Ord. passed 3-27-1998)
CHAPTER 37: AFFIRMATIVE ACTION PLAN
Section
   
37.01   Policy statement
   
37.02   Duties of EEO officer
   
37.03   Dissemination of policy
   
37.04   Grievance and complaint procedure
   
37.05   Goals and timetables
   
37.06   Person responsible for assurance of goals met
   
37.07   Evaluation and review
§ 37.01 POLICY STATEMENT.
   (A)   The recruitment, selection, employment and training of employees shall
be without discrimination because of race, color, religion, national origin,
sex, political affiliation and handicap.
   (B)   The town will take affirmative action to provide equal opportunity and
will operate as required under federal and state laws and regulations governing
equal employment opportunity.
   (C)   It is the policy of the Town of Liberty to affirmatively implement
equal opportunity to all employees and all applicants for employment without
regard to religion, creed, political affiliation, race, color, sex, age,
national origin or handicap, and positive action shall be taken to ensure the
fulfillment and continuation of this policy.
   (D)   Equal opportunity applies specifically to, but is not limited to the
following:
      (1)   Hiring, classification, promotion or demotion;
      (2)   Recruitment, advertising or solicitation for employment;
      (3)   Treatment and working conditions during employment;
      (4)   Rates of pay and other forms of compensation; and
      (5)   Layoff or termination.
   (E)   The Town of Liberty is an Equal Opportunity Employer.
(Ord. passed 4-24-1989)
§ 37.02 DUTIES OF EEO OFFICER.
   (A)   The Town of Liberty ensures that contract requirements, fiscal
responsibilities and administrative guidelines are satisfied fully and in a
timely manner through the implementation of a well-planned monitoring system.
   (B)   The EEO Officer is charged with the overall responsibility of the
Affirmative Action Program.
   (C)   The EEO Officer will monitor the program continuously for
accomplishment of stated goals and consistency with program design, will assess
activities and will be responsible for and constantly evaluate fiscal and other
relevant procedures.
   (D)   The EEO Officer will evaluate program operation, fiscal control and
participant performance on a quarterly basis.
   (E)   The EEO Officer is also responsible for:
      (1)   Assisting in the development of the Affirmative Action Plan;
      (2)   Assisting in collecting and analyzing employment data, identifying
problem areas, setting goals and timetables and evaluating the program to
achieve goals;
      (3)   Handling complaints and grievances for staff and participants;
      (4)   Assuring that current legal information is disseminated to
responsible officials; and
      (5)   Reporting to the Town Council on the progress of the Affirmative
Action Program.
   (F)   The Town Manager is designated EEO Officer for the Town of Liberty.
(Ord. passed 4-24-1989)
§ 37.03 DISSEMINATION OF POLICY.
   (A)   Supervisors will be fully informed by:
      (1)   Written communication from the EEO Officer;
      (2)   Inclusion of the Affirmative Action Program and policy in the
personnel policy for the Town of Liberty; and
      (3)   Special meeting held as needed to discuss the program, their
individual responsibilities, and to review program.
   (B)   All supervisors will be informed that their performance on affirmative
action goals will berated along with other criteria in evaluation for
promotions and merit increases, and that inadequate cooperation or obstruction
of the program will incur penalties or possible termination.
   (C)   All employees will be informed of the Town of Liberty policy through
means such as:
      (1)   Town of Liberty EEO policy and federal EEO posters placed on the
bulletin board and other conspicuous areas in the work place; and
      (2)   Presentation and discussion of the program as part of the
employee's orientation.
(Ord. passed 4-24-1989)
§ 37.04 GRIEVANCE AND COMPLAINT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The grievance procedure.
      (1)   In establishing or enacting the following procedure, it is the
intent of the Board of Council members to establish an informal process by
which the desires and wishes of each and every employee of the town may be
accommodated, insofar as possible.
      (2)   It is not the intent of the Board in enacting this provision to
establish any legal procedure for the determination of rights, nor to create
any legal rights or procedural rights which do not otherwise exist simply by
reason of the fact of employment.
      (3)   The grievance procedure is designed to ensure an employee or group
of employees of fair, impartial and prompt consideration of a problem or
dissatisfaction without fear of reprisal. The procedure also encourages
employees at all levels to express themselves regarding conditions of work.
      (4)   The grievance procedure is intended to promote better understanding
of policies, practices and procedures; to instill confidence in employees that
fair and impartial treatment will be received; and develop in supervisors a
continuing sense of responsibility for maintaining effective working
relationships with subordinate employees.
      (5)   All employees, including supervisors and department heads, are
expected to discuss their problems and misunderstandings with their superiors.
Open 2-way communication is a proven factor in reducing and resolving
grievances.
   (B)   Non-discrimination.
      (1)   When an employee, or a group of employees, feels there is cause for
a grievance to resolve a work-related problem, dissatisfaction or complaint,
(where there is no allegation of discrimination because of age, sex, race,
color, national origin, religion, creed, physical disability or political
affiliation), he or she may initiate the grievance procedure.
         (a)   Step 1: Informal discussion with immediate supervisor.
            1.   An employee (or group) who feels he or she has a grievance
shall first discuss his or her problem with his or her immediate supervisor.
            2.   The employee (or group) must tell the supervisor about his or
her grievance as soon as possible but not later than 5 workdays following the
incident or action that caused or revealed the problem.
            3.   It is a supervisory responsibility to encourage the
subordinate to talk openly about his or her problem so as to promote
understanding.
            4.   Most misunderstandings will be clarified and resolved during
this free exchange of viewpoints. However, if the employee (or group) still
feels his or her grievance is not resolved, he or she may proceed to the next
step of this procedure.
         (b)   Step 2: Appeal to department head.
            1.   An employee (or group) may request a hearing with the
department head to appeal an unresolved grievance. A request must be received
by the department head in writing from the employee no later than 10 workdays
following the decision of the supervisor in Step 1.
            2.   The department head shall promptly notify the employee (or
group) and immediate supervisor of a date and time for the meeting which will
be no later than 15 workdays after the problem causing event. The employee may
choose 1 fellow employee to attend the hearing to help him or her present his
or her case; and the immediate supervisor shall attend to explain his or her
position.
            3.   The department head will open the meeting by encouraging an
informal discussion of the problem and will explore possible solutions with
those in attendance.
            4.   Every effort shall be made during this discussion to resolve
the grievance to the satisfaction of all concerned. However, if the grievance
cannot be resolved through this discussion, the parties will prepare written
reports on the issues. These reports shall be promptly submitted to the Town
Manager for further consideration through the next step.
         (c)   Step 3: Appeal to the Town Manager.
            1.   The Town Manager shall review the written reports and may
request additional information and documentation.
            2.   The Manager shall notify all concerned of a time and date for
a meeting to discuss facts about the grievance to take place as soon as
possible but not later than 25 workdays after the problem causing event; or,
the Manager may elect to refer the reports and documents to a special grievance
committee for investigation and recommendation.
            3.   The special grievance committee shall include 3 classified
town employees; one to be appointed by the Town Manager; and one fellow
employee appointed by the grievant (or group). The third member of the special
grievance committee, who will act as Chairperson, shall be appointed by the
first 2 appointees.
            4.   If requested by the Manager, the committee shall meet with all
parties concerned not later than 25 workdays after the problem causing event.
At this meeting, the Grievance Committee shall review the grievance report and
other documentation, make further investigations, if necessary; and promptly
refer the committee recommendation to the Manager.
            5.   Whether or not the Manager elects to engage a special
grievance committee, he or she shall furnish written notice to the employee,
the immediate supervisor, and the department head of his or her ruling. This
notice shall be made not later than 30 workdays from the original date of the
event that caused or revealed the problem.
      (2)   The decision by the Town Manager shall be final. Any deviation from
the above policy and procedure shall be subject to approval by the Manager.
   (C)   Discrimination.
      (1)   Any applicant for town employment, town employee or former town
employees who has reason to believe that employment, promotion, training or
transfer was denied or that demotion, layoff or termination of employment was
forced because of age, sex, race, color, national origin, religion, creed,
political affiliation or physical disability except where specific bona fide
occupational qualification necessary to proper and efficient administration
existed shall have the right to appeal directly to the Town Manager.
      (2)   A town employee who has completed the probationary period has the
right to appeal using the grievance procedures outlined for nondiscrimination
grievance by employee or applicant must appeal an alleged act of discrimination
within 30 days of the alleged discriminatory action.
(Ord. passed 4-24-1989)
§ 37.05 GOALS AND TIMETABLES.
   The Town of Liberty is committed to employ the most qualified applicant for
a vacancy without regard to race, color, religion, national origin, sex,
political affiliation and handicap. The above commitment will be implemented
when positions are filled.
(Ord. passed 4-24-1989)
§ 37.06 PERSON RESPONSIBLE FOR ASSURANCE OF GOALS MET.
   The EEO Officer will monitor the program for accomplishments of stated goals
and consistency with program design.
(Ord. passed 4-24-1989)
§ 37.07 EVALUATION AND REVIEW.
   (A)   The Town of Liberty Affirmative Action Plan will be reviewed and
updated annually by the EEO Officer.
   (B)   At this time any areas which are not being met to the best of this
program's abilities will receive concentrated attention by all personnel to
correct the problem area.
(Ord. passed 4-24-1989)
CHAPTER 38: SMOKING POLICY
Section
   
38.01   Smoking policy adoption
   
38.02   Authority and administration
   
38.03   General policy and purpose
   
38.04   Town facilities; application of policy
   
38.05   Vehicles
   
38.06   Responsibilities
   
38.07   Enforcement
§ 38.01 SMOKING POLICY ADOPTION.
   (A)   The Town Council hereby adopts the attached smoking policy in
designated town-owned or leased facilities and town-owned vehicles to be
effective October 15, 1993.
   (B)   The Town Manager be authorized to amend the smoking policy as the need
arises.
(Ord. passed 10-25-1993)
§ 38.02 AUTHORITY AND ADMINISTRATION.
   This policy is adopted by the Town Council and will be implemented by the
Town Manager or his or her designee(s).
(Ord. passed 10-25-1993)
§ 38.03 GENERAL POLICY AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   Smoking is prohibited in designated buildings and space owned, leased
or operated by the town, except in specially designated smoking areas within
the enclosed facilities. This policy does not apply to smoking outside of any
designated building.
   (B)   The purpose of this policy is to limit the effects of smoking on town
employees, town computer equipment and town facilities along with citizens and
the general public.
   (C)   The Town of Liberty's smoking policy applies to town employees, as
well as elected and appointed officials, clients, contractors, visitors,
building occupants, tenants and the general public.
(Ord. passed 10-25-1993)
§ 38.04 TOWN FACILITIES; APPLICATION OF POLICY.
   (A)   Smoking is prohibited in the following town facilities (including
public and employee restrooms), except in employee break rooms:
      (1)   Town Hall: 239 S. Fayetteville Street;
      (2)   Fire station: 213 W. Swannanoa Avenue;
      (3)   Police Department: 451 W. Swannanoa Avenue;
      (4)   Parks and Recreation Department: 128 S. Fayetteville Street;
      (5)   Public Works Department: 218 W. Raleigh Avenue;
      (6)   Wastewater plant: 7187 Highfill Street;
      (7)   ABC store: 423 W. Swannanoa Avenue; and
      (8)   Reitzel center: 128 S. Fayetteville Street.
   (B)   Smoking is banned from the following town facilities and no special
smoking areas are designated:
      (1)   Liberty Public Library; and
      (2)   Patterson Cottage.
(Ord. passed 10-25-1993)
§ 38.05 VEHICLES.
   (A)   Smoking in a town vehicle is permitted unless another occupant in the
vehicle objects. If any occupant objects, smoking is not permitted.
   (B)   The same standard applies to vehicles shared on different shifts or in
pool arrangements with the requirement that any smoking operator is responsible
for keeping the vehicle clean of smoking related debris including the ashtrays
prior to turning the vehicle over to the next user.
(Ord. passed 10-25-1993)
§ 38.06 RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The Town Manager and Town Clerk share in the responsibility for assuring
that employees are aware of this policy and will make smoking cessation classes
available to all employees and will coordinate placement of appropriate and
required signage throughout town facilities.
(Ord. passed 10-25-1993)
§ 38.07 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Each department is responsible for enforcing the smoking regulations
for its own employees.
   (B)   Since this is town policy, repeated violations will be handled under
existing disciplinary procedures as insubordination.
   (C)   The same would apply to managers who fail to carry out their
responsibilities in this area.
      (1)   Nothing in this policy alters existing rules regarding morning and
afternoon break periods.
      (2)   Nothing in this policy requires, permits nor condones adverse
action against an employee or applicant for employment because he or she
smokes, provided he or she abides by the provisions of the policy while at
work.
      (3)   Since this policy applies as well to citizens visiting town
facilities, enforcement should be handled as follows:
         (a)   Ask the offending citizen to go to a designated area or outside;
and
         (b)   If the citizen fails to do so, normal trespassing enforcement
should be instituted and/or refuse any town service for those who will not
voluntarily comply.
(Ord. passed 10-25-1993)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      Chapter
         
50.   GENERAL WATER AND SEWER PROVISIONS
         
51.   ENFORCEMENT RESPONSE PLAN
         
52.   WATER SHORTAGE RESPONSE
         
53.   SEWER USE
         
54.   SOLID WASTE COLLECTION
         
55.   HAZARDOUS WASTE
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL WATER AND SEWER PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
50.001   Definitions
   
50.002   Annexation of connected property required
   
50.003   Application for service
   
50.004   Deposit
   
50.005   Rates
   
50.006   Minimum service charge
   
50.007   Access to premises
   
50.008   Meter reading and determination of charges
   
50.009   Bills
   
50.010   Meter testing
   
50.011   Calculation of bill where equipment fails
   
50.012   Prohibited activities
   
50.013   Town property; maintenance
   
50.014   Adjustments
   
50.015   Method for computing leak adjustment
   
50.016   Town’s responsibility and liability
   
50.017   Customer responsibilities
   
50.018   EDA assisted extensions on SR 1006
Service Termination and Reinstatement
   
50.030   Termination or interruption of service by town
   
50.031   Lessee may take responsibility for payments
   
50.032   Procedure for service termination and reinstatement
   
50.033   Termination at customer’s request
Connections to Water and Sewer System Where Service is Available
   
50.050   Connection required
   
50.051   Permit for connection required
   
50.052   Application for connection permit
   
50.053   Rejection of permit application
   
50.054   Construction of connections
   
50.055   Separate connections required for each lot
   
50.056   Requirements for connection of service where multiple buildings are
located on one lot
   
50.057   Town inspection
   
50.058   Laterals to remain town property
   
50.059   Maintenance of private distribution and collection systems
Water and Sewer Extensions
   
50.070   In-town property; extensions of service; general policy
   
50.071   Extensions to developed property within the town
   
50.072   In-town extensions within new subdivisions and other new developments
   
50.073   Outside of town
   
50.074   Extensions made by other than town forces
   
50.075   Inspection by town of work done by others
   
50.076   Dedication of water and sewer line extensions
   
50.077   Reimbursement
Fire Protection Service
   
50.090   Fire hydrants
   
50.091   Fire protection service lines
   
50.092   Metering of fire protection service lines
Sanitary Sewer Use
   
50.105   Industrial wastes
   
50.106   Storm water prohibited
   
50.107   Prohibited uses
   
50.108   Waiver of discharge restrictions
   
50.109   Special agreements
   
50.110   Permit required for discharge of industrial wastes
   
50.111   Preliminary treatment facilities
   
50.112   Inspection manhole
   
50.113   Determination of character and concentration of wastes
   
50.114   Authority for temporary exclusion
   
50.115   Charges for industrial wastes
 
   
50.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The Public Works Director or any other person designated by
the Manager to perform the functions and exercise the responsibilities assigned
by this chapter to the Administrator.
   B.O.D. (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen (expressed in
milligrams per liter) required to satisfy the 5-day oxygen demand of a million
pounds of domestic sewage or industrial wastes (or a combination of both) when
tested in accordance with the procedures given in the latest edition of
Standard Methods of the Examination of Water and Sewage, published by The
American Public Health Association. B.O.D. is a measure of the pollutional
strength of wastes of any nature.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   DOMESTIC SEWAGE. Liquid wastes from bathrooms, toilet rooms, kitchens and
home laundries.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the preparation, cooking, handling and dispensing
of food.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. Liquid wastes from institutional, commercial and
industrial processes and operations as distinct from domestic sewage.
   LIQUID WASTES. Waste products that are either dissolved in or suspended in a
liquid.
   NATURAL OUTLET. That body of water, stream or watercourse receiving the
discharge waters from the sewage treatment plant or formed by the discharge of
the sewage treatment plant.
   pH. The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the weight of the hydrogen
ions in grams per liter of solution. It indicates the acidity and alkalinity of
a substance. A pH value of 7.0 is considered neutral. A stabilized pH is one
that does not change beyond the specified limits when the waste is subjected to
aeration. A pH value below 7.0 is acid and above 7.0 is alkaline.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food, shredded to such a degree that all particles will be
carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public sewers,
with no particles greater than 1/2 inch in any dimension.
   SANITARY SEWER. A pipe or conduit that carries sewage or polluted industrial
wastes and to which storm, surface and ground waters or unpolluted industrial
wastes are not intentionally admitted.
   SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM. The sanitary sewer system owned and operated by the
town, including all sanitary sewer lines and pipes, the sewage treatment plant
and all other facilities used in connection with the collection, treatment and
disposal of sewage. The term SEWER SYSTEM is sometimes used interchangeably.
   SEWAGE. Liquid wastes.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. The facility owned by the town where sewage is
collected and treated.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEM. Sanitary sewer system.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   WATER SYSTEM. The water utility system owned and operated by the town,
including all devices and facilities for the treatment, storage and
distribution of water.
(1981 Code, § 14-1)
§ 50.002 ANNEXATION OF CONNECTED PROPERTY REQUIRED.
   (A)   In order to broaden the Town of Liberty's development and tax base,
owner(s) of property outside the town limits proposing commercial or industrial
use, or major residential subdivision development must petition the Town of
Liberty for annexation before connections to the Town of Liberty's water and/or
sewer facilities will be allowed.
   (B)   These properties may be connected to water and/or sewer lines and
remain outside the town limits, but the owner(s) must petition the Town of
Liberty for annexation before connections to water and/or sewer lines will be
allowed.
(Ord. passed 2-28-2000)
§ 50.003 APPLICATION FOR SERVICE.
   (A)   Application for water or sewer service shall be made at the Town Hall
during normal business hours.
   (B)   Application shall be made on the forms prescribed, shall be made in
the name of the customer who will be responsible for payment of bills and shall
be signed by the customer or by his or her authorized agent.
(1981 Code, § 14-6)
§ 50.004 DEPOSIT.
   (A)   (1)   Every applicant for service shall make a cash deposit with the
town in the amount set forth in §
50.005 below.
      (2)   The purpose of this deposit is to provide security for the payment
of all charges by the customer.
      (3)   The town retains the right to require the customer to increase the
deposit a maximum of twice the amount of the highest monthly bill theretofore
rendered at the service location.
   (B)   Initial deposits shall be made with the service applications.
Additional deposits, if required pursuant to division (A) above, shall be made
within 30 days after receipt by the customer of a written request for the same.
   (C)   A separate deposit shall be paid on each installed water meter.
   (D)   No interest shall be paid on the deposit.
   (E)   Upon termination of service, the deposit shall either be applied to
any outstanding bill or refunded to the customer, as provided in §§
50.035 and
50.036.
(1981 Code, § 14-7)
§ 50.005 RATES.
   (A)   A schedule of all rates required or authorized by this chapter shall
be adopted and revised from time to time by resolution of the Council upon
recommendation of the Manager.
   (B)   A copy of the current schedule of rates shall be kept on file in the
Clerk's office.
(1981 Code, § 14-9)
§ 50.006 MINIMUM SERVICE CHARGE.
   (A)   The minimum service charge, as provided in the rate schedule, shall be
made for each meter installed regardless of location.
   (B)   The minimum service charge per meter shall apply whether all
residential units are occupied or unoccupied.
   (C)   Charges for service commence when 1 meter is installed and connection
made, regardless of whether service is actually used at that time.
(1981 Code, § 14-10)
§ 50.007 ACCESS TO PREMISES.
   (A)   Duly authorized agents of the town shall have access at all reasonable
hours to the premises of the customer for the purpose of installing or removing
town property, inspecting piping or apparatus, reading or testing meters or for
any other purpose in connection with the town's service or facilities.
   (B)   Application for service shall constitute consent by the customer to
access his or her premises for these purposes.
(1981 Code, § 14-11)
§ 50.008 METER READING AND DETERMINATION OF CHARGES.
   (A)   Ordinarily, meters will be read once per month and bills rendered once
per month. However, the town reserves the right to vary this schedule if
necessary or desirable.
   (B)   When 2 or more meters are installed in the same premises for different
customers, the town shall clearly identify which meter serves which customer.
   (C)   Where there are multiple dwelling units on 1 lot, unless separate
meters are installed for individual dwelling units, the property owner or
landlord shall be responsible for the bill for meters jointly used by one or
more tenants.
   (D)   Readings from different meters will not be combined into 1 account for
billing.
   (E)   Subject to §
50.011 below, a charge shall be made for all water passing through the
customer's meter.
   (F)   Bills for water and sewer service shall be calculated in accordance
with the rate schedule in effect at the time of billing.
(1981 Code, § 14-12)
§ 50.009 BILLS.
   (A)   Bills are due within 20 days of the date of billing and become
delinquent thereafter. A late penalty charge will be added to all delinquent
accounts per the Town of Liberty fee schedule.
   (B)   Bills shall notify customers of the provisions of division (A) above
and shall contain a phone number where a town employee can be contacted
concerning questions about the bill.
(1981 Code, § 14-13)
§ 50.010 METER TESTING.
   (A)   If the customer believes that a water meter on his or her premises is
not registering his or her water consumption accurately, he or she may request
a test of the meter by the town.
   (B)   Charges shall be made for this service pursuant to §
50.005 above unless the test demonstrates that the meter is inaccurate to the
prejudice of the customer.
   (C)   The standard for meter accuracy is +/- 2.5%.
(1981 Code, § 14-14)
§ 50.011 CALCULATION OF BILL WHERE EQUIPMENT FAILS.
   (A)   If the seal of the meter is broken by other than the town's
representatives or in the event that the meter fails to accurately register the
use of water, the customer shall be charged the amount computed using the
appropriate following formula for the period in which the meter failed to
register:
      (1)   If the customer has been an occupant at the same location for 3
years or more he or she shall be charged the current rate based upon the
average consumption for the same month during the previous years of occupancy;
and
      (2)   If the customer has been an occupant at the same location for less
than 3 years he or she shall be charged the current rate based upon the average
amount of water consumed monthly.
   (B)   If the customer demonstrates to the reasonable satisfaction of the
town that a break in the water line on the customer's side of the meter has
resulted in extraordinary charges for a billing period, the town may recompute
the customer's bill using the procedures set forth in division (A) above.
(1981 Code, § 14-15)
§ 50.012 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   No unauthorized person may:
   (A)   Supply or sell water from the town system to other persons or carry
away water from any hydrant, public water fountain or other like public outlet
without specific authorization from the town;
   (B)   Manipulate, tamper with or harm in any manner whatsoever any
waterline, sewerline, main or appurtenance or any other part of the water or
sewer system, including, but not limited to, any testing or inspection device
used to measure the character or concentration of wastes discharged into the
sanitary sewer system;
   (C)   Tamper with the water meter so as to alter the true reading for the
amount of water consumed; or
   (D)   Attach or cause to be attached any connection to the waterline before
the water meter.
(1981 Code, § 14-16) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.013 TOWN PROPERTY; MAINTENANCE.
   All meters and cut-off boxes located before the meters shall remain the
property of the town and shall be kept in good repair and working order by the
town.
(1981 Code, § 14-17)
§ 50.014 ADJUSTMENTS.
   (A)   The Manager is authorized to make adjustment for leaks as provided for
in this section. Adjustments for underground pipe leaks, commode leaks, bathtub
leaks, faucet leaks and hot water heater leaks shall be made only after a
plumber's bill has been presented stating exactly what repairs were made and
when they were made.
   (B)   If the customer fixed the leak himself or herself, a receipt for parts
purchased to correct the leak will be required. If no receipt is presented, the
Manager shall have the meter reading rechecked to ensure that the leak has been
repaired before an adjustment can be made.
   (C)   Only 2 adjustments per leak will be allowed.
   (D)   In order to receive an adjustment, the customer must apply within 90
days from the due date of the first water bill that reflects the leak.
(Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. passed 3-24-2008)
§ 50.015 METHOD FOR COMPUTING LEAK ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   A Leak Adjustment Manual authorized by this chapter shall be adopted
and revised from time to time by resolution of the Council upon recommendation
of the Manager.
   (B)   A copy of the current schedule of Leak Adjustment process shall be
kept on file in the Clerk's office.
(Ord. passed 10-27-1997; Am. Ord. passed 10-22-2018)
§ 50.016 TOWN'S RESPONSIBILITY AND LIABILITY.
   The town shall:
   (A)   Maintain the water and sewer lines within the town's rights-of-way and
easements;
   (B)   Reserve the right to refuse service if there is a cross connection to
a private water supply, no back-flow protection or no sewer cleanout;
   (C)   Assume liability for damage only if the damage results directly from
the town’s negligence;
   (D)   Assume no liability for damage done by or resulting from any defects
in the piping, fixtures or appliances on the customer’s premises; and
   (E)   Assume no liability for the negligence of third persons.
(1981 Code, § 14-21)
§ 50.017 CUSTOMER RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The customer shall:
   (A)   (1)   Maintain the piping system on his or her property at his or her
expense in a safe and efficient manner.
      (2)   The town shall not undertake to repair the customer’s connections
to the water or sewer line until it has been determined that the disrepair,
stoppage or other cause or impediment to the proper functioning of the line
exists within the portion of the lateral between the main line and the property
line.
      (3)   If the property owner or his or her representative claims that the
cause of a disturbance or stoppage exists on that portion of the lateral lying
between the main line and the property line and an investigation discloses that
the cause of the disturbance actually exists in that portion of the line lying
between the property line and the structure which is served by the line, the
property owner shall pay to the town the actual cost to the town of making the
investigation.
      (4)   If, however, upon investigation it is found that the cause of the
disturbance or disrepair is in that portion of the line lying between the
property line and the main line, the town shall make the repair without
additional cost to the property owner;
   (B)   Guarantee protection for town facilities or equipment located on the
customer's property;
   (C)   Pay the cost of relocating town owned facilities and equipment if done
at the customer's request;
   (D)   Not make or cause to be made any cross-connection with a private water
supply;
   (E)   Install proper and adequate backflow prevention devices;
   (F)   Install a pressure reducing valve if deemed necessary by the
Administrator;
   (G)   Install a sewer cleanout to town specifications if deemed necessary by
the Administrator; and
   (H)   Be responsible to the town for damage to town property that is the
fault of the customer. The cost of repairing or replacing the property will be
added to the customer's bill.
(1981 Code, § 14-22)
§ 50.018 EDA ASSISTED EXTENSIONS ON SR 1006.
   (A)   Applications for water and sewer services seeking to tap onto the EDA
assisted facilities constructed on SR 1006 must provide a certification to the
town that no structure, dwelling, building or other improvement to use the
requested water or sewer tap will be located in whole or in part within any
Jurisdictional Freshwater Wetlands, Federal Emergency Management (FEMA)
designated 100-year flood plain, prime farmland or endangered or threatened
species habitat.
   (B)   No water or sewer services will be installed, and no water or sewer
service will be provided, to any structure, dwelling, building or other
improvement which is located in whole or in part within any Jurisdictional
Freshwater Wetlands, Federal Emergency Management (FEMA) designated 100-year
flood plain, prime farmland or endangered or threatened species habitat;
provided that the prohibition shall not apply to any structure, dwelling,
building or other improvement that is already existing at the time this section
is adopted.
(Ord. passed 3-27-2000) Penalty, see §
50.999
SERVICE TERMINATION AND REINSTATEMENT
§ 50.030 TERMINATION OR INTERRUPTION OF SERVICE BY TOWN.
   (A)   The town may terminate service for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Refusal by the customer to pay in full an account that remains
delinquent past the fifth day of the following month;
      (2)   Prevention of fraud or abuse by a customer; and/or
      (3)   Failure of the customer to comply with any of the provisions of
this subchapter.
   (B)   If the delinquent water bill amount is not paid on or by the fifth day
of the month, the water shall without further notice be immediately cut off.
   (C)   Failure to receive bills or notices shall not prevent such bills from
becoming delinquent or relieve the consumer from payment.
   (D)   The town reserves the right to discontinue or interrupt service
temporarily for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Emergency repairs;
      (2)   Insufficient supply or treatment capacity; and/or
      (3)   Strike, riot, flood, accident, act of God or any other unavoidable
cause.
   (E)   The town shall make a good faith effort to notify affected customers
before service is discontinued or interrupted as provided in division (C)
above.
   (F)   However, the customer, by making application for service, agrees to
hold the town harmless from liability for any damages that may occur due to
discontinuance or interruption of service for the above mentioned causes.
(1981 Code, § 14-26) (Am. Ord. passed 9-28-2015)
§ 50.031 LESSEE MAY TAKE RESPONSIBILITY FOR PAYMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever a water meter serves a single dwelling unit or, in the
case of nonresidential structures, a single tenant, and the occupant of the
dwelling unit or the tenant is not the person responsible for water or sewer
payments (i.e. is not the customer), and the customer becomes delinquent in his
or her payments, then a copy of the notice of proposed termination required by
§ 50.030 shall be sent to the occupant of the dwelling unit or the tenant of
the non-residential structure.
      (2)   The notice shall include or be accompanied by a statement setting
forth the rights of the occupant or tenant (the lessee) as provided in division
(B) below.
   (B)   (1)   When a lessor becomes delinquent in his or her water or sewer
payments, a lessee may take responsibility for the payments and may thereby
become the customer in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   The lessee shall not be responsible for the debt of the lessor.
(1981 Code, § 14-30) (Am. Ord. passed 9-28-2015)
§ 50.032 PROCEDURE FOR SERVICE TERMINATION AND REINSTATEMENT.
   (A)   Water and sewer service termination shall be affected only by
authorized agents of the town.
   (B)   When service is terminated, discontinued or interrupted for any reason
set forth in §
50.030 above, it shall be unlawful for any person other than a duly authorized
agent or employee of the town to do any act that results in the resumption of
service.
   (C)   When service is terminated for non-payment of bill, service will not
be reinstated until any charges still outstanding are paid for the premises
affected, together with the current reconnect fee per the fee schedule and
pursuant to § 50.005 above.
(1981 Code, § 14-31) (Am. Ord. passed 9-28-2015)
§ 50.033 TERMINATION AT CUSTOMER’S REQUEST.
   (A)   The customer shall request that service be discontinued (for a change
in occupancy or other reason) at least 3 days before the customer desires the
termination to become effective.
   (B)   The customer shall be responsible for all water consumed and for pro-
rated service up to the time service is terminated, or until 3 days following
receipt of the request for termination, whichever occurs sooner.
   (C)   When all charges for service are paid in full,the customer's deposit
shall be refunded. The deposit will be refunded pursuant to §
50.004 above.
   (D)   The customer shall be entitled to be heard by a designated employee
concerning any dispute about the amount of the deposit refund. The employee
shall inform the customer in writing of his or her decision and the reasons
therefor as soon as reasonably possible.
(1981 Code, § 14-32) (Am. Ord. passed 9-28-2015)
CONNECTION TO WATER AND SEWER SYSTEM WHERE SERVICE IS AVAILABLE
§ 50.050 CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every person who owns improved property within the corporate limits of
the town shall be required, within 60 days of receipt of notice from the town,
to connect the improved property to the public water and sewer systems unless
service is not available (as defined in division (B) below).
   (B)   For purposes of this chapter, water or sewer service (respectively) is
NOT AVAILABLE if water or sewer lines are not located within the right-of-way
of any public street adjacent to the improved property in question or if, as a
result of some geographical impediment service is otherwise impracticable.
   (C)   As used in this section, the term IMPROVED PROPERTY means property
that has been developed for any use that requires a supply of water or the
availability of sewage treatment or disposal facilities.
(1981 Code, § 14-36)
§ 50.051 PERMIT FOR CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person may connect or be connected to the water or sewer system of
the town until a permit for a connection has been issued pursuant to §
50.052 below.
   (B)   After connection in accordance with this subchapter, service may be
initiated in accordance with the procedures set forth in §§
50.003 through
50.014 above.
(1981 Code, § 14-37)
§ 50.052 APPLICATION FOR CONNECTION PERMIT.
   (A)   Every application for a water or sewer connection shall state the name
of the owner of the lot, the name of the street on which the lot is situated,
the number of the building if there is one on the lot, or if not, a description
of the location of the lot, the number and kind of the connections desired, the
character of the surface of the abutting street and any other additional
information required by the Administrator. Every application shall be signed by
the person making the application.
   (B)   Every application for connection shall be accompanied by the following
fees pursuant to §
50.005 above unless the fees have previously been paid or are otherwise
inapplicable:
      (1)   Current front footage charges (out-of-town property only);
      (2)   Lateral and meter installation charges. When these charges are
assessed on an actual cost basis, the applicant shall deposit with the town an
amount equal to the estimated cost of lateral and meter installation charges.
If the cost of connections is less than the installation deposit the difference
between the deposit and the connection cost shall be refunded to the applicant.
If the cost of the connection is greater than the installation deposit, the
applicant shall pay to the town an amount equal to the difference between the
cost of connection and the installation deposit; and
   (3)   Service application deposit (see §
50.004 above).
   (C)   When lateral and meter installation charges are collected the service
initiation fee provided for in §
50.005 above is waived.
   (D)   No permit shall be issued for water and sewer connections until after
the Administrator has made an on-the-premises inspection of the real property
identified on the application and has determined the type of connection
required. If this examination reveals that a different type of connection is
required than that applied for, any additional fees must be paid by the
applicant before a permit may be issued.
(1981 Code, § 14-38)
§ 50.053 REJECTION OF PERMIT APPLICATION.
   Upon application for a connection permit the town may reject the application
and decline to provide service for the following reasons:
   (A)   Service is not available under the standard rate;
   (B)   The cost of service is excessive;
   (C)   The provision of service to the applicant will adversely affect the
supply of water to other customers or will adversely affect the town's sewage
treatment capabilities; and/or
   (D)   Other good and sufficient reasons.
(1981 Code, § 14-39)
§ 50.054 CONSTRUCTION OF CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Water and sewer connections shall be constructed simultaneously
whenever connections are to be made to both systems.
   (B)   When a permit has been issued by the town for a connection to existing
water or sewer lines, the town, either with the use of town forces or by
contract, shall do the excavating, lay the pipe, install a meter, make the
connections (tap-on) to the main, fill the excavation, and replace the surface
of the street.
   (C)   The customer may request that the water meter be placed on his or her
premises; however, the final decision for meter placement lies with the town.
   (D)   When the meter is placed on the customer’s premises:
      (1)   The town shall provide a cut-off valve directly before the meter;
      (2)   The customer shall furnish and maintain a private cut-off valve on
his or her side of the meter; and
      (3)   The customer shall provide a suitable location for placing the
meter, unobstructed and accessible at all times to the meter reader.
   (E)   The customer’s piping and apparatus shall be installed by a licensed
plumber at the customer’s expense in accordance with all applicable building
and plumbing codes and the town’s regulations and in full compliance with the
sanitary regulations of the State Commissions for Health Services.
   (F)   Piping on the customer’s premises shall be so arranged that the
connections are conveniently located with respect to the town’s mains.
(1981 Code, § 14-40)
§ 50.055 SEPARATE CONNECTIONS REQUIRED FOR EACH LOT.
   (A)   For the purposes of this chapter, LOT shall mean a parcel of land
whose boundaries have been established by some legal instrument such as a
recorded deed, deed of trust or a recorded map, and which is recognized as a
separate legal entity for purposes of transfer of title.
   (B)   There shall be for every lot to which water or sewer service is
available:
      (1)   A separate connection with the water main of the town and a
separate service pipe, tap and meter; and
      (2)   A separate connection with the sewer main of the town.
(1981 Code, § 14-41)
§ 50.056 REQUIREMENTS FOR CONNECTION OF SERVICE WHERE MULTIPLE BUILDINGS ARE
LOCATED ON ONE LOT.
   Where there are multiple buildings or structures situated on 1 lot and where
the lot owner desires to have a common water connection (including a private
water distribution system), and a common sewer connection (including a private
sewage collection system), he or she must meet the following requirements:
   (A)   The building or buildings to be served shall be in compliance with all
applicable zoning regulation;
   (B)   The building permit and plot shall show a single owner and shall
indicate the complex of buildings to be constructed on a single lot;
   (C)   The applicant shall be required to submit to the town a site plan
showing the proposed water and sewer systems. The plans shall be prepared by a
registered professional engineer who shall also provide satisfactory inspection
of the work. The plans shall include:
      (1)   Size of water lines, materials to be used for construction, valve
locations and hydrant locations. All construction from the property line to the
water meter shall be in accordance with town standards and specifications.
Construction beyond the water meter may be with materials permitted in the
plumbing code. All construction shall be performed by either a licensed master
plumber or a licensed utility contractor; and
      (2)   Size of sewers and materials to be used for construction. All sewer
lines 8 inches or larger in size shall be constructed in accordance with town
specifications and standards. All sewer lines smaller than 8 inches shall be
constructed in accordance with the plumbing code. All construction shall be
performed by either a licensed master plumber or a licensed utility contractor.
   (D)   Should a building served by a common connection be conveyed to a new
owner, the town shall require a separate water and sewer connection from that
building to the mains in the street, except in the case of condominium or
townhouse developments.
(1981 Code, § 14-42) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.057 TOWN INSPECTION.
   (A)   By making application for service the customer agrees that the town
possesses the right to inspect the private water distribution systems, water
connections, sewage collection system and sewer connections before they are
connected to the town water and sewer systems.
   (B)   The town shall be given notice to inspect before the pipes are covered
and the systems are connected.
(1981 Code, § 14-43)
§ 50.058 LATERALS TO REMAIN TOWN PROPERTY.
   All meters, meter boxes, pipes and other equipment furnished and used by the
town or its contractors in installing any water or sewer connections shall be
and remain the property of the town.
(1981 Code, § 14-44)
§ 50.059 MAINTENANCE OF PRIVATE DISTRIBUTION AND COLLECTION SYSTEMS.
   (A)   In addition to the requirements of §
50.056 above, all owners of lots on which private water distribution and sewer
collection systems are situated shall maintain the systems properly.
   (B)   Failure to maintain the systems shall constitute a nuisance which may
be abated using the procedures set forth in §
91.15(B) through (E). However, notwithstanding the availability of these
procedures, if a lot owner does not respond to an emergency situation where a
lack of water or sewer service poses an immediate threat to public health, the
town may summarily abate the nuisance and bill the lot owner for costs incurred
by the town.
(1981 Code, § 14-45)
WATER AND SEWER EXTENSIONS
§ 50.070 IN-TOWN PROPERTY; EXTENSIONS OF SERVICE; GENERAL POLICY.
   (A)   The town recognizes its basic responsibility to provide water and
sewer service to all properties within the corporate limits on a
nondiscriminatory basis and, subject to the availability of funds, to extend
its service lines to all properties unless it is unreasonable to do so.
   (B)   The town may determine that an extension of service is unreasonable
for the following reasons:
      (1)   The cost of service extension is excessive in terms of the number
of customers to be served or because of topographical, engineering, technical
or other problems;
      (2)   The provision of service will adversely affect the supply of water
to other customers or will adversely affect the town's sewage treatment
capabilities; and/or
      (3)   Other good and sufficient reasons.
(1981 Code, § 14-51)
§ 50.071 EXTENSIONS TO DEVELOPED PROPERTY WITHIN THE TOWN.
   (A)   Except as provides in §
50.072 below, the cost of extending water or sewer service to properties within
the corporate limits shall be borne initially by the town. However, the town
may recoup its costs, in whole or in part, by charging front footage fees (§
50.005) at the time of connection to the water or sewer system or by levying
special assessments on benefitted property.
   (B)   Except as provided in §
50.072 below, water and sewer main extensions to serve properties within the
town shall be done by town forces or under a contract let by the town.
   (C)   Water mains shall be extended only within the rights-of-way of
publicly dedicated and opened streets. Sewer lines shall also be located within
rights-of-way, except where the topography makes this impracticable. However,
in no case will sewer lines be extended by the town across private property,
unless the town has obtained adequate permanent easements for the lines.
   (D)   To preserve road surfaces, whenever the town installs water or sewer
line extensions in paved streets within the town (as well as whenever the town
paves unpaved streets where water or sewer lines exist), the town may install
lateral lines to serve undeveloped as well as developed properties and may give
the owners of undeveloped properties the option of paying for the lateral
installation at the time the work is done or paying the lateral installation
fee that is current at the time of connection.
(1981 Code, § 14-52)
§ 50.072 IN-TOWN EXTENSIONS WITHIN NEW SUBDIVISIONS AND OTHER NEW DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   As indicated in §
50.070 above, the town's responsibility is to extend its water and sewer lines
to properties within the town. However, the responsibility for extending water
and sewer lines within new subdivisions or within other new developments lies
with to subdivider or developer, although the town may in its discretion
contract with the subdivider or developer to install water or sewer lines with
town forces.
   (B)   The cost of extending water or sewer lines within new subdivisions or
other new developments shall be borne by the subdivider or developer, subject
to the following:
      (1)   If the town requires lines within a subdivision or other new
development that are larger than those necessary to serve the project and are
so located to serve other properties, the town shall reimburse the developer
for any additional costs incurred as a result of installing the oversized
lines. Reimbursement shall be paid at the time the lines are connected to the
town's system; and
      (2)   In subdivisions, the town may allow the availability charge (§
50.005 above) to be deferred by the subdivider and paid before service
initiation by the first subsequent owners of the lots sold.
(1981 Code, § 14-53)
§ 50.073 OUTSIDE OF TOWN.
   (A)   The town has no responsibility to provide water or sewer service to
property located outside the corporate limits. However, upon request, the town
may extend its water or sewer lines to serve properties outside the town when
it determines that it is in the town's best interest to do so.
   (B)   Any owner of property outside the corporate limits who seeks an
extension of the town's water or sewer system to serve his or her property may
make an application for the extension to the town. The owner shall provide all
information the town deems necessary to determine whether the requested
extension is feasible and in the town's best interest.
   (C)   Unless otherwise determined by the Council the responsibility for and
the entire cost of extending a water or sewer line to serve property outside
the town shall be borne by the property owner requesting the extension, subject
to the town's reimbursement policy set forth in §
50.077 below. In addition, subject to the provisions of §
50.077 below, the entire cost of extending lines within new subdivisions or
developments outside of town shall be borne by the subdivider or developer,
except that, with respect to subdivisions, the town may allow the availability
charge to be deferred by the subdivider and paid before service is initiated by
the first subsequent owners of the lots sold.
(1981 Code, § 14-54)
§ 50.074 EXTENSIONS MADE BY OTHER THAN TOWN FORCES.
   (A)   All additions to the town's water or sewer system installed by other
than town forces, whether inside or outside the town, shall be installed in
accordance with the provision of this chapter as well as other town
specifications and requirements. Among other matters, the specifications shall
govern the size of all lines, their location, grade, materials used, manner of
installation and provision for future extensions.
   (B)   No construction on any addition to the town's water or sewer system
shall commence until detailed plans have been reviewed and approved by the
Administrator. Plans shall include whatever information the Administrator deems
reasonably necessary to determine whether the proposed extension complies with
all applicable town specifications and requirements.
   (C)   Water lines intended for addition to the publicly owned water system
will be allowed to connect to the system only if installed within the right-of-
way of a publicly dedicated and opened street, except that the town may accept
an offer of dedication of lines installed within unsubdivided commercial or
industrial developments if necessary easements are provided. Sewer lines shall
also be installed within public street rights-of-way wherever practicable, but
the town may accept sewer lines constructed on private property (where the
topography makes this necessary) if adequate permanent easements are provided.
   (D)   To protect street surfaces, the town may require that whenever
extensions of water or sewer line are made to properties or within new
subdivisions, laterals be extended to all properties expected to tap on to
water or sewer lines.
   (E)   By making application for extension to the town's water or sewer
system, the person responsible for the extension agrees to indemnify and holds
the town harmless from all loss, cost, damage, liability or expense resulting
from injury to any person or property arising out of the extension of the
service lines.
(1981 Code, § 14-55)
§ 50.075 INSPECTION BY TOWN OF WORK DONE BY OTHERS.
   (A)   All work on the extension of water or sewer lines not performed by
town forces (whether inside or outside the town) shall be subject to inspection
by the town. If, in the judgment of the Administrator, there is a demonstrated
lack of competent supervision by a contractor, the Administrator may at his or
her option:
      (1)   Halt work until approved supervision is obtained and the work done
in accordance with town specifications and requirements; or
      (2)   Provide constant inspection by town personnel at the expense of the
applicant.
   (B)   Inspection of a project by the town does not consist of or imply
supervision. The person requesting the extension is solely responsible for
ensuring that the project is completed according to town specifications (if the
work is not done by town forces) and may be required to rearrange or do over,
any work to bring it into conformity with those specifications and
requirements.
(1981 Code, § 14-56)
§ 50.076 DEDICATION OF WATER AND SEWER LINE EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   All water and sewer mains constructed and connected with the
facilities of the town pursuant to this subchapter shall be conveyed to and
become the property of the town upon completion and acceptance by the town.
Connection to the system and acceptance by the town shall constitute dedication
of a water or sewer main extension by the person responsible for the extension.
   (B)   Following dedication as provided in division (A) above, the town shall
have exclusive control of all water or sewer lines and shall be responsible for
their maintenance, repair and operation. However, the conveyor of additions to
the system shall guarantee the entire project against defective material and
workmanship for a period of 12 months from the date of completion and
acceptance of the project, including incidental damages as may arise from the
claims.
(1981 Code, § 14-57)
§ 50.077 REIMBURSEMENT.
   (A)   Eligibility. Reimbursement may be made to a developer or other
applicant for expenses incurred in providing facilities that are subsequently
utilized by the town to serve other customers. No allowance will be made for
any lines that are not designed to serve lands outside the applicant's project.
Lines or other system components subject to reimbursement shall be:
      (1)   Those that are located between a subdivision or project and a
facility of the town water and sewer system and which are so sized as to serve
other properties. In this case the maximum reimbursable amount shall be the
actual cost of the lines less the amount that the original developer would have
had to pay for front footage fees. Reimbursement is to be made from front
footage charges levied against property served directly by the connections; and
      (2)   Those within a subdivision or project (located outside the town)
that are of a size in excess of the need of the project itself and are so
located to serve other properties. In this case the maximum reimbursable amount
shall be only the extra cost incurred by installing lines larger than needed to
serve the subdivision or project itself. Reimbursement is to be made from
availability fees levied against any property developed simultaneously or
subsequent to the installation of the lines or served by the lines.
   (B)   Reimbursement agreement. The town shall execute a reimbursement
agreement with any developer or applicant who finances an extension subject to
reimbursement pursuant to this section. The agreement shall be prepared by the
town and shall contain a description of the subject water and sewer lines and
describe the conditions under which the developer or applicant may receive a
reimbursement from the town. The agreement shall be signed by both parties.
   (C)   Basis for payment.
      (1)   The reimbursement period for each developer shall expire 10 years
following the initial date of service to the development.
      (2)   No interest on cost pending reimbursement shall be allowed.
      (3)   Reimbursement due an original developer under a reimbursement
agreement shall be paid by the town to the developer within 30 days following
the end of the quarter from collections made during that quarter.
      (4)   Any developer making a subsequent connection to a main that is
itself installed under a reimbursement agreement will be eligible to receive
reimbursement from fees and charges only after the claim of the first developer
is satisfied in full or the reimbursement period has expired, whichever first
occurs.
Likewise, a third developer and any subsequent developers connecting to a line
having a reimbursement agreement shall receive reimbursement in accordance with
the sequence of the effective dates of the reimbursement agreements.
      (5)   When availability fees are collected from property that is located
between 2 lines installed under separate reimbursement agreements, the town
will determine a fair and proportionate distribution of the available funds
based on the design of the system and the amount of reimbursement for which
each is eligible.
(1981 Code, § 14-58)
FIRE PROTECTION SERVICE
§ 50.090 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   The developers of subdivisions and unsubdivided developments, whether
inside or outside the town, may be required as a condition of connecting to the
town's water system to install fire hydrants in accordance with town
requirements and specifications. Among other matters, requirements and
specifications may govern the number, locations and type of hydrants required.
   (B)   The town may contract with a developer to install fire hydrants
required pursuant to division (A) above. The full cost of providing for
hydrants shall be borne by the developer, except that within the corporate
limits, the town may install at its expense hydrants provided at the
developer's expense.
   (C)   Connection to the town's water system of any hydrant constructed
pursuant to division (A) above shall constitute dedication to the town of a
hydrant.
   (D)   All hydrants locate within the right-of-way of a dedicated street or
on other town property shall be maintained by the town without charge, except
that the town may include a hydrant maintenance charge in the fire protection
service fees charged to the county for any area served by the town outside its
corporate limits.
   (E)   Hydrants located on private property shall be maintained by the town
and a charge therefore shall be added to the customer's bill, as specified in §
50.005 above.
   (F)   No person, other than an authorized representative of the town, may
draw water from or otherwise tamper with any hydrant.
(1981 Code, § 14-65) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.091 FIRE PROTECTION SERVICE LINES.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of this subchapter, the town may allow fire
protection service connections to be made to the town's water lines.
   (B)   All fire protection service connections shall be made in accordance
with town requirements and specifications and only after the town has reviewed
and approved detailed plans for fire protection service lines and facilities.
Final connection to the town system shall not be made until the Administrator
has inspected and approved the installed fire protection system.
   (C)   Private fire protection systems, including standpipes, sprinkler
systems and private reservoir systems, shall be constructed and installed only
by persons properly licensed to do the work. Lateral extensions and taps shall
be made by the town, and fees shall be charged therefore as provided in §
50.005 above.
   (D)   Backflow prevention conforming to town specifications shall be
installed at points in the fire protection system as necessary to assure
protection of the water supply.
(1981 Code, § 14-66)
§ 50.092 METERING OF FIRE PROTECTION SERVICE LINES.
   (A)   The town may require the owner of any fire protection line to install
at his or her expense either a detection check valve with bypass meter or a
full flow fire line meter. A like valve or meter may be required upon the
initial connection of the fire line to the town's system and shall be required
if the town subsequently has reason to believe that unmetered water is being
lost or used for other than fire protection purposes from any like line.
   (B)   When a detector check meter indicates usage of water for other than
fire protection, the owner shall be required at his or her expense to furnish
and install a full flow meter of approved design. The meter shall be arranged
to meter all water supplied to the premises for all purposes, including fire
protection.
(1981 Code, § 14-67)
SANITARY SEWER USE
§ 50.105 INDUSTRIAL WASTES.
   Many of the provisions of this subchapter explicitly apply only to
industrial wastes. The remaining provisions apply to wastes of all types, but,
as a practical matter, only industrial wastes are likely to be affected by them
in most instances.
(1981 Code, § 14-76)
§ 50.106 STORM WATER PROHIBITED.
   No person may discharge or cause to be discharged into any sanitary sewer
any storm water, surface water, ground water, roof run-off, subsurface
drainage, cooling water or unpolluted industrial or commercial process water.
(1981 Code, § 14-77) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.107 PROHIBITED USES.
   Subject to the provisions of §§
50.108 and
50.109 below, no person may discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any part of the town's sanitary sewer
system:
   (A)   Any clothing, rags, textile remnants and the like, except scraps or
fibers that will pass through a 0.25-inch mesh screen or its equivalent in
screening ability;
   (B)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F;
   (C)   Any water or waste containing more than 100 milligrams per liter (mg/
l) of fats, oils or grease;
   (D)   Any liquids, solids or gases that may cause fire or explosion or be in
any way injurious to persons, any portion of the town's sewage treatment system
or the operation of this system;
   (E)   Any liquid wastes in which the suspended solids exceed 600 milligrams
per liter;
   (F)   Any liquid wastes having a B.O.D. of more than 600 milligrams per
liter;
   (G)   Any waters or wastes having a stabilized pH lower than 6.0 or higher
than 9.0 or having other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard
to structures, equipment or personnel of the sewage treatment system;
   (H)   Any waters or wastes containing any toxic or poisonous substances or
any other materials (including, but not limited to, heavy metals or chemicals)
in sufficient quantities to interfere with the biological processes used in the
sewage treatment works or that will pass through the sewage treatment works and
harm persons, livestock or aquatic life utilizing the natural outlet;
   (I)   Any waters or wastes containing suspended solids of a character and
quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle those
materials at the sewage treatment plant;
   (J)   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a
public nuisance;
   (K)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded;
   (L)   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, bones,
feathers, tar, plastic, wood, paunch manure, butcher's offal or any other solid
or viscous substances capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or
other interference with the proper operation of the sewage collection system or
the sewage treatment works;
   (M)   Any materials that form excessive amounts of scum that may interfere
with the operation of the sewage treatment works or cause undue additional
labor in connection with its operation;
   (N)   Any liquid wastes containing dyes or other colors that cannot be
removed by biological processes or that require special chemical treatment;
   (O)   Any waters or wastes that require excessive quantities of chlorine for
stabilization in addition to biological treatment. The amount of excess demand
will be determined by comparing the chlorine demand of the waste in question
with the average chlorine demand of all other wastes entering the plant; or
   (P)   Any waters or wastes containing radioactive waters or wastes in
quantities that may prove injurious to the treatment process or any portion of
the sewage treatment system or to persons, animals or plant life.
(1981 Code, § 14-78) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.108 WAIVER OF DISCHARGE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   A major purpose of this subchapter is to provide for the treatment by
the town of as much of the liquid waste produced within the town's service area
as possible, while still protecting the town's sewage treatment system.
Therefore, the Town Manager may waive the provisions of §
50.107 when, in his or her judgment, the quantity of waste discharged by any
person is so small in relation to overall flow into the town's sewage treatment
system as to make the offending characteristics of the waste negligible.
   (B)   A waiver granted in accordance with division (A) above shall be
considered a temporary measure and shall not ripen into a vested right. Waivers
may be revoked by the Manager at any time when he or she determines it is in
the interest of the town's sewage treatment system to do so.
(1981 Code, § 14-79)
§ 50.109 SPECIAL AGREEMENTS.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of §
50.107 above, the town may enter into special agreement with any person whereby
wastes of unusual strength or character may be admitted into the sanitary
sewers for treatment by the town, either before or after approved pretreatment
or prehandling, and subject to appropriate payments to the town to cover the
extra costs associated with treatment of the wastes.
(1981 Code, § 14-80)
§ 50.110 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR DISCHARGE OF INDUSTRIAL WASTES.
   (A)   Subject to division (B) below, no person may discharge industrial
wastes into the town's sewage treatment system without a permit issued by the
Administrator.
   (B)   Persons discharging industrial wastes into the town's sewage treatment
system on the effective date of this section shall have a grace period of 3
months to comply with the provisions of division (A) above, and shall
thereafter be bound by its requirements.
   (C)   Application for the permit specified in division (A) above shall be
made to the Administrator, and the applicant shall provide whatever information
is reasonably required by the Administrator. The permit shall be issued if the
Administrator concludes that the applicant will comply with all of the
requirements of this subchapter.
   (D)   The permit requirement set forth in this section for industrial waste
discharge is in addition to any other provisions of this chapter relating to
applications for service, connections or extensions to the town's sewer system.
   (E)   After the initial permit is granted, no person may make or cause to be
made any substantial change in the nature, character or volume of industrial
wastes discharged into the town's sanitary sewer system until a permit is
issued by the Administrator authorizing the change. The permit shall be applied
for and issued in the same manner as the initial permit under this section.
(1981 Code, § 14-81) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.111 PRELIMINARY TREATMENT FACILITIES.
   (A)   To equalize flows and to avoid temporary overloads, any person who
discharges into the town's sanitary sewer system waste having a volume in
excess of 50,000 gallons in any 24-hour period may be required by the town to
construct suitable storage tanks or equivalent devices according to town
specifications relating to type of construction, storey capacity and similar
batters. The control of the volume of discharges of waste shall be by a
waterworks type rate controller or equivalent device, the setting and
operations of which shall be subject to the reasonable direction of the
Administrator.
   (B)   Whenever the total volume of wastes to be discharged by any person in
any one day has considerable variation in pollutional value, the person may be
required to construct holding or storage tanks in order to control the
discharge of wastes over a 24-hour period. Tanks shall be in duplicate and be
so equipped as to mix the waste so thoroughly that its quality will be uniform
when discharged into the sanitary sewer system.
   (C)   (1)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when in the
opinion of the Administrator they are necessary for the proper handling and
control of liquid wastes containing grease, oil or sand in excessive amounts.
Interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters or dwelling
units, but may be required for industrial or commercial establishments, public
eating places, hotels, hospitals or other institutions.
      (2)   Interceptors shall be located as to be readily accessible for
cleaning and inspection and shall be maintained by the owner at his or her
expense in continuously efficient operation at all times.
   (D)   Plans, specifications and other pertinent information relating to
proposed preliminary treatment or handling facilities, including the
construction of stodge tanks, inspection or control manholes, and controlling
devices as required under this section, shall be submitted to the Administrator
for approval, and no construction of the facilities shall be commenced until
approval is obtained in writing.
   (E)   Where preliminary treatment or handling facilities are provided for
any purpose, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and
effective operation by the owner at his or her own expense.
(1981 Code, § 14-82)
§ 50.112 INSPECTION MANHOLE.
   (A)   Any person discharging industrial wastes into the town's sanitary
sewer system may be required to construct and maintain a suitable inspection or
control manhole either downstream from any treatment or storage facility or, if
the facilities are not required, at or before the point where the wastes enter
the sanitary sewer.
   (B)   The manhole shall be located and constructed in a manner approved by
the Administrator and shall contain the equipment determined by the
Administrator to be necessary for proper sampling and control of waste
discharges.
(1981 Code, § 14-83) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.113 DETERMINATION OF CHARACTER AND CONCENTRATION OF WASTES.
   (A)   Industrial waste discharged into the town's sanitary sewer system
shall be subject to periodic inspection to determine the character and
concentration of waste, and the Administrator shall conduct inspections as
often as deemed reasonably necessary to ensure compliance with the provisions
of this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   By making application for sanitary sewer service the industrial
waste customer agrees that duly authorized and identified town employees shall
be permitted to enter the premises under the customer's control to carry out
the inspections required in division (A) above.
      (2)   Whenever feasible, the town shall notify the customer before
carrying out inspections.
   (C)   Inspections made pursuant to division (A) above do not relieve the
person discharging wastes into the sanitary sewer system of responsibility for
any loss, damage or penalty resulting from the discharge of wastes into the
sanitary sewer system.
   (D)   (1)   Samples taken as part of the inspections authorized by this
section shall be collected in a manner so as to be representative of the actual
quality of the waste.
      (2)   Laboratory methods used in the examination of waste shall be those
set forth in Standard Methods, as hereinbefore described, a copy of which is on
file at the office of the Administrator for inspection by interested parties.
(1981 Code, § 14-84)
§ 50.114 AUTHORITY FOR TEMPORARY EXCLUSION.
   Authority is hereby given to the Administrator to exclude temporarily any
industrial waste, whether pretreated or not, from the sanitary sewers whenever
in his or her opinion the action is necessary for the purpose of determining
the effects of the wastes upon any part of the sewage treatment system.
(1981 Code, § 14-85)
§ 50.115 CHARGES FOR INDUSTRIAL WASTES.
   (A)   Customers discharging industrial wastes into the town's sanitary sewer
system shall be subject to surcharges that reflect the additional treatment
demands of industrial wastes. Therefore, the amount of an industrial waste
customer's bill depends upon the character and concentration of the wastes
discharged as well as the quantity. Charges will be in accordance with the
schedule of rates set forth in §
50.005.
   (B)   The volume of flow used in determining the total discharge of
industrial wastes shall be based upon metered water consumption as shown in the
records of meter readings maintained by the Administrator.
   (C)   In the event that a person discharging wastes into the sanitary sewers
produces evidence satisfactory to the Administrator that more than 10% of the
total volume of water used for all purposes does not reach the sanitary sewers,
then the Administrator and the customer may agree to use an estimated
percentage of total water consumption as a basis for calculation of sewer use
charges.
   (D)   Where a person discharging industrial wastes into the public sewers
procures all or any part of his or her water supply from sources other than the
town, the person so discharging the waste shall install and maintain at his or
her own expense water meters of a type approved by the Administrator for the
purpose of determining the proper volume of industrial waste discharged to the
sewers.
(1981 Code, § 14-86)
§ 50.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   As provided in §§
50.030 through
50.036 above, termination of service is a remedy available to the town to
enforce any of the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   A violation of any of the following sections shall constitute a
misdemeanor, punishable as provided in G.S. § 14-4: §§
50.012,
50.035(A) and (B),
50.050,
50.051,
50.106,
50.107,
50.110,
50.111,
50.112.
   (D)   (1)   A violation of any of the sections listed in division (C) above
other than §
50.107 shall subject the offender to a civil penalty of $25.
      (2)   A violation of any of the provisions of §
50.107 shall subject the offender to a civil penalty of $200.
      (3)   If a person fails to pay this penalty within 10 days after being
cited for a violation, the town may seek to recover the penalty by filing a
civil action in the nature of debt.
   (E)   The town may seek to enforce any of the provisions of this chapter
through any appropriate equitable action.
   (F)   Each day that a violation continues after the offender has been
notified of the violation shall constitute a separate offense.
   (G)   If a violation of any of the provisions of this chapter results in a
danger to the public health or safety, the town may abate a nuisance through
the procedures set forth in §
91.15(B) through (E).
   (H)   The town may seek to enforce this chapter by using any one or any
combination of the foregoing remedies.
(1981 Code, § 14-2)
CHAPTER 51: ENFORCEMENT RESPONSE PLAN
Section>
   
51.01   Introduction
   
51.02   Enforcement actions available to the town
   
51.03   Investigation of noncompliance
   
51.04   Types of violation
   
51.05   Responses; time frames, responsible officials and escalated actions
   
51.06   Enforcement chart
§ 51.01 INTRODUCTION.
   (A)   It is the responsibility of the Town of Liberty (WQ0003090) to enforce
all applicable federal, state and local pretreatment regulations. These
regulations are outlined in 40 C.F.R. pt. 403 and state regulation 15A NCAC
2H.0900 and Chapter
53 below. This Enforcement Response Plan (ERP) has been established as an
element of the POTW’s pretreatment program.
   (B)   The purpose of the ERP is to provide for fair, equitable and
consistent treatment of all users for anticipated enforcement situations. In
general, enforcement actions will be taken in accordance with this Enforcement
Response Plan; however, the enforcement actions available are not exclusive as
discussed in §
53.59(C). Therefore, any combination of enforcement actions can be taken
against a non-compliant user.
(Ord. passed 9-26-2005)
§ 51.02 ENFORCEMENT ACTIONS AVAILABLE TO THE TOWN.
   (A)   The Director of the POTW is empowered through G.S. § 143-215.6A and
Chapter
53 to take a wide variety of enforcement actions.
   (B)   The following is a list of those actions and the corresponding section
of Chapter
53 that describes each.
Action Chapter 53 Section
Action                 Chapter 53 Section
Notice of violation    53.59(A)(1)
Consent orders         53.59(B)
Show cause hearing     53.59(C)
Administrative orders  53.59(D)
Emergency suspensions  53.59(E)
Termination of permit  53.59(F)
Civil penalties        53.59(G)
Injunctive relief      53.59(G)
Water supply severance 53.59(G)
 
   (C)   In addition to the actions listed above, a user who violates the
provisions of G.S. § 143-215.6B may be referred by the Director to the District
Attorney for possible criminal prosecution.
   (D)   In determining the amount of civil penalties for a particular
violation the Director shall consider the following factors from §
53.99:
      (1)   The degree and extent of the harm to the natural resources, to the
public health, or to public or private property resulting from the violation;
      (2)   The duration and gravity of the violation;
      (3)   The effect on ground or surface water quantity or quality or on air
quality;
      (4)   The cost of rectifying the damage;
      (5)   The amount of money saved by non-compliance;
      (6)   Whether the violation was committed willfully or intentionally;
      (7)   The prior record of the violator in complying or failing to comply;
and
      (8)   The costs of enforcement to the POTW.
   (E)   Adjudicatory hearing procedures regarding permit decisions, civil
penalties and administrative orders may be found in §
53.30(H).
(Ord. passed 9-26-2005)
§ 51.03 INVESTIGATION OF NONCOMPLIANCE.
   (A)   The staff of the POTW will generally investigate user compliance with
permits or the provisions of Chapter
53 in 3 ways:
      (1)   On-site inspections of the user to include scheduled and
unscheduled visits;
      (2)   Scheduled and unscheduled sampling of the users effluent; and
      (3)   Review of self-monitoring data, if required, from the user.
   (B)   The compliance status of significant industrial users (SIU) will be
evaluated at a minimum once every 6 months.
(Ord. passed 9-26-2005)
§ 51.04 TYPES OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   The following is a list of different types of violations, by category.
This list is not all inclusive, but serves as a general list of anticipated
types of noncompliance.
   (B)   The user's permit, Chapter
53 and state and federal regulations serve as additional references for
pretreatment requirements.
      (1)   Unpermitted discharges. Users are responsible for obtaining and
renewing permits, if required.
      (2)   Permit limits. Users are responsible for maintaining compliance
with all effluent limits. The POTW will evaluate the extent of the limits
violation(s). In determining the extent of violation(s), significant non-
compliance (SNC) as defined by state and EPA regulations will be determined.
      (3)   Self-monitoring violations. A user who fails to adequately conduct
all the monitoring required in the permit, including monitoring frequencies and
sampling methods specified, is in violation. This includes a user who does not
resample per their permit when a limit violation occurs.
      (4)   Reporting violations. A user who fails to provide information;
e.g., self-monitoring reports required in their permit or Chapter
53 in the required time-frame is in violation. Late or incomplete reports will
also be considered violations. A SIU who submits a report more than 30 days
late is considered in SNC.
      (5)   Permit conditions. Failure to apply or reapply for a permit is
considered a violation. Users who violate the general or other conditions;
e.g., slug loading, dilution prohibition outlined in their permits or Chapter
53 shall be considered to be in violation.
      (6)   Enforcement orders. Failure to meet the requirements of an order;
e.g., interim limits, milestone dates, whether the order was entered into
voluntarily or mandated by the POTW, shall be considered a violation. Missing a
scheduled compliance milestone by more than 90 days is considered SNC.
(Ord. passed 9-26-2005)
§ 51.05 RESPONSES; TIME FRAMES, RESPONSIBLE OFFICIALS AND ESCALATED ACTIONS.
   (A)   The attached Town of Liberty Enforcement Chart further outlines types
of violations and specifies POTW actions (initial and escalated), time frames
and the officials responsible for completing the actions. This chart shall be
considered a part of the Enforcement Response Plan.
   (B)   Responses to violations affecting the operation of the POTW, resulting
in POTW NPDES violations, or resulting in environmental harm or endangerment to
human health will be taken immediately or as soon as possible following
discovery.
   (C)   A user may be sent a notice of violation (NOV) or notice of
noncompliance (NNC) for each individual violation. Alternatively, the
violations may be summarized over a period of time not to exceed 6 months. In
general, NOVs in response to violations of permit limits will be taken within
30 days of discovery of the violations. Users found to be in SNC for 2
consecutive 6-month periods will be issued an enforceable order to return to
compliance. In all cases, escalated or continuing enforcement action will be
taken against users who do not return to compliance in a timely manner.
   (D)   Cases of falsifying reports, tampering with monitoring or sampling
equipment or otherwise preventing the collection of representative data may be
referred to the District Attorney for possible criminal investigation.
   (E)   Show cause hearings may be held at the Director's discretion prior to
taking enforcement actions.
(Ord. passed 9-26-2005)
§ 51.06 ENFORCEMENT CHART.
   (A)   Unpermitted discharges. The following are unpermitted discharges.
 
Type of                                 Responsible  Expected     Escalated
Violation    POTW Action  Time Frame    Official     Action From  Action if
                                                     User         Needed
Unpermitted Discharges
Unpermitted               Within 14                               Suspend
discharge;   Notice of    days of       Pretreatment File permit  service until
unaware of   violation    discovery of  Coordinator  application  permit is
requirement               discharge                               issued
Unpermitted  Notice of    Within 30                               Suspend
discharge;   violation;   days of       Director     File permit  service until
aware of     with penalty discovery of               application  permit is
requirement  assessed     discharge                               issued
             Order to
             cease
             process
             causing
             violation;
Unpermitted  notice of    Order to                   File permit
discharge;   violation    cease                      application; Suspend
results in   with         immediately;  Director     steps taken  service until
NPDES        recommended  notice of                  to avoid     permit issued
violation    minimum of   violation                  violation
             $1,000 and   within 7 days
             up to
             $25,000 per
             dy per
             violation
             penalty
             Suspend
             service;
             notice of
             violation    Suspend                    File permit
Unpermitted  with         service                    application;
discharge;   recommended  immediately;               steps taken
results in   minimum      notice of     Director     to avoid     -
endangerment $1,000 and   violation                  future
             up to        within 7 days              endangerment
             $25,000 per
             day per
             violation
             penalty
 
   (B)   Permit limits, violations. The following are permit limits and
violations.
 
Type of                                Responsible  Expected      Escalated
Violation    POTW Action  Time Frame   Official     Action from   Action if
                                                    User          Needed
Permit Limits; Violations
             Notice of    Within 14
             non-         days of                   Conduct
             compliance   receiving                 additional    Notice of
Single       or notice of data (Once   Pretreatment monitoring    violation
event; minor violation    in each 6-   Coordinator  and return to with penalty
             with $0 to   month                     compliance
             $25,000      period)
             penalty
                          Within 14
Technical    Notice of    days of                   Conduct       Second notice
review       violation    receiving    Pretreatment additional    of violation
criteria     with $0 to   data (Once   Coordinator  monitoring    with
(TRC)        $25,000      in each 6-                and return to increased
             penalty      month                     compliance    penalty
                          period)
                                                    Report cause  Enforceable
             Notice of    Within 30                 of non-       schedule (AO)
Significant  violation    days of      Pretreatment compliance    if not
non-         with $0 to   receiving    Coordinator  and steps     resolved by
compliance   $25,000      data                      taken to      the end of
             penalty                                prevent       second 6-
                                                    violation     month period
             Order to
             cease        Order to
             process      cease                                   Suspend
             causing      immediately;                            service until
             violation;   notice of                 Report cause  resolved;
             notice of    violation                 of non-       enforceable
Violation    violation    within 7                  compliance    schedule (AO)
causes NPDES with         days of      Director     and steps     if not
violation    recommended  discovering               taken to      resolved by
             minimum      violation                 prevent       the end of
             $1,000 and   (Once in                  violation     second 6-
             up to        each 6-month                            month period
             $25,000 per  period)
             day per
             violation
             Suspend
             service;
             notice of
             violation    Suspend
             with a       service
Violation    recommended  immediately;              File for re-
causes       minimum      notice of    Director     issuance of   -
endangerment $1,000 and   violation                 permit
             up to        within 7
             $25,000 per  days
             day per
             violation
             penalty
 
   (C)   Other violations. The following is a list of other violations.
Type of   POTW Action Time Frame Responsible Expected Action Escalated Action
Violation                        Official    From User       if Needed
Other Violations
Type of                                  Responsible  Expected     Escalated
Violation      POTW Action  Time Frame   Official     Action From  Action if
                                                      User         Needed
Other Violations
               Notice of
               violation                                           Second
               with a       Within 14                              notice of
               recommended  days of                                violation
Self           minimum      discovering  Pretreatment Conduct      with penalty
monitoring     penalty      (Once in     Coordinator  missed       equal to
violations     equal or     each 6-month              sampling     twice cost
               greater than period)                                of missed
               cost of                                             testing
               missed
               testing
                            Within 14                              Notice of
                            days of the                            violation;
Reporting      Notice of    report due   Pretreatment Submit       penalty
violations;    non-         date (Once   Coordinator  report       assessed;
late report    compliance   in each 6-                             possible SNC
                            month period                           if over 30
                                                                   days
                            Within 30
Reporting                   days of                                Notice of
violations;    Notice of    report       Pretreatment Submit       violation;
incomplete or  non-         submission   Coordinator  revised      penalty
inaccurate     compliance   (Once in                  report       assessed
reports                     each 6-month
                            period
Reporting      Referred to
violations;    District     As soon as   Director     -            -
intentional    Attorney     expected
falsification
               Notice of    Within 30                              Second
               violation    days of                                notice of
Violation of   with penalty discovery    Pretreatment              violation
permit         up to        (Once in     Coordinator  Varies       with
conditions     $25,000 per  each 6-month or Director               increased
               day per      period                                 penalty
               violation
               Suspend
               service;     Suspend
Violation of   notice of    service
permit         violation    immediately;              Steps taken
conditions     with up to   notice of    Director     to avoid     -
(endangerment) $25,000 per  violation                 reoccurrence
               day per      within 7
               violation    days
               penalty
               Notice of    Within time
               violation;   frame listed                           Same as
Violations of  assess       in                        Additional   escalated
enforcement    stipulated   enforcement  Pretreatment monitoring   action for
order;         penalty and  order or for Coordinator  and steps    same type of
conditions or  actions      the same     or Director  taken to     violation;
limits         listed for   type of                   avoid        possible
               same         violation in              recurrence   revocation
               violation    ERP                                    of order
               type in ERP
Failure to
meet a         Notice of
milestone date violation    Within 14                 Submit a
in an          and assess   days of      Pretreatment schedule to  Show cause
enforcement    penalty      discovery    Coordinator  complete the hearing
order (Does    stipulated                             requirement
not affect     in order
other dates)
Failure to
meet a         Show cause                             Negotiate
milestone date hearing and  Within 30                 new order    Possible
in an          assess       days of      Director     and abide by termination
enforcement    stipulated   discovery                 new          of service
order (Affects penalties                              conditions
other dates)
Failure to     Notice of
meet final     violation    Within 14                 Document     Possible
compliance     and assess   days         Director     compliance   termination
date           stipulated                                          of service
               penalties
 
(Ord. passed 9-26-2005)
CHAPTER 52: WATER SHORTAGE RESPONSE
Section
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Purpose
   
52.03   Water shortage
   
52.04   Declaration of voluntary conservation
   
52.05   Mandatory conservation
   
52.06   Water shortage emergency
   
52.07   Rationing
   
52.08   Water use classes
   
52.09   Metered residential water customers and allotments
   
52.10   Excess use; monies collected
   
52.11   Enforcement
   
52.12   Public comment
   
52.13   Variance protocols
   
52.14   Effectiveness
   
52.15   Revision
 
   
52.99   Penalty
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLOTMENT. The maximum quantity of water allowed for each customer over any
applicable period as established in the water rationing provisions of this
chapter.
   BRACKISH WATER. Water containing more than 1,000 parts per million as
dissolved salts.
   CUSTOMER. Any person using water for any purpose from the municipality’s
water distribution system and for which either a regular charge is made or in
this case the bulk sales, a cash charge is made at the site of delivery.
   EMERGENCY. That water supplies are below the level necessary to meet normal
needs and that serious shortages exist in the area.
   EXCESS USE. The usage of water by a water customer in excess of the water
allotment provided under the water rationing provisions of this chapter for
that customer, over any applicable period.
   FRESH WATER. Water withdrawn from surface or groundwater which has not been
previously used, other than brackish water.
   MANDATORY CONSERVATION. That raw water supplies (i.e., streamflow, reservoir
levels or ground water levels) are consistently below seasonal averages, and if
they continue to decline, may not be adequate to meet normal needs.
   NON-RESIDENTIAL CUSTOMERS. Commercial, industrial, institutional, public and
all other users, with the exception of hospitals and health care facilities.
   RATIONING. Procedures established to provide for the equitable distribution
of critically-limited water supplies, in order to balance demand and limited
available supplies, and to assure that sufficient water is available to
preserve public health and safety.
(Ord. passed 4-26-1999)
§ 52.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for declaration of official phases
of water supply shortage and the implementation of voluntary and mandatory
water conservation measures throughout the Town of Liberty in the event a
shortage is declared.
(Ord. passed 4-26-1999)
§ 52.03 WATER SHORTAGE.
   A water shortage shall be deemed to exist when the reserve supply shall have
reached a point where it has been so reduced that the water system users cannot
be supplied with water to protect their health and safety without curtailing
substantially the demand for water or:
   (A)   The water source shows a 20% reduction in each of 3 or more high
production yield wells (100 to 130 GPM) after a 6-hour pumping cycle;
   (B)   When the water drawn down activates the automatic low water cut off
once during a scheduled 6 hours of pumping operation;
   (C)   When well water level recovery time to normal static level is longer
than 12 hours;
   (D)   Un-located usage source of water causing insufficient water storage;
   (E)   Act of nature destruction of water storage; or
   (F)   Loss of power source more than 48 hours.
   (G)   Notification.
      (1)   The following notification methods will be used to inform water
system employees and customers of a water shortage declaration: employee e-mail
announcements, notices at municipal buildings, notices in water bills, and on
the town website homepage.
      (2)   Required water shortage response measures will be communicated
through the Asheboro Courier-Tribune, The Liberty Leader, notices at municipal
buildings, and on the town website.
   (H)   Trigger authority. The Town Manager or any agent assigned has the
authority and he/she will declare when triggers are met for the following
stages: voluntary conservation, mandatory conservation, water shortage
emergency, and rationing.
   (I)   Reverse triggers. Once a trigger has been declared, it will only be
rescinded when the Town Manager can certify that the static water levels at
pump intake has recovered to the next lesser stage. (Example: to rescind
mandatory conservation, static levels would have to recover to the voluntary
conservation level.)
(Ord. passed 4-26-1999; Am. Ord. passed 3-22-2010)
§ 52.04 DECLARATION OF VOLUNTARY CONSERVATION.
   (A)   Voluntary conservation shall be declared when there is a 20% reduction
in seasonal normal distance from static water levels and pump intake.
   (B)   In addition, the Mayor or Town Manager or any agent assigned by them
is authorized to call upon all water customers to employ voluntary water
conservation measurers. This resolution shall be published in a newspaper or
general circulation in the area, which qualifies under G.S. § 1-597.
(Ord. passed 4-26-1999; Am. Ord. passed 3-22-2010)
§ 52.05 MANDATORY CONSERVATION.
   (A)   Whenever it is found that the Town of Liberty water supply is below
seasonal averages and are continuing to decline and may not be adequate to meet
normal needs, the same measurers defined under the voluntary conservation
declaration and further shall impose a ban on all Class 3 water uses for the
duration of the shortage until it is declared ended by the governing board.
Mandatory Conservation shall be declared when there is a 40% reduction from
static water levels and pump intake.
   (B)   Publication of these ordinances shall be the same as in §
52.04 above.
(Ord. passed 4-26-1999; Am. Ord. passed 3-22-2010)
§ 52.06 WATER SHORTAGE EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Whenever it is found that the Town of Liberty water supplies are below
the level necessary to meet normal needs and that serious shortage exist; it
shall be empowered to declare by this chapter that a water shortage emergency
exists. A water shortage emergency shall be declared when there is a 70%
reduction from static water levels and pump intake.
   (B)   Class 1, essential uses shall be identified, in specific, as targets
for voluntary conservation initiatives. Also Class 2 socially or economically
important uses shall be banned in addition to the Class 3 nonessential uses.
   (C)   These restrictions shall continue until the emergency is declared
ended by the governing body. Publication of these ordinances shall follow the
provisions in §
52.04 above.
(Ord. passed 4-26-1999; Am. Ord. passed 3-22-2010)
§ 52.07 RATIONING.
   Whenever the Town Council has declared a water shortage emergency and finds
a need to provide an equitable distribution of critically limited water supply
to preserve public health and safety for the Town of Liberty water customers.
It shall be empowered to provide for mandatory rationing by this chapter.
Rationing shall be declared when the water level is at pump intake elevation.
(Ord. passed 4-26-1999; Am. Ord. passed 3-22-2010)
§ 52.08 WATER USE CLASSES.
   (A)   Class 1: essential water uses:
      (1)   Domestic use: water necessary to sustain human life and the lives
of domestic pets and to maintain minimum standards of hygiene and sanitation;
      (2)   Health care facilities: patient care and rehabilitation, including
swimming pools used for patient care and rehabilitation;
      (3)   Public use: fire hydrants used for fire fighting and certain
testing and drills, if performed in the interest of public safety and approved
by the Town Manager; and
      (4)   Flushing of sewers as needed to ensure public health and safety if
approved by the Town Manager.
   (B)   Class 2: socially or economically important use of water:
      (1)   All domestic use other than those included in Classes 1 and 3;
      (2)   Home water use including kitchen, bathroom and laundry use;
      (3)   Minimal watering of vegetable gardens and watering of trees when
necessary to preserve them;
      (4)   Filling and operation of swimming pools;
      (5)   Commercial car and truck washes;
      (6)   Commercial laundromats;
      (7)   Restaurants, clubs and eating places; and
      (8)   Schools, churches, motels, hotels and similar commercial
establishments.
   (C)   Class 3: non-essential use of water:
      (1)   Ornamental purposes: fountains, reflecting pools and artificial
waterfalls, outdoor non-commercial watering (public or private), gardens,
lawns, parks, golf courses, (except greens), playing fields and other
recreational areas;
      (2)   Filling and operation of recreational swimming pools which serve
fewer than 25 dwellings or 75 people;
      (3)   Non-commercial washing of motor vehicles;
      (4)   Serving water in restaurants, clubs or eating places, except by
specific request; and
      (5)   Air-conditioning: refilling cooling towers after draining, except
as specified in Class 1.
(Ord. passed 4-26-1999)
§ 52.09 METERED RESIDENTIAL WATER CUSTOMERS AND ALLOTMENTS.
   (A)   The number of permanent residents in each dwelling unit (household)
will determine the amount of water that each household will be allowed.
   (B)   Each dwelling unit (household) shall be allotted 40 gallons per day
for each resident of the household. Households with only 1 permanent resident
will have a daily allotment of 55 gallons.
   (C)   (1)   Residential water customers are required to provide municipality
and utility personnel with a reasonable access to read meters as necessary to
this rationing declaration.
      (2)   Where access is not readily available, all reasonable efforts to
contact customers in order to arrange for access to read meters shall be made.
In the event a water customer does not allow entry to read the meter after
reasonable efforts to arrange for access, the dwelling unit (household)
allotment will be reduced to 55 gallons per day.
   (D)   (1)   If it is found that the residential water allotment provided
under this section would create an extraordinary hardship for individual
customers, as in the case of special health-related requirements, a revised
allotment for the particular customer may be established.
      (2)   Any person aggrieved by a decision relating to a like exemption or
variance may file a complaint with the Town Manager (or Clerk) in accordance
with the town's normal administrative procedures.
(Ord. passed 4-26-1999)
§ 52.10 EXCESS USE; MONIES COLLECTED.
   (A)   Excess use civil penalties will be collected based on the amount by
which a customer's use exceeds the water allotments established pursuant to the
local water rationing declaration, computed in accordance with the following
schedule.
 
Excess Usage per Month                  Civil Penalty for Excess
First 2,000 gallons or portion thereof  $7 per 1,000 gallons or portion thereof
Each 1,000 gallons, or portion thereof, $15
thereafter
 
   (B)   Any monies collected through excess-use civil penalties shall not be
accounted for as income, but shall be placed in a reserve account that is
dedicated to addressing water shortage problems and water conservation
initiatives.
   (C)   In addition to the excess-use civil penalty, non-compliance with the
water rationing provisions of this chapter will result in the following:
      (1)   For the first excess use, a warning of possible discontinuation
shall be issued to the customer; and
      (2)   For the second or subsequent excess use, service to the customer
may be interrupted or shut off for a period not to exceed 40 hours or a flow
restrictor may be installed in the customer's service line for the duration of
the emergency. The cost incurred to interrupt or shut off or reinstate service,
or to install and remove a flow restrictor, shall be assessed to the water
customer. Before service to an individual may be terminated under this
provision, actual notice of the intent to discontinue shall be given, which
shall include notice that the customer may appear at a designated time and
place (within 24 hours) for an informal hearing to show why service should not
be discontinued.
   (D)   Meter reading schedules are authorized to assure adequate monitoring
of compliance.
   (E)   Any customer or other person aggrieved by a decision or action
imposing an excess-use civil penalty or other remedy for non-compliance with
the requirements of this chapter may proceed in accordance with the following
provisions:
      (1)   The municipality shall adopt procedures which provide an
opportunity for the customer or aggrieved party to rebut the finding of a
violation, or provide evidence of circumstances beyond the customer's control
which resulted in the violation; and
      (2)   A record of evidence regarding disputed violations shall be kept
and a written notice of the town's final decision and action in those cases
shall be provided to the customer or aggrieved party.
   (F)   Shortage water rates upon the declaration of a water supply shortage,
the Town Council shall have the power to adopt shortage water rates by
ordinance designed to conserve water supplies. Rates may provide for, but not
be limited to:
      (1)   Higher charges per unit for increasing usage (increasing block
rates);
      (2)   Uniform charges for water usage per unit of use (uniform unit
rate);
      (3)   Extra charges for use in excess of a specified level (excess demand
surcharge); or
      (4)   Discounts for conserving water beyond specified levels.
   (G)   Regulations during the effective period of any water supply shortage,
the Town Council is empowered to promulgate by ordinance the provisions and
requirements as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this chapter,
any water supply shortage declaration ordinance, or water shortage rate
ordinance. The ordinances may be adopted at a special or emergency meeting of
the governing body, if statutory requirements are met.
(Ord. passed 4-26-1999)
§ 52.11 ENFORCEMENT.
   The provisions of the water shortage response plan will be enforced by town
Public Works Department and police personnel. Violators may be reported to the
town’s website (www.Liberty-NC.com). Citations are assessed according to the
penalties outlined in §
52.99.
(Ord. passed 3-22-2010)
§ 52.12 PUBLIC COMMENT.
   Customers will have multiple opportunities to comment on the provisions of
the water shortage response plan. First, a draft plan will be published in The
Asheboro Courier and on the town website. A public hearing will be scheduled
with notice printed in all customer water bills to collect comments on the
draft. All subsequent revisions to the draft plan will be published at least 30
days prior to an adoption vote by the Town Council.
(Ord. passed 3-22-2010)
§ 52.13 VARIANCE PROTOCOLS.
   Applications for water use variance requests are available from the town
website and Town Hall office. All applications must be submitted to the Town
Hall for review by the Town Manager or his or her designee. A decision to
approve or deny individual variance requests will be determined within 4 weeks
of submittal after careful consideration of the following criteria: impact on
water demand, expected duration, alternative source options, social and
economic importance, purpose (i.e., necessary use of drinking water) and the
prevention of structural damage.
(Ord. passed 3-22-2010)
§ 52.14 EFFECTIVENESS.
   The effectiveness of the town water shortage response plan will be
determined by comparing the stated water conservation goals with observed water
use reduction data. Other factors to be considered include frequency of plan
activation, any problem periods without activation, total number of violation
citations, desired reductions attained, and evaluation of demand reductions
compared to the previous year’s seasonal data.
(Ord. passed 3-22-2010)
§ 52.15 REVISION.
   The water shortage response plan will be reviewed and revised as needed to
adapt to new circumstances affecting water supply and demand, following
implementation of emergency restrictions, and at a minimum of every 5 years in
conjunction with the updating of the local water supply plan. Further, a water
shortage response planning work group will review procedures following each
emergency or rationing stage to recommend any necessary improvements to the
plan to the Town Council. The Town Manager is responsible for initiating all
subsequent revisions.
(Ord. passed 3-22-2010)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter, who fails to carry
out the duties and responsibilities imposed by this chapter or who impedes or
interferes with any action undertaken or ordered pursuant to this chapter shall
be subject to the following penalties.
   (A)   If the Mayor, Manager, Water Superintendent or other town official or
officials charged with implementation and enforcements of this chapter, or a
water supply shortage resolution, learns of any violation of any water use
restriction imposed pursuant to this chapter, a written notice of the violation
shall be affixed to the property where the violation occurred and mailed to the
customer of record and to any other person known to the town who is responsible
for the violation or its correction.
   (B)   The notice shall describe the violation and order that it be
corrected, cured or abated immediately or within the specified time as the town
determines is reasonable under the circumstances. If the order is not complied
with, the town may terminate water service to the customer subject to the
following procedures:
      (1)   The town shall give the customer notice by mail that, due to the
violation, water services will be discontinued within a specified time and that
the customer shall have the opportunity to appeal the termination by requesting
a hearing scheduled before the Town Council or an official designated as a
hearing officer by the Council;
      (2)   If a hearing is requested by the customer charged with the
violation, he or she shall be given a full opportunity to be heard before
termination is ordered; and
      (3)   The Town Council or hearing officer shall make findings of fact and
order whether service should continue or be terminated.
   (C)   A fee of $50 shall be paid for the reconnection of any water service
terminated pursuant to divisions (A) and (B) above. In the event of subsequent
violation the reconnection fee shall be $200 for the second violation and $300
for each additional violation.
   (D)   Any customer may also be charged with violation of this chapter and
prosecuted in District Court. Any person so charged and found guilty of
violating the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Each
day's violation shall constitute a separate offense. The penalty for violation
shall be a maximum fine of $50 or imprisonment for not more than 30 days.
   (E)   In addition to, or in lieu of, criminal prosecution, violation of this
chapter may subject the offender to civil penalties in the amounts provided, or
otherwise in an amount of $25 per day, collectible in a civil action in the
nature of debt.
(Ord. passed 4-26-1999)
CHAPTER 53: SEWER USE
Section
General Provisions
   
53.01   Purpose and policy
   
53.02   Definitions and abbreviations
   
53.03   Prohibited discharge standards
   
53.04   National categorical pretreatment standards
   
53.05   Local limits
   
53.06   State requirements
   
53.07   Right of revision
   
53.08   Dilution
   
53.09   Pretreatment of wastewater
   
53.10   Accidental discharge; slug control plans
   
53.11   Hauled wastewater
Fees; Wastewater Discharge Permit Application; Reporting Requirements
   
53.25   Purpose
   
53.26   User charges
   
53.27   Surcharges
   
53.28   Pretreatment program administration charges
   
53.29   Wastewater dischargers
   
53.30   Wastewater permits
   
53.31   Baseline monitoring reports
   
53.32   Compliance schedule progress reports
   
53.33   Reports on compliance with categorical pretreatment standard; deadline
   
53.34   Periodic compliance reports
   
53.35   Reports of changed conditions
   
53.36   Potential problems; reports
   
53.37   Reports from unpermitted users
   
53.38   Notice of violation; repeat sampling and reporting
   
53.39   Notification of the discharge of hazardous waste
   
53.40   Analytical requirements
   
53.41   Sample collection
   
53.42   Timing
   
53.43   Record keeping
Compliance Monitoring and Other Specific Provisions
   
53.55   Monitoring facilities
   
53.56   Inspection and sampling
   
53.57   Search warrants
   
53.58   Confidential information
   
53.59   Administrative remedies
   
53.60   Annual publication of significant noncompliance
   
53.61   Affirmative defenses to discharge violations
Fats, Oils, and Greases
   
53.75   Purpose
   
53.76   Definitions
   
53.77   General requirements
   
53.78   Exemptions
   
53.79   Maintenance
   
53.80   Recordkeeping
   
53.81   Removal
   
53.82   Enforcement
 
   
53.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.01 PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   (A)   This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for direct and indirect
contributors into the wastewater collection and treatment system for the Town
of Liberty, hereafter referred to as “the town,” and enables the town to comply
with all applicable state and federal laws, including the Clean Water Act (33
U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.) and the General Pretreatment Regulations (40 C.F.R.
403).
   (B)   The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipal
wastewater system which will interfere with the operation of the system or
contaminate the resulting sludge;
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipal
wastewater system which will pass through the system, inadequately treated,
into any waters of the state or otherwise be incompatible with the system;
      (3)   To promote reuse and recycling of industrial wastewater and sludges
from the municipal system;
      (4)   To protect both municipal personnel who may be affected by sewage,
sludge and effluent in the course of their employment as well as protecting the
general public;
      (5)   To provide for equitable distribution of the cost of operation,
maintenance and improvement of the municipal wastewater system; and
      (6)   To ensure that the municipality complies with its NPDES or non-
discharge permit conditions, sludge use and disposal requirements and any other
federal or state laws to which the municipal wastewater system is subject.
   (C)   This chapter provides for the regulation of direct and indirect
contributors to the municipal wastewater system, through the issuance of
permits to certain non-domestic users and through enforcement of general
requirements for the other users, authorizes monitoring and enforcement
activities, requires user reporting and provides for the setting of fees for
the equitable distribution of costs resulting from the program established
herein.
   (D)   (1)   This chapter shall apply to all users of the municipal
wastewater system, as authorized by G.S. §§ 160A-312 and/or 153A-275.
      (2)   The town shall designate an Administrator of the POTW (Publicly
Owned Treatment Works) and pretreatment program hereafter referred to as the
POTW Director.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided herein, the POTW Director shall
administer, implement and enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (F)   (1)   Any powers granted to or imposed upon the POTW Director may be
delegated by the POTW Director to other town personnel.
      (2)   By discharging wastewater into the municipal wastewater system,
industrial users located outside the town limits agree to comply with the terms
and conditions established in this chapter, as well as any permits, enforcement
actions or orders issued hereunder.
(Ord. – § 1.1, passed 9-26-2005)
§ 53.02 DEFINITIONS AND ABBREVIATIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACT or THE ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as
the CLEAN WATER ACT, as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
      APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The Director of the Division Of Water Quality of the
North Carolina Department of Environment and Natural Resources or his or her
designee.
      AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE INDUSTRIAL USER.
         (a)   If the industrial user is a corporation:
            1.   The president, secretary or a vice-president of the
corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who
performs similar policy or decision-making functions for the corporation; or
            2.   The manager of 1 or more manufacturing, production or
operation facilities employing more than 250 persons or having gross annual
sales or expenditures exceeding $25,000,000 (in second-quarter 1980 dollars),
if authority to sign documents has been assigned or delegated to the Manager in
accordance with corporate procedures.
         (b)   If the industrial user is a partnership or sole proprietorship,
an AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE shall mean a general partner or the proprietor,
respectively.
         (c)   If the industrial user is a federal, state or local government
facility, an AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE shall mean a director or highest
official appointed or designated to oversee the operation and performance of
the activities of the government facility, or their designee.
         (d)   The individuals described in divisions (a) through (c) above may
designate another AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE if the authorization is in writing,
the authorization specifies the individual or position responsible for the
overall operation of the facility from which the discharge originates or having
overall responsibility for environmental matters for the company, and the
written authorization is submitted to the town.
      BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures
for 5 days at 20° centigrade, usually expressed as a concentration (e.g. mg/l).
      BUILDING SEWER. A sewer conveying wastewater from the premises of a user
to the POTW.
      BYPASS. The intentional diversion of waste streams from any portion of a
user's treatment facility.
      CATEGORICAL STANDARDS. National Categorical Pretreatment Standards or
Pretreatment Standard.
      COLOR UNIT. Produced by 1 milligram per liter of platinum in the form of
the chloroplatinate ion. COLOR is expressed in UNITS of the platinum-cobalt
scale.
      DIRECTOR. The person designated by the town to supervise the operation of
the publicly owned treatment works and who is charged with certain duties and
responsibilities by this chapter, or his or her duly authorized representative.
      ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY or EPA. The United States Environmental
Protection Agency, or where appropriate the term may also be used as a
designation for the Administrator or other duly authorized official of the
agency.
      GRAB SAMPLE. A sample which is taken from a waste stream on a 1-time
basis without regard to the flow in the waste stream and over a period of time
not to exceed 15 minutes.
      HOLDING TANK WASTE. Any waste from holding tanks, including but not
limited to the holding tanks as vessels, chemical toilets, campers, trailers,
septic tanks and vacuum-pump tank trucks.
      INDIRECT DISCHARGE or DISCHARGE. The discharge or the introduction from
any nondomestic source regulated under § 307(b), (c) or (d) of the Act, (33 §
U.S.C. 1317), into the POTW (including holding tank waste discharged into the
system).
      INDUSTRIAL USER or USER. Any person which is a source of indirect
discharge.
      INTERFERENCE. The inhibition, or disruption of the POTW treatment
processes, operations or its sludge process, use or disposal, which causes or
contributes to a violation of any requirement of the POTW's NPDES or non-
discharge permit or prevents sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance with
specified applicable state and federal statutes, regulations or permits. The
term includes prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal by the POTW in
accordance with § 405 of the Act, (33 U.S.C. § 1345) or any criteria,
guidelines or regulations developed pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act
(SWDA)(42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.), the Clean Air Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 7401
et seq., the Toxic Substances Control Act, being 15U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq., the
Marine Protection Research and Sanctuary Act (MPRSA), being 16 U.S.C. §§ 1431
et seq. and 33 U.S.C. §§ 1401 et seq., or more stringent state criteria
(including those contained in any state sludge management plan prepared
pursuant to Title IV of SWDA, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6941 et seq.) applicable to
the method of disposal or use employed by the POTW.
      MEDICAL WASTE. Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and blood
products, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated bedding,
surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory wastes and dialysis
wastes.
      NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD or CATEGORICAL STANDARD. Any
regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by EPA in
accordance with § 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1317) which applies to
a specific category of industrial users, and which appears in 40 C.F.R. Ch. 1,
Subchapter N, Parts 405-471.
      NATIONAL POLLUTION DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM or NPDES PERMIT. A permit
issued pursuant to § 402 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1342), or pursuant to G.S. §
143-215.1 by the state under delegation from EPA.
      NATIONAL PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE STANDARD or PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE
STANDARD. Absolute prohibitions against the discharge of certain substances;
these prohibitions appear in §
53.03 below and are developed under the authority of § 307(b) of the Act and 40
C.F.R. § 403.5.
      NEW SOURCE.
         (a)   Any building, structure, facility or installation from which
there may be a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced
after the publication of proposed categorical pretreatment standards under §
307(c) of the Act which will be applicable to the source if the standards are
thereafter promulgated in accordance with § 307(c), provided that:
            1.   The building, structure, facility or installation is
constructed at a site at which no other source is located;
            2.   The building, structure, facility or installation totally
replaces the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of
pollutants at an existing source; or
            3.   The production or wastewater generating processes of the
building, structure, facility or installation are substantially independent of
an existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are
substantially independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility
is integrated with the existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility
is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source, should
be considered.
         (b)   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located
results in a modification rather than a NEW SOURCE if the construction does not
create a new building, structure, facility or installation meeting the criteria
of divisions (a)2. or 3. above but otherwise alters, replaces or adds to
existing process or production equipment.
         (c)   For purposes of this definition, construction of a NEW SOURCE
has commenced if the owner or operator has:
            1.   Begun, or caused to begin, as part of a continuous on-site
construction program:
               a.   Any placement, assembly or installation of facilities or
equipment; or
               b.   Significant site preparation work including clearing,
excavation or removal of existing buildings, structures or facilities which is
necessary for the placement, assembly or installation of new source facilities
or equipment.
            2.   Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase
of facilities or equipment which are intended to be used in its operation
within a reasonable time. Options to purchase or contracts which can be
terminated or modified without substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility,
engineering and design studies do not constitute a contractual obligation under
this definition.
      NON-CONTACT COOLING WATER. Water used for cooling which does not come
into direct contact with any raw material, intermediate product, waste product
or finished product.
      NON-DISCHARGE PERMIT. A disposal system permit issued by the state
pursuant to G.S. § 143-215.1.
      PASS THROUGH. A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the state
in quantities or concentrations which, alone or with discharges from other
sources, causes a violation, including an increase in the magnitude or duration
of a violation, of the POTW's NPDES or non-discharge permit, or a downstream
water quality standard.
      PERSON.
         (a)   Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental
entity or any other legal entity; or their legal representatives, agents or
assigns.
         (b)   This definition includes all federal, state and local government
entities.
      pH. A measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a substance, expressed as
standard units, and calculated as the logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of
the concentration of hydrogen ions expressed in grams per liter of solution.
      POLLUTANT. Any waste as defined in G.S. § 143-213(18) and dredged spoil,
solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions,
medical wastes, chemical wastes, biological materials, radioactive materials,
heat, wrecked or discarded equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt and industrial,
municipal and agricultural waste and certain characteristics of wastewater
(e.g., pH, temperature, TSS, turbidity, color, BOD, COD, toxicity or odor).
      POTW or PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS. A treatment works which is owned
by a state, municipality, city, town, special sewer district or other publicly
owned and financed entity as opposed to a privately (industrial) owned
treatment facility.
      POTW DIRECTOR. The Town Administrator designated with the responsibility
for the pretreatment program and enforcement of this chapter.
      POTW TREATMENT PLANT. That portion of the POTW designed to provide
treatment to wastewater.
      PRETREATMENT or TREATMENT.
         (a)   The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of
pollutants or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater prior to or in lieu of discharging or otherwise introducing
pollution into a POTW.
         (b)   The reduction or alteration can be obtained by physical,
chemical or biological processes, or process changes or other means, except by
diluting the concentration of the pollutants unless allowed by an applicable
PRETREATMENT standard.
      PRETREATMENT PROGRAM. The program for the control of pollutants
introduced into the POTW from non-domestic sources which was developed by the
town in compliance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.8 and approved by the approval
authority as authorized by G.S. § 143-215.3(a)(14) in accordance with 40 C.F.R.
§ 403.11.
      PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement
related to pretreatment, other than a pretreatment standard.
      PRETREATMENT STANDARDS. Prohibited discharge standards, categorical
standards and local limits.
      PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW) or MUNICIPAL WASTEWATER SYSTEM.  
         (a)   A treatment works as defined by § 212 of the Act, (33 U.S.C. §
1292) which is owned in this instance by the town.
         (b)   This includes any devices or systems used in the collection,
storage, treatment, recycling and reclamation of municipal sewage or industrial
wastes of a liquid nature.
         (c)   It also includes sewers, pipes and other conveyances only if
they convey wastewater to the POTW treatment plant.
         (d)   For the purposes of this chapter, POTW shall also include any
sewers that convey wastewaters to the POTW from persons outside the town who
are, by contract or agreement with the town, or in any other way, users of the
POTW of the town.
      SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE.
         (a)   Substantial physical damage to property, damage to the user's
treatment facilities which causes them to become inoperable, or substantial and
permanent loss of natural resources which can reasonably be expected to occur
in the absence of a bypass.
         (b)   SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE does not mean economic loss caused by
delays in production.
      SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER. Any industrial user of the wastewater
disposal system who:
         (a)   Has an average daily process wastewater flow of 25,000 gallons
or more;
         (b)   Contributes more than 5% of any design or treatment capacity
(i.e., allowable pollutant load) of the wastewater treatment plant receiving
the indirect discharge;
         (c)   Is required to meet a national categorical pretreatment
standard; or
         (d)   Is found by the town, the Division of Water Quality or the
United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to have the potential for
impact, either singly or in combination with other contributing industrial
users, on the wastewater treatment system, the quality of sludge, the system's
effluent quality or compliance with any pretreatment standards or requirements.
      SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE or REPORTABLE NONCOMPLIANCE. Status is as
follows:
         (a)   Violations of wastewater discharge limits:
            1.   Chronic violations: Sixty-six percent or more of the
measurements exceed (by any magnitude) the same daily maximum limit or the same
average limit in a 6-month period;
            2.   Technical review criteria (TRC) violations: Thirty-three
percent or more of the measurements equal or exceed the TRC times the limit
(maximum or average) in a 6-month period. There are 2 groups of TRCs: For the
conventional pollutants: BOD, TSS, fats, oil and grease TRC=1.4 For all other
pollutants TRC=1.2;
            3.   Any other violation(s) of an effluent limit (average or daily
maximum) that the control authority believes has caused, alone or in
combination with other discharges, interference or pass-through; or endangered
the health of the sewage treatment plant personnel or the public; and
            4.   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent
endangerment to human health/welfare or to the environment or has resulted in
the POTW's exercise of its emergency authority to halt or prevent a like
discharge.
         (b)   Violations of compliance schedule milestones, contained in a
pretreatment permit or enforcement order, for starting construction, completing
construction and attaining final compliance by 90 days or more after the
schedule date;
         (c)   Failure to provide reports for compliance schedule, self-
monitoring data, baseline monitoring reports, 90-day compliance reports and
periodic compliance reports within 30 days from the due date;
         (d)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; and
         (e)   Any other violation or group of violations that the control
authority considers to be significant.
      SLUG LOAD. Any discharge at a flow rate or concentration which could
cause a violation of the prohibited discharge standards in §
53.03 below.
      STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC). A classification pursuant to
the Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued by the Executive Office of
the President, Office of Management and Budget, 1987.
      STORM WATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation and resulting therefrom.
      SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The total suspended matter that floats on the surface
of, or is suspended in, water, wastewater or other liquids, and which is
removable by laboratory filtering.
      UPSET.
         (a)   An exceptional incident in which there is unintentional and
temporary noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards because of
factors beyond the reasonable control of the user.
         (b)   An UPSET does not include noncompliance to the extent caused by
operational error, improperly designed treatment facilities, inadequate
treatment facilities lack of preventive maintenance or careless or improper
operation.
      WASTEWATER. The liquid and water-carried industrial or domestic wastes
from dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities, mobile sources,
treatment facilities and institutions, together with any groundwater, surface
water and storm water that may be present, whether treated or untreated, which
are contributed into or permitted to enter the POTW.
      WASTEWATER PERMIT. As set forth in §
53.30 below.
      WATERS OF THE STATE. All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, watercourse,
waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation systems, drainage
systems and all other bodies or accumulations of water, surface or underground,
natural or artificial, public or private, which are contained within, flow
through or border upon the state or any portion thereof.
   (B)   Shall is mandatory; may is permissive or discretionary.
   (C)   The use of the singular shall be construed to include the plural and
the plural shall include the singular as indicated by the context of its use.
   (D)   The following abbreviations when used in this chapter, shall have the
designated meanings:
      BOD. Biochemical oxygen demand.
      C.F.R. Code of Federal Regulations.
      COD. Chemical oxygen demand.
      EPA. Environmental Protection Agency.
      gpd. Gallons per day.
      l. Liter.
      mg. Milligrams.
      mg/l. Milligrams per liter.
      G.S. North Carolina General Statutes.
      NPDES. National Pollution Discharge Elimination System.
      O and M. Operation and maintenance.
      POTW. Publicly Owned Treatment Works.
      RCRA. Resource Conservation and Recovery Act.
      SIC. Standard industrial classification.
      SWDA. Solid Waste Disposal Act.
      TSS. Total suspended solids.
      TKN. Total kjeldahl nitrogen.
      U.S.C.   United States Code.
(Ord. – § 1.2, passed 9-26-2005)
§ 53.03 PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS.
   (A)   General prohibitions.
      (1)   No user shall contribute or cause to be contributed into the POTW,
directly or indirectly, any pollutant or wastewater which causes interference
or pass through.
      (2)   These general prohibitions apply to all users of a POTW whether or
not the user is a significant industrial user or subject to any national, state
or local pretreatment standards or requirements.
   (B)   Specific prohibitions. No user shall contribute or cause to be
contributed into the POTW the following pollutants, substances or wastewater:
      (1)   Pollutants which create a fire or explosive hazard in the POTW,
including, but not limited to, waste streams with a closed cup flashpoint of
less than 140°F (60°C) using the test methods specified in 40 C.F.R. § 261.21;
      (2)   Solid or viscous substances in amounts which will cause obstruction
of the flow in the POTW resulting in interference but in no case solids greater
than a 1/2 inch in any dimension;
      (3)   Petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oil or products of mineral
oil origin, in amounts that will cause interference or pass through;
      (4)   Any wastewater having a pH less than 5.0 or more than 11.0 or
wastewater having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage to the
POTW or equipment;
      (5)   Any wastewater containing pollutants, including oxygen-demanding
pollutants, (BOD and the like) in sufficient quantity, (flow or concentration)
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to cause interference
with the POTW;
      (6)   Any wastewater having a temperature greater than 150°F (66°C), or
which will inhibit biological activity in the POTW treatment plant resulting in
Interference, but in no case wastewater which causes the temperature at the
introduction into the treatment plant to exceed 104°F (40°C);
      (7)   Any pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors
or fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems;
      (8)   Any trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points
designated by the POTW Director in accordance with §
53.11 below;
      (9)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases or solids or other
wastewater which, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, are
sufficient to create a public nuisance or hazard to life or are sufficient to
prevent entry into the sewers for maintenance and repair;
      (10)   Any substance which may cause the POTW's effluent or any other
product of the POTW such as residues, sludges or scums, to be unsuitable for
reclamation and reuse or to interfere with the reclamation process. In no case,
shall a substance discharged to the POTW cause the POTW to be in noncompliance
with sludge use or disposal regulations or permits issued under § 405 of the
Act; the Solid Waste Disposal Act, the Clean Air Act, the Toxic Substances
Control Act or state criteria applicable to the sludge management method being
used;
      (11)   Any wastewater which imparts color which cannot be removed by the
treatment process, including, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions, which consequently imparts sufficient color to the treatment
plant's effluent to render the waters injurious to public health or secondary
recreation or to aquatic life and wildlife or to adversely affect the
palatability of fish or aesthetic quality or impair the receiving waters for
any designated uses;
      (12)   Any wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes
except as specifically approved by the POTW Director in compliance with
applicable state or federal regulations;
      (13)   Storm water, surface water, ground water, artesian well water,
roof runoff, subsurface drainage, swimming pool drainage, condensate, deionized
water, noncontact cooling water and unpolluted industrial wastewater, unless
specifically authorized by the POTW Director;
      (14)   Fats, oils or greases of animal or vegetable origin in
concentrations exceeding limitations established under applicable federal,
state or local regulations;
      (15)   Any sludges, screenings or other residues from the pretreatment of
industrial wastes;
      (16)   Any medical wastes, except as specifically authorized by the POTW
Director in a wastewater discharge permit;
      (17)   Any material containing ammonia, ammonia salts or other chelating
agents which will produce metallic complexes that interfere with the municipal
wastewater system;
      (18)   Any material that would be identified as hazardous waste according
to 40 C.F.R. Part 261 if not disposed of in a sewer except as may be
specifically authorized by the POTW Director;
      (19)   Any wastewater causing the treatment plant effluent to violate
state water quality standards for toxic substances as described in 15A NCAC
2B.0200;
      (20)   Wastewater causing, alone or in conjunction with other sources,
the treatment plant's effluent to fail a toxicity test;
      (21)   Recognizable portions of the human or animal anatomy;
      (22)   Any wastes containing detergents, surface active agents or other
substances which may cause excessive foaming in the municipal wastewater
system; and
      (23)   At no time, shall 2 successive readings on an explosion hazard
meter, at the point of discharge into the system (or at any point in the
system) be more than 5% nor any single reading over 10% of the lower explosive
limit (LEL) of the meter.
   (C)   Other regulations.
      (1)   Pollutants, substances, wastewater or other wastes prohibited by
this section shall not be processed or stored in a manner so that they could be
discharged to the municipal wastewater system.
      (2)   All floor drains located in process or materials storage areas must
discharge to the industrial user's pretreatment facility before connecting with
the system.
      (3)   When the POTW Director determines that a user(s) is contributing to
the POTW, any of the above enumerated substances in amounts which may cause or
contribute to interference of POTW operation or pass through, the POTW Director
shall:
         (a)   Advise the user(s) of the potential impact of the contribution
on the POTW in accordance with §
53.59(A) through (F); and
         (b)   Take appropriate actions in accordance with §§
53.29 and
53.30 the user to protect the POTW from interference or pass through.
(Ord. – § 2.1, passed 9-26-2005) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.04 NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   Users subject to categorical pretreatment standards are required to comply
with applicable standards as set out in 40 C.F.R. Chapter 1, Subchapter N,
Parts 405-471 and incorporated herein.
   (A)   Where a categorical pretreatment standard is expressed only in terms
of either the mass or the concentration of a pollutant in wastewater, the POTW
Director may impose equivalent concentration or mass limits in accordance with
40 C.F.R. 403.6(c).
   (B)   When wastewater subject to a categorical pretreatment standard is
mixed with wastewater not regulated by the same standard, the POTW Director
shall impose an alternate limit using the combined wastestream formula in 40
C.F.R. 403.6(e).
   (C)   A user may obtain a variance from a categorical pretreatment standard
if the user can prove, pursuant to the procedural and substantive provisions in
40 C.F.R. 403.13, that factors relating to its discharge are fundamentally
different from the factors considered by EPA when developing the categorical
pretreatment standard.
   (D)   A user may obtain a net gross adjustment to a categorical standard in
accordance with 40 C.F.R. 403.15.
(Ord. – § 2.2, passed 9-26-2005)
§ 53.05 LOCAL LIMITS.
   (A)   An industrial waste survey is required prior to a use discharging
wastewater containing in excess of the following average discharge limits:
      (1)   BOD: 250 mg/l;
      (2)   TSS: 250 mg/l;
      (3)   NH3: 25 mg/l;
      (4)   Arsenic: 0.01 mg/l;
      (5)   Cadmium: 0.005 mg/l;
      (6)   Chromium: 0.05 mg/l (total chromium);
      (7)   Chlorides: 250 mg/l;
      (8)   Color: 15 color units;
      (9)   Copper: 0.06 mg/l;
      (10)   Cyanide: 0.015 mg/l;
      (11)   Lead: 0.015 mg/l;
      (12)   Mercury: 0.001 mg/l;
      (13)   Nickel: 0.01 mg/l;
      (14)   Silver: 0.01 mg/l; and
      (15)   Zinc: 0.175 mg/l.
   (B)   Industrial waste survey information will be used to develop user-
specific local limits when necessary to ensure that the POTW's maximum
allowable headworks loading are not exceeded for particular pollutants of
concern. User-specific local limits for appropriate pollutants of concern shall
be included in wastewater permits. The POTW Director may impose mass based
limits in addition to, or in place of concentration based limits.
(Ord. – § 2.3, passed 9-26-2005)
§ 53.06 STATE REQUIREMENTS.
   State requirements and limitations on discharges shall apply in any case
where they are more stringent than federal requirements and limitations or
those in this chapter.
(Ord. – § 2.4, passed 9-26-2005)
§ 53.07 RIGHT OF REVISION.
   The town reserves the right to establish limitations and requirements which
are more stringent than those required by either state or federal regulation if
deemed necessary to comply with the objectives presented in §
53.01 above or the general and specific prohibitions in §
53.03 above, as is allowed by 40 C.F.R. pt. 403.4.
(Ord. – § 2.5, passed 9-26-2005)
§ 53.08 DILUTION.
   No user shall ever increase the use of process water or, in any way, attempt
to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in the national
categorical pretreatment standards, unless expressly authorized by an
applicable pretreatment standard, or in any other pollutant-specific limitation
developed by the town or state.
(Ord. – § 2.6, passed 9-26-2005) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.09 PRETREATMENT OF WASTEWATER.
   (A)   Pretreatment facilities.
      (1)   Users shall provide wastewater treatment as necessary to comply
with this chapter and wastewater permits issued under §
53.30 below and shall achieve compliance with all national categorical
pretreatment standards, local limits and the prohibitions set out in §
53.03 above within the time limitations as specified by EPA, the state or the
POTW Director, whichever is more stringent.
      (2)   Any facilities necessary for compliance shall be provided, operated
and maintained at the user's expense. Detailed plans showing the pretreatment
facilities and operating procedures shall be submitted to the town for review,
and shall be approved by the POTW Director before construction of the facility.
The review of the plans and operating procedures shall in no way relieve the
user from the responsibility of modifying the facility as necessary to produce
an effluent acceptable to the town under the provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   Any subsequent changes in the pretreatment facilities or method of
operation shall be reported to and be approved by the POTW Director prior to
the user's initiation of the changes.
   (B)   Additional pretreatment measures.
      (1)   Whenever deemed necessary, the POTW Director may require users to
restrict their discharge during peak flow periods, designate that certain
wastewater be discharged only into specific sewers, relocate and/or consolidate
points of discharge, separate sewage wastestreams from industrial wastestreams
and other conditions as may be necessary to protect the POTW and determine the
user's compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   The POTW Director may require any person discharging into the POTW
to install and maintain, on their property and at their expense, a suitable
storage and flow-control facility to ensure equalization of flow. A wastewater
discharge permit may be issued solely for flow equalization.
      (3)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the POTW Director, they are necessary for the proper handling of
wastewater containing excessive amounts of grease and oil, or sand; except that
the interceptors shall not be required for residential users.
      (4)   All interception units shall be of type and capacity approved by
the POTW Director and shall be so located to be easily accessible for cleaning
and inspection. Interceptors shall be inspected, cleaned and repaired
regularly, as needed, by the user at their expense.
      (5)   Users with the potential to discharge flammable substances may be
required to install and maintain an approved combustible gas detection meter.
(Ord. – § 2.7, passed 9-26-2005)
§ 53.10 ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE; SLUG CONTROL PLANS.
   (A)   At least once every 2 years, the POTW Director shall evaluate whether
each significant industrial user needs an accidental discharge/slug control
plan.
   (B)   The POTW Director may require any user to develop, submit for approval
and implement a plan. Alternatively, the POTW Director may develop a plan for
any user.
   (C)   An accidental discharge/slug control plan shall address, at a minimum,
the following:
      (1)   Description of discharge practices, including nonroutine batch
discharges;
      (2)   Description of stored chemicals;
      (3)   Procedures for immediately notifying the POTW Director of any
accidental or slug discharge, as required by §
53.36 below; and
      (4)   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or slug
discharge. Procedures include, but are not limited to, inspection and
maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading and
unloading operations, control of plant site runoff, worker training, building
of containment structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic organic
pollutants, including solvents and/or measures and equipment for emergency
response.
(Ord. – § 2.8, passed 9-26-2005)
§ 53.11 HAULED WASTEWATER.
   (A)   (1)   Septic tank waste may be introduced into the POTW only at
locations designated by the POTW Director, and at times as are established by
the POTW Director.
      (2)   The waste shall not violate §
53.03 through this section or any other requirements established by the town.
The POTW Director may require septic tank waste haulers to obtain wastewater
discharge permits.
   (B)   (1)   The POTW Director shall require haulers of industrial waste to
obtain wastewater discharge permits.
      (2)   The POTW Director may require generators of hauled industrial waste
to obtain wastewater discharge permits.
      (3)   The POTW Director also may prohibit the disposal of hauled
industrial waste. The discharge of hauled industrial waste is subject to all
other requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   (1)   Industrial waste haulers may discharge loads only at locations
designated by the POTW Director. No load may be discharged without prior
consent of the POTW Director.
      (2)   The POTW Director may collect samples of each hauled load to ensure
compliance with applicable standards.
      (3)   The POTW Director may require the industrial waste hauler to
provide a waste analysis of any load prior to discharge.
   (D)   (1)   Industrial waste haulers must provide a waste-tracking form for
every load. This form shall include, at a minimum, the name and address of the
industrial waste hauler, permit number, truck identification, names and
addresses of sources of waste and volume and characteristics of waste.
      (2)   The form shall identify the type of industry, known or suspected
waste constituents, and whether any wastes are RCRA hazardous wastes.
(Ord. – § 2.9, passed 9-26-2005)
FEES; WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT APPLICATION; REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
§ 53.25 PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to provide for the recovery of costs
from users of the wastewater disposal system of the town for the implementation
of the program established herein.
   (B)   The applicable charges or fees shall be set forth in a schedule of
sewer use charges and fees by the POTW Director and approved by the Town
Council. A copy of these charges and fees will be made available from the POTW
Director.
(Ord. – § 3.1, passed 9-26-2005)
§ 53.26 USER CHARGES.
   A user charge shall be levied on all users including, but not limited to,
persons, firms, corporations or governmental entities that discharge, cause or
permit the discharge of sewage into the POTW.
   (A)   The user charge shall reflect, at least, the cost of debt service,
operation and maintenance (including replacement) of the POTW.
   (B)   Each user shall pay its proportionate cost based on volume of flow.
   (C)   The Manager of the town shall review annually the sewage contributions
of users, the total costs of debt service, operation and maintenance of the
POTW and will make recommendations to the Council or Board serving the town for
adjustments in the schedule of charges and fees as necessary.
   (D)   Charges for flow to the POTW not directly attributable to the users
shall be distributed among all users of the POTW based upon the volume of flow
of the users.
(Ord. – § 3.2, passed 9-26-2005)
§ 53.27 SURCHARGES.
   The amount of the surcharges will be based upon the volume of flow and the
character and concentration of the constituents of the wastewater.
   (A)   The volume of flow used in determining the total discharge of
wastewater for payment of user charges and surcharges shall be based on the
following:
      (1)   Metered water consumption as shown in the records of meter readings
maintained by the town;
      (2)   If required by the town or at the individual dischargers option,
other flow monitoring devices which measure the actual volume of wastewater
discharged to the sewer. The devices shall be accessible and safely located,
and the measuring system shall be installed in accordance with plans approved
by the town. The metering system shall be installed and maintained at the users
expense according to arrangements that may be made with the town; and
      (3)   Where any user procures all or part of his or her water supply from
sources other than the town, the user shall install and maintain at his or her
own expense a flow measuring device of a type approved by the town.
   (B)   The character and concentration of the constituents of the wastewater
used in determining surcharges shall be determined by samples collected and
analyzed by the town. Samples shall be collected in a manner so as to be
representative of the actual discharge and shall be analyzed using procedures
set forth in 40 C.F.R. Part 136.
   (C)   The determination of the character and concentration of the
constituents of the wastewater discharge by the POTW Director or his or her
duly appointed representatives shall be binding as a basis for charges.
(Ord. – § 3.3, passed 9-26-2005) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.28 PRETREATMENT PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION CHARGES.
   The schedule of charges and fees adopted by the town may include charges and
fees for:
   (A)   Reimbursement of costs of setting up and operating the pretreatment
program;
   (B)   Monitoring, inspections and surveillance procedures;
   (C)   Reviewing slug control plans, including accidental and/or slug load
discharge procedures and construction plans and specifications;
   (D)   Permitting; and
   (E)   Other fees as the town may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements of the pretreatment program.
(Ord. – § 3.4, passed 9-26-2005)
§ 53.29 WASTEWATER DISCHARGERS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to connect or discharge to the
POTW without first obtaining the permission of the town.
   (B)   When requested by the POTW Director, a user must submit information on
the nature and characteristics of its wastewater within 30 days of the request.
   (C)   The POTW Director is authorized to prepare a form for this purpose and
may periodically require users to update this information.
(Ord. – § 4.1, passed 9-26-2005) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.30 WASTEWATER PERMITS.
   All significant industrial users shall obtain a significant industrial user
permit prior to the commencement of discharge to the POTW. Existing industrial
users who are determined by the POTW Director to be significant industrial
users shall obtain a significant industrial user permit within 180 days of
receiving notification of the POTW Director's determination. Industrial users
who do not fit the significant industrial user criteria may at the discretion
of the POTW Director be required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit for
non-significant industrial users.
   (A)   Significant industrial user determination.
      (1)   All persons proposing to discharge non-domestic wastewater, or
proposing to change the volume or characteristics of an existing discharge of
non-domestic wastewater shall request from the POTW Director a significant
industrial user determination.
      (2)   If the POTW Director determines or suspects that the proposed
discharge fits the significant industrial user criteria he or she will require
that a significant industrial user permit application be filed.
   (B)   Significant industrial user permit application. Users required to
obtain a significant industrial user permit shall complete and file with the
town an application in the form prescribed by the POTW Director, and
accompanied by an application fee in the amount prescribed in the schedule of
charges and fees. Significant industrial users shall apply for a significant
industrial user permit within 90 days after notification of the POTW Director's
determination in division (A) above. In support of the application, the user
shall submit, in units and terms appropriate for evaluation, the following
information:
      (1)   Name, address and location, (if different from the address);
      (2)   Standard industrial classification (SIC) codes for pretreatment,
the industry as a whole, and any processes for which categorical pretreatment
standards have been promulgated;
      (3)   Analytical data on wastewater constituents and characteristics
including but not limited to those mentioned in §§
53.03 through
53.11 above, any of the priority pollutants (§ 307(a) of the Act) which the
applicant knows .or suspects are present in the discharge as determined by a
reliable analytical laboratory, and any other pollutant of concern to the POTW;
sampling and analysis shall be performed in accordance with procedures
established by the EPA pursuant to § 304(g) of the Act and contained in 40
C.F.R. Part 136, as amended;
      (4)   Time and duration of the indirect discharge;
      (5)   Average daily and 30-minute peak wastewater flow rates, including
daily, monthly and seasonal variations if any;
      (6)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans and details
to show all sewers, floor drains, sewer connections, direction of flow and
appurtenances by the size, location and elevation;
      (7)   Description of activities, facilities and plant processes on the
premises including all materials which are or could be accidentally or
intentionally discharged;
      (8)   Where known, the nature and concentration of any pollutants in the
discharge which are limited by any town, state or federal pretreatment
standards, and a statement regarding whether or not the pretreatment standards
are being met on a consistent basis and if not, whether additional operation
and maintenance (O and M) and/or additional pretreatment is required for the
user to meet applicable pretreatment standards;
      (9)   If additional pretreatment and/or O and M will be required to meet
the pretreatment standards; the shortest schedule by which the user will
provide additional pretreatment. The completion date in this schedule shall not
be longer than the compliance date established for the applicable pretreatment
standard. The following conditions apply to this schedule:
         (a)   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of
dates for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the
construction and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to
meet the applicable pretreatment standards. No increment in the schedule shall
exceed 9 months; and
         (b)   No later than 14 days following each date in the schedule and
the final date for compliance, the user shall submit a progress report to the
POTW Director including, at a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress, the reason for any delay, and if appropriate, the steps
being taken by the user to return to the established schedule. In no event
shall more than 9 months elapse between the progress reports to the POTW
Director.
      (10)   Each product produced by type, amount, process or processes and
rate of production;
      (11)   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum
per day);
      (12)   Number and type of employees, and hours of operation of plant and
proposed or actual hours of operation of pretreatment system;
      (13)   If subject to a categorical standard, a baseline monitoring report
in accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(b) and 15A NCAC 2H.0908(a), as outlined
in §
53.31 below; and
      (14)   Any other information as may be deemed by the POTW Director to be
necessary to evaluate the permit application.
   (C)   Application signatories and certification. All wastewater discharge
permit applications and user reports must be signed by an authorized
representative of the user and contain the following certification statement.
“I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments were
prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system designed
to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the information
submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage the system,
or those persons directly responsible for gathering the information, the
information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true,
accurate and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for
submitting false information, including the possibility of fine and
imprisonment for knowing violations.”
   (D)   Application review and evaluation. The POTW Director will evaluate the
data furnished by the user and may require additional information.
      (1)   The POTW Director is authorized to accept applications for the town
and shall refer all applications to the POTW staff for review and evaluation.
      (2)   Within 30 days of receipt the POTW Director shall acknowledge and
accept the complete application; or if not complete, shall return the
application to the applicant with a statement of what additional information is
required.
   (E)   Tentative determination and draft permit.
      (1)   The POTW staff shall conduct a review of the application and an on-
site inspection of the significant industrial user, including any pretreatment
facilities, and shall prepare a written evaluation and tentative determination
to issue or deny the significant industrial user permit.
      (2)   If the staff’s tentative determination in division (E)(1) above is
to issue the permit, the following additional determinations shall be made in
writing:
         (a)   Proposed discharge limitations for those pollutants proposed to
be limited;
         (b)   A proposed schedule of compliance, including interim dates and
requirements, for meeting the proposed limitations; and
         (c)   A brief description of any other proposed special conditions
which will have significant impact upon the discharge described in the
application.
      (3)   The staff shall organize the determinations made pursuant to
divisions (E)(1) and (2) above and the general permit conditions of the town
into a significant industrial user permit.
   (F)   Permit synopsis. A fact sheet providing a brief synopsis of the
application shall be prepared by the POTW staff for submission to the applicant
and the approval authority and shall be made available to the public upon
request. The contents of the fact sheets shall include at least the following
information:
      (1)   A sketch and detailed description of the industrial facilities and
pretreatment facilities including the location of all points of discharge to
the POTW and all established compliance monitoring points; and
      (2)   A quantitative description of the discharge described in the
application which includes at least the following:
         (a)   The rate or frequency of the proposed discharge; if the
discharge is continuous, the average daily flow;
         (b)   The actual average daily discharge in pounds per day of any
limited pollutant and any pollutant identified in the application as known or
suspected present; and
         (c)   The basis for the pretreatment limitations including the
documentation of any calculations in applying categorical pretreatment
standards.
   (G)   Final action on significant industrial user permit applications.
      (1)   The POTW Director shall take final action on all applications not
later than 90 days following receipt of a complete application.
      (2)   The POTW Director is authorized to:
         (a)   Issue a significant industrial user permit containing conditions
as are necessary to effectuate the purposes of this chapter and G.S. § 143-
215.1;
         (b)   Issue a significant industrial user permit containing time
schedules for achieving compliance with applicable pretreatment standards and
requirements;
         (c)   Modify any permit upon not less than 60-days’ notice and
pursuant to division (I) below;
         (d)   Revoke any permit pursuant to §
53.59(A) through (F) below;
         (e)   Suspend a permit pursuant to §
53.59(A) through (F) below; and
         (f)   Deny a permit application when in the opinion of the POTW
Director the discharge may cause or contribute to pass-through or interference
of the wastewater treatment plant or where necessary to effectuate the purposes
of G.S. § 143-215.1.
   (H)   Hearings. The local government may conduct hearings in accordance with
its regular hearing procedure.
      (1)   Initial adjudicatory hearing. An applicant whose permit is denied,
or is granted subject to conditions he or she deems unacceptable, a permittee/
user assessed a civil penalty under §
53.99 below, or one issued an administrative order under §
53.59(A) through (F) below shall have the right to an adjudicatory hearing
before a hearing officer designated by the POTW Director upon making written
demand, identifying the specific issues to be contested, to the POTW Director
within 30 days following receipt of the significant industrial user permit,
civil penalty assessment or administrative order. Unless the written demand is
made within the time specified herein, the action shall be final and binding.
The hearing officer shall make a final decision on the contested permit,
penalty or order within 45 days of the receipt of the written demand for a
hearing. The POTW Director shall transmit a copy of the hearing officer's
decision by registered or certified mail.
         (a)   New permits. Upon appeal, including judicial review in the
General Courts of Justice, of the terms or conditions of a newly issued permit,
the terms and conditions of the entire permit are stayed and the permit is not
in effect until either the conclusion of judicial review or until the parties
reach a mutual resolution.
         (b)   Renewed permits. Upon appeal, including judicial review in the
General Courts of Justice, of the terms or conditions of a renewed permit, the
terms and conditions of the existing permit remain in effect until either the
conclusion of judicial review or until the parties reach a mutual resolution.
      (2)   Final appeal hearing.
         (a)   Any decision of a hearing officer made as a result of an
adjudicatory hearing held under division (H)(1) above may be appealed, to the
Council or Board serving the town upon filing a written demand within 10 days
of receipt of notice of the decision.
         (b)   Hearings held under this division (H) shall be conducted in
accordance with local hearing procedures. Failure to make written demand within
the time specified herein shall bar further appeal.
         (c)   The Council shall make a final decision on the appeal within 90
days of the date the appeal was filed and shall transmit a written copy of its
decision by registered or certified mail.
      (3)   Official record. When a final decision is issued under division (H)
(2) above, the Council or Board serving the town shall prepare an official
record of the case that includes:
         (a)   All notices, motions and other like pleadings;
         (b)   A copy of all documentary evidence introduced;
         (c)   A certified transcript of all testimony taken, if testimony is
transcribed. If testimony is taken and not transcribed, then a narrative
summary of any testimony taken; and
         (d)   A copy of the final decision of the Council or Board serving the
town.
      (4)   Judicial review.
         (a)   Any person against whom a final order or decision of the Council
or Board serving the town is entered, pursuant to the hearing conducted under
division (H)(2) above, may seek judicial review of the order or decision by
filing a written petition within 30 days after receipt of notice by registered
or certified mail of the order or decision, but not thereafter, with the
Superior Court of Randolph County, along with a copy to the town.
         (b)   Within 30 days after receipt of the copy of the petition of
judicial review, the Council or Board serving the town shall transmit to the
reviewing court the original or a certified copy of the official record.
   (I)   Permit modification.
      (1)   Modifications of permits shall be subject to the same procedural
requirements as the issuance of permits except as listed below. Any changes or
new conditions in the permit shall include a reasonable time schedule for
compliance:
         (a)   Changes in the ownership of the discharge when no other change
in the permit is indicated;
         (b)   A single modification of any compliance schedule not in excess
of 4 months; and
         (c)   Modification of compliance schedules (construction schedules) in
permits for new sources where the new source will not begin to discharge until
control facilities are operational.
      (2)   (a)   Within 9 months of the promulgation of a national categorical
pretreatment standard, the wastewater discharge permit of users subject to
those standards shall be revised to require compliance with the standard within
the time frame prescribed by the standard.
         (b)   Where a user, subject to a national categorical pretreatment
standard, has not previously submitted an application for a wastewater
discharge permit as required by division (B) above, the user shall apply for a
wastewater discharge permit within 180 days after the promulgation of the
applicable national categorical pretreatment standard.
      (3)   A request for a modification by the permittee shall constitute a
waiver of the 60-day notice required by G.S. § 143-215.1(b) for modifications.
   (J)   Permit conditions.
      (1)   The POTW Director shall have the authority to grant a permit with
the conditions attached as he or she believes necessary to achieve the purpose
of this chapter and G.S. § 143-215.1. Wastewater permits shall contain, but are
not limited to, the following:
         (a)   A statement of duration (in no case more than 5 years);
         (b)   A statement of non-transferability;
         (c)   Applicable effluent limits based on categorical standards or
local limits or both;
         (d)   Applicable monitoring, sampling, reporting, notification and
record keeping requirements. These requirements shall include an identification
of pollutants to be monitored, sampling location, sampling frequency and sample
type based on federal, state and local law;
         (e)   Notification requirements for slug loads; and
         (f)   A statement of applicable civil and criminal penalties for
violation of pretreatment standards and requirements and any applicable
compliance schedule.
      (2)   In addition, permits may contain, but are not limited to, the
following:
         (a)   Limits on the average and/or maximum rate of discharge, and/or
requirements for flow regulation and equalization;
         (b)   Limits on the instantaneous, daily and monthly average and/or
maximum concentration, mass or other measure of identified wastewater
pollutants or properties;
         (c)   Requirements for the installation of pretreatment technology or
construction of appropriate containment devices and the like, designed to
reduce, eliminate or prevent the introduction of pollutants into the treatment
works;
         (d)   Development and implementation of spill control plans or other
special conditions including management practices necessary to adequately
prevent accidental, unanticipated or non-routine discharges;
         (e)   Development and implementation of waste minimization plans to
reduce the amount of pollutants discharged to the municipal wastewater system;
         (f)   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
management of the wastewater discharged to the system;
         (g)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities and equipment;
         (h)   Specifications for monitoring programs which may include
sampling locations, frequency of sampling, number, types and standards for
tests and reporting schedules;
         (i)   Requirements for immediate reporting of any instance of
noncompliance and for automatic re-sampling and reporting within 30 days where
self-monitoring indicates a violation(s);
         (j)   Compliance schedules for meeting pretreatment standards and
requirements;
         (k)   Requirements for submission of periodic self-monitoring or
special notification reports;
         (l)   Requirements for maintaining and retaining plans and records
relating to wastewater discharges as specified in §
53.43 below and affording the POTW Director, or his or her representatives,
access thereto;
         (m)   Requirements for prior notification and approval by the POTW
Director of any new introduction of wastewater pollutants or of any significant
change in the volume or character of the wastewater prior to introduction in
the system;
         (n)   Requirements for the prior notification and approval by the POTW
Director of any change in the manufacturing and/or pretreatment process used by
the permittee;
         (o)   Requirements for immediate notification of excessive, accidental
or slug discharges, or any discharge which could cause any problems to the
system;
         (p)   A statement that compliance with the permit does not relieve the
permittee of responsibility for compliance with all applicable federal and
state pretreatment standards, including those which become effective during the
terms of the permit; and
         (q)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the POTW Director to
ensure compliance with this chapter, and state and federal laws, rules and
regulations.
   (K)   Permit duration. Permits shall be issued for a specified time period,
not to exceed 5 years. A permit may be issued for a period less than a year or
may be stated to expire on a specific date.
   (L)   Permit transfer. Wastewater permits are issued to a specific user for
a specific operation. A wastewater discharge permit shall not be reassigned or
transferred or sold to a new owner, new user, different premises or a new or
changed operation.
   (M)   Permit re-issuance. A significant industrial user shall apply for
permit reissuance by submitting a complete permit application in accordance
with this section a minimum of 180 days prior to the expiration of the existing
permit.
(Ord. – § 4.2, passed 9-26-2005)
§ 53.31 BASELINE MONITORING REPORTS.
   (A)   (1)   Within either 180 days after the effective date of a categorical
pretreatment standard, or the final administrative decision on a category
determination under 40 C.F.R. pt. 403.6(a)(4), whichever is later, existing
categorical users currently discharging to or scheduled to discharge to the
POTW shall submit to the POTW Director a report which contains the information
listed in division (B) below.
      (2)   At least 90 days prior to commencement of their discharge, new
sources and sources that become categorical users subsequent to the
promulgation of an applicable categorical standard, shall submit to the POTW
Director a report which contains the information listed in division (B) below.
      (3)   A new source shall report the method of pretreatment it intends to
use to meet applicable categorical standards. A new source also shall give
estimates of its anticipated flow and quantity of pollutants to be discharged.
   (B)   Users described above shall submit the information set forth below.
      (1)   Identifying information. The name and address of the facility,
including the name of the operator and owner.
      (2)   Environmental permits. A list of any environmental control permits
held by or for the facility.
      (3)   Description of operations. A brief description of the nature,
average rate of production and standard industrial classifications of the
operation(s) carried out by the user. This description should include a
schematic process diagram which indicates points of discharge to the POTW from
the regulated processes.
      (4)   Flow measurement. Information showing the measured average daily
and maximum daily flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW from regulated process
streams and other streams, as necessary, to allow use of the combined waste
stream formula set out in 40 C.F.R. 403.6(e).
      (5)   Measurement of pollutants.
         (a)   The categorical pretreatment standards applicable to each
regulated process.
         (b)   The results of sampling and analysis identifying the nature and
concentration, and/or mass, where required by the standard or by the POTW
Director, of regulated pollutants in the discharge from each regulated process.
Instantaneous, daily maximum and long-term average concentrations or mass,
where required, shall be reported. The sample shall be representative of daily
operations and shall be analyzed in accordance with procedures set out in §
53.40 below.
         (c)   Sampling must be performed in accordance with procedures set out
in §
53.41 below.
      (6)   Certification. A statement, reviewed by the user's authorized
representative and certified by a qualified professional, indicating whether
pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis, and, if not,
whether additional operation and maintenance (O and M) and/or additional
pretreatment is required to meet the pretreatment standards and requirements.
      (7)   Compliance schedule. If additional pretreatment and/or O and M will
be required to meet the pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which
the user will provide additional pretreatment and/or O and M. The completion
date in this schedule shall not be later than the compliance date established
for the applicable pretreatment standard. A compliance schedule pursuant to
this section must meet the requirements set out in §
53.32 below.
      (8)   Signature and certification. All baseline monitoring reports must
be signed and certified in accordance with §
53.30(C) above.
(Ord. – § 5.1, passed 9-26-2005)
§ 53.32 COMPLIANCE SCHEDULE PROGRESS REPORTS.
   The following conditions shall apply to the compliance schedule required by
§
53.31(B)(7) above.
   (A)   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of, dates
for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction
and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to meet the
applicable pretreatment standards (these events include, but are not limited
to, hiring an engineer, completing preliminary and final plans, executing
contracts for major components, commencing and completing construction and
beginning and conducting routine operation).
   (B)   No increment referred to above shall exceed 9 months.
   (C)   The user shall submit a progress report to the POTW Director no later
than 14 days following each date in the schedule and the final date of
compliance including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress, the reason for any delay, and, if appropriate, the steps
being taken by the user to return to the established schedule.
   (D)   In no event shall more than 9 months elapse between the progress
reports to the POTW Director.
(Ord. – § 5.2, passed 9-26-2005)
§ 53.33 REPORTS ON COMPLIANCE WITH CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD; DEADLINE.
   (A)   Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with applicable
categorical pretreatment standards, or in the case of a new source following
commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any user subject
to pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to the POTW Director a
report containing the information described in §
53.31(B)(4) through (6) above.
   (B)   For users subject to equivalent mass or concentration limits
established in accordance with the procedures in 40 C.F.R. pt. 403.6(c), this
report shall contain a reasonable measure of the user's long-term production
rate.
   (C)   For all other users subject to categorical pretreatment standards
expressed in terms of allowable pollutant discharge per unit of production (or
other measure of operation), this report shall include the user's actual
production during the appropriate sampling period.
   (D)   All compliance reports must be signed and certified in accordance with
§
53.30(C) above.
(Ord. – § 5.3, passed 9-26-2005)
§ 53.34 PERIODIC COMPLIANCE REPORTS.
   Municipalities may sample and analyze user discharges in lieu of requiring
the users to conduct sampling and analysis.
   (A)   All significant industrial users shall, at a frequency determined by
the POTW Director but in no case less than twice per year (in June and
December), submit a report indicating the nature and concentration of
pollutants in the discharge which are limited by pretreatment standards and the
measured or estimated average and maximum daily flows for the reporting period.
All periodic compliance reports must be signed and certified in accordance with
§
53.30(E)(1) above.
   (B)   All wastewater samples must be representative of the user's discharge.
Wastewater monitoring and flow measurement facilities shall be properly
operated, kept clean and maintained in good working order at all times. The
failure of a user to keep its monitoring facility in good working order shall
not be grounds for the user to claim that sample results are unrepresentative
of its discharge.
   (C)   If a user subject to the reporting requirement in this section
monitors any pollutant more frequently than required by the POTW Director,
using the procedures prescribed in §
53.40 below, the results of this monitoring shall be included in the report.
(Ord. – § 5.4, passed 9-26-2005)
§ 53.35 REPORTS OF CHANGED CONDITIONS.
   Each user must notify the POTW Director of any planned significant changes
to the user's operations or system which might alter the nature, quality or
volume of its wastewater at least 30 days before the change.
   (A)   The POTW Director may require the user to submit information as may be
deemed necessary to evaluate the changed condition, including the submission of
a wastewater discharge permit application under §
53.30 above.
   (B)   The POTW Director may issue a wastewater discharge permit under §
53.30 above or modify an existing wastewater discharge permit under §
53.30 above in response to changed conditions or anticipated changed
conditions.
   (C)   For purposes of this requirement, significant changes include, but are
not limited to, flow increases of 20% or greater, and the discharge of any
previously unreported pollutants.
(Ord. – § 5.5, passed 9-26-2005)
§ 53.36 POTENTIAL PROBLEMS; REPORTS.
   (A)   In the case of any discharge, including, but not limited to,
accidental discharges, discharges of a nonroutine, episodic nature, a
noncustomary batch discharge or a slug load, that may cause potential problems
for the POTW, the user shall immediately telephone and notify the POTW Director
of the incident. This notification shall include the location of the discharge,
type of waste, concentration and volume, if known, and corrective actions taken
by the user.
   (B)   (1)   Within 5 days following the discharge, the user shall, unless
waived by the POTW Director, submit a detailed written report describing the
cause(s) of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the user to prevent
similar future occurrences.
      (2)   Notification shall not relieve the user of any expense, loss,
damage or other liability which may be incurred as a result of damage to the
POTW, natural resources or any other damage to person or property; nor shall
the notification relieve the user of any fines, penalties or other liability
which may be imposed pursuant to this chapter.
   (C)   A notice shall be permanently posted on the user's bulletin board or
other prominent place advising employees whom to call in the event of a
discharge described in division (A) above. Employers shall ensure that all
employees, who may cause a discharge to occur, are advised of the emergency
notification procedure.
(Ord. – § 5.6, passed 9-26-2005)
§ 53.37 REPORTS FROM UNPERMITTED USERS.
   All users not required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit shall provide
appropriate reports to the POTW Director as the POTW Director may require.
(Ord. – § 5.7, passed 9-26-2005)
§ 53.38 NOTICE OF VIOLATION; REPEAT SAMPLING AND REPORTING.
   (A)   If sampling performed by a user indicates a violation, the user must
notify the POTW Director within 24 hours of becoming aware of the violation.
   (B)   The user shall also repeat the sampling and analysis and submit the
results of the repeat analysis to the POTW Director within 30 days after
becoming aware of the violation.
   (C)   The user is not required to resample if the POTW Director monitors at
the user's facility at least once a month, or if the POTW Director samples
between the user's initial sampling and when the user receives the results of
this sampling.
(Ord. – § 5.8, passed 9-26-2005)
§ 53.39 NOTIFICATION OF THE DISCHARGE OF HAZARDOUS WASTE.
   The town prohibits the discharge of any hazardous wastes without
notification and approval of the POTW Director.
   (A)   (1)   Any user who commences the discharge of hazardous waste shall
notify the POTW, the EPA Regional Waste Management Division Director and state
hazardous waste authorities, in writing, of any discharge into the POTW of a
substance which, if otherwise disposed of, would be a hazardous waste under 40
C.F.R. Part 261.
      (2)   Notification must include the name of the hazardous waste as set
forth in 40 C.F.R. Part 261, the EPA hazardous waste number, and the type of
discharge (continuous, batch or other).
      (3)   If the user discharges more than 100 kilograms of waste per
calendar month to the POTW, the notification also shall contain the following
information to the extent that information is known and readily available to
the user: an identification of the hazardous constituents contained in the
wastes; an estimation of the mass and concentration of constituents in the
wastestream discharge during the calendar month; and an estimation of the mass
of constituents in the wastestream expected to be discharged during the
following 12 months.
      (4)   All notifications must take place no later than 180 days after the
discharge commences. Any notification under this subchapter need be submitted
only once for each hazardous waste discharge. However, notifications of changed
conditions must be submitted under §
53.35 above.
      (5)   The notification requirement in this section does not apply to
pollutants already reported by users subject to categorical pretreatment
standards under the self-monitoring requirements of §§
53.31,
53.33 and
53.34 above.
   (B)   (1)   Dischargers are exempt from the requirements of division (A)
above, during a calendar month in which they discharge no more than 15
kilograms of hazardous wastes, unless the wastes are acute hazardous wastes as
specific in 40 C.F.R. pt. 261.30(d) and 261.33(e).
      (2)   Discharge of more than 15 kilograms of nonacute hazardous wastes in
a calendar month, or of any quantity of acute hazardous wastes as specified in
40 C.F.R. pts. 261.30(d) and 261.33(e), requires a 1-time notification.
Subsequent months during which the user discharges more than those quantities
of any hazardous waste do not require additional notification.
   (C)   In the case of any new regulation under § 3001 of RCRA identifying
additional characteristics of hazardous waste or listing any additional
substance as a hazardous waste, the user must notify the POTW Director, the EPA
Regional Waste Management Waste Division Director, and state hazardous waste
authorities of the discharge of that substance within 90 days of the effective
date of the regulations.
   (D)   In the case of any notification made under this section, the user
shall certify that it has a program in place to reduce the volume and toxicity
of hazardous wastes generated to the degree it has determined to be
economically practical.
   (E)   This provision does not create a right to discharge any substance not
otherwise permitted to be discharged by this chapter, a permit issued
thereunder or any applicable federal or state law.
(Ord. – § 5.9, passed 9-26-2005)
§ 53.40 ANALYTICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All pollutant analyses, including sampling techniques, to be submitted
as part of a wastewater discharge permit application or report shall be
performed in accordance with the techniques prescribed in 40 C.F.R. Part 136,
unless otherwise specified in an applicable categorical pretreatment standard.
   (B)   If 40 C.F.R. Part 136 does not contain sampling or analytical
techniques for the pollutant in question, sampling and analyses must be
performed in accordance with procedures approved by EPA.
(Ord. – § 5.10, passed 9-26-2005)
§ 53.41 SAMPLE COLLECTION.
   (A)   (1)   Except as indicated in division (B) below, the user must collect
wastewater samples using flow proportional composite collection techniques.
      (2)   In the event flow proportional sampling is infeasible, the POTW
Director may authorize the use of time proportional sampling or a minimum of 4
grab samples where the user demonstrates that this will provide a
representative sample of the effluent being discharged.
      (3)   In addition, grab samples may be required to show compliance with
instantaneous discharge limits.
   (B)   Samples for oil and grease, temperature, pH, cyanide, phenols,
sulfides and volatile organic compounds must be obtained using grab collection
techniques.
(Ord. – § 5.11, passed 9-26-2005)
§ 53.42 TIMING.
   (A)   Written reports will be deemed to have been submitted on the date
postmarked.
   (B)   For reports which are not mailed, postage prepaid, into a mail
facility serviced by the United States Postal Service, the date of receipt of
the report shall govern.
(Ord. – § 5.12, passed 9-26-2005)
§ 53.43 RECORD KEEPING.
   (A)   (1)   Users subject to the reporting requirements of this chapter
shall retain, and make available for inspection and copying, all records of
information obtained pursuant to any monitoring activities required by this
chapter and any additional records of information obtained pursuant to
monitoring activities undertaken by the user independent of the requirements.
      (2)   Records shall include the date, exact place, method and time of
sampling and the name of the person(s) taking the samples; the dates analyses
were performed; who performed the analyses; the analytical techniques or
methods used; and the results of the analyses.
   (B)   (1)   These records shall remain available for a period of at least 3
years.
      (2)   This period shall be automatically extended for the duration of any
litigation concerning the user or the town, or where the user has been
specifically notified of a longer retention period by the POTW Director.
(Ord. – § 5.13, passed 9-26-2005)
COMPLIANCE MONITORING AND OTHER SPECIFIC PROVISIONS
§ 53.55 MONITORING FACILITIES.
   (A)   The town requires the user to provide and operate at the user's own
expense, monitoring facilities to allow inspection, sampling and flow
measurement of the building sewer and/or internal drainage systems.
   (B)   The monitoring facility should normally be situated on the user's
premises, but the town may, when a location would be impractical or cause undue
hardship on the user, allow the facility to be constructed in the public street
or sidewalk area and located so that it will not be obstructed by landscaping
or parked vehicles.
   (C)   There shall be ample room in or near the sampling manhole or facility
to allow accurate sampling and preparation of samples for analysis.
   (D)   The facility, sampling and measuring equipment shall be maintained at
all times in a safe and proper operating condition at the expense of the user.
   (E)   Whether constructed on public or private property, the sampling and
monitoring facilities shall be provided in accordance with the requirements of
the town and all applicable local construction standards and specifications.
   (F)   Construction shall be completed within 90 days following written
notification by the town.
(Ord. – § 6.1, passed 9-26-2005)
§ 53.56 INSPECTION AND SAMPLING.
   (A)   The town will inspect the facilities of any user to ascertain whether
the purpose of this chapter is being met and all requirements are being
complied with.
   (B)   Persons or occupants of premises where wastewater is created or
discharged shall allow the town, approval authority and EPA or their
representative ready access at all reasonable times to all parts of the
premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, records examination and
copying or in the performance of any of their duties.
   (C)   The town, approval authority and EPA shall have the right to set up on
the user's property the devices as are necessary to conduct sampling,
inspection, compliance monitoring and/or metering operations.
   (D)   Where a user has security measures in force which would require proper
identification and clearance before entry into their premises, the user shall
make necessary arrangements with their security guards so that upon
presentation of suitable identification, personnel from the town, approval
authority and EPA will be permitted to enter, without delay, for the purposes
of performing their specific responsibilities.
   (E)   Denial of the POTW Director's approval authority's or EPA's access to
the user's premises shall be a violation of this chapter. Unreasonable delays
may constitute denial of access.
(Ord. – § 6.2, passed 9-26-2005) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.57 SEARCH WARRANTS.
   If the POTW Director, approval authority or EPA has been refused access to a
building, structure or property, or any part thereof, and is able to
demonstrate probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of this
chapter, or that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine
inspection and sampling program of the town designed to verify compliance with
this chapter or any permit or order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall
public health, safety and welfare of the community, then the POTW Director,
approval authority or EPA may seek issuance of a search warrant from the court
having jurisdiction within the town.
(Ord. – § 6.3, passed 9-26-2005)
§ 53.58 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   Information and data on a user obtained from reports, questionnaires,
permit applications, permits and monitoring programs and from inspections shall
be available to the public or other governmental agency without restriction
unless the user specifically requests and is able to demonstrate to the
satisfaction of the POTW Director that the release of the information would
divulge information, processes or methods of production entitled to protection
as trade secrets of the user.
   (B)   Any like request must be asserted at the time of submission of the
information or data.
   (C)   When requested by the person furnishing a report, the portions of a
report which might disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made
available for inspection by the public, but shall be made available upon
written request to governmental agencies for uses related to this chapter, the
national pollutant discharge elimination system (NPDES) permit, non-discharge
permit and/or the pretreatment programs; provided, however, that those portions
of a report shall be available for use by the state or any state agency in
judicial review or enforcement proceedings involving the person furnishing the
report.
   (D)   Wastewater constituents and characteristics will not be recognized as
confidential information.
   (E)   All records relating to compliance with pretreatment standards shall
be made available to officials of the approval authority and EPA upon request.
(Ord. – § 7, passed 9-26-2005)
§ 53.59 ADMINISTRATIVE REMEDIES.
   (A)   Notification of violation.
      (1)   Whenever the POTW Director finds that any industrial user has
violated or is violating this chapter, wastewater permit or any prohibition,
limitation or requirements contained therein or any other pretreatment
requirement the POTW Director may serve upon a person a written notice stating
the nature of the violation.
      (2)   Within 30 days from the date of this notice, an explanation for the
violation and a plan for the satisfactory correction thereof shall be submitted
to the town by the user.
      (3)   Submission of this plan does not relieve the discharger of
liability for any violations occurring before or after receipt of the notice of
violation.
   (B)   Consent orders.
      (1)   The POTW Director is hereby empowered to enter into consent orders,
assurances of voluntary compliance or other similar documents establishing an
agreement with the person responsible for the noncompliance.
      (2)   The orders will include specific action to be taken by the
discharger to correct the noncompliance within a time period also specified by
the order. Consent orders shall have the same force and effect as an
administrative order issued pursuant to division (D) below.
   (C)   Show cause hearing.
      (1)   The POTW Director may order any industrial user who causes or is
responsible for an unauthorized discharge, has violated this chapter or is in
noncompliance with a wastewater discharge permit to show cause why a proposed
enforcement action should not be taken.
      (2)   In the event the POTW Director determines that a show cause order
should be issued, a notice shall be served on the user specifying the time and
place for the hearing, the proposed enforcement action, the reasons for the
action and a request that the user show cause why this proposed enforcement
action should not be taken.
      (3)   The notice of the hearing shall be served personally or by
registered or certified mail (return receipt requested) at least 10 days before
the hearing. Service may be made on any agent or officer of a corporation.
      (4)   The POTW Director shall review the evidence presented at the
hearing and determine whether the proposed enforcement action is appropriate.
      (5)   A show cause hearing under this section is not a prerequisite to
the assessment of a civil penalty under §
53.99 below nor is any action or inaction taken by the POTW Director under this
section subject to an administrative appeal under §
53.30(H).
   (D)   Administrative orders. When the POTW Director finds that an industrial
user has violated or continues to violate this chapter, permits or orders
issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment requirement the POTW Director may
issue an order to cease and desist all like violations and direct those persons
in noncompliance to do any of the following:
      (1)   Immediately comply with all requirements;
      (2)   Comply in accordance with a compliance time schedule set forth in
the order;
      (3)   Take appropriate remedial or preventive action in the event of a
continuing or threatened violation; or
      (4)   Disconnect unless adequate treatment facilities, devices or other
related appurtenances are installed and properly operated within a specified
time period.
   (E)   Emergency suspensions.
      (1)   The POTW Director may suspend the wastewater treatment service and/
or wastewater permit when suspension is necessary in order to stop an actual or
threatened discharge which presents or may present an imminent or substantial
endangerment to the health or welfare of persons or the environment, interferes
with the POTW or causes the POTW to violate any condition of its NPDES or non-
discharge permit.
      (2)   Any user notified of a suspension of the wastewater treatment
service and/or the wastewater permit shall immediately stop or eliminate the
contribution.
      (3)   A hearing will be held within 15 days of the notice of suspension
to determine whether the suspension may be lifted or the user's waste discharge
permit terminated.
      (4)   In the event of a failure to comply voluntarily with the suspension
order, the POTW Director shall take steps as deemed necessary including
immediate severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize damage to
the POTW system or endangerment to any individuals.
      (5)   The POTW Director shall reinstate the wastewater permit and the
wastewater treatment service upon proof of the elimination of the noncompliant
discharge.
      (6)   The industrial user shall submit a detailed written statement
describing the causes of the harmful contribution and the measures taken to
prevent any future occurrence to the POTW Director prior to the date of the
above-described hearing.
   (F)   Termination of permit.
      (1)   Any user who violates the following conditions of this chapter, or
applicable state and federal regulations, is subject to having its permit
terminated:
         (a)   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of his or her discharge;
         (b)   Failure to report significant changes in operations or
wastewater constituents and characteristics;
         (c)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user's premises for the
purpose of inspection or monitoring; or
         (d)   Violation of conditions of the permit.
      (2)   Noncompliant industrial users will be notified of the proposed
termination of their wastewater permit and will be offered an opportunity to
show cause under divisions (A) above through this division (F) why the proposed
action should not be taken.
   (G)   Other available remedies.
      (1)   Remedies, in addition to those previously mentioned in this
chapter, are available to the POTW Director who may use any single one or
combination against a noncompliant user.
      (2)   Additional available remedies include, but are not limited to:
         (a)   Criminal violations.
            1.   The District Attorney for the applicable Judicial District
may, at the request of the town, prosecute noncompliant users who violate the
provisions of G.S. § 143-215.6B.
            2.   (Note: Under North Carolina law, it is a crime to negligently
violate any term, condition or requirement of a pretreatment permit, or
negligently fail to apply for a pretreatment permit, issued by local
governments (G.S. § 143-215.6B(f)), to knowingly and willfully violate any
term, condition or requirement of a pretreatment permit, or knowingly and
willfully fail to apply for a pretreatment permit, issued by local governments
(G.S. § 143-215.6B(g)), to knowingly violate any term, condition or requirement
of a pretreatment permit issued by local governments, or knowingly fail to
apply for a pretreatment permit, knowing at the time that a person is placed in
imminent danger of death or serious bodily injury, (G.S. § 143-215.6B(h)), and
to falsify information required under G.S. § 143-215.6B(i)).
         (b)   Injunctive relief. Whenever a user is in violation of the
provisions of this chapter or an order or permit issued hereunder, the POTW
Director, through the Town Attorney, may petition the Superior Court of Justice
for the issuance of a restraining order or a preliminary and permanent
injunction which restrains or compels the activities in question.
         (c)   Water supply severance. Whenever an industrial user is in
violation of the provisions of this chapter or an order or permit issued
hereunder, water service to the industrial user may be severed and service will
only recommence, at the user's expense, after it has satisfactorily
demonstrated ability to comply.
         (d)   Public nuisances.
            1.   Any violation of the prohibitions or effluent limitations of
this chapter or of a permit or order issued hereunder, is hereby declared a
public nuisance and shall be corrected or abated as directed by the POTW
Director.
            2.   Any person(s) creating a public nuisance shall be subject to
the provisions of the appropriate ordinances of the town governing the
nuisances, including reimbursing the POTW for any costs incurred in removing,
abating or remedying the nuisance.
   (H)   Remedies nonexclusive.
      (1)   The remedies provided for in this chapter are not exclusive. The
POTW Director may take any, all or any combination of these actions against a
noncompliant user.
      (2)   Enforcement of pretreatment violations will generally be in
accordance with the town's Enforcement Response Plan. However, the POTW
Director may take other action against any user when the circumstances warrant.
      (3)   Further, the POTW Director is empowered to take more than 1
enforcement action against any noncompliant user.
(Ord.– §§ 8.1–8.3, passed 9-26-2005)
§ 53.60 ANNUAL PUBLICATION OF SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE.
   At least annually, the POTW Director shall publish in the largest daily
newspaper circulated in the service area, a list of those industrial users
which were found to be in significant noncompliance, also referred to as
reportable noncompliance in 15A NCAC 2H.0903(b)(10), with applicable
pretreatment standards and requirements, during the previous 12 months.
(Ord.– § 9, passed 9-26-2005)
§ 53.61 AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES TO DISCHARGE VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Upset.
      (1)   An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense to an action
brought for noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards if the
requirements of division (A)(2) below are met.
      (2)   A user who wishes to establish the affirmative defense of upset
shall demonstrate, through properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs, or
other relevant evidence that:
         (a)   An upset occurred and the user can identify the cause(s) of the
upset;
         (b)   The facility was at the time being operated in a prudent and
workperson-like manner and in compliance with applicable operation and
maintenance procedures; and
         (c)   The user has submitted the following information to the POTW
Director within 24 hours of becoming aware of the upset (if this information is
provided orally, a written submission must be provided within 5 days):
            1.   A description of the indirect discharge and cause of
noncompliance;
            2.   The period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times
or, if not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is expected to
continue; and
            3.   Steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate and
prevent recurrence of the noncompliance.
      (3)   In any enforcement proceeding, the user seeking to establish the
occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof.
      (4)   Users will have the opportunity for a judicial determination on any
claim of upset only in an enforcement action brought for noncompliance with
categorical pretreatment standards.
      (5)   (a)   Users shall control production of all discharges to the
extent necessary to maintain compliance with categorical pretreatment standards
upon reduction, loss or failure of its treatment facility until the facility is
restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided.
         (b)   This requirement applies in the situation where, among other
things, the primary source of power of the treatment facility is reduced, lost
or fails.
   (B)   Prohibited discharge standards defense.
      (1)   A user shall have an affirmative defense to an enforcement action
brought against it for noncompliance with the general prohibitions in §
53.03(A) above or the specific prohibitions in §
53.03(B)(2), (3) and (5) through (7) above if it can prove that it did not
know, or have reason to know, that its discharge, alone or in conjunction with
discharges from other sources, would cause pass through or interference and
that either:
         (a)   A local limit exists for each pollutant discharged and the user
was in compliance with each limit directly prior to, and during, the pass
through or interference; or
         (b)   No local limit exists, but the discharge did not change
substantially in nature or constituents from the user's prior discharge when
the town was regularly in compliance with its NPDES permit, and in the case of
interference, was in compliance with applicable sludge use or disposal
requirements.
   (C)   Bypass.
      (1)   A user may allow any bypass to occur which does not cause
pretreatment standards or requirements to be violated, but only if it also is
for essential maintenance to assure efficient operation. These bypasses are not
subject to the provision of divisions (C)(2) and (3) below.
      (2)   (a)   If a user knows in advance of the need for a bypass, it shall
submit prior notice to the POTW Director, at least 10 days before the date of
the bypass, if possible.
         (b)   A user shall submit oral notice to the POTW Director of an
unanticipated bypass that exceeds applicable pretreatment standards within 24
hours from the time it becomes aware of the bypass.
         (c)   A written submission shall also be provided within 5 days of
this time the user becomes aware of the bypass.
         (d)   The written submission shall contain a description of the bypass
and its cause; the duration of the bypass, including exact dates and times,
and, if the bypass has not been corrected, the anticipated time it is expected
to continue; and steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate and prevent
reoccurrence of the bypass.
         (e)   The POTW Director may waive the written report on a case-by-case
basis if the oral report has been received within 24 hours.
      (3)   (a)   Bypass is prohibited, and the POTW Director may take an
enforcement action against a user for a bypass, unless:
            1.   Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal
injury or severe property damage;
            2.   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the
use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not
satisfied if adequate back-up equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred
during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventive maintenance; and
            3.   The user submitted notices as required under division (C)(2)
above.
         (b)   The POTW Director may approve an anticipated bypass, after
considering its adverse effects, if the POTW Director determines that it will
meet the 3 conditions listed in division (C)(3)(a) above.
(Ord.– § 10, passed 9-26-2005)
FATS, OILS, AND GREASES
§ 53.75 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The intent of this subchapter is to aid in the prevention of sanitary
sewer blockages and obstructions from contribution and accumulation of fats,
oils, and greases into the sewer system from industrial or commercial
establishments, particularly food preparation and serving facilities.
   (B)   This subchapter shall also apply to persons or companies outside the
town who are, by contract or agreement with the town, users of the town’s
wastewater collection system or POTW. The Public Works Director and/or Town
Manager shall administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this
subchapter.
(Ord. passed 2-23-2009)
§ 53.76 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COOKING ESTABLISHMENTS. Those establishments primarily engaged in activities
of preparing, serving or otherwise making available for consumption foodstuff
and that use one or more of the following preparation activities: cooking by
frying (all methods), baking (all methods), grilling, sauteing, rotisserie
cooking, broillng (all methods), blanching, roasting, toasting or poaching.
Also included are infrared heating, searing, barbecuing, and any other food
preparation activity that produces a hot, non-drinkable food product in or on a
receptacle that requires washing.
   FATS, OILS, AND GREASES. Organic polar compounds derived from animal and/or
plant sources that contain multiple carbon chain triglyceride molecules. These
substances are detectable and measurable using analytical test procedures
established by 40 C.F.R. 136 (Federal Register), as may be amended from time to
time. All are sometimes referred to herein as “Grease” or “Greases.”
   GREASE TRAP INTERCEPTOR. A device for separating and retaining waterborne
greases and grease complexes prior to wastewater exiting the trap and entering
the sanitary sewer collection and treatment system. These devices also serve to
collect settable solids, generated by and from food preparation activities,
prior to the water exiting the trap and entering the sanitary sewer collection
and treatment system. Grease Traps and interceptors are sometimes referred to
herein as “Grease Interceptors.”
   USER. Any person or company, including those located outside the
jurisdictional limits of the town, who contributes, causes, or permits the
contribution or discharge of wastewater into the sanitary sewer system.
   VEHICLE MAINTENANCE FACILITY. Any commercial or industrial facility where
automobiles, trucks or equipment are serviced or maintained, including garages,
service stations, repair shops, oil lubrication shops, or similar
establishments.
(Ord. passed 2-23-2009)
§ 53.77 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No later than 1 year after adoption of this subchapter, all users
shall install grease traps or interceptors designed to limit the introduction,
contribution and discharge of greases into the town’s wastewater collection
system or POTW. Grease traps and interceptors with appropriate sampling or
inspection points shall be installed at the user’s expense whenever any user
operates a commercial establishment, industrial establishment, or a cooking
establishment. Grease traps and interceptors must have a minimum capacity of
1,000 gallons. No user shall allow wastewater discharge concentration from
subject grease interceptor to exceed 200 mg/l (milligrams per liter), as
identified by EPA Method 1664.
   (B)   Alternative methods of compliance by existing establishments may be
approved by the town if the user demonstrates that compliance with this
subchapter is impossible or impractical at the time of adoption of this
subchapter as a result of limited space, production of waste grease, and taking
into account the circumstances of the business’s operation. However, any such
proposed alternative method of compliance will be required to meet the
performance criteria specified in division (A) of this section, and the user
must adequately demonstrate to the satisfaction of the town that the proposed
alternative method will satisfy those performance criteria. In addition, any
such alternative method must be cleaned at a more frequent interval than is
required of grease traps and interceptors under §
53.79(A). Prior to approval of any such proposed alternative method of
compliance, documentation of the proposed method’s actual performance criteria
must be submitted to the town’s Public Works Director and/or Town Manager for
review and approval.
   (C)   Grease traps and interceptors may also be required in other facilities
such as schools, service stations, car washes, vehicle repair and lubrication
facilities, nursing homes and any other facility that handles grease and which
discharges wastewater containing grease into the town sewer collection system.
   (D)   Existing establishments with an existing grease interception system
that does not meet the standards may be required to upgrade the system or may
be allowed to continue use of the present system subject to requirements such
as a clean-out frequency less than 90 days.
(Ord. passed 2-23-2009) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.78 EXEMPTIONS.
   Upon prior written approval of the Public Works Director, establishments may
be exempted from the requirements of this subchapter after an inspection of the
subject premises and submission of adequate supporting documentation, as deemed
necessary in the sole and absolute discretion of the Public Works Director and/
or Town Manager. At a minimum, such supporting documentation shall include:
blueprints of the subject premises, a full and detailed description of the
operations and activities at the subject premises, and a full and detailed list
of all potential sources of grease at the subject premises. Any exemption may
be subject to revocation as a result of change in operations and/or activities
at the subject establishment.
(Ord. passed 2-23-2009)
§ 53.79 MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Users shall empty and service grease traps and interceptors to comply
with the performance criteria in §
53.77(A) and (B) as often as necessary, but in any event no longer than 90
days. Under-the-counter types of grease traps and interceptors shall be cleaned
at least daily, and shall comply with the performance criteria in §
53.77(A). There shall be no reintroduction of wastewater back into the grease
trap or interceptor unless and until said wastewater has been proven to contain
200 mg/l or less grease. Under no circumstances shall the sludge or scum layer
be reintroduced or discharged into the town’s wastewater collection system or
POTW.
   (B)   Users shall supply (a) an adequate sampling point downstream of the
grease trap or interceptor prior to mixing with other sanitary flows, and (b)
an accessible entry into each chamber of the grease trap or interceptor. The
minimum requirement for the sampling point shall be a 4-inch vertical clean-
out.
   (C)   Users are required to keep the grease trap or interceptor free of
inorganic solids such as grit, towels, gloves, cigarettes, eating utensils,
etc., which would clog or settle in the trap or interceptor, thereby reducing
the effective volume or capacity of the trap or interceptor.
(Ord. passed 2-23-2009) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.80 RECORDKEEPING.
   Users shall retain detailed records on-site for a minimum of 3 years
reflecting all maintenance performed under this subchapter. At a minimum, such
records shall contain the following information: date of service, name of the
employee involved, and a receipt reflecting all services rendered by the waste
hauler providing the service.
(Ord. passed 2-23-2009) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.81 REMOVAL.
   Users are required to ensure that all waste material removed from the grease
traps and interceptors is disposed of in a manner that complies with all
federal, state, and local statutes, rules, regulations, policies, and
ordinances.
(Ord. passed 2-23-2009) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.82 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Public Works Director (or his or her designee) will conduct a
minimum of 1 compliance inspection annually, based on compliance history,
collection system problems, etc. Except as provided herein, for a period of 1
year following the adoption of this subchapter, no enforcement actions will be
taken for failure to achieve the performance criteria specified in §
53.77.
   (B)   Failure to service the grease trap or interceptor in the time period
required and/or failure to provide required documentation shall each constitute
a violation of this subchapter. Users who continue to violate this subchapter
may be subject to discontinuance of water service. The town may assess
surcharges or penalties as specified in the town sewer use ordinance.
   (C)   If an obstruction of any of the town’s sanitary sewer main(s) occurs
and causes a sewer overflow, spill, leak, or other event with any environmental
impact, and the event can be attributed in part or in whole to a particular
user, then the town will seek enforcement action under the sewer use ordinance
and/or the pretreatment enforcement plan.
(Ord. passed 2-23-2009)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any user who is found to have failed to comply with any
provision of this chapter, or the orders, rules, regulations and permits issued
hereunder, may be fined up to $25,000 per day per violation.
      (2)   Penalties between $10,000 and $25,000 per day per violation may be
assessed against a violator only if:
         (a)   For any class of violation, only if a civil penalty has been
imposed against the violator with in the 5 years preceding the violation; or
         (b)   In the case of failure to file, submit or make available, as the
case may be, any documents, data or reports required by this chapter, or the
orders, rules, regulations and permits issued hereunder, only if the POTW
Director determines that the violation was intentional and a civil penalty has
been imposed against the violator within the 5 years preceding the violation.
   (B)   In determining the amount of the civil penalty, the POTW Director
shall consider the following:
      (1)   The degree and extent of the harm to the natural resources, to the
public health or to public or private property resulting from the violation;
      (2)   The duration and gravity of the violation;
      (3)   The effect on ground or surface water quantity or quality or on air
quality;
      (4)   The cost of rectifying the damage;
      (5)   The amount of money saved by noncompliance;
      (6)   Whether the violation was committed willfully or intentionally;
      (7)   The prior record of the violator in complying or failing to comply
with the pretreatment program; and
      (8)   The costs of enforcement to the town.
   (C)   Appeals of civil penalties assessed in accordance with this section
shall be as provided in §
53.30(H) above.
(Ord.– § 8.2, passed 9-26-2005)
CHAPTER 54: SOLID WASTE COLLECTION
Section
   
54.01   Authority
   
54.02   Title
   
54.03   Purpose and intent
   
54.04   Definitions
   
54.05   Collection rates
§ 54.01 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is adopted under the authority of G.S. Ch. 160A, Article 16.
(Ord. passed 2-23-1998)
§ 54.02 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as, referred to or cited as the Solid Waste
Collection Fee Chapter for the Town of Liberty and hereinafter referred to as
this chapter.
(Ord. passed 2-23-1998)
§ 54.03 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   With the increase in state and federal mandates and the decrease in state
and federal revenues, the purpose of this chapter is to establish unit charges
to recover a portion of the expenditures associated with solid waste
collection. Furthermore, the intent of this chapter is to establish a fee
structure that is fair and equitable to all citizens.
(Ord. passed 2-23-1998)
§ 54.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CURB-SIDE PICKUP. The placing of solid waste in bags or containers no
greater than 95-gallon capacity for pickup along the street right-of-way.
   DUMPSTER CONTAINER. Large metal container that requires special handling by
garbage truck (either front or rear loading).
   INDIVIDUAL BUSINESS UNIT. Any structure that qualifies for curb-side pickup.
   INDIVIDUAL RESIDENTIAL UNIT. A single-family dwelling, mobile home or
apartment unit.
(Ord. passed 2-23-1998)
§ 54.05 COLLECTION RATES.
   (A)   All individual residential units and business units that qualify for
curb-side pickup will be charged a solid waste collection fee per the Town of
Liberty fee schedule (churches included).
   (B)   The solid waste collection fee will be itemized and included on the
water bill and, therefore, will have the same billing cycle, due date and
collection procedures.
   (C)   Partial payments on the combined water, sewer/solid waste collection
bill shall first be applied to the solid waste collection fee.
(Ord. passed 2-23-1998)
CHAPTER 55: HAZARDOUS WASTE
Section
General Provisions
   
55.01   Title
   
55.02   Definitions
Regulations of Hazardous Waste
   
55.10   Purpose
   
55.11   Prohibition of uses
   
55.12   Exceptions
Management of Hazardous Waste
   
55.20   Purpose
   
55.21   Special use permit required
   
55.22   Exceptions
   
55.23   Conditions for a special use permit
   
55.24   Application procedures
 
   
55.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 55.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Town of Liberty
Hazardous Waste Ordinance.
(Ord. passed 5-24-1982)
§ 55.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Any waste material including radioactive material which is
now or may be listed as a hazardous waste pursuant to the United States
Environmental Protection Agency's Hazardous Waste  Guidelines and Regulations
as published in the Federal Register (40 C.F.R., Part 261, May 19, 1980), or
any amendments thereto and any other waste or radioactive materials which shall
be listed from time to time by the United States Environmental Protection
Agency as hazardous waste.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, partnership, firm, association, trust,
estate, public or private institution, group or agency.
   PLANNING BOARD. The Town of Liberty Planning Board.
   TO STORE. To hold, deposit or accumulate either in a warehouse, vehicle,
building or pit, on a lot or in containers for a continuous period of time
exceeding 24 hours.
(Ord. passed 5-24-1982)
REGULATIONS OF HAZARDOUS WASTE
§ 55.10 PURPOSE.
   To define, regulate, prohibit, or abate acts, omissions, or conditions
detrimental to the health, safety, or welfare of the citizens of Liberty and to
protect the persons and property in the jurisdiction of the Town of Liberty
from the harmful effects of hazardous waste material.
(Ord. passed 5-24-1982)
§ 55.11 PROHIBITION OF USES.
   The use of land or building structures for storage, disposal, accumulation,
repackaging, incineration, burial or reprocessing of any hazardous waste
material by any person within the jurisdiction of the Town of Liberty is
prohibited except where said waste materials are produced within the Town of
Liberty incidental to the uses permitted by the Zoning Ordinance of the Town of
Liberty. In no case shall any hazardous waste material be disposed of or buried
within the jurisdiction of the Town of Liberty.
(Ord. passed 5-24-1982)
Penalty, see § 55.99
§ 55.12 EXCEPTIONS.
   This subchapter does not apply to the lawful use by properly licensed
operators of radiation machines or radioactive materials for medical diagnostic
and treatment purposes and this subchapter does not apply to the use of
radiation machines or radioactive materials by properly licensed and qualified
operators in the testing laboratories, electronics communications, word
processing, data processing, inspection, quality control or other legitimate
manufacturing processes.
(Ord. passed 5-24-1982)
MANAGEMENT OF HAZARDOUS WASTE
§ 55.20 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter establishes a process by which hazardous waste facilities
may be allowed within the jurisdiction of the Town of Liberty where these
facilities would not otherwise be acceptable. By means of conditions exercised
through a special use permit procedure, hazardous waste facilities will be
subject to high standards of planning and design in order to minimize any
dangerous conditions which could exist and to protect the persons and property
in Liberty's jurisdiction from the harmful effects of hazardous waste material.
(Ord. passed 5-24-1982)
§ 55.21 SPECIAL USE PERMIT REQUIRED.
   The use of land, building structures or vehicles for the storage,
collection, repackaging, reprocessing, transferring or transporting of any
hazardous waste material by any person in the Town of Liberty shall not be
permitted as a matter of right but only after review and approval as
hereinafter provided. A special use permit to operate said uses is required and
may be granted by the Town Council of the Town of Liberty subject to the
conditions set forth in this subchapter. In no case shall any person, including
those listed in §
55.22, dispose of or bury any hazardous waste material in the Town of Liberty.
(Ord. passed 5-24-1982)
Penalty, see § 55.99
§ 55.22 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   This subchapter does not apply to hazardous waste materials which are
produced within the Town of Liberty incidental to the uses permitted by the
Town of Liberty Zoning Ordinance.
   (B)   This subchapter does not apply to the lawful use by properly licensed
operators of radiation machines or radioactive materials for medical diagnostic
and treatment purposes and this subchapter does not apply to the use of
radiation machines or radioactive materials by properly licensed and qualified
operators in the testing laboratories, electronics communication, work
processing, data processing, inspection, quality control or other legitimate
manufacturing processes.
(Ord. passed 5-24-1982)
§ 55.23 CONDITIONS FOR A SPECIAL USE PERMIT.
   (A)   Recordkeeping. The owner or operator of the hazardous waste facilities
shall keep adequate records or manifests such that the type and amount of waste
materials on site or in transport within the jurisdiction of the Town of
Liberty can be determined at all times. These records or manifests shall be
available for inspection, upon request, by any official or representative of
the town so designated by the Town Council of the Town of Liberty.
   (B)   Protection from waste discharge. Adequate safeguards shall be provided
to ensure that no discharge of waste materials harmful to human health or the
environment will occur. These safeguards shall include at least the following:
      (1)   All storage containers, storage yards, loading facilities, building
or structures containing hazardous waste materials shall be located no closer
than 100 feet from any exterior property line.
      (2)   Facilities, including transporting vehicles, must be designed,
constructed, maintained, and operated to minimize the possibility of a fire or
explosion, or any unplanned sudden or non-sudden release of hazardous waste
materials to air, soil, or surface water which could threaten human health or
the environment.
      (3)   Prior to any storage of hazardous waste material, dikes or other
structures shall be constructed such that all surface spills or discharges of
hazardous waste material will be contained on site.
      (4)   The owner or operator must prevent the unknowing entry, and
minimize the possibility for the unauthorized entry, of persons or livestock
onto the active portion of the facility.
      (5)   The petitioner shall agree that contingency plans will be developed
upon receipt of special use permit and submitted to the Town of Liberty before
operation of the facility begins. These plans must describe the actions to be
taken by local officials and emergency and safety departments in response to
fires, explosions, or any unplanned sudden or non-sudden release of hazardous
waste materials to air, soil, or surface water at the facility or while the
hazardous waste materials are in transport within the jurisdiction of the Town
of Liberty.
   (C)   Odors and particulates. No obnoxious odors or particulate matter from
the hazardous waste facilities shall be discernible on adjoining properties.
   (D)   Off-site transport. As a prerequisite to the approval of a special use
permit, the Town Council of the Town of Liberty shall find that the use of the
proposed facility will not endanger the safety of residential or other
properties in the area, and that vehicular access to the storage or
transferring facility will be provided from major thoroughfares and will not
require the use of residential streets for access to the site.
   (E)   Inspection. The owner or operator of the hazardous waste facility
shall allow authorized officials or representatives of the Town of Liberty
access to the site and all facilities at any time and without prior notice. The
purpose of such inspection shall only be to check for compliance with the
provisions of the special use permit.
   (F)   Monitoring. In the event of any assumed or actual accidental discharge
of hazardous waste the petitioner shall agree to pay the cost of all monitoring
and analyses of air, soil and surface or subsurface water quality as may be
deemed necessary by the Town Council to protect human health and the
environment. The monitoring may take place on- and/or off-site and shall be
conducted by a certified laboratory which has no association with either the
Town of Liberty or the petitioner.
   (G)   Insurance requirement. The owners of said hazardous waste facility
shall provide evidence that they have adequate liability insurance to cover the
cost of all clean-up which may become necessary as the result of any spill or
discharge of hazardous wastes either during storage, transferring or
transporting within the jurisdiction of the Town of Liberty.
   (H)   Required buffers. Where a hazardous waste facility abuts a lot in a
residential district or land occupied by any residential use permitted by this
subchapter, there shall be provided and maintained along said property line, a
continuous visual buffer. The buffer shall be a compact evergreen hedge or
other type of evergreen foliage screening, or shall be a combined fence and
shrubbery screen, the latter facing the residential use.
(Ord. passed 5-24-1982)
Penalty, see § 55.99
§ 55.24 APPLICATION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The owner or owners of all property included in the petition for a
special use permit shall submit an application to the Town Manager or his or
her designated representative. Such an application shall include the name of
the petitioner, date, location of proposed facilities on a vicinity map, and
plans and/or specifications for said facilities.
   (B)   (1)   Each application shall require an analysis of the environmental
and economic impacts of the facilities proposed in the application. This
analysis shall be completed within 120 days after the application for the
proposed facilities is submitted and shall be conducted by the town, staff or a
consultant selected by the Town Council.
      (2)   The petitioner shall agree to pay all reasonable costs incurred by
the Town of Liberty in processing the application and in completing an analysis
of the environmental and economic impacts of the proposed facilities.
   (C)   Upon receiving the environmental and economic analysis of the proposed
facilities, the Town Manager shall give notice of a public hearing on the
application.
   (D)   The Planning Board and the Town Council shall sit jointly at the
public hearing at which all interested persons shall be permitted to testify.
   (E)   The Planning Board shall forward its recommendation to the Town
Council within 30 days after the hearing at which the application is heard.
Failure to submit a recommendation within this period shall be deemed a
favorable recommendation.
   (F)   On receiving the recommendation of the Planning Board, the Town
Council shall consider the application and said recommendation and may grant or
deny the special use permit requested. The special use permit, if granted,
shall include such approved plans as may be required. In granting the permit
the Town Council shall find:
      (1)   That the use will not materially endanger the public health or
safety if located where proposed and developed according to the plans as
submitted and approved;
      (2)   That the use meets all required conditions and specifications of
this subchapter and any requirements of the Randolph County Health Department;
      (3)   That the use will not substantially injure the value of adjoining
or abutting property, or that the use is a public necessity; and
      (4)   That the location and character of the use, if developed according
to the plan as submitted and approved, will be in harmony with the area in
which it is to be located and in general conformity with the plan of
development for the Town of Liberty.
   (G)   In granting the permit, the Planning Board may recommend and the Town
Council may designate such conditions, in addition and in connection therewith,
as will, in its opinion, assure that the use in its proposed location will be
harmonious with the area in which it is proposed to be located and with the
spirit of this subchapter. All such additional conditions shall be entered in
the minutes of the meeting at which the permit is granted and also on the
certificate of the special use permit or on the plans submitted therewith. All
specific conditions shall run with the land and shall be binding on the
original applicants for the special use permit, their heirs, successors and
assigns.
   (H)   If the Planning Board recommends the approval or disapproval of the
special use permit, and if the Town Council grants or denies the permit, each
body shall enter the reasons for its action in the minutes of the meeting at
which the action is taken.
   (I)   Final approval or disapproval of the application will rest with the
Town Council of the Town of Liberty.
   (J)   In the event of failure to comply with the plans approved by the Town
Council or with any other conditions imposed upon the special use permit, the
permit shall thereupon immediately become void and of no effect. No building
permits for further construction or certificates of occupancy under this
special use permit shall be issued, and any facilities in operation will be
considered in violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 5-24-1982)
§ 55.99 PENALTY.
   Any person convicted of violating any provision of this chapter shall be
punished by fine or imprisonment as provided by G.S. § 14-4. Every calendar day
during which the violation shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. passed 5-24-1982)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      Chapter
         
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
         
72.   REGISTRATION AND LICENSE TAX
         
73.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
         
74.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Stop lights; no turn on red
   
70.03   Flashing red or yellow lights required at certain intersections and
locations
   
70.04   Stop signs required at certain intersections
   
70.05   One-way streets
   
70.06   Yield right-of-way signs at certain intersections
   
70.07   Turning regulated
   
70.08   Unlawful passing
   
70.09   Crosswalks and safety zones
   
70.10   Weight limitations on certain streets
   
70.11   Blocking intersections and crosswalks
   
70.12   General speed limit
   
70.13   Speed limits
   
70.14   Funeral processions
   
70.15   Bicycles, toy vehicles and the like
   
70.16   Unmuffled engine compression brakes (jake brakes)
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR.
      (1)   The Public Works Director or any other person designated by the
Manager to perform the functions assigned by this chapter to the Administrator.
      (2)   Whenever this chapter authorizes or requires the Administrator to
install a traffic control device controlling parking or regulating the movement
of traffic on, to or from a state highway system street and the installation of
a device is in practice a function of the State Department of Transportation,
the Administrator may discharge his or her responsibility by requesting the
State Department of Transportation to install the device.
   DRIVER. The operator of a vehicle.
   HIGHWAY or STREET.
      (1)   The entire width between property or right-of-way lines of every
way or place of whatever nature, when any part thereof is open to the use of
the public as a matter of right for the purposes of vehicular traffic.
      (2)   The terms HIGHWAY or STREET or a combination of the 2 terms shall
be used synonymously.
   INTERSECTION.
      (1)   The area embraced within the prolongation of the lateral curb lines
or, if none, then the lateral edge of roadway lines of 2 or more highways which
join one another at any angle whether or not one highway crosses the other.
      (2)   Where a highway includes 2 roadways 30 feet or more apart, then
every crossing of each roadway of the divided highway by an intersecting
highway shall be regarded as a separate intersection.
   LOCAL STREET. A street within the town that is not part of the state highway
system.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle that is self-propelled and every vehicle
designed to run upon the highways that is pulled by a self-propelled vehicle.
   OPERATOR. A person in actual physical control of a vehicle that is in motion
or that has the engine running.
   PARKING or STANDING.
      (1)   A vehicle is parked or is permitted to stand when it is stopped and
allowed to remain in a fixed location for any duration of time, whether
attended or unattended.
      (2)   Except where the context clearly indicates otherwise, the
limitations on PARKING and STANDING in this chapter apply only to locations
within a street right-of-way.
      (3)   In no case do these limitations apply when a vehicle is stopped to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with law or the directions
of a police officer or traffic control device or as the result of an emergency
or because the vehicle is disabled.
   ROADWAY.
      (1)   That portion of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of the shoulder.
      (2)   In the event a highway includes 2 or more separate ROADWAYS, the
term ROADWAY as used herein shall refer to any roadway separately but not to
all roadways collectively.
   SAFETY ZONE. A traffic island or other space that is officially set aside
within a highway for the exclusive use of pedestrians and that is so plainly
marked or indicated by proper signs as to be plainly visible at all times while
set apart as a safety zone.
   STATE HIGHWAY SYSTEM STREET.
      (1)   A street within the town that is part of the state highway system.
      (2)   Whenever this chapter regulates parking or the movement of traffic
on, to or from a STATE HIGHWAY SYSTEM STREET, then to the extent that
concurrence by the State Department of Transportation is necessary (by passage
of a concurring ordinance or otherwise) the regulation shall not become
effective until the concurrence is obtained.
      (3)   The streets that are part of the state highway system are set forth
in Ch. 73, Sch. I.
   STREET. See HIGHWAY.
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICE. Any sign, signal, marking or other device placed or
erected pursuant to a lawfully adopted ordinance and designed to regulate,
warn, guide or control traffic.
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL. Any device designed to regulate, guide or control
traffic through the use of alternating or flashing lights or by some other
mechanical means.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices moved by human power or
used exclusively upon fixed rails or tracks; provided, that for the purpose of
this chapter bicycles shall be deemed vehicles and every rider of a bicycle
upon a highway shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter applicable to
the driver of a vehicle except those which by their nature can have no
application.
(1981 Code, § 6-1)
§ 70.02 STOP LIGHTS; NO TURN ON RED.
   (A)   The Administrator shall erect or install mechanical stop lights to
regulate vehicular and pedestrian traffic at the intersections and locations
set forth in Ch. 73, Sch. II. The effect of stop lights on vehicles and
pedestrians shall be as provided in G.S. §§ 20-158 and 20-172.
   (B)   The Administrator shall erect signs notifying motorists that no right
turn on red is permitted at the locations designated in Ch. 73, Sch. II. When
signs are erected, no person may make a right turn against a red light contrary
to those signs.
(1981 Code, § 6-2) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 FLASHING RED OR YELLOW LIGHTS REQUIRED AT CERTAIN INTERSECTIONS AND
LOCATIONS.
   (A)   The Administrator shall erect or install mechanical red or yellow
blinking or flashing lights at the intersections and other locations set forth
in
Chapter 73, Sch. X.
   (B)   The effect of blinking or flashing red or yellow lights on vehicles
and pedestrians shall be as provided in G.S. §§ 20-158 and 20-172.
(1981 Code, § 6-3) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04 STOP SIGNS REQUIRED AT CERTAIN INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The second-named street in the list of intersections set forth in
Ch. 73, Sch. III is hereby designated as a main traveled or through street, and
the Administrator shall erect stop signs on the first named street at the
entrance to the main traveled or through street. The effect of stop signs on
vehicles and pedestrians shall be as provided in G.S. §§ 20-158 and 20-172.
   (B)   The intersections of the streets set forth in
Ch. 73, Sch. IV are declared to be 4-way stop intersections, and the
Administrator shall erect stop signs on each street at the entrance to the
intersection. The effect of a stop sign on vehicles and pedestrians shall be as
provided in G.S. §§ 20-158 and 20-172.
(1981 Code, § 6-4) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 ONE-WAY STREETS.
   (A)   Whenever a street is designated a 1-way street and traffic control
devices are installed in accordance with division (B) below, no person may
drive a vehicle on the street except in the direction indicated by the traffic
control devices (Note: G.S. § 20-165.1 makes it unlawful to drive contrary to a
sign erected by the State Department of Transportation).
   (B)   The streets set forth in
Chapter 73, Sch. XI are hereby designated 1-way streets, and the Administrator
shall install appropriate traffic control devices at every intersection clearly
indicating the direction of lawful traffic movement.
(1981 Code, § 6-5)
§ 70.06 YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY SIGNS AT CERTAIN INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The second named street in the list of intersections set forth in
Ch. 73, Sch. V is hereby designated as a main traveled or through street, and
the Administrator shall erect yield right-of-way signs on the first named
street and the entrance to the main traveled or through street.
   (B)   The effect of a yield right-of-way signs on vehicles and pedestrians
shall be as provided in G.S. §§ 20-158 and 20-172.
(1981 Code, § 6-6) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.07 TURNING REGULATED.
   (A)   Whenever, pursuant to division (B) below appropriate traffic control
devices are installed that clearly indicate that right or left turns, U-turns
or all turns are prohibited or required from a particular lane of traffic, no
person shall drive any vehicle contrary to the directions of any traffic
control devices so installed.
   (B)   The restrictions on turning set forth in
Ch. 73, Sch. VI shall henceforth be in effect at the locations indicated
therein and the Administrator shall install appropriate traffic control devices
that clearly and adequately notify drivers of the turns required or prohibited.
(1981 Code, § 6-7)
§ 70.08 UNLAWFUL PASSING.
   (A)   Whenever, pursuant to division (B) below, appropriate traffic control
devices have been installed that clearly indicate that no passing is allowed on
a portion of any street, no driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another
on any portion of any street so restricted (Note: G.S. § 20-150(e) makes it
unlawful to pass contrary to signs posted by the State Department of
Transportation).
   (B)   The Administrator may install appropriate traffic control devices to
indicate that no passing is allowed whenever and wherever he or she determines
that passing would be unsafe on that portion of a street because:
      (1)   The street intersects with another street;
      (2)   The slope or grade of the street is such or the street curves to
such an extent that a driver's view is obstructed within a distance of 500
feet; or
      (3)   Any other conditions exist making passing hazardous.
(1981 Code, § 6-8)
§ 70.09 CROSSWALKS AND SAFETY ZONES.
   (A)   The Council finds that there is a particular danger to pedestrians
crossing the roadway at the locations as set forth in
Ch. 73, Sch. VI and the Administrator shall establish and maintain crosswalks
and safety zones at these locations by placing marks or lanes upon the surface
of the roadway or by other traffic control devices.
   (B)   The effect of crosswalks upon vehicles and pedestrians shall be as
provided in G.S. §§ 20-173 and 20-174, and other provisions of law.
   (C)   As provided in G.S. § 20-160(b), no driver of a vehicle may drive
through or over a safety zone.
(1981 Code, § 6-9) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.10 WEIGHT LIMITATIONS ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   (A)   Whenever, pursuant to division (B) below, the Administrator installs a
traffic control device clearly stating or indicating that through trucks are
not permitted on a street or any portion thereof, no person may drive any truck
having 6 wheels or more on any like street or portion thereof unless the
truck's destination or point of origin is on that street.
   (B)   The streets or portions thereof set forth in
Ch. 73, Sch. VII are hereby designated “no through trucks” streets and the
Administrator shall install appropriate traffic control devices that clearly
give notice of the designation.
(1981 Code, § 6-10) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.11 BLOCKING INTERSECTIONS AND CROSSWALKS.
   No driver may enter an intersection or marked crosswalk unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate the vehicle he or she is operating without obstructing the passage
of other vehicles or pedestrians.
(1981 Code, § 6-11) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.12 GENERAL SPEED LIMIT.
   As provided in G.S. § 20-141(b)(1) , no person may drive a vehicle on a
street or in a public vehicular area in excess of 35 mph unless a different
speed is established by this chapter.
(1981 Code, § 6-19) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.13 SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   Whenever a speed limit has been established and appropriate traffic
control devices have been installed in accordance with division (B) below, no
person may operate a vehicle on any street in excess of the posted speed.
   (B)   The speed limits set forth in
Chapter 73, Sch. XIII shall be applicable to the streets specified therein, and
the Administrator shall install appropriate traffic control devices clearly
indicating the established speed limit.
(1981 Code, § 6-20) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.14 FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   (A)   A funeral procession shall be identified as in a manner determined by
the Chief of Police to be adequate to give notice to the other drivers of the
existence of a procession.
   (B)   Each driver in a funeral possession shall drive as near to the right-
hand edge of the road as practicable and shall follow the vehicle ahead as
closely as possible consistent with obedience to traffic control signals and
safe driving practices.
   (C)   No person may drive a vehicle between the vehicles constituting a
funeral procession when vehicles are in motion and are conspicuously designated
as provided in division (A).
(1981 Code, § 6-36) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.15 BICYCLES, TOY VEHICLES AND THE LIKE.
    (A)   No person upon roller skates or a skateboard, or riding in or by
means of any coaster, toy vehicle, skateboard or similar device may go upon any
roadway except while crossing a street at a crosswalk.
   (B)   No person upon roller skates or a skateboard or riding a bicycle,
coaster, toy vehicle or similar device may attach himself or herself or a
vehicle or device to any moving motor vehicle.
   (C)   No person may ride or drive a bicycle, roller skates, coaster, toy
vehicle, skateboard or similar device upon any sidewalk within the area zoned
Central Business District in Chapter
154.
   (D)   The driver of a motorcycle or bicycle when upon the street may not
carry any other person upon the handlebars, tank or any other part of a
motorcycle or bicycle not designated for carrying passengers.
(1981 Code, § 6-37) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.16 UNMUFFLED ENGINE COMPRESSION BRAKES (JAKE BRAKES).
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      UNMUFFLED ENGINE COMPRESSION BRAKE. A motor vehicle brake which is
activated or worked by the compression of the engine of a motor vehicle, and
which is not effectively muffled to prevent excessive noise.
   (B)   Purpose. The use of engine compression brakes, also known as “jake
brakes” by motor vehicles, creates noise which unreasonably and excessively
disturbs the public, and adoption of this section would further the public
health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of the town.
   (C)   Prohibition.
      (1)   No person shall use an engine braking system within the corporate
limits of the town which is in any way activated or operated by the compression
of the engine of any such motor vehicle or any such unit or part thereof,
except in cases of emergency or necessary for the protection of persons and/or
property. Such braking is commonly referred to as compression braking or a
“jake brake.”
      (2)   The town will identify the areas that engine braking is prohibited
and signs shall be conspicuously posted in such areas stating: “No engine
braking” or its equivalent.
(Ord. passed 12-28-2009)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any violation of the following sections shall constitute a
misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not more than $50 or imprisonment for not
more than 30 days, or both: §§
70.05,
70.07,
70.08,
70.10,
70.12,
70.13,
70.14 and
70.15.
   (C)   Violation of §
70.16 shall constitute a traffic infraction and shall be punished by a penalty
of $250 per violation.
   (D)   If the offender fails to pay this penalty within 10 days after being
cited for a violation and notified of the penalty, then the failure to pay
shall be a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not more than $50 or
imprisonment for not more than 30 days, or both.
(1981 Code, § 6-43) (Am. Ord. passed 12-28-2009; Am. Ord. passed 11-22-2021)
CHAPTER 71: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Parking prohibited in certain locations; no traffic-control devices
required
   
71.02   Certain streets; certain times; parking prohibited
   
71.03   Parking prohibited for certain purposes
   
71.04   Parking close to curb; marked spaces
   
71.05   Angle parking
   
71.06   General loading and unloading
   
71.07   School loading zones
   
71.08   Commercial loading zones
   
71.09   Public carrier loading zones
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01 PARKING PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN LOCATIONS; NO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person may park any vehicle or permit it to stand in any of the
following locations:
      (1)   As provided in G.S. § 20-162, in front of a private driveway;
      (2)   As provided in G.S. § 20-162, within 15 feet of either direction of
a fire hydrant (whether or not located in a public right of way) or the
entrance to a fire station;
      (3)   As provided in G.S. § 20-162, within 15 feet of the intersection of
curb lines, or if none, then within 15 feet of the intersection of property
lines at an intersection of highways;
      (4)   Within an intersection or on a marked crosswalk;
      (5)   Within 30 feet of any traffic control signal or device installed at
an intersection, regardless of whether the vehicle is located within or outside
of the public right-of-way;
      (6)   On a sidewalk or on the space between the sidewalk and the curb;
      (7)   No person shall stop or park a vehicle on any street so as to
impede traffic; especially the quick and timely response of any emergency
vehicle. IMPEDE means to require the operator of the moving vehicle to operate
off the paved portion of any roadway;
      (8)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped, standing or parked at
the edge of a curb or street;
      (9)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
parking or standing would obstruct traffic;
      (10)   Upon any bridge, overpass or other elevated structure or within
any tunnel or other underpass structure;
      (11)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
      (12)   In any alley or private road in a manner or under conditions so as
to leave available less than 10 feet of the width of the roadway for the free
movement of vehicular travel or to block the driveway entrance to any abutting
property;
      (13)   In any parking space clearly marked as reserved for the
handicapped, whether on public or private property, unless the driver of or a
passenger in the vehicle is handicapped, as set forth in
Ch. 74, Sch. I;
      (14)   No person shall stop or park a vehicle in any areas so designated
as a fire lane;
      (15)   No person shall stop or park a vehicle in front of any driveway;
and
      (16)   No person shall park any vehicle on the left side of any street
while that parked vehicle is facing traffic.
   (B)   The Administrator may install no parking signs, yellow curb markings
or other traffic control devices to indicate where parking and standing is
prohibited as stated in division (A) above, but enforcement of the provisions
of this section is not dependent on the installation of the devices.
(1981 Code, § 6-23) (Am. Ord. passed 5-22-2006) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 CERTAIN STREETS; CERTAIN TIMES; PARKING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Whenever, pursuant to division (B) below, the Administrator has
installed signs, yellow pavement markings or other traffic control devices
clearly indicating that parking or standing within a specified area is
prohibited, or is allowed only at certain times or for a certain duration, no
person may park any vehicle or permit it to stand contrary to the directions of
those traffic control devices.
   (B)   The Administrator shall install no-parking signs, yellow curb markings
or traffic control devices to indicate that parking and standing is prohibited
under the circumstances and at the locations set forth in
Ch. 74, Sch. II.
(1981 Code, § 6-24) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 PARKING PROHIBITED FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES.
   No person may park any vehicle or permit it to stand upon any street for any
of the following principal purposes:
   (A)   Displaying it for sale, except foreclosure and judicial sales;
   (B)   Washing, greasing, changing tires or repairing a vehicle, except to
the extent necessitated by an emergency;
   (C)   Storing it; or
   (D)   Advertising.
(1981 Code, § 6-25) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 PARKING CLOSE TO CURB; MARKED SPACES.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no person may park a
vehicle or permit it to stand in a roadway other than parallel with the edge of
the roadway, heading in the direction of lawful traffic movement, and with the
wheels of the vehicle within 18 inches of the curb or the edge of the roadway.
   (B)   The Administrator may mark any street where parking is permitted with
lines that indicate the parking space for vehicles, and no person may park any
vehicle outside the lines.
(1981 Code, § 6-26) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 ANGLE PARKING.
   (A)   Whenever, pursuant to division (B) below, pavement markings have been
installed to indicate that angle parking is permitted, no person may park or
permit a vehicle to stand within an area so marked unless the vehicle is
located entirely within a marked space.
   (B)   Parking at an angle of approximately 45 degrees to the curb shall be
allowed at the locations set forth in
Ch. 74, Sch. III, and the Administrator shall mark the pavement at those areas
to indicate that only angle parking is permitted.
(1981 Code, § 6-27) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.06 GENERAL LOADING AND UNLOADING.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, whenever streets or
portions of streets are designated as vehicle loading and unloading zones in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter, parking and standing are
permitted in those locations, but only in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter.
(1981 Code, § 6-30)
§ 71.07 SCHOOL LOADING ZONES.
   (A)   Whenever a school loading zone is designated and clearly marked by
traffic control devices in accordance with division (B) below, no person may
park any vehicle or permit it to stand in any like zone for any purpose other
than the expeditious loading or unloading of school passengers, and then only
for a period not to exceed 10 minutes.
   (B)   The Council finds that a school loading zone is necessary in the
locations set forth in
Chapter 73, Sch. XIV to permit children and other passengers to be loaded and
unloaded from vehicles in safety, and the Administrator shall install
appropriate traffic control devices to give clear notice that parking or
standing within the locations specified therein is limited to 10 minutes.
(1981 Code, § 6-31) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.08 COMMERCIAL LOADING ZONES.
   (A)   Whenever a commercial loading zone is designated and marked by traffic
control devices in accordance with division (B) below, no person may park any
vehicle there or permit it to stand in any like zone for any purpose other than
the expeditious loading or pickup of materials and goods, or unloading and
delivery, and then only for a period not to exceed 30 minutes.
   (B)   The Council finds that a commercial loading and unloading zone is
necessary in the locations set forth in
Ch. 74, Sch. IV to accommodate the needs of adjacent businesses and
enterprises, and that the zone is consistent with the necessary free flow of
traffic and the public safety, and the Administrator shall install appropriate
traffic control devices to give clear note that parking or standing is limited
to 30 minutes.
(1981 Code, § 6-32) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.09 PUBLIC CARRIER LOADING ZONES.
   (A)   Whenever a bus stop or taxicab stand is designated and marked by
traffic control devices in accordance with division (B) below, no person may
park any vehicle other than a bus or a taxicab, respectively, in any zone so
designated and marked.
   (B)   The Council finds that a bus stop or taxicab stand is necessary in a
particular location to accommodate the needs of those requiring access to a
public carrier, and that the zone is consistent with the necessary free flow of
traffic and the public safety, and the Administrator shall install appropriate
traffic control devices to give clear notice that parking or standing by
vehicles other than buses and taxicabs, respectively, is prohibited within the
locations set forth in
Chapter 73, Sch. XIV.
   (C)   The operator of a bus shall not stop the vehicle upon any street or at
any place for the purpose of loading or unloading passengers or their baggage
except at a bus stop designated in accordance with this section.
(1981 Code, § 6-33) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any violation of the following sections shall subject the offender to
a civil penalty of $5, or as otherwise noted in the current Liberty Fee
Schedule: §§
71.01, (except §
71.01(A)(13), (14), (15) and (16)),
71.02 through
71.09.
   (C)   Any violation of §
71.01(A)(13), (14), (15) and (16) shall subject the offender to a civil penalty
of $25, or as otherwise noted in the current Liberty Fee Schedule.
   (D)   If the offender fails to pay the penalty within 10 days after being
cited for a violation and notified of the penalty, then the Administrator shall
cause a civil action to be filed to collect penalties and costs for violations
of these sections.
(1981 Code, § 6-43) (Am. Ord. passed 5-22-2006)
CHAPTER 72: REGISTRATION AND LICENSE TAX
Section
   
72.01   Registration of motor vehicles; payment of license
   
72.02   Deadline and period of registration
   
72.03   Operation of a motor vehicle without registration plate unlawful
 
   
72.99   Penalty
§ 72.01 REGISTRATION OF MOTOR VEHICLES; PAYMENT OF LICENSE.
   (A)   All motor vehicles that display current license plates and reside
within the town for more than a total of 14 days in any calendar year shall be
registered with the town in accordance with this chapter, and the owner thereof
shall pay to the town a tax of $5 for each vehicle so registered.
   (B)   (1)   Upon registration of a vehicle in accordance with division (A)
above, the town shall issue to the person registering the same an appropriately
numbered plate, sticker or other identifying device.
      (2)   Upon satisfactory evidence that the device has been lost or
destroyed, and payment of a fee of $.50, the town shall issue to the person who
has registered the vehicle a duplicate thereof.
(1981 Code, § 6-39) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 DEADLINE AND PERIOD OF REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Registration under this chapter shall be valid for the 12-month period
running from January 1 to December 31.
   (B)   Registration shall be completed not later than February 15 of each
year, or 16 days after the vehicle has resided in the town for 14 days,
whichever is sooner.
(1981 Code, § 6-40)
§ 72.03 OPERATION OF A MOTOR VEHICLE WITHOUT REGISTRATION PLATE UNLAWFUL.
   No person may operate or maintain within the town any motor vehicle required
by §
72.01 to be registered with the town unless the motor vehicle displays the
registration plate, sticker or other identifying device issued in accordance
with §
72.01(B).
(1981 Code, § 6-41) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any violation of §
72.03 shall subject the offender to a civil penalty of $5, or as otherwise
noted in the current Liberty Fee Schedule.
   (C)   If the offender fails to pay the penalty within 10 days after being
cited for a violation and notified of the penalty, then the Administrator shall
cause a civil action to be filed to collect penalties and costs for violations
of these sections.
(1981 Code, § 6-43) (Am. Ord. passed 5-22-2006)
CHAPTER 73: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   State highway system streets
   
II.   Stop lights; no turn on red
   
III.   Stop signs
   
IV.   Four-way stop signs
   
V.   Yield intersections
   
VI.   Crosswalks and safety zones
   
VII.   No through truck streets
   
VIII.   Speed limits
   
IX.   Speed limits during certain hours
   
X.   Flashing red or yellow lights
   
XI.   One-way streets
   
XII.   Turns prohibited
   
XIII.   Unlawful passing
   
XIV.   Reserved
SCHEDULE I. STATE HIGHWAY SYSTEM STREETS.
   In accordance with §
70.01, the following constitutes a list of all streets within the town that are
part of the State Highway System.
 
Street                           Location
Asheboro Street                  From Starmount Avenue to Swannanoa
                                 Street
Butler Avenue                    -
East Dameron Avenue              From South Greensboro Street to the town
                                 limits
                                 South Fayetteville Street from the town
N.C. 49                          limits to Swannanoa Street and all of
                                 Swannanoa Street
State Road 1006 (East Greensboro -
Street)
 
(1981 Code, Appendix A, § 6A-1) (Am. Ord. passed 9-29-2016)
SCHEDULE II. STOP LIGHTS; NO TURN ON RED.
   In accordance with §
70.02(A), stop lights shall be placed at the following locations.
 
Intersection; First Street Intersection; Second Street
Fayetteville Street        Swannanoa Avenue
Greensboro Street          Swannanoa Avenue
Greensboro Street          Fayetteville Street
 
(1981 Code, Appendix A, § 6A-2)
SCHEDULE III. STOP SIGNS.
   In accordance with §
70.04(A), the Administrator shall erect stop signs at the stop streets listed
below along the approach to the main street as indicated.
Street Main Street Corner
Street              Main Street          Corner
Allison Street      Kirkman Street       SE
Asheboro Street     Swannanoa Avenue     SE
Asheboro Street     Swannanoa Avenue     NW
Asheboro Street     Starmount Avenue     SE
Asheboro Street     Starmount Avenue     NW
Asheboro Street     Luther Avenue        NW
Asheboro Street     Greensboro Street    SW
Bowman Avenue       Greensboro Street    SW
Bowman Avenue       Greensboro Street    NE
Bowman Avenue       Fayetteville Street  SW
Brookwood Avenue    Greensboro Street    NE
Brookwood Avenue    Asheboro Street      SW
Brower Avenue       Fayetteville Street  SW
Brower Avenue       Foster Street        NE
Brower Avenue       Foster Street        SW
Brower Avenue       Kirkman Street       NE
Brower Avenue       Greensboro Street    NE
East Brower Avenue  South Cook Street    SW
Butler Avenue       Greensboro Street    NE
Burler Avenue       Asheboro Street      SW
Carolina Street     Brower Avenue        SE
Carter Street       Kirkman Street       NW
Carter Street       Swannanoa Avenue     SE
Cook Street         Swannanoa Avenue     SW
Cook Street         Raleigh Avenue       NW
Cook Street         Dameron Avenue       NW
Dameron Avenue      Greensboro Street    SW
Dameron Avenue      Greensboro Street    NE
Dameron Avenue      Fayetteville Street  SW
Dameron Avenue      Asheboro Street      NE
Dameron Avenue      Foster Street        SW
Dameron Avenue      Kirkman Street       SE
Deaton Circle       Greensboro Street    SW
Depot Street        Starmount Avenue     SE
Depot Street        Swannanoa Avenue     NW
Edgewood Drive      Butler Avenue        NW
Fairview Street     Brower Avenue        SE
Faust Street        Swannanoa Avenue     NW
Fayetteville Street Newberry Avenue      SE
Foster Street       Brookwood Avenue     SE
Foster Street       Bowman Avenue        SE
Foster Street       Starmount Avenue     NW
Foster Street       Swannanoa Avenue     NE
Foster Street       Starmount Avenue     SE
Foster Street       Swannanoa Avenue     SE
Frazier Avenue      At railroad crossing
Frazier Avenue      Fayetteville Street  SW
Frazier Avenue      Fayetteville Street  NE
Frazier Avenue      Greensboro Street    SW
Frazier Avenue      Greensboro Street    NE
Frazier Avenue      Valley Street        SW
Fayetteville Street Brookwood Avenue     NW
Fayetteville Street Butler Avenue        SE
Garden Street       Lowe Avenue          SE
Graham Avenue       Valley Street        NE
Grandview Avenue    Valley Street        SW
Grandview Avenue    Valley Street        NE
Gregg Street        Brower Avenue        NW
Gregg Street        Raleigh Avenue       SE
Greenbriar Street   Butler Avenue        SE
Greenbriar Street   Luther Avenue        NW
Hamilton Avenue     Butler Avenue        SE
High Avenue         Fayetteville Street  NE
Highfill Avenue     Greensboro Street    NE
Highfill Avenue     Fayetteville Street  NE
Highfill Avenue     Fayetteville Street  SW
Keeter Court        Swannanoa Avenue     NW
Kime Avenue         Greensboro Street    NE
Kime Avenue         Fayetteville Street  NE
Kime Avenue         Fayetteville Street  SW
Kime Avenue         Asheboro Street      NE
Kirkman Street      Swannanoa Avenue     SE
Lewis Avenue        Asheboro Street      NE
Lewis Avenue        Fayetteville Street  SW
Lowe Avenue         At railroad crossing
Lowe Avenue         Fayetteville Street  NE
Lowe Avenue         Greensboro Street    SW
Luther Avenue       Greensboro Street    NE
Luther Avenue       Greensboro Street    SW
Luther Avenue       Smith Street         SW
Maplewood Circle    Frazier Avenue       NW
Maplewood Circle    Frazier Avenue       NW
Martin Street       Kime Avenue          NW
Martin Street       Dameron Avenue       NW
Martin Street       Raleigh Avenue       NW
Martin Street       Graham Avenue        SE
Moffitt Avenue      Foster Street        NE
Moffitt Avenue      Foster Street        SW
Moffitt Avenue      Smith Street         SW
Moffitt Avenue      Smith Street         NE
Moffitt Avenue      Staley Street        SE
Moffitt Avenue      Staley Street        NW
Moffitt Avenue      Asheboro Street      SW
Moffitt Avenue      Greensboro Street    SW
Moffitt Avenue      Greensboro Street    NE
Moffitt Avenue      Greenbriar Street    SW
Murphy Street       Kirkman Street       NW
Murphy Street       Swannanoa Avenue     SE
Myrtle Avenue       Dogwood Drive        SE
Myrtle Avenue       Candlewood Drive     NW
New Street          Swannanoa Avenue     SE
New Street          Kirkman Street       NW
Newberry Avenue     Greensboro Street    NE
Oakdale Avenue      Pineknoll Street     SW
Pineknoll Street    Edgewood Drive       SE
Pineknoll Street    Butler Avenue        NW
Pine Valley Court   East Brower Avenue   SE
Patterson Avenue    Fayetteville Street  SW
Patterson Avenue    Asheboro Street      NE
Pickett Circle      Smith Street         NE
Pickett Circle      Bowman Avenue        NW
Raleigh Avenue      At railroad crossing
Raleigh Avenue      Asheboro Street      SW
Raleigh Avenue      Asheboro Street      NE
Raleigh Avenue      Greensboro Street    SW
Raleigh Avenue      Greensboro Street    NE
Raleigh Avenue      Fayetteville Street  SW
Raleigh Avenue      Fayetteville Street  NE
Raleigh Avenue      Valley Street        SW
Raleigh Avenue      Valley Street        NE
Randolph Street     Swannanoa Avenue     NW
Reece Street        Bowman Avenue        SE
Reece Street        Starmount Avenue     NW
Reece Street        Starmount Avenue     SE
Reece Street        Swannanoa Avenue     NW
Reitzel Street      Starmount Avenue     SE
Reitzel Street      Swannanoa Avenue     NW
Reitzel Street      Starmount Avenue     NW
Ridge Avenue        Greensboro Street    NE
Sizemore Avenue     Asheboro Street      SW
Smith Street        Brower Avenue        NW
Smith Street        Swannanoa Avenue     SW
Smith Street        Raleigh Avenue       SE
Smith Street        Starmount Avenue     NW
Smith Street        Brookwood Avenue     SE
Staley Street       Brookwood Avenue     SE
Staley Street       Luther Avenue        NW
Starmount Avenue    At railroad crossing
Starmount Avenue    Greensboro Street    NE
Starmount Avenue    Greensboro Street    SW
Starmount Avenue    Fayetteville Street  SW
Teague Avenue       Greensboro Street    SW
Teague Avenue       Greensboro Street    NE
Vance Avenue        Asheboro Street      SW
Vance Avenue        Smith Street         NE
Valley Street       Swannanoa Avenue     SE
Valley Street       Dameron Avenue       NW
Valley Street       Kime Avenue          SE
Valley Street       Ridge Avenue         NW
Valley Street       Ridge Avenue         SE
Valley Street       Teague Avenue        NW
Town Hall           Fayetteville Street  NE
 
(1981 Code, Appendix A, § 6A-4(a)) (Am. Ord. passed 10-25-1999; Am. Ord. passed
6-28-2004; Am. Ord. passed 3-28-2005; Am. Ord. passed 8-22-2016)
SCHEDULE IV. FOUR-WAY STOP SIGNS.
   In accordance with §
70.04(B), the Administrator shall erect stop signs on the following streets at
each approach to the intersection.
 
Street                Intersecting Street
East Brookwood Avenue North Greenbriar Street
North Asheboro Street West Bowman Avenue
North Asheboro Street West Moffitt Avenue
North Smith Street    West Bowman Avenue
North Smith Street    West Luther Avenue
South Asheboro Street West Brower Avenue
 
(1981 Code, Appendix A, § 6A-4(b)) (Am. Ord. passed 1-26-1998)
SCHEDULE V. YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
   In accordance with §
70.06, the Administrator shall erect yield right-of-way signs on the yield
streets listed below along the approach to the main street as indicated.
 
Yield Street        Main Street       Corner
Asheboro Street     Luther Avenue     SE
Fayetteville Street Greensboro Street SE
 
(1981 Code, Appendix A, § 6A-6)
SCHEDULE VI. CROSSWALKS AND SAFETY ZONES.
   In accordance with §
70.09, the Administrator shall establish and maintain crosswalks and safety
zones at the following locations.
Street or Intersection Location of Crosswalk
Street or Intersection                  Location of Crosswalk
Depot Street                            At Swannanoa Avenue
Fayetteville Street                     In front of Methodist Church
Fayetteville Street at Raleigh Avenue   North side
Fayetteville Street at Raleigh Avenue   South side
Fayetteville Street at Starmount Avenue South side
Fayetteville Street at Swannanoa Avenue North side
Greensboro Street at Swannanoa Avenue   North side
Raleigh Avenue at Fayetteville Street   East side
Raleigh Avenue at Fayetteville Street   West side
Swannanoa Avenue                        At Depot Street
Swannanoa Avenue at Fayetteville Street West side
Swannanoa Avenue at Greensboro Street   East side
 
(1981 Code, Appendix A, § 6A-9)
SCHEDULE VII. NO THROUGH TRUCK STREETS.
   In accordance with §
70.10, the following streets or portions thereof are designated as “no through
truck” streets.
 
Street                From            To
N. Reece Street       W. Bowman       W. Starmount
Pickett Circle        Bowman Avenue   Smith Street
West Starmount Avenue Asheboro Street Greensboro Street
 
(1981 Code, Appendix A, § 6A-10) (Am. Ord. passed 11-27-2000)
SCHEDULE VIII. SPEED LIMITS.
   In accordance with §
70.13, the following speed limits are established for the streets indicated.
Speed Limit On Street From To
Speed Limit On Street           From                    To
15 mph      Town Hall property  -                       -
15 mph      Hamilton Avenue     Butler Avenue           Freedom Park
20 mph      Fayetteville Street Swannanoa Avenue        Greensboro Street
20 mph      Swannanoa Avenue    Fayetteville Street     Greensboro Street
35 mph      Allison Street      Kirkman Street          Town limits
35 mph      Asheboro Street     Butler Avenue           Frazier Avenue
25 mph      Asheboro Street     West Brower Avenue      West Frazier Street
25 mph      Asheboro Street     West Swannanoa Avenue   West Frazier Avenue
25 mph      Beaver Dam Road     East Highfill Avenue    End
25 mph      Beaver Dam Court    East Highfill Avenue    End
35 mph      Bowman Avenue       Fayetteville Street     Town limits
35 mph      Brookwood Avenue    Foster Street           Asheboro Street
25 mph      Brookwood Avenue    Greensboro Street       Timberlea Street
35 mph      Brower Avenue       Foster Street           Fayetteville Street
35 mph      Brower Avenue       Greensboro Street       Dead end
25 mph      Brower Avenue       Kirkman Street          Foster Street
25 mph      Brower Avenue       South Greensboro Street South Cook Street
25 mph      Butler Avenue       Asheboro Street         Dead end
25 mph      Candlewood Drive    Luther Avenue           Dead end
25 mph      Carolina Street     Brower Avenue           Patterson Avenue
35 mph      Carter Street       Swannanoa Avenue        Kirkman Street
35 mph      Cook Street         Grandview Avenue        Dameron Avenue
25 mph      Cook Street         Swannanoa Avenue        Dameron Avenue
25 mph      Dameron Avenue      Kirkman Street          Foster Street
20 mph      Dameron Avenue      Asheboro Street         Fayetteville Street
35 mph      Dameron Avenue      Greensboro Street       Town Hall
35 mph      Dameron Avenue      Greensboro Street       Town limits
35 mph      Deaton Circle       Lowe Avenue             Greensboro Street
20 mph      Depot Street        Swannanoa Avenue        Starmount Avenue
25 mph      Dogwood Drive       Timberlea Street        Freedom Park
20 mph      Edgewood Drive      Butler Avenue           Pineknoll Street
25 mph      Edgewood Drive      East Butler Avenue      End
25 mph      Fairview Street     Brower Avenue           Patterson Avenue
35 mph      Faust Street        Swannanoa Avenue        Highfill Avenue
25 mph      Fayetteville Street Butler Avenue           Brookwood Avenue
35 mph      Fayetteville Street Greensboro Street       Town limits
35 mph      Fayetteville Street Swannanoa Avenue        Newberry Avenue
20 mph      North Fayetteville  Swannanoa Avenue        East Highfill Avenue
            Street
35 mph      Foster Street       Frances Drive           Luther Avenue
35 mph      Foster Street       Starmount Avenue        Kime Street
35 mph      Frances Drive       Brookwood Avenue        Town limits
25 mph      Frazier Avenue      Asheboro Street         Fayetteville Street
35 mph      Frazier Avenue      Fayetteville Street     Valley Street
35 mph      Garden Street       Lowe Avenue             High Street
25 mph      Graham Avenue       Valley Street           Town limits
25 mph      Grandview Avenue    Cook Street             Martin Street
25 mph      Gregg Street        Raleigh Avenue          Brower Avenue
25 mph      Greenbriar Street   Luther Avenue           Butler Avenue
35 mph      Greensboro Street   No town limits          Town limits
35 mph      High Avenue         Fayetteville Street     Garden Street
25 mph      Highfill Street     Greensboro Street       Faust Street
25 mph      Highfill Street     Randolph Street         Town limits
25 mph      Keeter Court        Swannanoa Avenue        Dead end
20 mph      Kime Avenue         Asheboro Street         Fayetteville Street
35 mph      Kime Avenue         Asheboro Street         Dead end
25 mph      Kime Avenue         Greensboro Street       Town limits
35 mph      Kirkman Street      Swannanoa Avenue        Town limits
20 mph      Lewis Avenue        Asheboro Street         Fayetteville Street
25 mph      Logan Lane          Butler Avenue           End
35 mph      Lowe Avenue         Fayetteville Street     Greensboro Street
35 mph      Luther Avenue       Foster Street           Greensboro Street
25 mph      Luther Avenue       Greensboro Street       Candlewood Drive
35 mph      Maplewood Circle    Frazier Avenue          Frazier Avenue
25 mph      Martin Street       East Dameron Avenue     East Graham Avenue
35 mph      Martin Street       Graham Avenue           Raleigh Avenue
35 mph      Martin Street       Grandview Avenue        Dameron Avenue
15 mph      Moffitt Avenue      Foster Street           Town limits
35 mph      Moffitt Avenue      Smith Street            Greensboro Street
25 mph      Moffitt Avenue      Greensboro Street       Greenbriar Street
35 mph      Murphy Street       Swannanoa Avenue        Kirkman Street
25 mph      Myrtle Avenue       Candlewood Drive        Dogwood Drive
25 mph      New Street          Swannanoa Avenue        Kirkman Street
35 mph      Newberry Avenue     Greensboro Street       Dead end
25 mph      Oakdale Avenue      Pineknoll Street        Dead end
35 mph      Patterson Avenue    Fairview Street         Carolina Street
20 mph      Patterson Avenue    Asheboro Street         Fayetteville Street
35 mph      Pickett Circle      Smith Street            Bowman Avenue
25 mph      Pine Valley Court   East Brower Avenue      End
25 mph      Pineknoll Street    Butler Avenue           Edgewood Drive
35 mph      Raleigh Avenue      Smith Street            Fayetteville Street
25 mph      Raleigh Avenue      Fayetteville Street     Town limits
35 mph      Randolph Avenue     Swannanoa Avenue        Highfill Avenue
35 mph      Reece Street        Bowman Avenue           Starmount Avenue
35 mph      Reece Street        Starmount Avenue        Swannanoa Avenue
35 mph      Reitzel Street      Swannanoa Avenue        Starmount Avenue
25 mph      Ridge Avenue        Greensboro Street       Dead end
35 mph      Sizemore Avenue     Asheboro Street         Town limits
35 mph      Smith Street        Brower Avenue           Swannanoa Avenue
35 mph      Smith Street        Starmount Avenue        Brookwood Avenue
35 mph      Staley Street       Luther Avenue           Brookwood Avenue
25 mph      Starmount Avenue    Faust Street            Randolph Street
35 mph      Starmount Avenue    Fayetteville Street     Town limits
20 mph      Starmount Avenue    North Greensboro Street North Fayetteville
                                                        Street
35 mph      Swannanoa Avenue    West town limits        East town limits
35 mph      Teague Avenue       Greensboro Street       Town limits
25 mph      Timberlea Street    Brookwood Avenue        Dogwood Drive
25 mph      Valley Street       Swannanoa Avenue        Dameron Avenue
35 mph      Valley Street       Kime Avenue             Ridge Avenue
35 mph      Valley Street       Ridge Avenue            Teague Avenue
35 mph      Vance Avenue        Smith Street            Asheboro Street
 
(1981 Code, Appendix A, § 6A-20) (Am. Ord. passed 7-22-1991; Am. Ord. passed 6-
22-1993; Am. Ord. passed 8-28-1995; Am. Ord. passed 9-23-1996; Am. Ord. passed
2-23-1998; Am. Ord. passed 11-22-1999; Am. Ord. passed 2-28-2000; Am. Ord. 6-
25-2001; Am. Ord. passed 9-27-2004; Am. Ord. passed 8-23-2010; Am. Ord. passed
10-28-2013; Am. Ord. passed 4-27-2015; Am. Ord. passed 2021)
SCHEDULE IX. SPEED LIMITS DURING CERTAIN HOURS.
 
Speed Limit Street              From; To                Hours
10 mph      East Frazier Avenue From South Fayetteville Monday through Friday;
                                Street to railroad      6:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.
 
(Ord. passed 7-22-1996)
SCHEDULE X. FLASHING RED OR YELLOW LIGHTS.
[Reserved]
(1981 Code, Appendix A, § 6A-3)
SCHEDULE XI. ONE-WAY STREETS.
[Reserved]
(1981 Code, Appendix A, § 6A-5)
SCHEDULE XII. TURNS PROHIBITED.
[Reserved]
(1981 Code, Appendix A, § 6A-7)
SCHEDULE XIII. UNLAWFUL PASSING.
[Reserved]
(1981 Code, Appendix A, § 6A-8)
SCHEDULE XIV. RESERVED.
Editor’s note:
   This schedule is reserved for prior code Chapter 6, Appendix A §§ 6A-11
through 6A-19, 6A-21 through 6A-22, 6A-25 through 6A-26, and 6A-28 through 6A-
31.
CHAPTER 74: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Handicapped parking
   
II.   Parking prohibited
   
III.   Angle parking
   
IV.   Commercial loading zones
SCHEDULE I. HANDICAPPED PARKING.
   In accordance with §
71.01(A)(13), parking is prohibited in spaces clearly marked as reserved for
the handicapped, whether on public or private property, unless the driver or
passenger is handicapped, with a handicapped permit.
Street Side Location
Street              Side  Location
Depot Street        East  Two spaces approximately 130 feet north from
                          Swannanoa Avenue
Fayetteville Street East  One space approximately 190 feet north from Swannanoa
                          Avenue
Fayetteville Street East  Two spaces approximately 102 feet north from
                          Swannanoa Avenue
Fayetteville Street West  Three spaces approximately 131 feet north from
                          Raleigh Avenue
East Raleigh Avenue South One space approximately 20 feet east of S.
                          Fayetteville Avenue
Freedom Park        -     Two spaces in front of picnic shelter
Town Hall           -     Two spaces in front of Town Hall
(1981 Code, § 6A-23) (Am. Ord. passed 8-23-1993; Am. Ord. passed 5-27-2014)
SCHEDULE II. PARKING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   At all times. In accordance with §
71.02, parking is prohibited at all times along the following streets or
portions of streets.
On Street Side From To
On Street           Side  From                      To
                                                    North beginning
Depot Street        West  Swannanoa Avenue          approximately 117 feet
                                                    and ending approximately
                                                    187 feet
East Raleigh Avenue North South Fayetteville Street East about 192 feet
Faust Street        East  Swannanoa Avenue          Starmount Avenue
Faust Street        West  Swannanoa Avenue          Highfill Avenue
Fayetteville Street East  Between driveways at      -
                          school
Fayetteville Street East  Swannanoa Avenue          South approximately 97
                                                    feet
Greensboro Street   East  Newberry Avenue           Moffitt Avenue
Greensboro Street   West  Bowman Avenue             Luther Avenue
Greensboro Street   West  Swannanoa Avenue          North approximately 125
                                                    feet
Highfill Avenue     South Fayetteville Street       Faust Street
Luther Avenue       North Greensboro Street         East approximately 123
                                                    feet
South Fayetteville  East  Raleigh Avenue            South about 103 feet
Street
South Fayetteville  West  First union entrance      South about 34 feet to
Street                                              first union exit
South Fayetteville  West  First union exit          South about 30 feet
Street
South Fayetteville  West  Raleigh Avenue            South about 31 feet
Street
Swannanoa Avenue    Both  Greensboro Avenue         West to town limits
West Raleigh Avenue South South Fayetteville Street West approximately 25
                                                    feet
 
   (B)   During certain hours. In accordance with §
71.02, parking is prohibited along the following streets or portions of streets
during the hours specified except on Sundays and legal holidays.
 
On Street         Side From          To              Time Limit
Greensboro Street East Bowman Avenue Newberry Avenue No parking except on
                                                     Sunday
 
   (C)   Time limited. In accordance with §
71.02, parking is prohibited along the following streets or portions of streets
for a period longer than that indicated in the table below between the hours of
8:30 a.m. and 5:30 p.m. except Sundays and legal holidays.
On Street Side From To Time Limit
On Street           Side  From              To                      Time Limit
Depot Street        East  Swannanoa Avenue  North approximately 235 2 hours
                                            feet
Depot Street        West  Swannanoa Avenue  North approximately 253 2 hours
                                            feet
Fayetteville Street East  Raleigh Avenue    Town lot entrance       2 hours
Fayetteville Street East  Swannanoa Avenue  North approximately 211 2 hours
                                            feet
Fayetteville Street West  Swannanoa Avenue  Kustom Body Shop        2 hours
Fayetteville Street West  Swannanoa Avenue  Starmount Avenue        2 hours
Swannanoa Avenue    North Greensboro Street Fayetteville Street     2 hours
Swannanoa Avenue    South Greensboro Street Fayetteville Street     2 hours
 
(1981 Code, Appendix A, § 6A-24) (Am. Ord. passed 7-23-1990; Am. Ord. passed 4-
28-1997)
SCHEDULE III. ANGLE PARKING.
   In accordance with §
71.05, parking at an angle is permitted at the following locations.
 
On Street           Side From             To
Fayetteville Street West Starmount Avenue 429 feet south
 
(1981 Code, Appendix A, § 6A-27)
SCHEDULE IV. COMMERCIAL LOADING ZONES.
   In accordance with §
71.08, commercial loading zones shall be established at the following
locations.
 
On Street           Side From                                            To
Fayetteville Street East One space approximately 195 feet from Swannanoa South
                         Avenue
 
(1981 Code, Appendix A, § 6A-32)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
90.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
         
91.   WASTE, WEEDS AND SCRAP MATERIALS
         
92.   FIRE PROTECTION AND PREVENTION
         
93.   CEMETERIES
         
94.   PARKS AND RECREATION
         
95.   ABANDONED, NUISANCE AND JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES
         
96.   ANIMALS
CHAPTER 90: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Obstructions, Driveways and Excavations
   
90.01   Obstructions prohibited
   
90.02   Overhanging or protruding trees, fences, signs and the like
   
90.03   Drainage related interference with sidewalks
   
90.04   Warnings required for obstructions
   
90.05   Depositing injurious materials on street
   
90.06   Snow and ice removal
   
90.07   Drainage
   
90.08   Driveways
   
90.09   Excavations
   
90.10   Town indemnified
Street Events and Miscellaneous Regulations
   
90.25   Activities covered
   
90.26   Permit required
   
90.27   Permit application
   
90.28   Staff review
   
90.29   Fees; costs incurred by town
   
90.30   Standards for issuance of permit
   
90.31   Street closings
   
90.32   Sponsor responsible for cleanup
   
90.33   Damaging street surfaces, signs and other facilities
   
90.34   House and building numbers
   
90.35   Administrator
 
   
90.99   Penalty
OBSTRUCTIONS, DRIVEWAYS AND EXCAVATIONS
§ 90.01 OBSTRUCTIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Except as otherwise authorized by statute or ordinance (including §§
90.07 and
90.08 below), and except to the extent required by the performance of some
function authorized or mandated by a statute or ordinance, no person may
obstruct or impede travel in the public streets or sidewalks within the town by
placing or leaving any object within the traveled portion of the public right-
of-way.
   (B)   Except as provided in this section, division (A) above applies, but is
not limited to goods, wares or merchandise displayed for sale. Partial
obstruction of a public sidewalk for a sidewalk sale is permissible in
accordance with a permit issued by the Administrator upon a finding that:
      (1)   The sale will not extend for more than 3 consecutive days;
      (2)   The obstruction will take place only during daylight hours;
      (3)   The permit, together with any other permits issued to the same
applicant or to other applicants for sale at the same location, will not
authorize an obstruction for more than ten days during any 365-day period; and
      (4)   The sidewalk will only be partially obstructed, leaving at all
times an unobstructed passageway in accordance with the Americans with
Disabilities Act (ADA).
   (C)   If a permit is issued pursuant to division (B) above, no person may
cause, suffer or permit the operation of a sidewalk sale in violation of the
conditions set forth in divisions (B)(1) through (4) or any other conditions
attached to the permit.
   (D)   Division (A) above shall not apply to temporary obstructions caused by
persons engaged in construction work on abutting property when proper warning
devices are maintained in accordance with §
90.04.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, pertaining to sidewalk
dining:
      (1)   General. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this code to the
contrary, sidewalk dining shall be permitted and shall be subject to such
regulations as are set forth in this section.
      (2)   Permit required. The establishment of a sidewalk dining area shall
require the issuance of a permit in accordance with the requirements of this
section. A permit shall not be required for sidewalk dining in instances where
no seating or tables are provided.
      (3)   Application. Any restaurant, wine shop, or eating establishment, as
defined herein, desiring to operate a sidewalk dining area shall prepare and
file an application with the City Manager or his or her authorized
representative, which shall contain the following information:
         (a)   The name, address and telephone number of the business desiring
to operate a sidewalk dining area.
         (b)   The name, address and telephone number of the business operator.
         (c)   The type of food, beverage, or food product to be sold and
served at or on the sidewalk.
         (d)   The hours of operation of the business and the proposed hours of
operation of the sidewalk dining area.
         (e)   A drawing or site plan showing the section of sidewalk or
pedestrian way to be used for the sidewalk café dining area, and the section to
be kept clear for pedestrian and fire lane use, and depicting the proposed
placement of tables, chairs, barricades, umbrellas, trash receptacles, and
other furnishings on the sidewalk or pedestrian way.
         (f)   Proof of an insurance policy, issued by an insurance company
licensed to do business in the State of North Carolina, protecting the
permittee and indemnifying the city from all claims for damages to property and
bodily injury, including death, which may arise from operations under or in
connection with the permit. Such insurance shall name the city as additional
insured and shall provide that the policy shall not terminate or be canceled
prior to the expiration date without 30 days' advance written notice to the
city. Such insurance shall afford minimum limits of $1,000,000 of general
liability coverage annually.
         (g)   A copy of all the permits and licenses issued by the county,
state or the city, including health and ABC permits and business licenses,
necessary for the operation of the business, or a copy of the application for
the permit if no permit has been issued. This requirement includes any permits
or certificates issued by the city or other governmental authority, for
exterior alterations or improvements to the restaurant, eating establishment,
or wine shop.
         (h)   A sworn statement describing any violation by the operator of
any laws, regulations, or ordinances relating to the possession, sale,
consumption, or transportation of intoxicating beverages or controlled
substances during the five years immediately preceding the date of the permit
application.
         (i)   Such additional information as may be requested by the City
Manager or his or her designee to determine compliance with this section.
         (j)   An annual fee in the amount of $25 to cover the cost of
processing and investigating the application and issuing the permit.
      (4)   Issuance of permit. No permit for the operation of a sidewalk café
dining area may be issued unless the application is complete and the following
requirements are met:
         (a)   Sidewalk dining areas must be associated with one of the
following business types:
            1.   An OPERATING RESTAURANT , defined as an establishment
substantially engaged in the business of preparing and serving meals. A
restaurant's gross receipts from food and nonalcoholic beverages shall be not
less than 30% of the total gross receipts from food, nonalcoholic beverages,
and alcoholic beverages. A restaurant shall also have a kitchen and an inside
dining area with seating for at least 36 people. A restaurant may sell for on-
premises consumption those spirituous liquors, wines, malt beverages, and any
other alcoholic beverage as permitted by the N.C. Alcohol Beverage Commission.
Sidewalk dining associated with a restaurant shall fall such that it is under
the same management and shares the same food preparation facilities, rest room
facilities and other customer convenience facilities as the restaurant. The
sidewalk café dining area must be operated under the same name as the
restaurant and may not be open or operated at any time when the restaurant is
not open for business.
            2.   An OPERATING WINE SHOP , defined as an establishment
authorized to conduct the retail sale of malt beverages, unfortified wine, and
fortified wine in the manufacturer's original container for consumption off the
premises, conduct wine tasting on the premises that are conducted and
supervised by the permittee in accordance with G.S. § 18B-1001, Subdivision
(15), and ship malt beverages, unfortified wine, and fortified wine in closed
containers to individual purchasers inside and outside the state. The primary
purpose of a wine shop is selling malt beverages and wine for consumption off
the premises and regularly and customarily educating consumers through tasting,
classes, and seminars about the selection, serving, and storing of wine
pursuant to the wine shop permit requirements of the N.C. Alcohol Beverage
Commission. Sidewalk dining associated with a wine shop shall fall under the
same management and shares the same food preparation facilities, rest room
facilities and other customer convenience facilities as the wine shop. The
sidewalk dining area must be operated under the same name as the wine shop and
may not be open or operated at any time when the wine shop is not open for
business. In addition, the wine shop must meet the following criteria:
            3.   An OPERATING EATING ESTABLISHMENT , defined as an
establishment engaged in the business of regularly and customarily selling
food, primarily to be eaten on the premises. Eating establishments shall
include businesses that are referred to as restaurants, cafeterias, or cafes,
but do not qualify under the definition of a restaurant as provided above.
Eating establishments shall have an inside dining area and seating but are not
required to contain a kitchen or a minimum number of seats, and an eating
establishment may sell for on-premises consumption those wines and malt
beverages or any other alcoholic beverage as permitted by the N.C. Alcohol
Beverage Commission. Sidewalk dining areas associated with an eating
establishment shall fall under the same management and share the same food
preparation facilities, rest room facilities and other customer convenience
facilities. The sidewalk dining area must be operated under the same name as
the eating establishment and may not be open or operated at any time when the
eating establishment is not open for business.
               A.   Sidewalk dining areas must be, clearly incidental to the
associated business. The seating capacity of the sidewalk dining area may not
be more than 50% of the interior seating capacity of the associated business.
               B.   The proposed hours of operation shall be no earlier than 8:
00 a.m. and no later than 11:00 p.m. daily.
               C.   The placement of tables, chairs and other furnishings as
shown in the drawing submitted with the site plan must be done in such a manner
that is in accordance with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) to ensure
unobstructed space remains on the sidewalk or pedestrian way for the passage of
pedestrians. No fire exits or lanes may be blocked and such must remain clear
at all times.
               D.   The business seeking to operate sidewalk dining must front
on and open onto the sidewalk or pedestrian way proposed for the sidewalk
dining. The placement of tables, chairs, and other furnishings may not extend
beyond the sidewalk or pedestrian way frontage of the associated business, with
the following exception. Tables, chairs and other furnishings may extend up to
12 feet on the adjacent property frontage in either or both directions with the
written permission (provided at the time of application) of the occupant of the
adjacent property (see graphic below).
               E.   The tables, chairs and other furnishings used in the
sidewalk café dining area shall not be anchored and shall be of a type of
street furniture that is easily movable.
               F.   Except as elsewhere permitted by the code, the operation or
furnishing of the sidewalk dining area shall involve no permanent alteration to
or encroachment upon any street, sidewalk, or pedestrian way or to the exterior
of the associated restaurant, wine shop, or eating establishment.
               G.   Trash and debris. Each operator conducting sidewalk dining
shall provide adequate trash receptacles for its patrons. At the end of each
business day and during operating hours, the operator shall remove all trash
and debris of any sort from the area, and in addition shall remove from the
sidewalk alongside and abutting properties any trash or debris originating as a
result of the operation of the sidewalk dining area.
               H.   Alcoholic beverages. Notwithstanding any other provisions
of this code, alcoholic beverages may be served in approved sidewalk café
dining areas provided that the following requirements are met:
                  i.   Sidewalk dining shall be part of a restaurant, wine
shop, or eating establishment as defined above and shall otherwise be
authorized, permitted, or licensed under the state law and city code to serve
and sell alcoholic beverages for on-premises consumption.
                  ii.   The portion of the sidewalk dining area where alcohol
is or may be served shall be enclosed by clearly visible barricades and shall
not have more than two points of ingress and egress.
                  iii.   The sidewalk dining area must be included as part of
the premises for which an ABC permit is issued pursuant to G.S. § 18B-1001, or
other state law, for the purpose of applying and enforcing state laws regarding
the sale or consumption of alcoholic beverages.
                  iv.   Signs shall be posted, visible at all exit points from
the sidewalk café dining area, that it is unlawful to remove alcoholic
beverages from the premises.
                  v.   The business operator shall not have violated any law,
regulation, or ordinance relating to the possession, sale, transportation or
consumption of intoxicating beverages or controlled substances for the three
years preceding the commencement of the sale of alcoholic beverages at the
sidewalk café dining area.
                  vi.   Outdoor bars or outdoor alcoholic beverage preparation
is prohibited within the sidewalk dining area.
               I.   Denial. A permit may be denied if it is found that the
granting of the permit would not be in the public interest. Any applicant
denied a permit to operate a sidewalk dining area shall receive a written
statement outlining the grounds on which the denial is based. The applicant may
appeal the denial of the permit to the City Council within 15 working days
after the date of the written denial and the City Council may take such action
as it shall find necessary. The findings and determination of the City Council
shall be final.
               J.   Terms and transfer. Permits for a sidewalk dining area
issued in accordance with the provisions of this section shall:
                  i.   Be issued for the period beginning July 1 or thereafter
and expiring June 30 of each year. If a permittee discontinues the business
operation or sidewalk café dining area, no refund of the permit fee shall be
made.
                  ii.   Not be transferable or assignable.
               K.   Permit revocation. The City Manager or his or her
authorized representative may revoke a permit issued pursuant to this section
if he or she finds that the business operator has:
                  i.   Deliberately misrepresented or provide false information
in the permit application.
                  ii.   Violated any provision of the County Health Department
regulations or of this section.
                  iii.   Violated any law, regulation, or ordinance regarding
the possession, sale, transportation or consumption of intoxicating beverages
or controlled substances.
                  iv.   Operated the sidewalk dining area in such a manner as
to create a public nuisance or to constitute a hazard to the public health,
safety, or welfare, specifically including failure to keep the area clean and
free of refuse.
                  v.   Failed to maintain any health, business or other permit
or license required by law for the operation of a restaurant, wine shop, or
eating establishment business.
                  vi.   Fails to consistently maintain the sidewalk dining area
in a neat and trash free manner.
                  vii.   Operates the business or sidewalk dining area in
violation of any city, county or state law, ordinance, or regulation.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/9c69637d794a56a84a5b0bc879c1b5550c19a150/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1727.jpg]
 
   (F)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, pertaining to sidewalk
furniture:
      (1)   General. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this code to the
contrary, sidewalk furniture not placed by the city shall be permitted in the
central business district as indicated on the official zoning map of the city
and shall be subject to such regulations as are set forth in this chapter.
      (2)   Permit required. No person, firm or corporation shall erect, place
or maintain any benches, chairs, planters or other street furniture on any
publicly owned rights-of-way without first having obtained a permit from the
city. The City Manager or his or her authorized representative may issue a
permit for the placement of benches, chairs, planters or other street furniture
at specified locations along publicly owned rights-of-way on a sidewalk,
sidewalk area, shoulder or plaza provided the following criteria are met:
         (a)   The use of benches, chairs, planters and/or street furniture
should be designed to enhance and blend in with the surroundings. Street
furniture shall not be permitted if it endangers the public health or safety or
prohibits pedestrian passage or entrance to any establishment.
         (b)   The placement of street furniture must not extend more than six
feet from the building wall, with benches and planters placed flush against
building fronts. The placement of the furniture may not extend beyond the
sidewalk or pedestrian way frontage of the associated businesses.
         (c)   No street furniture may be placed in any location whereby the
clear space for the passageway of pedestrians is not in accordance with the
Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA).
         (d)   All street furniture unless otherwise specified in sidewalk
dining must be removed from the public right-of-way at the end of the business
day.
         (e)   The owner is required to maintain the street furniture and the
area surrounding its placement in a clean and safe condition.
         (f)   Street furniture shall contain no advertising except the
business name and/or the name of a product or products sold in the business.
      (3)   Application. Application for a permit shall be made on forms
provided by the City Manager or his or her designee. The application shall be
accompanied by information showing the type of furniture to be placed and a
site plan or photograph showing its proposed location.
      (4)   Separate from sidewalk dining. Permits issued for street furniture
pursuant to this section shall be considered separate from permits and
requirements for other right-of-way usage permits such as sidewalk dining and
sandwich boards. The City Manager or his or her authorized representative, in
his or her discretion, may limit the number of permits available at each
business location.
      (5)   Permit revocation. Permits issued pursuant to this section may be
revoked due to public need of the right-of-way, non-compliance with the
provisions of this section, or any other reason deemed sufficient to the city.
If upon revocation, the street furniture is not removed upon ten days' notice,
the city shall have the right to remove such street furniture.
(Ord. passed 5-28-2013) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.02 OVERHANGING OR PROTRUDING TREES, FENCES, SIGNS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   No person may cause or allow (from property under his or her control)
any tree limb, bush, shrub or other growth or any trellis, fence, sign or other
obstruction to overhang a public street at a distance of less than 12 feet
above the traveled portion of the street or a public sidewalk at a distance of
less than 7 feet above the sidewalk.
   (B)   No person may cause or allow grass, vines, weeds or other vegetation
to grow from property under his or her control over, onto or across any public
street or sidewalk.
   (C)   Any violation of division (A) or (B) above is declared to be a public
nuisance, and if not corrected by the responsible person within 3 days after
being notified of the violation by the Administrator, the town may summarily
abate the nuisance.
   (D)   Signs may be constructed only pursuant to a building permit and must
otherwise comply with the provisions of the North Carolina State Building Code.
(1981 Code, § 7-2) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 DRAINAGE RELATED INTERFERENCE WITH SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   No person may cause or permit gutters, ditches, ducts or drain pipes
to be constructed or placed on property under his or her control in a manner so
that the water from the gutters, ditches, ducts or drain pipes empties onto or
runs across a public sidewalk.
   (B)   Subject to the next sentence, all owners of property abutting
concrete, brick or other permanently improved public sidewalks shall grade the
property or construct a retaining wall in a manner so as to prevent the washing
of dirt, grass, gravel or other material upon the town sidewalks.
   (C)   If the town constructs a sidewalk, it shall be responsible initially
for taking the necessary steps to prevent the washing of the materials upon the
sidewalk.
(1981 Code, § 7-3) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 WARNINGS REQUIRED FOR OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   All persons engaged in doing work that creates any dangerous condition
or obstruction in the public right-of-way of any street or sidewalk shall take
whatever action is necessary, including the placement of barricades and warning
signs or devices, to warn the traveling public of the condition or obstruction.
   (B)   No person may remove, destroy, injure or tamper with any barricade,
sign, lantern, torch or other device placed in any street or sidewalk to warn
or give notice to the traveling public or any dangerous condition or
obstruction.
(1981 Code, § 7-4) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 DEPOSITING INJURIOUS MATERIALS ON STREET.
   (A)   No person may throw or deposit upon any street or public right-of-way
any glass bottle, nails, tacks, wire, paper containers, cans or any other
substance likely to injure any person, animal or vehicle.
   (B)   Any person who deliberately or inadvertently causes or allows any of
the materials specified in division (A) above to be deposited on any public
street or right-of-way shall immediately remove the materials or cause them to
be removed.
(1981 Code, § 7-5) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 SNOW AND ICE REMOVAL.
   Every occupant of a store building, in front of which the sidewalk is paved
with stone, brick, asphalt or cement, shall remove snow, ice or other similar
obstruction from the sidewalk at the earliest possible time and as soon as
weather permits.
(1981 Code, § 7-6) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 DRAINAGE.
   (A)   General responsibilities.
      (1)   The town will be responsible for providing necessary drainage
facilities on town-maintained streets within dedicated rights-of-way to
accommodate existing storm flow or increased flow from development, and for
maintaining drainage facilities on all town-maintained streets within dedicated
rights-of-way.
      (2)   Inasmuch as civil law provides that lower lands are subservient to
upper lands for natural drainage flowing to it, the town cannot be responsible
for problems on private property that result from acceleration of flow from
development by the town or others that becomes the natural burden of lower
lands, or other drainage problems on private property.
   (B)   Specific policies.
      (1)   The town will provide and pay for all work that is necessary in
order to provide adequate drainage of town streets.
      (2)   The town will install pipe for driveway crossings, provided the
property owner furnishes the size and quantity of pipe necessary and approved
by the Public Works Director.
      (3)   The town will not enter upon private property to pipe drainage
ditches, maintain drainage ditches or to correct drainage problems other than
what is necessary to provide adequate drainage for town streets.
      (4)   The town will not become involved in disputes between adjoining
property owners involving drainage problems.
      (5)   Improvements to drainage facilities along town streets requested by
a property owner that are not necessary for providing adequate street drainage
shall be at the expense of the property owner.
      (6)   These improvements would consist of piping ditches along town
streets, providing rip-rap slope protection, providing concrete ditch channels
or increasing the size of an existing culvert for the benefit of the property
owner.
      (7)   Improvements or alterations to drainage facilities on city streets
must be approved by the Public Works Director.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2004)
§ 90.08 DRIVEWAYS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, no person may open,
construct, alter or relocate any driveway across any public sidewalk or into
any street, or cut any curb for a purpose without having obtained a written
permit from the Administrator.
   (B)   Any person who receives a permit under this section shall be
responsible for repairing any damage to the sidewalk or street (including curb
and gutter) caused by the driveway construction.
   (C)   The Administrator shall review the driveway construction and design
plans and shall issue the permit unless he or she finds the driveway, if
constructed as proposed, will substantially interfere with or pose a danger to:
      (1)   Persons using the street or sidewalk intersected by the driveway;
or
      (2)   Public facilities (including utility poles, traffic signal
standards and the like) or will fail to comply with any of the provisions of
this section.
   (D)   No driveway may be constructed closer than 3 feet to a fire hydrant or
catch basin or closer than 30 feet to the right-of-way line of a street that
intersects with the street the driveway opens onto.
   (E)   If the driveway crosses a drainage ditch on a lot that abuts a street
without curb or gutter, then piping of sufficient size and strength (as
approved by the Administrator) shall be installed beneath the driveway surface
so that the drainage capability of the drainage ditch is not materially
impaired.
   (F)   This section shall not apply to driveways that open into state-
maintained streets to the extent that the state has approved the driveway.
   (G)   Nor shall a person be required to obtain a permit under this section
to the extent that the driveway is being constructed in accordance with plans
approved pursuant to a review process authorized by a zoning or subdivision
ordinance.
(1981 Code, § 7-11) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.09 EXCAVATIONS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, no person may dig in or
excavate any street or sidewalk within the town without having obtained a
written permit from the Administrator.
   (B)   Any person who receives a permit in accordance with this section shall
be responsible for putting the street or sidewalk where any excavation is made
in as good condition as it was prior to the excavation.
   (C)   Before granting a permit pursuant to this section, the Administrator
shall determine that the applicant has made arrangements to comply with
division (B) above, and if the town is to do the necessary repair work, the
permit shall not be issued until the applicant makes a deposit equal to the
estimated costs of repair.
   (D)   This section shall not apply to any utility to the extent that the
same subject matter is covered in a franchise ordinance applicable to that
utility.
   (E)   Nor shall this section apply to any excavation made in a state-
maintained street to the extent that the state has given its permission for an
excavation to be made, except that the person making the excavation shall still
be responsible for notifying the Administrator of the intended excavation 48
hours before the work begins.
(1981 Code, § 7-12) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.10 TOWN INDEMNIFIED.
   Any person obtaining a permit authorized by §§
90.07 and
90.08 agrees as a condition of the permit to indemnify the town for and hold
the town harmless from any expense (including but not limited to attorneys’
fees, litigation costs and judgments) incurred as a result of claims made for
damages arising out of operations conducted by the permit recipient pursuant to
the permit.
(1981 Code, § 7-13) Penalty, see §
90.99
STREET EVENTS AND MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS
§ 90.25 ACTIVITIES COVERED.
   (A)   This subchapter applies to all street fairs, festivals, carnivals,
parades, marches, rallies, demonstrations and other activities or public events
that require the temporary closing or obstruction of all or a portion of any
street or other public right-of-way or that substantially hinders or prevents
the normal flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic along any street or other
public right-of-way.
   (B)   Any like activity covered by this subchapter shall hereafter be
referred to as “the event.”
   (C)   Funeral processions.
(1981 Code, § 7-16) (Ord. passed 10-22-2018)
§ 90.26 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person may run, operate or sponsor any event in any public street or
right-of-way without a permit obtained from the Council in accordance with this
subchapter.
(1981 Code, § 7-17) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.27 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   Applications for the permit authorized by this subchapter shall be submitted
on a form provided by the Administrator and shall contain the following
information:
   (A)   Name, address and telephone number of the person, organization or
entity seeking to conduct or sponsor the event;
   (B)   Name, address and telephone number of the individual in charge of the
event;
   (C)   The proposed date and time period when the event will be conducted;
   (D)   A sketch-map showing:
      (1)   The area where the event is to take place;
      (2)   Any streets to be closed or obstructed;
      (3)   Any barriers or traffic control devices that will be erected;
      (4)   The location of any concession stand, booth or other temporary
structures or facilities; and
      (5)   The location of proposed fences, stands, platforms, benches or
bleachers.
   (E)   The approximate number of people expected to attend the event;
   (F)   When applicable, a request that the town provide specified services
and/or that the town close identified streets or portions of streets for a
particular period; and
   (G)   Any other information determined by the Administrator to be necessary
to insure compliance with this subchapter.
(1981 Code, § 7-18) (Am. Ord. passed 10-22-2018)
§ 90.28 STAFF REVIEW.
   (A)   Upon receipt of the permit application, the Administrator shall
circulate it to the Police Chief, the Fire Chief, the Public Works Director and
other appropriate persons for their comment.
   (B)   The Administrator may arrange to have a conference on the application
with the applicant and one or more department heads.
   (C)   Based on the outcome of the conference, the Administrator shall
prepare a recommendation to Council regarding the permit application.
(1981 Code, § 7-20) (Ord. passed 10-22-2018)
§ 90.29 FEES; COSTS INCURRED BY TOWN.
   (A)   In addition, if the town is requested to provide extraordinary
services or equipment or the town administration otherwise determines that
extraordinary services or equipment should be provided for reasons related to
public health or safety, the Council shall take whatever action is necessary
under the Local Government Budget and Fiscal Control Act to make available the
necessary funds for the provision of the services or equipment.
   (B)   The Council may require the applicant to pay to the town (before the
permit is issued) a fee sufficient to reimburse the town for the costs of any
extraordinary services or equipment provided unless the event has been
anticipated in the budget process and sufficient funds have been included in
the budget to cover the costs incurred.
(1981 Code, § 7-22) (Am. Ord. passed 10-22-2018)
§ 90.30 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The Council shall issue the permit authorizing the event unless it
finds that:
      (1)   Conduct of the event will require the assignment of so many police
officers that the remainder of the town cannot adequately be protected;
      (2)   The event will interfere with the movement of emergency vehicles to
such an extent that adequate police, fire or other emergency services cannot be
provided throughout the town;
      (3)   The applicant has failed to obtain any necessary permits or
licenses, including any required building permit, or the applicant is otherwise
in violation of any town ordinance;
      (4)   The event will work a severe hardship on persons occupying property
adjacent to the site, location or route of the event as a result of the denial
of access to property or for other substantial reasons;
      (5)   The event, if held at the time or at the location or along the
route proposed, will cause an unreasonable and unwarranted disruption to
vehicular or pedestrian traffic; or
      (6)   The applicant has failed to comply with any of the provisions of
this subchapter, including the payment of any fees required.
   (B)   If a permit is issued in accordance with division (A) above, the
Council may attach to it any reasonable conditions.
   (C)   If the Council finds that it cannot issue the permit for reasons
specified in division (A) above, it may request the applicant to modify its
application to remove any objections to the issuance of the permit, and the
applicant may do so without further notice or hearing.
   (D)   Any event conducted pursuant to a permit issued under this section
shall be conducted strictly in accordance with the terms of the permit,
including any conditions attached thereto.
(1981 Code, § 7-23) (Ord. passed 10-22-2018) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.31 STREET CLOSINGS.
   (A)   (1)   If the Council finds that the permit should be issued and that,
to conduct the event, it is necessary to close a street or to reroute traffic,
it may pass a resolution authorizing this to be done.
      (2)   No resolution shall be passed affecting streets that are part of
the state street system without the approval of the State Department of
Transportation.
   (B)   The resolution shall identify the street or portion thereof to be
affected and shall indicate the date and time when the street or portion
thereof is to be closed or traffic thereon is to be limited in some way. The
resolution shall also direct the Manager to have appropriate traffic control
devices installed to give notice of the temporary traffic controls.
   (C)   No person may operate any vehicle contrary to the traffic control
devices installed in accordance with division (B) above.
   (D)   The Administrator shall, by any adequate means, notify persons
occupying property abutting the street where the event is to take place of the
contents of any resolution passed in accordance with this section.
(1981 Code, § 7-24) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.32 SPONSOR RESPONSIBLE FOR CLEANUP.
   (A)   The sponsor of the event shall be responsible for cleaning up any
litter caused by the event, removing all temporary obstructions, and in general
returning the area where the event takes place to the condition that existed
prior to the event.
   (B)   The Council may require the sponsor to post a bond or other sufficient
security to guarantee compliance with this section.
(1981 Code, § 7-25) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.33 DAMAGING STREET SURFACES, SIGNS AND OTHER FACILITIES.
   (A)   No person may intentionally mutilate, deface, remove, damage or in any
manner interfere with any of the street name signs, traffic control signs and
devices and other signs erected by any public body.
   (B)   No person may drag, run or cause to be dragged or run upon any public
street any harrow or other implement, machine or tool likely to injure or cut
the surface of a street.
   (C)   No person may intentionally damage, injure, obstruct or otherwise
interfere with any street, sidewalk, bridge, culvert, ditch or drain owned or
maintained by the town.
(1981 Code, § 7-31) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.34 HOUSE AND BUILDING NUMBERS.
   (A)   The owner of every house and every principal building shall display or
cause to be displayed on the front thereof, or on the grounds in a position
easily observed from the street, the number assigned to his or her house or
building by the Administrator.
   (B)   No person may display or cause to be displayed on any house or
building any number other than the number assigned by the Administrator.
   (C)   No person may remove, obliterate or destroy any number displayed in
accordance with division (A) above.
(1981 Code, § 7-32) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.35 ADMINISTRATOR.
   As used in this chapter, the term ADMINISTRATOR refers to the Public Works
Director or any other person designated by the Manager to perform the
responsibilities assigned to the Administrator by this chapter.
(1981 Code, § 7-33)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   A violation of any of the following sections shall constitute a
misdemeanor, punishable as provided in G.S. § 14-4: §§
90.01 through
90.10,
90.27,
90.30(D),
90.31(C),
90.32,
90.33, and
90.34.
   (C)   (1)   A violation of any of the sections listed in division (B) above
shall also subject the offender to a civil penalty of $25.
      (2)   If a person fails to pay this penalty within 10 days after being
cited for a violation, the town may seek to recover the penalty by filing a
civil action in the nature of a debt.
   (D)   The town may seek to enforce this chapter through any appropriate
equitable action.
   (E)   Each day that a violation continues after the offender has been
notified of the violation shall constitute a separate offense.
   (F)   The town may seek to enforce this chapter by using any one or any
combination of the foregoing remedies.
(1981 Code, § 7-34) (Am. Ord. passed 11-22-2021)
CHAPTER 91: WASTE, WEEDS AND SCRAP MATERIALS
Section
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Accumulation of solid wastes
   
91.03   Dumping or littering on public or private property
   
91.04   Transportation of solid waste within town
   
91.05   Burning or burying solid waste
   
91.06   Scrap materials; policy
   
91.07   Accumulation of scrap materials
   
91.08   Noxious growth
   
91.09   Property owners; adequate waste receptacles
   
91.10   Size, number and type of waste receptacles required
   
91.11   Premises served by dumpsters
   
91.12   Premises not served by dumpsters
   
91.13   Special collections
   
91.14   Miscellaneous
   
91.15   Violations; abatement; notice; hearing; order
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. All solid wastes capable of being rapidly decomposed by
microorganisms, including but not limited to animal and vegetable wastes
resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food, as
well as animal offal and carcasses, but excluding sewage and human wastes.
   PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR. The Public Works Director or any other person
designated by the Manager to perform the functions and exercise the
responsibilities assigned by this chapter to the Public Works Director.
   REFUSE. All solid wastes except garbage and solids that are dissolved or
suspended commercial, or industrial waste effluent.
   SCRAP MATERIALS. Scrap materials are:
      (1)   Pieces or fragments of metal, wood, glass, masonry, plastic,
textiles, rope, leather, rubber, paper or any other substance, that formerly
were part of the construction of some useful object or thing or that consist of
the excess resulting from the creation of some useful object or thing;
      (2)   Objects or things, including but not limited to machines, tools,
equipment, hardware, furniture, appliances and the like, or parts of the same
that are no longer in serviceable condition or are valuable only as raw
material for reprocessing; or
      (3)   Motor vehicles or remnants thereof that:
         (a)   Do not display current license plates;
         (b)   Cannot without substantial repairs be made to operate in the
manner originally intended; and
         (c)   Are valuable only as raw materials for reprocessing, but that do
not constitute solid wastes as herein defined because they are or may be useful
to or wanted by or have not been discarded by the person in control of the
premises where they have been located.
   SOLID WASTES. Wastes that are nongaseous and nonliquid (except that liquid
wastes resulting from the processing of food are deemed SOLID WASTES for the
purposes of this chapter).
   WASTES. All useless, unwanted or discarded materials resulting from
domestic, industrial, commercial or community activities.
(1981 Code, § 11-1)
§ 91.02 ACCUMULATION OF SOLID WASTES.
   (A)   Subject to the qualifications contained in division (B) below, no
person may cause, suffer or permit solid wastes to accumulate or remain on
premises under his or her control except in accordance with the provisions of
§§
91.09 through
91.14 below.
   (B)   Natural solid waste materials resulting from lawn or garden work, such
as bush and tree trimmings, leaves, grass, stumps, dirt and stones may be
allowed to accumulate or remain on premises under a person's control unless
these materials become or threaten to become a fire hazard or a harboring place
for rats, mice, snakes or other vermin or otherwise pose a danger to the public
health or safety.
(1981 Code, § 11-2) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 DUMPING OR LITTERING ON PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person may place, discard, throw, drop or deposit, or cause to be
placed, discarded, thrown, dropped or deposited any solid wastes on:
      (1)   Any public street or sidewalk within the town or on any property
owned or operated by the town or any other public property, except in properly
designated receptacles; or
      (2)   Any property not owned by him or her without the consent of the
owner, occupant or lessee thereof.
   (B)   Note: G.S. § 14-399 makes the acts prohibited in this section a
misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not more than $200. Therefore, this
section may be enforced by the town only through civil penalties or injunctive
relief.
(1981 Code, § 11-3) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 TRANSPORTATION OF SOLID WASTE WITHIN TOWN.
   No person may transport or cause to be transported any solid wastes on the
public streets of the town unless the solid wastes are so secured that no solid
wastes escape from the transporting vehicle. In addition, any garbage so
transported shall be carried in closed containers that prevent the escape of
noxious odors or liquids.
(1981 Code, § 11-4) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 BURNING OR BURYING SOLID WASTE.
   (A)   No person may burn or cause to be burned any garbage for purposes of
disposal, and no person may burn or cause to be burned any refuse except as
specifically authorized by any other provision of this code.
   (B)   No person may bury or cause to be buried any solid waste for purposes
of disposal.
(1981 Code, § 11-5) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 SCRAP MATERIALS; POLICY.
   The Council hereby declares that the uncontrolled accumulation of scrap
materials on any premises constitutes a danger to the health, safety and
welfare of the citizens of the town in that these accumulations can furnish
shelter and breeding places for vermin, present physical dangers to the safety
and well-being of children and other citizens, pose a danger of fire and
depreciate property values or cause a loss of business by detracting from the
appearance and character of residential and commercial neighborhoods.
(1981 Code, § 11-6)
§ 91.07 ACCUMULATION OF SCRAP MATERIALS.
   No person may cause, suffer or permit scrap materials to accumulate or
remain on premises under his or her control unless the scrap materials are:
   (A)   Surrounded by a fence of sufficient height, strength and construction
to deny persons, especially small children, access to them and to shield
neighboring properties from the view of them; or
   (B)   Are so stored within a structure or within a container outside of a
structure as to minimize substantially the dangers set forth in §
91.06 above.
(1981 Code, § 11-7) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.08 NOXIOUS GROWTH.
   (A)   No person may cause, suffer or permit on premises under his or her
control any growth of weeds, grasses or other plants or bushes that becomes or
threatens to become a fire hazard or a harboring place for rats, mice, snakes
or other vermin or otherwise poses a danger to the public health or safety.
   (B)   Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the owner or other
person in possession of every vacant lot shall keep mowed or cut down within 12
inches of the ground all weeds, grass or other noxious growth.
   (C)   Weeds, grass or other noxious growth which are not cut in conformity
with this section are declared to be a nuisance and the town may cause the same
to be cut. In this event, the costs incurred by the town shall be charged
against the lot where noxious growth was located, as well as the owner thereof,
and collected as unpaid ad valorem taxes.
(1981 Code, § 11-8) (Am. Ord. passed 8-24-1998) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.09 PROPERTY OWNERS; ADEQUATE WASTE RECEPTACLES.
   The town shall be responsible for providing adequate solid waste receptacles
in accordance with this section to store the solid wastes generated by
activities taking place on those premises between scheduled pickups.
(1981 Code, § 11-16) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.10 SIZE, NUMBER AND TYPE OF WASTE RECEPTACLES REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   Subject to the provisions of this section, and after
consultation with the owner of the premises concerned, the Public Works
Director shall determine the size, number and type of solid waste receptacles
that must be provided for all premises in accordance with §
91.09 above.
      (2)   In making this determination, the Public Works Director shall
consider the type of activities on each premises and the amount of solid waste
likely to be generated by those activities, as well as the welfare of the
occupants and neighbors of those premises and the town's need to facilitate
collection and minimize the costs of this service.
   (B)   Unless otherwise determined by the Public Works Director for good
cause shown, when 5 or more dwelling units are located on a single lot, the
owner of the premises shall provide 1 or more dumpsters so that the following
criteria relating to capacity are satisfied:
      (1)   Two cubic yards of storage capacity are provided for every 8
dwelling units or fraction thereof; and
      (2)   If more than 1 dumpster is required, the owner shall provide the
smallest number of dumpsters capable of satisfying the requirements stated in
division (B)(1) above.
   (C)   Unless otherwise determined by the Public Works Director for good
cause shown, when any nonresidential premises requires more than 4 containers
to satisfy the requirement stated in §
91.09 above, 1 or more dumpsters of an appropriate size will be required.
(1981 Code, §11-17) (Am. Ord. passed 8-25-2008 )
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.11 PREMISES SERVED BY DUMPSTERS.
   With respect to premises served by dumpsters:
   (A)   The location of dumpsters shall be determined by the Public Works
Director after consultation with the owner of the premises concerned. In making
this determination, the Public Works Director shall consider the needs of the
occupants of the premises, the welfare of the occupants and neighbors and the
town's need to facilitate collection and minimize the cost of service;
   (B)   The Public Works Director may require that screening be provided
around dumpsters if he or she determines that screening is necessary to prevent
solid wastes from being transported onto neighboring properties or if the
location of the dumpsters is such that, in the absence of screening, the
dumpsters would present an offensive appearance or cause offensive odors to be
transmitted to neighboring properties or passers-by;
   (C)   All solid wastes shall be stored in dumpsters pending collection by
the town; and
   (D)   All dumpsters shall be cleaned periodically to minimize offensive
odors, and the tops or openings to all dumpsters shall be kept securely
fastened at all times pending collection.
(1981 Code, § 11-18)
§ 91.12 PREMISES NOT SERVED BY DUMPSTERS.
   With respect to premises not served by dumpsters:
   (A)   Garbage may be stored pending collection by the town only in the
receptacles described in §
91.10(C). Refuse may be stored (between scheduled collections only) in any
appropriate and convenient fashion;
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, solid wastes may not be
stored between scheduled pickups within 45 feet of the center line of any
public street unless solid wastes are stored within a completely enclosed
substantial structure such as a house, garage or shed;
   (C)   Solid wastes shall be placed adjacent to the street for collection on
the scheduled collection day or after dark on the preceding day. After
collection, all solid waste receptacles and all uncollected solid wastes shall
be removed to a storage location that complies with division (B) above by 6:00
a.m. on the day following the collection day;
   (D)   Containers other than those described in §
91.09 will be treated as solid wastes and collected by the town;
   (E)   Grass cuttings, hedge clippings, tree trimmings and similar materials
less than 4 inches in diameter and 60 inches in length will be collected by the
town on the regularly scheduled, weekly special collection day if placed in
containers or located at the point of pick-up with trunks or limbs facing
toward the street. Tree limbs may be placed in piles no larger than 20 feet in
road frontage width, 4 feet in height and 60 inches in length;
   (F)   Leaves will be collected by the town between November 15 and March 15
on days specified for collection if placed adjacent to the street so that they
may easily be handled by the collector. No tree limbs, shrubs or other material
may be mixed with the leaves. At other times during the year, leaves will be
picked up as part of the regular collection if prepared in accordance with
division (E) above;
   (G)   Containers weighing more than 75 pounds and heavy or bulky items such
as tree trunks, tree trimmings or hedge cuttings more than 60 inches in length
or 4 inches in diameter, furniture and similar items will be collected only in
accordance with §
91.13; and
   (H)   Under no conditions will the town collect ashes, and no person may
place ashes in any container intended for collection by the town.
(1981 Code, § 11-19) (Am. Ord. passed 9-28-2015) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.13 SPECIAL COLLECTIONS.
   (A)   Solid wastes that are too bulky or too heavy or too cumbersome to be
collected by the town as part of its regular collection service may be
collected by the town pursuant to a request made to the Public Works Director
and a fee to be paid in advance per the Town of Liberty fee schedule.
   (B)   The town reserves the right to refuse any request made pursuant to
this section and the failure of the town to provide this service shall not
relieve any person of any of the obligations imposed by this chapter.
(1981 Code, § 11-20) (Am. Ord. passed 4-27-1998; Am. Ord. passed 8-25-2008)
§ 91.14 MISCELLANEOUS.
   (A)   The Public Works Director shall establish collection routes and
schedules and may alter these routes and schedules from time to time. A copy of
the current routes and schedules shall be kept on file in the office of the
Town Clerk. Notice of any changes in the routes or schedules shall be published
in the local newspaper at least 10 days before the changes are to become
effective.
   (B)   Whenever this subchapter authorizes the Public Works Director to make
a discretionary determination, all persons affected by that determination shall
comply with it within 15 calendar days after receiving written notice of the
determination and the reasons for it. Thereafter a failure on the part of the
person receiving the notice to comply with the determination shall constitute a
violation of this chapter.
   (C)   No person may damage, displace or otherwise interfere with solid waste
receptacles or solid wastes stored or prepared for collection except with the
consent of the owner, lessee or occupant of the premises where those
receptacles or solid wastes are located.
(1981 Code, § 11-21) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.15 VIOLATIONS; ABATEMENT; NOTICE; HEARING; ORDER.
   (A)   Violations resulting from continuing conditions.
      (1)   Whenever a violation of this chapter results from a continuing
condition rather than a discrete event, a written notice shall be sent to the
last known address of the responsible person, specifying the nature of the
violation and what must be done to correct it, requiring the responsible person
to correct the violation within 10 calendar days after delivery of the notice,
and informing the responsible person of the possible consequences of his or her
failure to comply.
      (2)   Whenever a violation of this chapter results from a continuing
condition rather than a discrete event, the penalties and remedies provided for
in § 91.99 may not be invoked until after the 10-day correction period
specified in the section has expired.
   (B)   Summary abatement of conditions dangerous or prejudicial to the public
health.
      (1)   If the Council concludes, after notice and hearing as provided in
its part, that any condition or situation prohibited by this chapter or any
other condition or situation is dangerous or prejudicial to the public health
or safety, it may order town officials to summarily remove, abate or remedy
everything so found within the town limits or within 1 mile thereof.
      (2)   The expense of this action shall be paid by the person in default
and, if not paid, shall be a lien upon the land or premises where the trouble
arose and shall be collected as unpaid taxes.
   (C)   Notice required.
      (1)   Before the action authorized by division (B) above is taken, notice
shall be sent to the respondent, informing him or her:
         (a)   What condition or situation is alleged to be dangerous or
prejudicial to the public health or safety;
         (b)   When and where the Council will meet to hold a hearing on the
issue of whether the condition cited is dangerous or prejudicial to public
health;
         (c)   That if the Council determines that the cited condition is
dangerous or prejudicial to public health or safety, it may order town
officials to summarily abate, remedy or correct the offending condition; and
         (d)   That the expenses incurred by the town in connection with the
actions described in division (C)(1)(c) above, if not paid by the respondent,
shall become a lien upon the land where the offending condition is located, to
be collected as unpaid taxes.
      (2)   If after due diligence, the respondent's address cannot be
determined, then the notice required by this section shall be posted
conspicuously on the offending property not later than 3 days before the
scheduled hearing. This notice shall be sent by certified mail, return receipt
requested, not later than 5 calendar days prior to the scheduled hearing or
delivered to the respondent by a town officer or employee, not later than 3
days prior to the scheduled hearing.
      (3)   For purposes of divisions (B) through (E) of this section, the
RESPONDENT is the person who is responsible for the offending condition, as
well as the owner of the property where the offending condition is located, if
different from the former.
   (D)   Hearing procedures.
      (1)   At the hearing held pursuant to this part, the town administration
shall be responsible for presenting sufficient evidence to the Council to
substantiate a finding that a condition exists that is dangerous or prejudicial
to the public health or safety.
      (2)   The Council may consider all reliable evidence and need not be
bound by the strict rules of evidence applicable to courts of law, but all
witnesses shall be sworn. The respondent may be represented by counsel and may
present evidence.
      (3)   All parties may cross-examine adverse witnesses.
      (4)   At the conclusion of the hearing, the Council shall make findings
of fact, state its conclusions and enter an appropriate order. The Council's
findings of fact, conclusion and order shall be reduced to writing and a copy
sent by mail or delivered to the respondent within 30 days following the
hearing.
   (E)   Order. If the Council concludes that a situation or condition exists
that is dangerous or prejudicial to the public health or safety, it may:
      (1)   Order appropriate town officials or employees to summarily remove,
abate or remedy everything so found and to assess the cost of this action
against the respondent in accordance with division (B) above; or
      (2)   Order the respondent to correct the situation within a specified
time period and order town officials to abate, correct or remedy the offending
condition if the respondent fails to act within the prescribed time limits. If
town officials are required to take corrective action, the costs shall be
assessed against the respondent in accordance with division (B) above.
(1981 Code, §§ 11-37 through 11-41)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   A violation of any of the following provisions of this chapter shall
constitute a misdemeanor, punishable as provided in G.S. § 14-4: Article II
(except §
91.03), and Article III.
   (C)   A violation of any of the provisions specified in division (B) above
(as well as §
91.03) shall also subject the offender to a civil penalty of $25. If the
offender fails to pay this penalty within 15 calendar days after being cited
for a violation, the penalty may be recovered by the town in a civil action in
the nature of debt.
   (D)   Each day that any violation continues after a person has been notified
that a violation exists and that he or she is subject to the penalties
specified in divisions (B) and (C) above shall constitute a separate offense.
   (E)   This chapter may also be enforced by any appropriate equitable action,
including injunctions or orders of abatement.
   (F)   The town may enforce this chapter by any 1 or any combination of the
foregoing remedies.
(1981 Code, § 11-36)
CHAPTER 92: FIRE PROTECTION AND PREVENTION
Section
   
92.01   Interference with firefighters; false alarms
   
92.02   Riding on Fire Department apparatus
   
92.03   Congregating at fires
   
92.04   Inspection of premises for fire hazards
   
92.05   Adoption of technical codes and standards by reference
   
92.06   Open burning
   
92.07   Fire limits
   
92.08     Fire Chief
   
92.09   Fire and Life Safety Division
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 INTERFERENCE WITH FIREFIGHTERS; FALSE ALARMS.
   (A)   As provided in G.S. § 58-82-1, no person may willfully interfere in
any manner with firefighters engaged in the performance of their duties.
   (B)   As provided in G.S. § 14-286, no person may wantonly and willfully
give a false alarm or damage fire alarm, detection or extinguishing equipment.
(1981 Code, § 12-1) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.02 RIDING ON FIRE DEPARTMENT APPARATUS.
   No person other than a member of the Fire Department may mount or ride upon
any fire engine, wagon or apparatus before it leaves the station or while on
its way to or from a fire or at any other time, except by permission of the
Fire Chief.
(1981 Code, § 12-2) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 CONGREGATING AT FIRES.
   It shall be unlawful for persons to congregate on the streets, sidewalks or
other areas adjacent to a fire so as to interfere with the operations of
members of the Fire Department.
(1981 Code, § 12-3) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 INSPECTION OF PREMISES FOR FIRE HAZARDS.
   (A)   As provided in G.S. § 58-79-20, the Fire Chief or his or her duly
authorized agent may enter into all buildings and premises during reasonable
hours to inspect for combustible materials or inflammable conditions dangerous
to the safety of the building or premises.
   (B)   (1)   When any officer making an inspection in accordance with
division (A) above discovers combustible materials in inflammable conditions,
he or she shall order the occupant or person in charge of the premises to
remove or remedy the materials or conditions.
      (2)   Unless the person to whom the order is directed appeals to the
Commissioner of Insurance within 24 hours, as provided in G.S. § 58-79-20, the
order shall be complied with forthwith.
(1981 Code, § 12-9)
§ 92.05 ADOPTION OF TECHNICAL CODES AND STANDARDS BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   There is hereby adopted by reference and incorporated herein that
certain code known as North Carolina Fire Code, Current Edition. Copies of the
fire prevention and protection code and all technical codes and standards
adopted by reference shall be filed with, and available for public inspection
in the office of the Fire Chief.
   (B)   Amendments to codes and standards adopted by reference herein which
are adopted and published by the State Building Code Council shall be effective
in the town at such time amendments become a part of North Carolina Fire Code,
Current Edition.
      (1)   The following Appendices to the North Carolina Fire Code are
adopted:
         (a)   Appendix B - Fire Flow Requirements for Buildings;
         (b)   Appendix C - Fire Hydrant Locations and Distribution;
         (c)   Appendix D - Fire Apparatus Access Roads;
         (d)   Appendix F - Hazard Ranking; and
         (e)   Appendix J - Building Information Sign.
(Ord. passed 7-27-2020)
§ 92.06 OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (D) below, no person may burn or cause
to be burned any material outside of a building without a permit issued by the
Fire Chief.
   (B)   The Fire Chief shall issue the permit, authorizing the named applicant
to burn specified materials at a designated location on a specified date, if he
or she finds that the applicant will comply with the requirements of division
(C) below and that no atmospheric conditions or other local circumstances exist
that would make the requested burning hazardous.
   (C)   (1)   Burning shall be permitted only on property owned or occupied by
the person doing the burning, or his or her agent, and only in accordance with
the terms of the permit.
      (2)   Burning shall not be allowed within 50 feet of any structure,
except as provided in division (D) below.
      (3)   No outside burning shall be allowed within the primary fire
district.
      (4)   Outdoor fires shall be constantly attended, and the person in
charge shall have a garden hose or other fire extinguishing equipment readily
available for use.
   (D)   No outdoor burning of trash, leaves, grass and the like is
permissible.
   (E)   Nothing in this section shall relieve any person of the requirements
of any other provision of law governing outdoor burning or pollution from
burning.
(1981 Code, § 12-12) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.07 FIRE LIMITS.
   (A)   The primary fire limits shall be shown on the fire zone map as
approved and modified from time to time by the Board. A copy of this map shall
be maintained in the office of the Town Clerk.
   (B)   As provided in G.S. § 160A-436, within the primary fire zone no frame
or wooden building or structure or addition thereto may be erected, altered,
repaired or moved (either into the limits or from one place to another within
the limits), except in accordance with a building permit issued by the Building
Inspector and approved by the Commissioner of Insurance.
(1981 Code, § 12-16) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.08 FIRE CHIEF.
   When used in this chapter, the term FIRE CHIEF refers to the Town Fire Chief
or to any other person designated by the Manager to perform the duties assigned
to the Fire Chief by this chapter.
(1981 Code, § 12-17)
§ 92.09 FIRE AND LIFE SAFETY DIVISION.
   (A)   The Fire and Life Safety Division shall be a division within the Fire
Department and supervised by the Fire Chief.
   (B)   The Fire and Life Safety Division shall conduct inspections of
buildings and premises for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the North
Carolina Fire Code, Current Edition and any amendments or appendices.
   (C)   The Fire and Life Safety Division shall be responsible for Public
Education and Fire Prevention programs.
   (D)   Fire Marshal refers to the person designated by the Manager to perform
the duties assigned to the Fire Marshal by this chapter.
   (E)   The Fire Marshal shall be appointed by the Town Manager and supervised
by the Fire Chief. The Fire Marshal shall implement inspections and training
outlined in this chapter in accordance with the North Carolina Fire Code,
Current Edition and any amendments or appendices.
(Ord. passed 7-27-2020)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   A violation of §§
92.01 through
92.04,
92.06,
92.07 as well as the provisions of the Fire Code adopted by reference in §
92.05 shall constitute a misdemeanor, punishable as provided in G.S. § 14-4.
   (C)   A violation of any of the sections listed in division (B) above shall
also subject the offender to a civil penalty of $25. If a person fails to pay
this penalty within 10 days after being cited for a violation, the town may
seek to recover the penalty by filing a civil action in the nature of debt.
   (D)   The town may seek to enforce this chapter through any appropriate
equitable action.
   (E)   Each day that a violation continues after the offender has been
notified of the violation shall constitute a separate offense.
   (F)   The town may seek to enforce this chapter by using any one or any
combination of the foregoing remedies.
(1981 Code, § 12-18)
CHAPTER 93: CEMETERIES
Section
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Application of provisions
   
93.03   Burial only in cemeteries
   
93.04   Disruptive activity prohibited
   
93.05   Desecration of public and private cemeteries
   
93.06   Removing or defacing monuments and tombstones
   
93.07   Hours of operation
   
93.08   Trees, plantings and landscaping
   
93.09   Cemetery map required
   
93.10   Purchase of burial rights
   
93.11   Rights of owner of certificate of burial right
   
93.12   Speculation in burial rights prohibited
   
93.13   Mausoleums
   
93.14   Monuments
   
93.15   Markers
   
93.16   No burial without permit
   
93.17   Records of persons buried required
   
93.18   Digging graves
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The person designated by the Manager to perform the functions
and exercise the responsibilities assigned by this chapter to the
Administrator.
   LOT. A plot of ground within the town cemetery consisting of 2 or more
burial spaces, as shown on the official cemetery map.
   MARKER. A plaque installed at ground level at the site of a grave to
indicate the name, date of birth and date of death of the person buried there.
   MAUSOLEUM. A structure or building substantially exposes above ground
intended to be used for the entombment of remains of a deceased person.
   MONUMENT. A memorial stone or other structure erected at a gravesite in
remembrance of the dead.
(1981 Code, § 13-1)
§ 93.02 APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS.
   The following sections apply to all cemeteries within the town: §§
93.03 through
93.06. The remaining sections of this chapter apply only to cemeteries owned or
operated by the town.
(1981 Code, § 13-2)
§ 93.03 BURIAL ONLY IN CEMETERIES.
   No person may bury or cause to be buried the body of any deceased person
within the town limits in any place other than a church cemetery operated by a
governmental entity or a private cemetery licensed specifically exempted from
licensing according to the North Carolina Cemetery Act (G.S. Ch. 65 Article 9).
(1981 Code, § 13-3) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 DISRUPTIVE ACTIVITY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person may drive any motor vehicle of any kind in any cemetery
except upon the main roads and avenues provided therein for vehicular traffic.
   (B)   No person may drive any motor vehicle or park any motor vehicle in any
cemetery unless in attendance at burial services or otherwise engaged in
activities consistent with the use of a cemetery as a cemetery.
   (C)   No person may take any dog, horse or other animal into any cemetery or
allow any animal to run at large therein.
   (D)   No person may intentionally disrupt any funeral services or disturb
the quiet and good order of any cemetery by extremely loud or boisterous
conduct. Except in the case of military funerals and veterans or military
commemorative exercises, no person may carry or discharge firearms in any
cemetery.
   (E)   No person may post or attach any bills, posters, placards, pictures or
other form of political or commercial advertising within the cemetery or on the
inside or outside of any wall or fence enclosing any cemetery.
(1981 Code, § 13-4) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 DESECRATION OF PUBLIC AND PRIVATE CEMETERIES.
   As provided in G.S. § 14-148, if any person shall willfully commit any of
the acts set forth in the following divisions, he or she shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $100 or imprisoned for not more
than 30 days, or both, in the discretion of the court:
      (1)   Throwing, placing or putting any refuse, garbage, trash or articles
of similar nature in or on a public or private cemetery where human bodies are
interred; or
      (2)   Destroying, removing, breaking, damaging, overturning or polluting
any flower, plant, shrub or ornament located in any public or private cemetery
where human bodies are interred without the express consent of the person in
charge of the cemetery.
   (B)   Provided nothing contained in this section shall preclude operators of
cemeteries from exercising all the powers reserved to them in their respective
rules and regulations relating to the care of the cemeteries.
(1981 Code, § 13-5)
§ 93.06 REMOVING OR DEFACING MONUMENTS AND TOMBSTONES.
   As provided in G.S. § 14-148, if any person shall, unlawfully and on
purpose, remove from its place any monument of marble, stone, brass, wood or
other material, erected for the purpose of designating the spot where any dead
body is interred, or for the purpose of preserving and perpetuating the memory,
name, fame, birth, age or death of any person, whether situated in or out of
the common burying ground, or shall unlawfully and on purpose break or deface a
monument, or alter the letters, marks or inscription thereof, he or she shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor. Provided that nothing contained in this section
shall preclude operators of public or private cemeteries from exercising all
the powers reserved to them in their respective rules and regulations relating
to the use and care of cemeteries.
(1981 Code, § 13-6) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.07 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   The town cemetery shall remain open to the public throughout the year
from sunrise until sunset.
   (B)   No person may enter the town cemetery at any time other than the hours
of operation established by division (A) above.
(1981 Code, § 13-7) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.08 TREES, PLANTINGS AND LANDSCAPING.
   (A)   No person may plant, prune or remove any tree, shrub, flower, grass or
other plant of any kind except with the consent of and in accordance with the
directions of the Cemetery Administrator.
   (B)   The Cemetery Administrator may enter any lot and remove or trim any
tree, shrub or other plant that encroaches upon any other lot or any walkway,
or driveway, or other part of the cemetery.
   (C)   The Cemetery Administrator may remove from the cemetery all floral
designs, flowers, weeds or plants of any kind from the cemetery as soon as they
deteriorate or otherwise become unsightly.
   (D)   Seasonal flowers used in floral decorations may be used in the
cemetery. However, seasonal flowers used in floral decorations will be removed
and disposed of by the Cemetery Administrator 2 weeks prior to Christmas,
Easter and Memorial Day.
(1981 Code, § 13-8) (Am. Ord. passed 3-26-2001) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.09 CEMETERY MAP REQUIRED.
   (A)   There shall be maintained in the Town Clerk's office an official
cemetery map which shall depict, as accurately as possible, the boundaries of
the town cemetery and the location and dimension of all lots and spaces within
the cemetery.
   (B)   Burial rights in all lots and spaces shall be sold in reference to the
official cemetery map.
(1981 Code, § 13-11)
§ 93.10 PURCHASE OF BURIAL RIGHTS.
   (A)   (1)   The town shall sell burial rights in cemetery lots and spaces in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter and a schedule of rates adopted
and revised from time to time by resolution of the Council upon recommendation
of the Manager.
      (2)   Differential fees shall be charged according to whether the person
intended to be buried in the space with respect to which a burial right is
purchased is a bona fide resident of the town at the time the right is
purchased.
   (B)   (1)   A certificate of burial right shall be issued to the person who
purchases a burial right.
      (2)   The certificate shall identify the purchaser, the specific lots or
spaces to which the certificate applies, and the names of the individuals
intended to be buried in the spaces purchased.
      (3)   If spaces are intended to be reserved for unborn children or
grandchildren of the purchaser, that fact may be noted on the certificate and
the offspring shall be deemed to have the same residency as their parents.
(1981 Code, § 13-12)
§ 93.11 RIGHTS OF OWNER OF CERTIFICATE OF BURIAL RIGHT.
   (A)   The certificate of burial right entitles the owner thereof (i.e., the
purchaser) to use the designated spaces as a place of burial for the persons
named in the certificate, subject to the terms and conditions of this section
and subject to the town's authority to operate, regulate, control and abandon
cemeteries.
   (B)   (1)   If the owner of a certificate of burial right desires to change
the designation of persons entitled to be buried in the spaces covered by the
certificate, he or she may do so by surrendering the old certificate and
obtaining a new certificate.
      (2)   Fees will be charged at the then current rate for the spaces being
changed, but credit will be given for previous payments with respect to those
spaces.
   (C)   The Manager is authorized to pay appropriate compensation to the
owners of spaces that owners no longer wish to reserve, upon surrender of the
certificate of burial right covering the spaces.
   (D)   Upon the death of the owner of a certificate of burial right, all
rights evidenced by the certificate shall pass to the owner's heirs, legatees
or devisees in the same manner as other interests in personal property.
(1981 Code, § 13-13)
§ 93.12 SPECULATION IN BURIAL RIGHTS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person may purchase or otherwise acquire any burial right for the
purpose of sale or exchange.
   (B)   No person may sell or exchange any burial right for a profit or gain.
(1981 Code, § 13-14) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.13 MAUSOLEUMS.
   Mausoleums shall not be permitted within the town cemetery.
(1981 Code, § 13-17) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.14 MONUMENTS.
   (A)   There shall be no more than 1 family monument on any one lot.
   (B)   (1)   No person may erect or install any monument within the town
cemetery except pursuant to and in accordance with a permit issued by the
Administrator.
      (2)   The Administrator may establish regulations relating to the size,
type of construction, location and type of foundation of monuments as are
necessary to preserve the cemetery, ensure its dignity and minimize maintenance
costs, and permits shall be issued under this section in accordance with those
regulations.
(1981 Code, § 13-18) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.15 MARKERS.
   Grave spaces shall be marked with a bronze, stone or other marker approved
by the Administrator and placed flush with the ground in accordance with
regulations adopted by the Administrator.
(1981 Code, § 13-19)
§ 93.16 NO BURIAL WITHOUT PERMIT.
   (A)   No grave may be opened and no burial may take place without a written
permit issued by the Cemetery Administrator.
   (B)   (1)   Application for the permit authorized by this section shall be
made at least 8 hours prior to the opening of the grave.
      (2)   This application shall be submitted in writing, and unless the
application is made to permit the interment of the person who owns the burial
right for the space requested, it must be accompanied by a written statement
signed by the owner of the space authorizing the use of the space.
      (3)   The application shall include the information necessary to create
the record required by §
93.17 below.
   (C)   The permit required by this section shall be issued if the application
contains the information specified in this section and if all fees and charges
authorized by this chapter have been paid.
   (D)   A concrete or steel liner or commercial type vault is required for all
graves except infant graves. Plastic liners, vaults and non-concrete or steel
material is expressly prohibited.
(1981 Code, § 13-21) (Ord. passed 10-22-2018) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.17 RECORDS OF PERSONS BURIED REQUIRED.
   Accurate records shall be kept, in a form prescribed by the Manager, so that
the town can identify the person buried in each space and the date of burial.
(1981 Code, § 13-22)
§ 93.18 DIGGING GRAVES.
   (A)   All graves shall be dug by town employees or by a private contractor
selected by the Town Manager.
   (B)   A fee shall be charged for this service, as established and revised
from time to time by resolution of the Council upon recommendation of the
Manager.
   (C)   Differential fees may be established according to whether the deceased
for whom the space is dug was, at the time of death, a resident of the town and
whether the grave must be dug during the normal work week.
(1981 Code, § 13-23) (Am. Ord. passed 6-22-1998) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   A violation of any of the following provisions shall constitute a
misdemeanor, punishable as provided in G.S. § 14-4: §§
93.03,
93.04,
93.07,
93.08,
93.12,
93.13,
93.14,
93.15,
93.16 and
93.18.
   (C)   (1)   Violations of any of the sections listed in division (B) above
shall also subject the offender to a civil penalty of $25.
      (2)   If a person fails to pay this penalty within 10 days after being
cited for a violation, the town may seek to recover the penalty by filing a
civil action in the nature of debt.
   (D)   The town may seek to enforce this chapter through any appropriate
equitable action.
   (E)   Each day that a violation continues after the offender has been
notified of the violation shall constitute a separate offense.
   (F)   The town may seek to enforce this chapter by using any one or any
combination of the foregoing remedies.
(1981 Code, § 13-26)
CHAPTER 94: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Operating hours of town parks
Parks and Recreation Advisory Committee
   
94.10   Creation, name and members
   
94.11   Powers and duties
   
94.12   Appointment of the Committee
   
94.13   Officers
   
94.14   Duties of officers
   
94.15   Compensation and expenses
   
94.16   Meetings
   
94.17   Subcommittees and standing committees
   
94.18   Conflict with other ordinances and resolutions
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01 OPERATING HOURS OF TOWN PARKS.
   (A)   The operating hours for all town parks owned and operated by the Town
of Liberty will be set by the Town Council after review from time to time.
   (B)   Those persons who are participants or spectators in scheduled
activities and/or events are exempted from the posted hours provided the
scheduled activities and/or events have been approved by the Liberty Parks and
Recreation Department.
   (C)   Those persons found in town parks after the posted hours will be
charged with trespassing.
(Ord. passed 1-22-2001; Am. Ord. passed 8-25-2008)
PARKS AND RECREATION ADVISORY COMMITTEE
§ 94.10 CREATION, NAME AND MEMBERS.
   There is hereby created a Committee composed of 9 members to be known as the
Liberty Parks and Recreation Advisory Committee. This subchapter shall be known
as the Liberty Parks and Recreation Ordinance.
(Ord. passed 4-22-1991)
§ 94.11 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Advisory Committee shall serve at the pleasure of and as the
advisory body for the Town of Liberty and surrounding area on issues relative
to parks and recreation. The Advisory Committee shall advise the Park and
Recreation Director, Town Manager and Town Council within it responsibilities
and powers as stated in this subchapter.
   (B)   The Advisory Committee shall serve as a liaison between the Parks and
Recreation Director and the citizens of Liberty and surrounding area.
   (C)   The Advisory Committee shall consult with and advise the Parks and
Recreation Director in matters affecting park/recreation programs, facilities,
policies, finances and the acquisition and disposal of lands and properties and
its long-range, projected plan for parks and recreation.
   (D)   The Advisory Committee shall also assume specific duties and
responsibilities as follows:
      (1)   To investigate and determine the needs, interests and goals of the
community for recreation facilities and programs and make recommendations to
the Director, Manager and Town Council to meet those needs and goals;
      (2)   To inform and educate the general public of the importance and need
for park and recreation programs, facilities and services;
      (3)   To seek and make recommendations on the acceptance of grants,
gifts, bequests, donations and personal or real property for park and
recreation purposes;
      (4)   To assist the Park and Recreation Department in developing
cooperative arrangements with other organizations and private groups, when it
will further the objective of providing more and varied kinds of park and
recreation programs for the citizens of the community;
      (5)   To assist the Park and Recreation Department in recruiting
voluntary leadership staff to work with park/recreation programs and
activities;
      (6)   To assist in matters relating to the maintaining of the highest
standards in park development and operation, park/recreation leadership and in
a well balanced program;
      (7)   To assist in developing a plan to meet the present and future needs
for programs, services, parks, facilities, open spaces and trails and to advise
in developing priorities for each of these;
      (8)   To receive information and reports from staff concerning the
evaluation of programs, facilities, policies and procedures; and
      (9)   Upon request, recommend approval of rules, and procedures
pertaining to the use of public parks and facilities including suggested fees
and charges.
(Ord. passed 4-22-1991)
§ 94.12 APPOINTMENT OF THE COMMITTEE.
   (A)   The Liberty Parks and Recreation Advisory Committee shall consist of 9
members all of whom shall be appointed by the Town Council.
   (B)   One elected Town Council member shall serve as an ex-officio member of
the Advisory Committee and the Park and Recreation Foundation, when one is
created.
   (C)   (1)   The terms of office for the members shall be for 3 years; except
that for the initial terms of office, 3 members shall be appointed for 1 year,
3 members shall be appointed for 2 years and 3 members shall be appointed for 3
years.
      (2)   All subsequent terms of office shall be for 3 years, members may
serve 2 full terms; after that, they may not return for at least 1 full year.
   (D)   Vacancies arising on the Committee shall be filled by the Town Council
for the balance of the unexpired term. All members shall hold office until
their successors are appointed and qualified. Any member who misses more than 3
consecutive regular meetings loses his or her status.
   (E)   An orientation meeting for the newly appointed Board members shall be
conducted by the Director and the Chairperson within 30 days after their
appointment.
(Ord. passed 4-22-1991)
§ 94.13 OFFICERS.
   (A)   The Town Council shall appoint the first Chairperson and Vice
Chairperson.
   (B)   The members of the Liberty Parks and Recreation Advisory Committee
shall annually elect from their own membership a Chairperson and other officers
as they deem essential.
   (C)   Officers shall be elected at the regular monthly meeting in June and
take office at the subsequent regular meeting in July.
   (D)   Officers shall serve for 1 year from election with eligibility for re-
election.
   (E)   In the event an officer's appointment to the Committee is terminated,
a replacement to this meeting following the termination.
(Ord. passed 4-22-1991)
§ 94.14 DUTIES OF OFFICERS.
   (A)   (1)   The Chairperson shall preside at all meetings of the Committee.
      (2)   The Chairperson shall appoint all subcommittees, represent the
Committee at public affairs and shall maintain the dignity and efficiently of
the Committee in all possible ways.
      (3)   The Chairperson shall present recommendations or reports, including
an annual report, to the Town Council.
      (4)   The Chairperson shall meet regularly with the Director to discuss
preparation of agendas, reports and other matters that concern the Committee.
      (5)   The Chairperson shall perform the other duties ordinarily performed
by that office.
   (B)   The Vice-Chairperson of the Committee shall, in the absence of the
Chairperson, perform all duties of the Chairperson. The Vice-Chairperson shall
be responsible for assisting the Chairperson and to see that all standing and
temporary subcommittees function as planned by the Advisory Committee and town
staff.
   (C)   (1)   The Secretary shall serve as Secretary for the Advisory
Committee and be responsible for the satisfactory accomplishment of secretarial
duties.
      (2)   The Secretary shall keep or cause to be kept a full and true
permanent record of all meetings of the Advisory Committee.
      (3)   The Secretary shall send out or cause to be sent out notices of
regular and special meetings at least 5 days prior to the meetings.
      (4)   The Director of Park and Recreation may serve as the Secretary.
(Ord. passed 4-22-1991)
§ 94.15 COMPENSATION AND EXPENSES.
   The members of the Committee shall serve without compensation, but shall be
entitled to reimbursement for subsistence and travel to professional recreation
meetings, conferences and workshops, with reimbursement being made in
compliance with the general town polices.
(Ord. passed 4-22-1991)
§ 94.16 MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Parks and Recreation Advisory Committee shall meet at least
quarterly and at other times as may be necessary to transact business, upon the
call of the Chairperson or upon call by majority of the Committee members, or
upon call of the Liberty Town Council.
   (B)   One elected Town Council member shall serve as an ex-officio member of
the Advisory Committee.
   (C)   General parliamentary rules, as given in Robert's Rules of Order as
modified by rules and regulations of the Advisory Committee shall be observed
in conducting meetings.
   (D)   A Nominating Committee of at least 2 members shall be appointed by the
Chairperson at the May meeting (or before) to bring forward nominees for
offices at the June meeting.
   (E)   The first regular meeting in June will be an organizational meeting
for the ensuing year with election of officers, annual report and subcommittee
reports.
(Ord. passed 4-22-1991; Am. Ord. passed 10-22-2018)
§ 94.17 SUBCOMMITTEES AND STANDING COMMITTEES.
   (A)   The Advisory Committee shall organize temporary or standing
subcommittees as it deems necessary in order to carry out the responsibilities
of the Committee. Subcommittees shall be appointed by the Chairperson.
   (B)   The Advisory Committee may refer any matter to a subcommittee before
action is taken on the subject by the Advisory Committee.
   (C)   Each subcommittee shall consist of not less than 2 members on the
Advisory Committee. Subcommittees may be composed of members from the
community, representatives of civic groups or others.
   (D)   A record of the actions of each subcommittee shall be kept by the
Subcommittee Chairperson and reported to the Advisory Committee at its next
meting.
(Ord. passed 4-22-1991)
§ 94.18 CONFLICT WITH OTHER ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS.
   Any earlier adopted ordinances and resolutions of the Liberty Town Council
pertaining to parks and recreation which are or may become in conflict with the
provisions of this subchapter are hereby declared to be null and void and of no
effect.
(Ord. passed 4-22-1991)
CHAPTER 95: ABANDONED, NUISANCE AND JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES
Section
   
95.01   Administration
   
95.02   Definitions
   
95.03   Abandoned vehicle unlawful; removal
   
95.04   Nuisance vehicle unlawful; removal
   
95.05   Junked motor vehicle regulated; removal
   
95.06   Removal of abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicles; pre-towing
notice requirements
   
95.07   Exceptions to prior notice requirement
   
95.08   Removal of vehicles; post-towing notice requirements
   
95.09   Right to probable cause hearing before sale or final disposition of
vehicle
   
95.10   Redemption of vehicle during proceedings
   
95.11   Sale and disposition of unclaimed vehicle
   
95.12   Conditions on removal of vehicles from private property
   
95.13   Protection against criminal or civil liability
   
95.14   Exceptions
   
95.15   Unlawful removal of impounded vehicle
§ 95.01 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The Town Manager and the Police Department of the Town of Liberty
shall be responsible for the administration and enforcement of this chapter.
   (B)   The Police Department shall be responsible for administering the
removal and disposition of vehicles determined to be abandoned on the public
streets and highways within the town, and on property owned by the town.
   (C)   The Town Manager shall be responsible for administering the removal
and disposition of abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicles located on
private property.
   (D)   The town may, on an annual basis, contract with private tow truck
operators or towing businesses to remove, store and dispose of abandoned
vehicles, nuisance vehicles and junked motor vehicles in compliance with this
chapter and applicable state laws.
   (E)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to limit the legal
authority or powers of officers of the Town Police Department and Fire
Department in enforcing other laws or in otherwise carrying out their duties.
   (F)   The Town Manager is authorized to secure an administrative search and
inspection warrant, as provided by G.S. § 15-27.2, in order to conduct any
necessary inspection of the premises and to obtain evidence to determine
whether there is any violation of any provisions of this chapter for which the
Town Manager has the duty to enforce code provisions.
(1981 Code, § 16-1) (Ord. passed 3-26-1990; Am. Ord. passed 3-24-2003)
§ 95.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. As authorized and defined in G.S. § 160A-303, one that:
      (1)   Is left upon a public street or highway in violation of a law or
ordinance prohibiting parking;
      (2)   Is left on a public street or highway for longer than 7 days;
      (3)   Is left on property owned or operated by the town for longer than
24 hours; or
      (4)   Is left on private property without the consent of the owner,
occupant or lessee thereof for longer than 2 hours.
   AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL. The supervisory employee of the Police Department or
the Town Manager, respectively, designated to authorize the removal of vehicles
under the provisions of this chapter.
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE. As authorized and defined in G.S. § 160A-303.2, a
vehicle that does not display a current license plate lawfully upon that
vehicle and that:
      (1)   Is partially dismantled or wrecked;
      (2)   Cannot be self propelled or moved in the manner in which it
originally was intended to move; or
      (3)   Is more than 5 years old and appears to be worth less than $100.
   MOTOR VEHICLE OR VEHICLE. All machines designed or intended to travel over
land by self-propulsion or while attached to any self-propelled vehicle.
   NUISANCE VEHICLE. A vehicle on public or private property that is determined
and declared to be a health or safety hazard or a public nuisance, including
but not limited to a vehicle found to be:
      (1)   A breeding ground or harbor for mosquitoes, other insects, rats or
other pests;
      (2)   A point of heavy growth of weeds or other noxious vegetation over 8
inches in height;
      (3)   A point of collection of pools or ponds of water;
      (4)   A point of concentration of quantities of gasoline, oil or other
flammable or explosive materials as evidenced by odor;
      (5)   One which has areas of confinement which cannot be operated from
the inside, such as trunks, hoods and the like;
      (6)   So situated or located that there is a danger of it falling or
turning over;
      (7)   One which is a point of collection of garbage, food waste, animal
waste or any other rotten or putrescible matter of any kind;
      (8)   One which has sharp parts thereof which are jagged or contain sharp
edges of metal or glass; or
      (9)   Any other vehicle specifically declared a health or safety hazard
or a public nuisance by the Town Council.
(1981 Code, § 16-2) (Ord. passed 3-26-1990)
Statutory reference:
   G.S. § 160A-303(b1)(4), from which subdivision (2) of the definition of
abandoned vehicle derives, currently reads “Is left on any public street or
highway for longer than seven days or is determined by law enforcement to be a
hazard to the motoring public.” As of the 2012 S-3, the town had not adopted
such an ordinance.
   G.S. § 160A-303(b2)(2), from which subdivision (3) of the definition of
junked motor vehicle derives, currently reads “Is more than five years old and
worth less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) or is more than five years old
and worth less than five hundred dollars ($500.00) as provided by the
municipality in an ordinance adopted under this section; or.” As of the 2010 S-
2, the town had not adopted such an ordinance.
§ 95.03 ABANDONED VEHICLE UNLAWFUL; REMOVAL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a vehicle to cause or allow the vehicle to be abandoned as the
term is defined herein.
   (B)   Upon investigation, proper authorizing officials of the town may
determine that a vehicle is an abandoned vehicle and order the vehicle removed.
(1981 Code, § 16-3) (Ord. passed 3-26-1990) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.04 NUISANCE VEHICLE UNLAWFUL; REMOVAL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a vehicle, or for the owner, lessee or occupant of the real
property upon which the vehicle is located to leave or allow the vehicle to
remain on the property after it has been declared a nuisance vehicle.
   (B)   Upon investigation, the Town Manager may determine and declare that a
vehicle is a health or safety hazard or a nuisance vehicle as defined above,
and order the vehicle removed.
(1981 Code, § 16-4) (Ord. passed 3-26-1990) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.05 JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE REGULATED; REMOVAL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
the possession of a junked motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee or occupant
of the real property upon which a junked motor vehicle is located to leave or
allow the vehicle to remain on the property after the vehicle has been ordered
removed.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to have more than 1 junked motor vehicle, as
defined herein, on the premises of public or private property. Single,
permitted junked motor vehicle must strictly comply with the location and
concealment requirements of this section.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, person entitled to the possession
of a junked motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee or occupant of the real
property upon which a junked motor vehicle is located to fail to comply with
the locational or concealment requirements of this section.
   (D)   (1)   Subject to the provisions of division (E) below, upon
investigation, the Town Manager may order the removal of a junked motor vehicle
as defined in this chapter after finding in writing that the aesthetic benefits
of removing the vehicle outweigh the burdens imposed on the private property
owner.
      (2)   The finding shall be based on a balancing of the monetary loss of
the apparent owner against the corresponding gain to the public by promoting or
enhancing community, neighborhood or area appearance.
      (3)   The following, among other relevant factors, may be considered:
         (a)   Protection of property values;
         (b)   Promotion of tourism and other economic development
opportunities;
         (c)   Indirect protection of public health and safety;
         (d)   Preservation of the character and integrity of the community;
and
         (e)   Promotion of the comfort, happiness and emotional stability of
area residents.
   (E)   Permitted concealment or enclosure of junked motor vehicle:
      (1)   One junked motor vehicle.
         (a)   One junked motor vehicle, in its entirety, may be located in the
rear yard as defined by Chapter
154 if the junked motor vehicle is entirely concealed by an acceptable covering
from public view from a public street and from view from abutting premises.
         (b)   The Town Manager has the authority to determine whether any
junked motor vehicle is adequately concealed as required by this provision.
         (c)   The covering must remain in good repair and must not be allowed
to deteriorate. The covering or enclosure must be compatible with the
objectives stated in the preamble of this chapter.
      (2)   More than one junked motor vehicle.
         (a)   Any other junked motor vehicle(s) must be kept in a garage or
building structure that provides a complete enclosure so that the junked motor
vehicle(s) cannot be seen from a public street or abutting property.
         (b)   A garage or building structure means one which is allowed
pursuant to a valid nonconforming use, or a garage or a building structure
erected pursuant to the lawful issuance of a building permit and which has been
constructed in accordance with all zoning and building code regulations.
(1981 Code, § 16-5) (Ord. passed 3-26-1990) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.06 REMOVAL OF ABANDONED, NUISANCE OR JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES; PRE-TOWING
NOTICE REQUIREMENTS. 
   (A)   Except as set forth in §
95.07 below, an abandoned, nuisance or junked vehicle which is to be removed
shall be towed only after notice to the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of the vehicle.
   (B)   In the case of a nuisance vehicle or a junked motor vehicle, if the
names and mailing addresses of the registered owner or person entitled to the
possession of the vehicle, or the owner, lessee or occupant of the real
property upon which the vehicle is located can be ascertained in the exercise
of reasonable diligence, the notice shall be given by first class mail.
   (C)   The person who mails the notice(s) shall retain a written record to
show the name(s) and address(es) to which mailed, and the date mailed.
   (D)   If names and addresses cannot be ascertained of if the vehicle to be
removed is an abandoned motor vehicle, notice shall be given by affixing on the
windshield or some other conspicuous place on the vehicle a notice indicating
that the vehicle will be removed by the town on a specific date, no sooner than
7 days after the notice is affixed or mailed, unless the vehicle is moved by
the owner or legal possessor prior to that time.
   (E)   With respect to abandoned vehicles on private property, nuisance
vehicles and junked motor vehicles to which notice is required to be given, if
the registered owner or person entitled to possession chooses to appeal the
determination that the vehicle is abandoned, is a nuisance vehicle or, in the
case of a junked motor vehicle, that the aesthetic benefits of removing the
vehicle outweigh the burdens, the appeal shall be made only after the vehicle
has been towed and during the right to probable cause hearing outlined in §
95.09 below.
(1981 Code, § 16-6) (Ord. passed 3-26-1990; Am. Ord. passed 3-24-2003)
§ 95.07 EXCEPTIONS TO PRIOR NOTICE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   The requirement that notice be given prior to the removal of an
abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle may, as determined by the
authorizing official, be omitted in those circumstances where there is a
special need for prompt action to eliminate traffic obstructions or to
otherwise maintain and protect the public safety and welfare.
   (B)   The findings shall, in all cases, be entered by the authorizing
official in the appropriate daily records. Circumstances justifying the removal
of vehicles without prior notice include, among others, the following.
      (1)   Vehicles abandoned on the streets. For vehicles left on the public
streets and highways, the Town Council hereby determines that immediate removal
of a vehicle may be warranted when they are:
         (a)   Obstructing traffic;
         (b)   Parked in violation of an ordinance prohibiting or restricting
parking, parked in a no-stopping or standing zone;
         (c)   Parked in loading zones;
         (d)   Parked in bus zones; or
         (e)   Parked in violation of temporary parking restriction imposed
pursuant to ordinance.
      (2)   Other abandoned or nuisance vehicles.
         (a)   With respect to abandoned or nuisance vehicles left on town-
owned property other than the streets or highways, and on private property,
vehicles may be removed without giving prior notice only in those circumstances
where the authorizing official finds a special need for prompt action to
protect and maintain the public health, safety and welfare.
         (b)   By way of illustration and not of limitation, like circumstances
include vehicles blocking or obstructing ingress or egress to businesses and
residences, vehicles parked in a location or manner so as to pose a traffic
hazard, and vehicles causing damage to public or private property.
(1981 Code, § 16-7) (Ord. passed 3-26-1990)
§ 95.08 REMOVAL OF VEHICLES; POST-TOWING NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicles which has been
ordered removed may, as directed by the town, be removed to a storage garage or
area by the tow truck operator or towing business contracting to perform
services for the town.
   (B)   Whenever a vehicle is removed, the authorizing town official shall
immediately notify the last known registered owner of the vehicle, notice to
include the following:
      (1)   The description of the removed vehicle;
      (2)   The location where the vehicle is stored;
      (3)   The violation with which the owner is charged, if any;
      (4)   The procedure the owner must follow to redeem the vehicle; and
      (5)   The procedure the owner must follow to request a probable cause
hearing on the removal.
   (C)   The town shall attempt to give notice to the vehicle owner by
telephone; however, whether or not the owner is reached by telephone, written
notice, including the information set forth in divisions (B)(1) through (5)
above, shall also be mailed to the registered owner's last know address, unless
this notice is waved in writing by the vehicle owner or his or her agent.
   (D)   If the vehicle is registered in North Carolina, notice shall be given
within 24 hours. If the vehicle is not registered in the state, notice shall be
given to the registered owner within 72 hours from the removal of the vehicle.
   (E)   Whenever an abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle is removed,
and the vehicle has no valid registration or registration plates, the
authorizing town official shall make reasonable efforts, including checking the
vehicle identification number, to determine the last known registered owner of
the vehicle and to notify him or her of the information set forth in divisions
(B)(1) through (5) above.
(1981 Code, § 16-8) (Ord. passed 3-26-1990)
§ 95.09 RIGHT TO PROBABLE CAUSE HEARING BEFORE SALE OR FINAL DISPOSITION OF
VEHICLE.
   (A)   After the removal of an abandoned vehicle, nuisance vehicle or junked
motor vehicle, the owner or any other person entitled to possession is entitled
to a hearing for the purpose of determining if probable cause existed for
removing the vehicle.
   (B)   A request for hearing must be filed in writing with the Town Council
within 5 days of receiving the post towing notice.
   (C)   Failure to notify the Town Council, as provided by this section, shall
be deemed a waiver of the right to a hearing.
   (D)   At the hearing the owner of the vehicle will have an opportunity to
present evidence in order to show cause why the sale or disposition of the
vehicle should not occur in accordance with this chapter.
   (E)   The owner has the right to have counsel present at the hearing.
   (F)   The Town Council shall serve as the hearing officer, shall conduct the
hearing at their next regularly scheduled meeting, shall conduct the hearing in
accordance with the procedures stated in this section, and shall prepare a
written report within 5 days of the hearing stating their conclusions
concerning whether the vehicle was in violation of this chapter and the reasons
and evidence upon which the conclusion has been based.
   (G)   The written report shall determine that the vehicle shall either be
disposed of in accordance with this chapter or be immediately returned to the
registered owner.
   (H)   If the Town Council determines that the vehicle was not in violation
of this chapter, then it must be immediately returned to the registered owner
and the owner not charged with the cost of removal expenses. A copy of the
report shall be mailed to the owner and the town shall retain the original
report.
   (I)   The owner, the person who requested the hearing if someone other than
the owner, the tower and the person who authorized the towing shall be notified
of the time and place of the hearing.
   (J)   The owner, the tower, the person who authorized the towing and any
other interested parties may present evidence at the hearing. The person
authorizing the towing and the tower may submit an affidavit in lieu of
appearing personally, but the affidavit does not preclude that person from also
testifying.
   (K)   The only issue at this hearing is whether or not probable cause
existed for the towing. If the Town Council finds that probable cause did
exist, the charge for towing and storage continues. If the Town Council finds
that probable cause did not exist, the charge for towing and storage will be
paid by the town.
(1981 Code, § 16-9) (Ord. passed 3-26-1990; Am. Ord. passed 3-24-2003)
§ 95.10 REDEMPTION OF VEHICLE DURING PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   At any stage in the proceedings, including before the probable cause
hearing, the owner may obtain possession of the removed vehicle by paying the
towing fee, including any storage charges, or by posting a bond for double the
amount of fees and charges to the tow truck operator or towing business having
custody of the removed vehicle.
   (B)   Upon regaining possession of a vehicle, the owner or person entitled
to the possession of the vehicle shall not allow or engage in further
violations of this chapter.
(1981 Code, § 16-10) (Ord. passed 3-26-1990)
§ 95.11 SALE AND DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLE.
   Any abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle which is not claimed by the
owner or other party entitled to possession will be disposed of by the tow
truck operator or towing business having custody of the vehicle. Disposition of
a like vehicle shall be carried out in coordination with the town and in
accordance with G.S. Ch. 44A, Article I.
(1981 Code, § 16-11) (Ord. passed 3-26-1990)
§ 95.12 CONDITIONS ON REMOVAL OF VEHICLES FROM PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   As a general policy, the town will not remove a vehicle from private
property if the owner, occupant or lessee of the property could have the
vehicle removed under applicable state law procedures.
   (B)   In no case will a vehicle be removed by the town from private property
without a written request of the owner, occupant or lessee, except in those
cases where a vehicle is a nuisance vehicle or is a junked motor vehicle which
has been ordered removed by the Town Manager.
   (C)   The town may require any person requesting the removal of an
abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle from private property to indemnify
the town against any loss, expense or liability incurred because of the
removal, storage or sale thereof.
(1981 Code, § 16-12) (Ord. passed 3-26-1990)
§ 95.13 PROTECTION AGAINST CRIMINAL OR CIVIL LIABILITY.
   No person disposing of a vehicle as provided in this chapter shall be
subject to a criminal action or held accountable in a civil action by any owner
or other person legally entitled to the possession of the vehicle.
(1981 Code, § 16-13) (Ord. passed 3-26-1990)
§ 95.14 EXCEPTIONS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall apply to any vehicle:
   (A)   Which is located in a bona fide automobile graveyard or junkyard as
defined in G.S. § 136-143, in accordance with the Junkyard Control Act, G.S. §§
136-143 et seq.;
   (B)   Which is in an enclosed building;
   (C)   Which is on the premises of a business enterprise being operated in a
lawful place and if the vehicle is necessary to the operation of the
enterprise; or
   (D)   Which is an appropriate storage place or depository maintained in a
lawful place and manner by the town.
(1981 Code, § 16-14) (Ord. passed 3-26-1990)
§ 95.15 UNLAWFUL REMOVAL OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or attempt to remove from any
storage facility designated by the town any vehicle which has been impounded
pursuant to the provisions of this code unless and until all towing and
impoundment fees which are due, or bond in lieu of fees, have been paid.
(1981 Code, § 16-15) (Ord. passed 3-26-1990) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 96: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
96.01   Definitions
   
96.02   [Reserved]
   
96.03   Tethering/chaining of dogs prohibited
   
96.04   Permits for wild animals
   
96.05   Permits for livestock and fowl
   
96.06   Right to appeal
   
96.07   Confinement and running at large
   
96.08   Animals creating a nuisance
   
96.09   Prohibition of certain animals
   
96.10   Vicious and dangerous animals
Rabies; Impoundment; Care and Protection; Administration
   
96.25   Administrator to cooperate in vaccination programs
   
96.26   Quarantine of animals suspected of having rabies
   
96.27   Disposition of rabid animals
   
96.28   Impoundment; notice to owner
   
96.29   Release to owners; adoption; destruction
   
96.30   Care required
   
96.31   Cruelty to animals
   
96.32   Responsibility of person injuring animal
   
96.33   Luring, enticing, seizing, molesting or teasing an animal
   
96.34   Interference with Administrator
   
96.35   Duties and responsibilities of Animal Control Officer
   
96.36   Enforcement; administration
 
   
96.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 96.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The Animal Control Officer or any other person designated by
the Manager to perform the responsibilities assigned by this chapter to the
Administrator.
   ANIMAL. For the purpose of this chapter an animal shall mean any domestic
animal, any fowl, livestock, or wild animal as defined in this section.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any person designated by the Manager, or any Liberty
Police Department (LPD) officer or any person designated by the Administrator
to perform duties relating to animal control.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. The facility provided, chosen by or contracted by the Town
of Liberty or the Administrator for the purposes of impoundment, restraint,
care and/or disposition of animals.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. A nonferal, domesticated or tame animal that is kept
principally as a pet, except that wild animals shall not be regarded as
domestic animals.
   EXOTIC MAMMALS. All mammals designated by the Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention, Department of Agriculture, or other federal or state public
health protection agencies as embargoed or prohibited under legal protection
orders.
   EXOTIC REPTILES. All reptiles not native to North Carolina, or any
poisonous/venomous reptile, regardless of whether or not it is native to North
Carolina.
   FERAL CAT. A cat that was once a domesticated pet but now is adapting or
adapted to living in a non- domesticated setting, or a cat born in a non-
domesticated setting.
   FOWL. Chickens, ducks geese, turkeys, guineas or other domesticated or wild
gallinaceous bird.
   IN HEAT. The erotic stage of copulation.
   KEEPER. A person having custody of an animal or who keeps or harbors an
animal or who knowingly permits an animal to remain on or about any premises
occupied or controlled by the person. An animal shall be deemed to be harbored
if it is fed or sheltered for 72 hours or more.
   LIVESTOCK. Horses, ponies, mules, cattle, goats, sheep, other hoofed animals
excluding swine.
   OWNER. The person having the possessory property right in an animal.
   OWNER'S PREMISES. Any real property owned or leased by the owner of the
animal, but does not include any public right-of-way or common area of an
apartment complex, condominium or townhouse development.
   RESPONSIBLE PERSON. A person who provides food or water or shelter to any
animal. A person who is in possession of, charge of, custody of or control of
any animal, synonymous with owner/keeper.
   RESTRAINT. Confinement within an enclosure or carrying case; use by a
responsible person of a leash, chain or other physical device of sufficient
strength to allow control to be maintained; controlled by a responsible person
when the animal is obedient to that person's commands.
   RUNS AT LARGE.
      (1)   When an animal is off the premises of the owner or keeper and is
not under the immediate and effective restraint of the owner or other competent
person in charge of the animal.
      (2)   If the animal has no known keeper, wandering about on public or
private property.
   SECURE ENCLOSURE.
      (1)   An enclosure from which an animal cannot escape unless freed by a
keeper or his or her agent.
      (2)   An automobile, truck or other vehicle shall be considered a SECURE
ENCLOSURE during transport only if the animal cannot escape from it unless
freed by a keeper or his or her agent and if ventilation is provided for the
animal's adequate respiration and temperature control.
   SWINE. Hogs, pigs or any other member of the various stout-bodied short-
legged Suidae family, excluding pot-bellied pigs.
   WILD ANIMAL. An animal that:
      (1)   Typically is found in a non-domesticated state and that, because of
its size or vicious propensity, or because it is poisonous/venomous, or for any
other substantial reason, poses a potential danger to person, other animals or
property; or
      (2)   Is classified as a wild animal by the North Carolina Wildlife
Resources Commission (WRC) so that any person wishing to possess the same is
required by state law to obtain a permit from WRC.
   WILD AND DANGEROUS ANIMALS. Animals of the cat, bear, and wolf species and
nonhuman primates that are normally born and live in wild habitat, even though
such species may be raised and kept in captivity.
(1981 Code, § 10-1) (Ord. passed 2-26-2001; Am. Ord. passed 4-23-2001; Am. Ord.
passed 2021)
§ 96.02 [RESERVED].
§ 96.03 TETHERING/CHAINING OF DOGS PROHIBITED.
   There will be a grace period for public education not to exceed 30 days from
the date of Council adoption for this section.
   (A)   It shall be a violation of this section to tether or chain a dog for
any purpose other than exercise and waste elimination.
   (B)   If an animal is to be chained or tethered for exercise or waste
elimination, the animal is to be confined to an owner’s property and in such a
manner that the chain or tether cannot become entangled and prevent the animal
from moving about freely, lying down comfortably in an area free of waste or
having access to adequate food, water and shelter.
   (C)   A dog is considered to be tethered in violation of this section if the
Administrator, or animal control officer(s), observe(s) the dog tethered 3 or
more consecutive times, with each observation approximately a minimum of 10
minutes apart, over a period of 45 to 90 minutes on any given occurrence.
   (D)   The chain or tether shall be of the minimum weight and size to
restrain the dog.
   (E)   Penalties:
      (1)   First violation: $25 fine per dog, per occurrence.
      (2)   Second violation: $50 per dog, per occurrence.
      (3)   Third and subsequent violation: $150 per dog, per occurrence.
   (F)   If an owner/keeper transfers ownership of the dog(s) to another party
but the animal remains at the original property, the fines will continue
escalating as indicated in § 96.30(D) as if no transfer had occurred.
   (G)   If an owner/keeper moves and/or acquires a different dog and is found
in violation of this chapter, the fees will continue escalating as indicated in
§ 96.30(D), as if no move or acquisition had occurred.
   (H)   If the owner/keeper cannot be identified, any adult at the residence,
having the ability to access the dog shall be identified as the responsible
person.
(Ord. passed 2021)
§ 96.04 PERMITS FOR WILD ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person may keep within the town any permissible wild animal except
in accordance with a permit issued pursuant to this section.
   (B)   The applicant for a permit under this section shall supply to the
Administrator any information deemed by the Administrator to be reasonably
necessary to determine whether a permit shall be issued. The applicant shall
also pay a permit application fee of $15.
   (C)   No permit may be issued for any wild animal unless the owner thereof
has also obtained a permit from the North Carolina Wildlife Resources
Commission authorizing him or her to keep such an animal, except where the WRC
is determined not to have regulatory authority over the species involved.
   (D)   After compliance with division (E) below, the Administrator shall
issue the permit required by this section unless he or she finds that:
      (1)   The applicant has failed to comply with divisions (B) or (C) above;
      (2)   The animal for which the permit is requested poses a substantial
danger of harm to any person, animal or property;
      (3)   The animal for which the permit is requested is likely to or does
interfere seriously with the use and enjoyment of neighboring properties
because of offensive noise or odor or for other reasons; or
      (4)   The animal for which the permit is requested otherwise constitutes
a threat to the public health or safety.
   (E)   Before issuing a permit under this section, the Administrator shall
notify the applicant and the applicant's immediate neighbors, by any convenient
means, of a date and time when they may be heard on the question of whether a
permit should be issued. After the hearing, the Administrator shall set forth
in writing his or her reasons for the issuance or denial of the permit and
shall furnish a copy thereof to any person requesting the same.
   (F)   A permit issued in accordance with this section may be revoked by the
Administrator after notice and hearing, for any reason that would have
justified denial of the permit as set forth in division (D) below.
   (G)   If the Administrator denies or revokes a permit in accordance with
this section, he or she shall notify the owner of the animal of his or her
right to appeal the decision in accordance with §
96.06 below.
   (H)   This permit shall be valid for 1 year from the date of issuance.
(1981 Code, § 10-4) (Ord. passed 2-26-2001; Am. Ord. passed 2021) Penalty, see
§
96.99
§ 96.05 PERMITS FOR LIVESTOCK AND FOWL.
   (A)   No person may keep within the town any permissible livestock and/or
fowl except in accordance with a permit issued pursuant to this section.
   (B)   (1)   The applicant for a permit under this section shall supply to
the Administrator any information deemed by the Administrator to be reasonably
necessary to determine whether a permit shall be issued.
      (2)   The applicant shall also pay a permit application fee of $15.
   (C)   (1)   Location of fenced lot, enclosures, stable, coop or barn.
         (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to locate, construct,
reconstruct, alter, maintain or use any enclosure, stable, coop or barn, which
shall be less than 150 feet from any commercial building or residential
dwelling other than that of the applicant for the purpose of keeping,
maintaining, lodging or feeding of any livestock or fowl.
         (b)   No person shall locate, construct, place or move any enclosure,
stable, coop or barn, within 100 feet of any street or sidewalk right-of-way or
any adjoining property line.
         (c)   Every part of a fenced lot set aside for the use of cattle,
goat, horses or other livestock or fowl shall be enclosed or fenced so as to
retain the animals at all times.
         (d)   Before any person shall locate, erect or place any enclosure,
coop or barn on any fenced lot within the corporate limits of the town, they
shall make application to the Town Zoning Administrator and obtain all required
permits.
         (e)   Enclosures (including fences), coops, stables or barns used for
housing cattle, goats, horses, other livestock, or fowl shall comply with all
local zoning ordinances and be constructed and maintained in conformity with
the requirements of the Zoning Administrator and the Randolph County Health
Department.
      (2)   Fenced lots or enclosures.
         (a)   Every person owning, using or maintaining any stall, coop,
stable, barn, yard, lot or pasture within the corporate limits of the town
where any horse, mule, pony, cow, goat, sheep, other livestock, or fowl
excluding swine shall maintain the place in a clean and sanitary condition in
order to protect the public health.
         (b)   Stables used for housing cattle, goats, horses or other
livestock shall comply with all local zoning ordinances and be constructed and
maintained in conformity with the requirements of the Randolph County Health
Department.
         (c)   All enclosures, barns, coops, stables and all pens regardless of
design or number of animals shall be cleaned and sprayed with suitable
disinfectants and insecticides as needed but shall be cleaned and sprayed with
a suitable disinfectant at least once every 7 days, and during the fly breading
season be sprayed with insecticide at lease once every 2 days.
         (d)   All enclosures, barns, coops, stables and all pens of whatever
design in which animals are kept must be high and thoroughly drained so that no
pools of water can accumulate.
         (e)   No enclosure, barn, coop, stable or pen of whatever design shall
be maintained in a manner so as to create offensive odors or a breeding place
for flies.
      (3)   Keeping livestock; maximum number permitted.
         (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain, keep or house
any swine within the corporate limits of the town.
         (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain, keep or house
any cattle, goat, horse or other livestock on a fenced lot containing less that
1 acre.
         (c)   No more than 1 head of cattle, horse or other livestock may be
kept on a lot containing less than 3 acres, excluding goats and sheep.
         (d)   On fenced lots containing more than 3 acres, cattle, horses or
other livestock may be kept in numbers not to exceed 1 head per 1-1/2 acre,
total acreage to be in 1 tract and not divided into smaller lots by fences or
other means, excluding goats and sheep.
         (e)   On fenced lots containing at least 1 acre, goats and sheep may
be kept in a number equal to 3 per acre.
   (D)   (1)   It shall be unlawful to permit any fowl, including but not
limited to chickens, ducks, geese, turkeys, guineas or other fowl to run at
large with the corporate limits of the town.
      (2)   Any fowl kept within the corporate limits of the town must be
contained by a fence, building or other enclosure that will ensure that the
fowl will not run at large.
      (3)   Any fowl found running at large may be taken into possession and/or
destroyed by the Administrator anywhere within the corporate limits of the
town.
   (E)   After compliance with division (F) below, the Administrator shall
issue the permit required by this section unless he or she finds that:
      (1)   The applicant has failed to comply with division (B) above;
      (2)   The animal for which the permit is requested poses a substantial
danger of harm to any person, animal or property;
      (3)   The animal for which the permit is requested is likely to or does
interfere seriously with the use and enjoyment of neighboring properties
because of offensive noise or odor or for other reasons; and
      (4)   The animal for which the permit is requested otherwise constitutes
a threat to the public health or safety.
   (F)   (1)   Before issuing a permit under this section, the Administrator
shall notify the applicant and the applicant's immediate neighbors, by any
convenient means, of a date and time when they may be heard on the question of
whether a permit should be issued.
      (2)   After the hearing, the Administrator shall set forth in writing his
or her reasons for the issuance or denial of the permit and shall furnish a
copy thereof to any person requesting the same.
   (G)   A permit issued in accordance with this section may be revoked by the
Administrator after notice and hearing, for any reason that would have
justified denial of the permit as set forth in division (D) above.
   (H)   If the Administrator denies or revokes a permit in accordance with
this section, he or she shall notify the owner of the animal of his or her
right to appeal the decision in accordance with § 96.06 below.
   (I)   This permit shall be valid for 1 year from the date of issuance.
(1981 Code, § 10-5) (Ord. passed 2-26-2001; Am. Ord. passed 4-23-2001; Am. Ord.
passed 2021) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.06 RIGHT TO APPEAL.
   (A)   In case of denial or revocation of permit the individual(s) concerned
may appeal the decision of the Administrator.
   (B)   Appeal must be submitted in writing within 10 days from date of denial
or revocation.
   (C)   Appeal will be directed to the Town Manager, Town of Liberty, P.O. Box
1006, Liberty, N.C. 27298.
(1981 Code, § 10-6) (Ord. passed 2-26-2001)
§ 96.07 CONFINEMENT AND RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   (1)   No person may have or keep within the town any domestic animal,
to include a dog or cat, unless the animal is kept continually within a
dwelling, other substantial structure, or cage, except that such an animal may
be walked with a leash.
      (2)   Not more than 5 dogs or 5 cats, more than 6 months of age, or a
combination thereof, not to exceed 5 are permitted pursuant to § 154.092 of the
Liberty Zoning Code.
   (B)   No person owning or having possession, charge, custody or control of
any animal may cause, permit or allow the animal to stray or in any manner to
run at large upon any public street, sidewalk or other public property or to
stray, run at large or otherwise trespass upon the private property of another.
   (C)   (1)   As provided in G.S. § 67-2, no person owning, having or keeping
any female dog may allow her to run at large while she is in heat, and as
provided in G.S. § 67-12, no person may allow his or her dog over 6 months old
to run at large at night unaccompanied by the owner or some person acting on
his or her behalf.
      (2)   Every female dog or cat in heat shall be confined in a building or
secure enclosure in a manner so that the female cannot come into contact with a
male animal.
      (3)   Females in heat are not permitted to run at large. If a female in
heat is removed from the property, it must be restrained by leash or harness
and accompanied by its owner or some responsible person acting on its behalf.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly or intentionally,
unless with consent of the owner, harbor, feed or keep in his or her
possession, by confinement or otherwise, any animal which does not belong to
him or her unless he or she has within 72 hours from the time the animal has
come into his or her possession notified the Administrator.
      (1)   Upon receiving the notice, the Administrator may in his or her
discretion place the animal in the animal shelter. It shall be unlawful for any
person to refuse to surrender any like animal to the Animal Control Officer
upon demand.
      (2)   The Animal Control Officer may, in his or her discretion, allow the
animal, to remain with the person reporting the animal, provided the person
holds the animal for a minimum of 72 hours from the time of report.
      (3)   After the 72-hour holding period, the person shall be considered
the owner or keeper of the animal, and accepts the responsibilities of
ownership, as put forth in this chapter.
      (4)   The purpose of this section is to aid in rabies control, and to
prevent the intentional or unintentional possession of the pets of other
person.
   (E)   The owner of an animal shall be responsible for the removal of any
excreta deposited by his or her animal on public property, public walks,
recreation areas or private property not his or her own, unless he or she has
consent from the owner of the property, whether on leash or not.
   (F)   All cats and dogs shall be required to wear a collar with current
information identifying the owner, contact information and valid rabies
vaccination at any time they are off the owners premise.
(1981 Code, § 10-7) (Ord. passed 2-26-2001; Am. Ord. passed 2021) Penalty, see
§
96.99
§ 96.08 ANIMALS CREATING A NUISANCE.
   (A)   An animal has been determined by the Administrator to be a public
nuisance when it commits any of the following acts 2 or more times, or any
combination of two or more of the following acts 1 or more times:
      (1)   Habitually or repeatedly, without provocation, chases, snaps at or
attacks pedestrians, bicycles or vehicles even if the animal never leaves the
owner's property (except that this provision shall not apply if the animal is
restrained by a pen, fence or other enclosure) or does so only to transgress
upon the adjacent right-of-way and then returns to its owner's property;
      (2)   Interferes with the reasonable use and enjoyment by neighboring
residents of their property because of its habitual barking, howling, whining,
crying, crowing or other noise making which can be heard from a distance
greater than 50 feet;
      (3)   Without provocation, and off the premises of the animal's owner,
inflicts any injury on a person, including but not limited to a bite or scratch
that breaks the skin;
      (4)   Turns over garbage pails;
      (5)   Damages gardens or other foliage or other real or personal
property; or
      (6)   Habitually or continuously loiters on school grounds or official
town recreation areas while not under restraint of the owner or keeper of the
animal.
   (B)   (1)   Upon determining that an animal is a public nuisance, the
Administrator shall make a good faith attempt to notify the owner or keeper in
writing of the determination, and also make a good faith attempt to obtain the
owner/keeper's written acknowledgment of the determination.
      (2)   However, the acknowledgment shall not constitute a necessary
element for a violation by the owner/keeper of this section.
   (C)   The determination by the Administrator that an animal is a public
nuisance shall be final.
   (D)   Aforementioned rules apply to at-large and leashed animals.
   (E)   If an animal has been determined by the Administrator to be a public
nuisance under this chapter, it shall be unlawful for the owner/keeper to
permit the animal to run at large or in any way leave the owner/keeper's
property unless under restraint of the owner/keeper.
   (F)   If the Administrator determines that any animal is creating a nuisance
as described in this chapter, he or she shall make a good faith effort, in
writing to inform the owner/keeper of the animal, of the nature of the
violation(s) and may indicate that unless these violations are corrected, the
owner/keeper may be required to remove the animal from town.
   (G)   If the Administrator determines that any animal cited for a violation
of division (A)(1) or (2) above has, within 1 year after service of the notice
prescribed in division (B) above, continued to cause a nuisance as described in
those divisions or if the Administrator at any time determines that an animal
has caused a nuisance as described in division (A)(3) above, then the
Administrator may, upon proper service of notice, notify the animal's owner
that the animal be required to permanently be removed from town.
(1981 Code, § 10-8) (Ord. passed 2-26-2001; Am. Ord. passed 2021)
§ 96.09 PROHIBITION OF CERTAIN ANIMALS.
   (A)   Wild and dangerous animals.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to possess or harbor a wild and
dangerous animal or their hybrids.
      (2)   Wild and dangerous animals privately owned and maintained within
the city limits on or before 2021 may remain in the city, but such wild and
dangerous animals must be registered with Town Hall and the Animal Control
section of the Randolph County Health Department. Furthermore, at the time of
registration, owners must submit a recapture plan in the event their animal
escapes. Breeding or allowing the reproduction of wild and dangerous animals is
prohibited.
      (3)   Escapes of wild and dangerous animals must be immediately reported
to 911 emergency communications.
      (4)   Owners are liable for costs to agencies associated with the
recapture of an escaped wild and dangerous animal.
      (5)   In order for the owner of a wild and dangerous animal registered in
compliance with division (2) of this division (A) to lawfully house such an
animal within the city, strict compliance must be maintained at all times with
the following requirements:
         (a)   The enclosure housing the animal must securely contain the
animal, including secondary containment from escape;
         (b)   The enclosure housing the animal must be adequately ventilated,
cooled, heated, lighted, and constructed so that it may be kept in a clean and
sanitary condition;
         (c)   The enclosure housing the animal must be compliant with the
Liberty Zoning Ordinance;
         (d)   The physical and psychological health and well-being of the
animal must not be endangered by the manner of confinement;
         (e)   The keeper/caregiver must have adequate knowledge of the
nutritional, physical, and behavioral needs of the species in his or her care;
and
         (f)   The owner/caregiver must be able to identify the veterinarian
providing medical care for the animal.
   (B)   Exotic reptiles.
      (1)   Individuals must be greater than 18 years of age to own a venomous
exotic reptile or an exotic reptile weighing in excess of 40 pounds.
      (2)   Owners are required to report to 911 emergency communications any
escapes of venomous exotic reptiles and exotic reptiles weighing in excess of
40 pounds.
      (3)   It is unlawful for exotic reptiles to run loose unsupervised.
      (4)   Owners are required to register venomous exotic reptiles with Town
Hall and the Animal Control section of the Randolph County Health Department
which notifies 911 emergency communications of the location of venomous
reptiles in order to protect rescue workers and the public during any emergency
situations.
      (5)   Owners are liable for costs to agencies associated with the
recapture of an escaped exotic reptile.
   (C)   Exotic mammals.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to possess, sell, or harbor an exotic
mammal or their hybrids.
      (2)   Exotic mammals privately owned prior to any embargo or protection
orders may remain in the city if so allowed by the order, but such animals must
be registered with Town Hall and the Animal Control section of the Randolph
County Health Department.
      (3)   Breeding or allowing the reproduction of exotic mammals is
prohibited.
(1981 Code, § 10-9) (Ord. passed 2-26-2001; Am. Ord. passed 2021) Penalty, see
§
96.99
§ 96.10 VICIOUS AND DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for an owner/keeper to keep any vicious, fierce,
dangerous or potentially dangerous animal within the town limits unless it is
confined within a secure building or enclosure or is securely muzzled and
leashed at all times.
   (B)   In accordance with G.S. § 106-381, when an animal becomes vicious or a
menace to the public health, the owner of the animal or person harboring the
animal may not permit the animal to leave the premises on which kept unless
muzzled and on a leash.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any provision of this chapter, the provision of
Chapter
91 (dealing with the summary abatement of public health nuisances) are
available to secure the immediate removal from the town of any animal or
condition that is found to be dangerous or prejudicial to the public health or
safety.
   (D)   (1)   DANGEROUS DOG means a dog that has been declared to be dangerous
by the Administrator, or Randolph County Health Director pursuant to G.S. §
130A-200, or because it has committed one or more of the following:
         (a)   Without provocation has killed or inflicted serious injury on a
person;
         (b)   Inflicted a bite on a person either upon public or private real
property;
         (c)   Approached a person when not on the owner's property in a
vicious or terrorizing manner in an apparent attitude of attack;
         (d)   Killed or inflicted severe injury upon a domestic animal when
not on the owner's real property; or
         (e)   Chases, snaps at, attacks or otherwise molests pedestrians,
bicyclists, motor vehicles or any other animal.
      (2)   The Administrator must attempt to notify the owner/keeper in
writing, if known, and give the reasons for his or her determination, before
the dog may be considered dangerous under the section.
      (3)   The owner may appeal the determination of the Administrator by
giving written notice of the appeal within 5 days of the Administrator's
determination to the Town Manager.
      (4)   The dog will be considered dangerous pending the appeal.
   (E)   In any case where an animal has bitten any person or other animal so
as to cause abrasions or break the skin, the Administrator shall make a
determination of dangerous based on the circumstances surrounding the bite and
the likelihood that the animal might bite again.
   (F)   (1)   The provisions of this section do not apply to a dog being used
by a law enforcement officer to carry out the law enforcement officer's
official duties.
      (2)   A dog shall not be considered a dangerous dog or potentially
dangerous dog under §§
96.07 through
96.10 if the injury inflicted by the dog was sustained by a person who, at the
time of the injury, was committing a willful trespass or other tort, was
tormenting, abusing or assaulting the dog, had been observed or reported to
have tormented, abused or assaulted the dog, or was committing or attempting to
commit a crime.
   (G)   It is unlawful for an owner to:
      (1)   Leave a dangerous dog unattended on the owner's real property
unless the dog is confined indoors, in a securely enclosed and locked pen, or
in another structure designed to restrain the dog; and/or
      (2)   Permit a dangerous dog to go beyond the owner's real property
unless the dog is leashed and muzzled or is otherwise securely restrained and
muzzled.
   (H)   If the owner of a dangerous dog or a potentially dangerous dog
transfers ownership or possession of the dog to another person, the owner shall
provide written notice to:
      (1)   The Administrator, stating the name and address of the owner of the
dog; and
      (2)   The person taking possession of the dog, specifying the dog's
dangerous behavior and the Administrator's determination.
   (I)   A dog that has been determined to be dangerous may be humanely
destroyed in the following instances:
      (1)   If the Administrator or his or her designee determines that a dog
that was previously determined to be dangerous either bit a person so as to
cause a break in the skin or was at large on 2 or more separate occasions after
the determination, the Director or his or her designee may seek a court order
for the dog to be humanely destroyed; or
      (2)   If the Administrator or his or her designee in determining that a
dog is dangerous also determines that the dog without provocation has killed or
inflicted serious injury on a person, the Administrator or his or her designee
may seek a court order that the dog be humanely destroyed.
   (J)   A dog that has been determined to be dangerous may not be disposed of
by adoption from the animal shelter.
   (K)   The keeper or other custodian of any dog that has been determined to
be dangerous, shall report immediately to the Administrator through telephone
number 911 if the dog gets loose or is otherwise unconfined or it attacks a
person or another animal.
   (L)   An Animal Control Officer shall periodically inspect the premises
where a dog determined to be dangerous is kept to ensure compliance with the
secure enclosure requirements as set forth in this chapter.
   (M)   (1)   If a dog has been determined by the Health Director or his or
her designee or by the Administrator or his or her designee, to be dangerous or
vicious, and the dog has been either left with or returned to its keeper, the
keeper shall maintain the dog in an enclosure meeting the requirements of this
division on the keeper's property or, with the consent of the Administrator or
his or her designee in such an enclosure on the property of another, except
that the dog may be taken out of the enclosure when necessary if leashed and
muzzled or in a secure carrying cage.
      (2)   The enclosure for a dangerous dog shall be indoors within a
building from which the animal cannot escape or in a securely enclosed and
locked pen or structure suitable to prevent the entry of young children and
designed to prevent the dog from escaping.
      (3)   The pen or structure shall have minimum dimensions of 10 feet by 10
feet and shall have secure sides and a secure top.
      (4)   If it has no bottom secured to the sides, the sides shall be
embedded into the ground no less than 2 feet. The pen or structure shall also
provide protection from the elements for the dog.
      (5)   The premises where the dangerous dog is kept hall be posted with
warning signs at places likely to be seen by persons entering the premises.
      (6)   A warning sign shall advise of the presence on the premises of a
dangerous dog and shall also contain a picture symbol of a dangerous dog as a
warning to children.
      (7)   Unauthorized removal of a warning sign posted in compliance with
this division is unlawful.
      (8)   Any dangerous dog found at large after the dog’s owner/keeper has
previous knowledge or notice that the dog is dangerous, or, if no owner can be
identified or located, the dog may be killed by any police officer or animal
control officer of the town without the officer having to catch or impound the
dog.
(1981 Code, § 10-10) (Ord. passed 2-26-2001; Am. Ord. passed 2021) Penalty, see
§
96.99
RABIES; IMPOUNDMENT; CARE AND PROTECTION; ADMINISTRATION
§ 96.25 ADMINISTRATOR TO COOPERATE IN VACCINATION PROGRAMS.
   The Administrator shall cooperate with and assist the Randolph County rabies
inspectors in their efforts to see that all animals are vaccinated against
rabies in accordance with the provisions of G.S. §§ 130A-184 through 130A-199.
(1981 Code, § 10-16) (Ord. passed 2-26-2001)
§ 96.26 QUARANTINE OF ANIMALS SUSPECTED OF HAVING RABIES.
   (A)   Every animal that has bitten any person or that shows symptoms of
rabies shall be securely confined for a period of at least 10 days and shall
not be released from the quarantine except by written permission of the
Administrator.
   (B)   (1)   The owner of an animal that has bitten any person or that shows
symptoms of rabies shall report the same immediately to the Administrator.
      (2)   Any person bitten by any animal shall immediately report the
incident to the Administrator.
   (C)   (1)   Animals quarantined in accordance with this section shall be
confined in veterinary hospital or the town animal shelter, at the owner's
expense, unless the Administrator determines that the owner has adequate
confinement facilities upon his or her own premises.
      (2)   For purposes of this section, ADEQUATE CONFINEMENT FACILITIES means
a fenced in area that has no entrances or exits that are not locked, or a
similar area providing equivalent security.
   (D)   (1)   If rabies does not develop during the period of confinement, the
Administrator shall authorize the release of the animal.
      (2)   If rabies does develop, the animal shall be disposed of as provided
in §
96.08 above.
(1981 Code, § 10-17) (Ord. passed 2-26-2001; Am. Ord. passed 2021)
§ 96.27 DISPOSITION OF RABID ANIMALS.
   (A)   (1)   In accordance with G.S. § 130A-197, every rabid animal, after
rabies has been diagnosed by a licensed graduate veterinarian, shall be killed
at once in a humane manner by the Administrator, or at his or her direction;
except that, if the animal has bitten a human being, the animal shall be
confined under the supervision of a licensed graduate until death of an animal.
      (2)   The remains of the animal shall be disposed of as provided in G.S.
§ 130A-197.
   (B)   (1)   In accordance with G.S. § 130A-197, every animal known to have
been bitten by another animal that is known or proved to be rabid shall be
killed by the Administrator or at his or her direction, unless the animal has
been properly vaccinated against rabies and be re-vaccinated in 3 days.
      (2)   The animal shall be closely confined for 90 days. If, during this
period, the animal shows symptoms of rabies the provision of §
96.26 shall apply.
      (3)   At the end of this period, the animal may be released form
confinement if declared free from rabies by a licensed veterinarian or a rabies
inspector appointed in accordance with G.S. § 130A-186.
(1981 Code, § 10-18) (Ord. passed 2-26-2001)
§ 96.28 IMPOUNDMENT; NOTICE TO OWNER.
   (A)   The Administrator may impound any animal that:
      (1)   Is found running at large;
      (2)   In accordance with §
96.26, has bitten any person or is otherwise suspected of having rabies; or
      (3)   Is found to be mistreated, or without proper care, in accordance
with G.S. § 14-360 because of the incapacitation or absence of its owner or
keeper.
   (B)   Whenever an animal is impounded, or whenever an animal otherwise
lawfully comes into the possession of the Administrator, that animal shall:
      (1)   (a)   If the animal is wearing a tag, be kept temporarily by the
town pending transfer to the Randolph County Animal Control Shelter.
         (b)   The animal shall, at the discretion of the Administrator, be
held for up to 5 days by the town and, after the fifth day, if not reclaimed by
the owner, be put up for adoption, transferred to Randolph County Animal
Control Shelter, or euthanized; or
      (2)   (a)   If the animal is not wearing a tag and is not reclaimed
within 2 hours from the Town of Liberty, it may be taken to the Randolph County
Animal Control Shelter.
         (b)   The Town of Liberty shall at the discretion of the
Administrator, hold the animal for up to 3 days. After the third day, if not
reclaimed by the owner, be put up for adoption, transferred to the Randolph
County Animal Control shelter, or euthanized.
   (C)   Whenever an animal is impounded or otherwise comes into the possession
of the Administrator, the Administrator shall make reasonable efforts to
identify the owner, notify him or her of the impoundment, and advise him or her
of the conditions under which the animal may be reclaimed.
(1981 Code, § 10-21) (Ord. passed 2-26-2001; Am. Ord. passed 2021)
§ 96.29 RELEASE TO OWNERS; ADOPTION; DESTRUCTION.
   (A)   An animal taken to the County Animal Control shelter may be reclaimed
by the owners, adopted by others, or destroyed in accordance with the policies
and procedures adopted by the county for the administration of the animal
control shelter.
   (B)   If the animal is held by the Town of Liberty and is not reclaimed by
the owner within the holding period stated in §
96.28(B)(1) and (2) above, the animal becomes the property of the town and is
eligible to be released for adoption or destroyed in accordance with the
policies and procedures adopted by the Town of Liberty.
   (C)   (1)   Unless proof of a current rabies vaccination can be furnished,
every person who either adopts or reclaims an animal at the shelter will be
given a proof of rabies vaccination notice at the time of reclaiming or
adoption.
      (2)   This notice shall contain a date stating the maximum time limit
allowed to take the animal to the veterinarian of the person's choice for
rabies vaccination.
      (3)   The time limit for dogs 4 months and older will be 72 hours, with
Sundays and holidays excluded. For puppies under 4 months of age, the time
limit will vary according to their age.
      (4)   The proof of rabies vaccination notice will be completed by the
veterinarian and returned to the animal shelter by the animal owner within 72
hours of the vaccination.
      (5)   Payment for rabies vaccination provided for in this section shall
be the responsibility of the person reclaiming or adopting the animal.
   (D)   Any animal surrendered by its owner to the Administrator may be
immediately placed for adoption or humanely destroyed when:
      (1)   The owner directs in writing that the animal be placed for adoption
or humanely destroyed;
      (2)   The owner affirmatively represents in writing that they are the
legal owner of the animal;
      (3)   The owner agrees that they will indemnify and hold the Town of
Liberty and the Administrator harmless from any loss or damage it may sustain,
including attorney's fees, by reason of the destruction or placement for
adoption of the animal; and
      (4)   The owner transfers ownership of the animal to the town and
releases the town and the Administrator from any and all future claims with
respect to this animal.
   (E)   (1)   If an animal is not redeemed within the holding period stated in
§
96.28(B)(1) and (2) above, by its owner, it may be humanely destroyed.
      (2)   Euthanasia is to be performed by animal control personnel who have
completed training by a licensed veterinarian. Euthanasia procedures must be
approved by a licensed veterinarian.
      (3)   Any animal seized and impounded which is badly wounded, diseased
(not a rabies suspect) or unweaned may be immediately destroyed.
      (4)   If the animal has identification, the Administrator or officer
shall attempt to notify the owner before destroying the animal.
      (5)   If the owner cannot be reached readily, and the animal is
suffering, the Administrator or officer may destroy the animal at his or her
discretion in a humane manner.
   (F)   (1)   The town may assess a reasonable fee for the trapping and
handling of animals held temporarily by the Town of Liberty.
      (2)   The fee will be collected prior to the animal being released.
      (3)   The amount of this fee shall be established and revised from time
to time by resolution of the Council upon recommendation of the Manager.
   (G)   (1)   If an animal cannot be seized by reasonable means (trapped,
tranquilized or captured) and the Administrator deems it necessary to seize the
animal at the cost of its life, then the Administrator or his or her designee
may destroy the animal.
      (2)   All consideration must be given to protecting surrounding people
and property when this action is necessary.
(1981 Code, § 10-22) (Ord. passed 2-26-2001; Am. Ord. passed 2021)
§ 96.30 CARE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No owner/keeper shall fail to provide his or her animals with
sufficient good and wholesome food and water, proper shelter and protection
from the weather, veterinary care when needed to prevent suffering, and humane
care and treatment. In particular:
      (1)   Food shall be of the quantity and quality necessary to maintain the
normal body weight according to the species and bone structure of the animal;
      (2)   Water shall be reasonably clean and, depending on weather
conditions, provided at intervals to make it available for drinking at all
times or as provided in accordance with G.S. § 19A-24; and
      (3)   Proper shelter for animals shall consist of an enclosed area of
sufficient space to allow the animal, or each animal if more than 1 enclosed,
to turn about freely and to sit, stand or lie easily in a comfortable normal
position. The shelter shall also keep the animal dry and warm or cool enough,
depending upon season or weather conditions, to maintain the animal's normal
body temperature.
   (B)   Animals housed under the following conditions shall not constitute
adequate shelter;
      (1)   Underneath outside steps, decks and stoops unless they are closed
in on 3 sides and impervious to water;
      (2)   Inside of vehicles during the summer;
      (3)   Underneath vehicles;
      (4)   Inside or under a metal structure (barrels and appliances are
expressly prohibited) placed in sunlight; or
      (5)   Inside cardboard boxes.
   (C)   Repealed.
   (D)   Veterinary care to prevent suffering shall be administered at
intervals as necessary to keep the animal in good health.
   (E)   Humane care and treatment shall consist of, but is not limited to, the
following:
      (1)   Reasonably clean and sanitary quarters. Bedding shall be reasonably
free of infestation and vermin. The area of enclosure, such as a fenced-in lot,
pad or pasture, shall be reasonably free of any injurious material or debris,
and shall be reasonably free of animal waste to prevent contamination and to
reduce disease hazards and odors;
      (2)   Containers used for feeding and watering animals shall be provided
and kept sanitary;
      (3)   The opportunity for daily exercise;
      (4)   The opportunity for fresh air and light at reasonable intervals if
an animal is kept in a tight, unlit enclosure;
      (5)   Animals shall be groomed as necessary according to species and
weather conditions to keep them in comfort;
      (6)   Animals shall be kept reasonable free of internal and external
parasites to keep them in good heath and comfort;
      (7)   For animals, facilities shall be constructed so that a nursing
mother shall have access to her unweaned young at all times; and
      (8)   Maintaining an animal in an unsanitary condition so as to render
the animal noxious or offensive to sight or smell shall be prohibited.
   (F)   No owner of an animal shall abandon the animal, in accordance with
G.S. § 14-361.1.
   (G)   Abandonment under this chapter shall be determined by the
Administrator. The guidelines for determination shall consist of, but not be
limited to, the following circumstances:
      (1)   Any animal left unattended for a period of 72 hours shall be
considered abandoned;
      (2)   The Administrator shall post the property on which the animal is
located with a notice that abandonment is suspected; and
      (3)   Any person responsible for the animal that receives the notice
shall contact the Administrator or the Liberty Police Department (LPD)
immediately.
   (H)   Size of fenced enclosure.
      (1)   Square footage required per dog or cat is to exceed 100 square feet
per small dog or cat and 225 square feet per large dog. A large dog is defined
as one weighing approximately 100 pounds or greater. The Administrator is to
determine which definition applies if weight is not immediately verifiable.
   (I)   Underground, invisible or wireless fences are acceptable alternatives
to fenced enclosures specified in division (H) of this section but a power
outage, animal crossing the boundary or equipment failure shall not be a
defense to § 96.07 or any other portion of this chapter.
(1981 Code, § 10-27) (Ord. passed 2-26-2001; Am. Ord. passed 2021) Penalty, see
§
96.99
§ 96.31 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   (A)   In accordance with G.S. § 14-360, no person shall willfully overdrive,
overload, wound, injure, torture, cruelly beat, needlessly mutilate or kill any
animal or cause or procure the same.
   (B)   In addition to division (A) above cruelty to animals may be determined
by the Administrator under the following circumstances, but not limited to:
      (1)   If an animal is left within a car, truck, trailer or other vehicle
for a period or at temperatures as to be harmful or potentially harmful to the
animal, under exigent circumstances, the Administrator or officer shall access
the animal, and provide care for its well-being. The Administrator or officer
shall attempt to locate the owner or keeper as expeditiously as possible after
caring for the animal;
      (2)   In case of injury to animal, as provided in §
96.32, does not notify the Administrator or LPD as soon as possible after the
incident occurs;
      (3)   Any person who shall witness an injured animal shall report its
location to the LPD as soon as possible;
      (4)   If animals are not provided the proper care as provided in §
96.30 above;
      (5)   It shall be unlawful for any person to expose any known poisonous
substance so that it is likely to be eaten by an animal, except it shall not be
unlawful for a person to expose on his or her own property:
         (a)   Common rat poison that is mixed with vegetable substances. In
placing the rat poison, however, it shall not exposed in any place in which
children and larger mammals can encounter it; and
         (b)   Pesticides, insecticides and herbicides in accordance with the
law.
      (6)   (a)   It shall be unlawful to use lethal force against an animal
unless it is in the process of attacking a person or other domestic animal.
         (b)   Any like incident shall be immediately reported to the LPD.
(1981 Code, § 10-28) (Ord. passed 2-26-2001; Am. Ord. passed 2021) Penalty, see
§
96.99
§ 96.32 RESPONSIBILITY OF PERSON INJURING ANIMAL.
   (A)   Any person who, as the operator of a motor vehicle or bicycle, strikes
and injures a domestic animal shall stop at once and render assistance as may
be possible and shall immediately report the incident to the animal's owner.
   (B)   If the owner cannot be ascertained or located with reasonable effort,
the operator shall notify the Administrator by contacting the Town Police
Department.
(1981 Code, § 10-29) (Ord. passed 2-26-2001; Am. Ord. passed 2021) Penalty, see
§
96.99
§ 96.33 LURING, ENTICING, SEIZING, MOLESTING OR TEASING AN ANIMAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to entice or hue any animal out of an
enclosure or off the property of its owner or keeper, or to seize, molest or
tease any animal while the animal is held or controlled by its owner or keeper
or while the animal is on the property of its owner or keeper.
(1981 Code, § 10-30) (Ord. passed 2-26-2001) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.34 INTERFERENCE WITH ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   No person may obstruct, interfere with, hinder or molest the
Administrator in the lawful performance of any duty authorized by this chapter.
   (B)   No person may release or attempt to release any animal that is in
custody of, or has been trapped by the Administrator.
(1981 Code, § 10-32) (Ord. passed 2-26-2001; Am. Ord. passed 2021) Penalty, see
§
96.99
§ 96.35 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER.
   (A)   Enforce all provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Animal Control Officer:
      (1)   Shall be empowered to enforce;
      (2)   May serve notice of civil penalties when appropriate for violations
of this chapter;
      (3)   Shall abate any circumstance in which an animal's life appears to
be in imminent peril; and
      (4)   To perform any other duties as may be reasonably required by the
Manager or the Chief of Police.
(1981 Code, § 10-33) (Ord. passed 2-26-2001)
§ 96.36 ENFORCEMENT; ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Primary responsibility for enforcing the provisions of this chapter
may be assigned to one or more individuals by the Town Manager.
   (B)   The term ADMINISTRATOR is used in this chapter to refer to the person
or persons assigned these responsibilities.
(1981 Code, § 10-36) (Ord. passed 2-26-2001)
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (B)   A violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall constitute
a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not more than $50 or imprisonment for not
more than 30 days, or both, as provided in G.S. § 14-4.
   (C)   A violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall also
subject the offender to a civil penalty of $25. The penalty for a second
violation shall be $50 and for a third violation and subsequent violations the
penalty shall be $100. If the offender fails to pay this penalty within 15
calendar days after being cited for a violation, the penalty may be recovered
by the town in a civil action in the nature of a debt.
   (D)   Each day that any violation continues after a person has been notified
that the violation exists and that he or she is subject to the penalties
specified in divisions (B) and (C) above shall constitute a separate offense.
   (E)   This chapter may also be enforced by any appropriate equitable action,
including injunctions or orders of abatement.
   (F)   Fines for multiple violations of different sections or subsections of
this chapter occurring simultaneously or near simultaneously are cumulative.
   (G)   The town may enforce this chapter by any one or any combination of the
foregoing remedies.
(1981 Code, § 10-37) (Ord. passed 2-26-2001; Am. Ord. passed 2021; Am. Ord.
passed 11-22-2021)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
110.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
111.   LICENSE REGULATIONS
         
112.   ENFORCEMENT AND COLLECTIONS
         
113.   TAXICABS
         
114.   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Construction of this chapter
   
110.03   License and payment of tax required
   
110.04   Exemptions.
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. Includes any trade, occupation, profession or other activity
engaged in by any person or caused to be engaged in by him or her with the
object of gain, profit, benefit or advantage, either direct or indirect, except
that the term BUSINESS does not include occasional and isolate sales or
transactions by a person who does not hold himself or herself out as engaged in
business.
   CONDUCTS A BUSINESS. A person engaging in 1 act of any business. If a person
is listed in the yellow pages of the telephone directory issued by the
telephone system serving the town, that shall be prima facie evidence that the
person is CONDUCTING A BUSINESS.
   CONDUCTS A BUSINESS WITHIN THE TOWN. When a person maintains a business
location within the town or when, either personally or through agents, he or
she:
      (1)   Solicits business within the town; or
      (2)   Picks up or delivers goods or services within the town.
(1981 Code, § 8-1)
§ 110.02 CONSTRUCTION OF THIS CHAPTER.
   (A)   This chapter is enacted primarily for revenue purposes, and therefore
it should be construed to require payment of the maximum tax permitted by its
terms.
   (B)   A secondary purpose of this chapter is to prevent the operation of
covered businesses until the person applying for the license has complied with
certain town ordinances.
   (C)   Issuance of a license pursuant to this chapter does not excuse the
licensee from compliance with any other applicable ordinance or statute.
   (D)   This chapter does not prevent the town from increasing or decreasing
the amount of any license tax or from regulating any business taxes.
(1981 Code, § 8-2)
§ 110.03 LICENSE AND PAYMENT OF TAX REQUIRED.
   No person may conduct a business within the town without having paid a
privilege license tax in an amount set by the Town Council and made a part of
the fee schedule, as amended from time to time. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
the fee shall in no case be more than the maximum permitted by North Carolina
law for that particular business or enterprise.
(Am. Ord. passed 3-28-2016) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.04 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   If an individual conducts a business as a partner in a partnership or
as an officer or employee of a corporation or as an employee or member of any
other business entity, that individual not required to obtain a privilege
license or pay a privilege license tax. However, the partnership, corporation
or other business entity must obtain the license and pay the tax unless
exempted by this section.
   (B)   Owners of real property who lease that property need not obtain a
privilege license or pay a privilege license tax solely for acting as lessor of
that property.
   (C)   A person who operates a business for a religious, educational, civic,
patriotic, charitable or fraternal purpose, is exempt from obtaining a
privilege license or paying a privilege license tax.
   (D)   Blind persons and persons who serve in the United States Armed Forces
or the Merchant Marine are exempt from obtaining a privilege license or paying
any privilege license tax levied by this chapter to the extent provided by
state statute.
   (E)   Persons who solicit business or pick up or deliver goods or services
within the town are not required to obtain a privilege license or pay a
privilege license tax if business is solicited primarily from or goods or
services are delivered primarily to businesses that themselves pay a privilege
license tax to the town.
   (F)   The following businesses are exempt from obtaining a privilege license
or paying a privilege license tax as provided by the indicated section of the
General Statutes. A more complete and detailed description of the exempt
businesses is contained in the cited sections of the General Statutes:
      (1)   Section 105-41: Attorneys, physicians, land surveyors, engineers,
architects, photographers, real estate brokers, accountants, morticians and
similar professionals;
      (2)   Section 105-83: Installment paper dealers; and
      (3)   Section 105-228.10: Insurance companies and associations.
(1981 Code, § 8-4) (Am. Ord. passed 4-5-1990)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A violation of §
110.03 constitutes a misdemeanor punishable as provided in G.S. § 14-4. Payment
of a fine imposed in criminal proceedings pursuant to this section does not
relieve a person of his or her liability for taxes imposed under this chapter.
   (B)   A violation of §§
110.03 above or
112.02 below shall subject the offender to a civil penalty of $10. If the
offender does not pay the penalty within 10 days after he or she has been cited
for a violation, the town may attempt to recover the penalty by filing a civil
action in the nature of debt. Payment of this civil penalty does not relieve a
person of his or her liability for taxes imposed under this chapter.
   (C)   The town may seek appropriate equitable relief from a court of
competent jurisdiction to prevent or re-dress violations of this chapter.
   (D)   Each day that a violation of §§
110.03 or
112.02 exists after the person has been notified of the violation shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense.
   (E)   This chapter may be enforced by any one, all or a combination of the
remedies authorized and prescribed by this section.
(1981 Code, § 8-34)
CHAPTER 111: LICENSE REGULATIONS
Section
   
111.01   Period of license
   
111.02   Application
   
111.03   Separate businesses; multiple businesses
   
111.04   Reasons for refusal or revocation of license
   
111.05   Unqualified applicants; right to a conference
   
111.06   Tax Collector to issue license; payment of tax a prerequisite
   
111.07   Amount of tax disputed
   
111.08   Revocation
   
111.09   Form and contents of license
   
111.10   Assignments
   
111.11   Changes in the business conducted by licensee during tax year
   
111.12   Tax Collector to furnish duplicates
   
111.13   Record of conferences
   
111.14   Providing notice to an applicant or licensee
   
111.15   Special provisions for beer and wine licenses
§ 111.01 PERIOD OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided, a license issued pursuant to this chapter
is valid for that 12-month period beginning July 1 and ending June 30. The tax
is due July 1 of each year. However, if a person begins business after July 1
in any year, the tax for that year is due before the business is begun.
   (B)   If, a license is issued for a period of 1 day, 1 week or some
comparable period of less than a full license year, the licensee may not
continue the business beyond the period for which the license is issued. The
tax on a business is due not later than the day prior to commencement of the
business.
   (C)   If for any reason a licensee discontinues his or her business during a
license year, he or she is not entitled to a refund.
(1981 Code, § 8-8)
§ 111.02 APPLICATION.
   (A)   With respect to annual licenses, a person shall apply to the Tax
Collector for the license at least 30 days before the tax is due. With respect
to licenses issued for 1 day, 1 week or some similar period less than 1 year,
application shall be made at least 10 days before the tax is due. These time
limitations may be waived by the Tax Collector for good cause shown.
   (B)   The application, which shall be submitted on forms provided by the Tax
Collector, shall contain:
      (1)   The name of the applicant and whether he or she or it is an
individual, partnership, corporation or some other entity;
      (2)   The nature of the business, including the duration the business
intends to operate;
      (3)   Where the business is conducted;
      (4)   An address to which may be mailed notices and statements required
by this chapter;
      (5)   Whether the business is one regulated by a state occupational
licensing board subject to G.S. Ch. 93B, and if so, the serial numbers of the
state licenses held by all those who are part of the applicant's business; and
      (6)   Any other information the Tax Collector determines to be necessary
to issue the privilege license in accordance with this chapter.
(1981 Code, § 8-9)
§ 111.03 SEPARATE BUSINESSES; MULTIPLE BUSINESSES.
   (A)   A separate license is required and a separate tax must be paid for
each separate place of business operated by the same person.
   (B)   If 2 or more separate taxable businesses are operated at the same
location by the same owner, the Tax Collector may issue 1 privilege license
upon the payment of the total amount of taxes due for all the businesses.
(1981 Code, § 8-10)
§ 111.04 REASONS FOR REFUSAL OR REVOCATION OF A LICENSE.
   The Tax Collector shall refuse to issue a license or shall revoke a license
for any of the following reasons:
   (A)   The applicant misrepresents a fact relevant to the amount of tax due
or his or her qualifications for a license;
   (B)   The applicant refuses to provide information necessary to compute the
amount of tax due;
   (C)   The applicant has not obtained a certificate of occupancy when
required to do so by local ordinance; or
   (D)   The Administrator charged with the enforcement of the following codes
or ordinances has certified to the Tax Collector that the applicant has been
found to be in violation of the law enforced by the Administrator and has
either failed to appeal that determination within the time provided or has
exhausted all administrative and judicial appeals: North Carolina State
Building Code, Zoning Chapter, Subdivision Chapter, Chapter
91 or
92 of the town code.
(1981 Code, § 8-11)
§ 111.05 UNQUALIFIED APPLICANTS; RIGHT TO A CONFERENCE.
   (A)   (1)   After receipt of the completed application, if the Tax Collector
believes that a reason exists for refusing a license under §
111.04, he or she shall refuse to accept payment of the tax and shall not issue
the license.
      (2)   At the applicant's request, the Tax Collector shall, pursuant to §
111.14, give him or her a written statement of the reason for refusing the
license.
      (3)   The applicant may, within 10 days after the day he or she receives
this statement, request a conference to discuss the refusal. In his or her
request he or she shall specify why his or her application for a license should
not be refused.
      (4)   The Tax Collector shall arrange the conference within a reasonable
time, not to exceed 30 days.
   (B)   If the Tax Collector refuses to issue a license, the applicant may re-
apply for a license at any time thereafter. If the reason for which the
application was refused no longer exists, and if no other reason exists for
refusing to issue a license, the Tax Collector shall issue the license pursuant
to §
111.06.
(1981 Code, § 8-12)
§ 111.06 TAX COLLECTOR TO ISSUE LICENSE; PAYMENT OF TAX A PREREQUISITE.
   (A)   After receipt of the completed application, if the Tax Collector
believes that no reason exists for refusal of a license under §
111.04, he or she shall determine the amount of tax due and notify the
applicant of that amount.
   (B)   The Tax Collector shall not issue a license until the tax is paid.
(1981 Code, § 8-13)
§ 111.07 AMOUNT OF TAX DISPUTED.
   (A)   If the applicant disputes the amount the Tax Collector determines to
be due, he or she may either refuse to pay the tax and request a conference
with the Tax Collector to discuss the determination, or pay the amount and
request a conference to discuss his or her right for a refund.
   (B)   If a conference is requested, the Tax Collector shall arrange it in a
reasonable time, not to exceed 30 days.
(1981 Code, § 8-14)
§ 111.08 REVOCATION.
   (A)   (1)   The Tax Collector shall revoke a license if a reason exists to
revoke it as set forth in §
111.04. Before the Tax Collector may revoke a license, he or she shall give the
licensee written notice of the grounds for revocation, pursuant to §
111.14.
      (2)   The licensee may, within 10 days after the day on which the notice
is served, request in writing a conference with the Tax Collector.
      (3)   The request shall specify the reasons why the license should not be
revoked. The Tax Collector shall arrange the conference within a reasonable
time, not to exceed 30 days.
   (B)   If the licensee fails to request a conference within 10 days after the
day on which notice is served, the Tax Collector shall revoke the license. If
the licensee requests a conference, the Tax Collector may not revoke the
license until after the conference.
   (C)   If the Tax Collector revokes a license, the former licensee may apply
for a new license at any time thereafter. If the reason for which the license
was revoked no longer exists, and if no other reason exists for refusing to
issue a license, the Tax Collector shall issue the license pursuant to §
111.06.
(1981 Code, § 8-15)
§ 111.09 FORM AND CONTENTS OF LICENSE.
   (A)   A license shall show the name of the person licensed, the place where
the business is conducted (if it is to be conducted at 1 place), the nature of
business licensed, the period for which the license is issued and the amount of
tax paid.
   (B)   In addition, if a machine is licensed, the license shall show the
serial number of the machine. The Tax Collector shall keep a copy of each
license issued.
(1981 Code, § 8-16)
§ 111.10 ASSIGNMENTS.
   (A)   A license may be assigned if:
      (1)   A business licensed under this chapter and carried on at a fixed
place is sold as a unit to any person; and
      (2)   The purchaser is to carry on the same business at the same place.
   (B)   Otherwise, each license issued under this chapter is a personal
privilege and is not assignable.
(1981 Code, § 8-17)
§ 111.11 CHANGES IN THE BUSINESS CONDUCTED BY LICENSEE DURING TAX YEAR.
   (A)   (1)   A licensee or his or her assignee shall report a change in the
information contained in the license application to the Tax Collector within 10
days after the change occurs.
      (2)   If information shown on the license itself is affected thereby, the
licensee or his or her assignee shall surrender the license to the Tax
Collector when reporting the change.
   (B)   If there are no reasons for revoking the license under §
111.04 and the change results in the imposition of a separate or additional
tax, the Tax Collector shall re-issue a license reflecting the change upon
payment of the separate or additional tax.
   (C)   If there are no reasons for revoking the license under §
111.04 and the change does not result in an imposition of a separate or
additional tax, the Tax Collector shall re-issue a license reflecting the
change upon payment of a fee of $5.
   (D)   If there is reason for revoking the license under §
111.04, the Tax Collector shall refuse to re-issue a license and shall instead
begin proceedings to revoke the license pursuant to §
111.08.
(1981 Code, § 8-18)
§ 111.12 TAX COLLECTOR TO FURNISH DUPLICATES.
   Upon satisfactory proof that a license has been lost or destroyed, the Tax
Collector shall furnish a duplicate for a fee equal to 50% of the amount of the
original tax.
(1981 Code, § 8-19)
§ 111.13 RECORD OF CONFERENCES.
   (A)   The Tax Collector shall maintain for 3 years a record of each
conference held pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   The record shall contain the applicant's or licensee's name, the date
of the conference and a brief statement of the issues discussed and the result
reached.
   (C)   A copy of this record shall be served upon the applicant or licensee
in the manner provided by §
111.14.
   (D)   After 3 years the Tax Collector shall dispose of the record pursuant
to G.S. § 121-5.
(1981 Code, § 8-20)
§ 111.14 PROVIDING NOTICE TO AN APPLICANT OR LICENSEE.
   Whenever this chapter requires the Tax Collector to give a written statement
or notice to an applicant or a licensee, he or she may do so in any one of 3
ways:
   (A)   By personally delivering the statement or notice to the applicant or
licensee;
   (B)   By mailing the statement or notice by registered or certified mail,
return receipt requested, to the address specified for that purpose in the
license application; or
   (C)   By causing the statement or notice to be served on the applicant or
licensee in accordance with the procedures for service or process under Rule 4,
North Carolina Rules of Civil Procedure.
(1981 Code, § 8-21)
§ 111.15 SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR BEER AND WINE LICENSES.
   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, applications for privilege
licenses authorizing the retail or wholesale sale of malt beverages or
fortified or unfortified wines shall be made to the Council (rather than the
Tax Collector) in accordance with the procedures set forth in G.S. §§ 105-
113.80, 105-113.82 and 105-113.85.
(1981 Code, § 8-22)
CHAPTER 112: ENFORCEMENT AND COLLECTIONS
Section
   
112.01   Duty to determine whether tax due
   
112.02   Duty to post license
   
112.03   Notice of deficiency
   
112.04   Request for a conference
   
112.05   Deficiency to become final
   
112.06   Conference held
   
112.07   Collection of deficiency
   
112.08   Appeals
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 DUTY TO DETERMINE WHETHER TAX DUE.
   (A)   Each person has the duty to determine whether the business he or she
conducts is taxed under this chapter, and if so, whether that tax has been paid
for the current tax year.
   (B)   If the Tax Collector has reason to believe that a person is conducting
a business in the town in violation of this chapter, he or she shall conduct an
investigation to determine the person's tax liability.
(1981 Code, § 8-26)
§ 112.02 DUTY TO POST LICENSE.
   (A)   A licensee shall post his or her license or licenses conspicuously in
the place of business licensed.
   (B)   If he or she has no regular place of business, the license must be
kept where it may be inspected at all times by the proper town officials.
   (C)   If a machine is licensed, the license shall be affixed to the machine.
(1981 Code, § 8-27) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.03 NOTICE OF DEFICIENCY.
   (A)   If the Tax Collector determines that a person has not paid the full
amount of tax due under this chapter, either for the current license year or
for a prior license year, he or she shall give the person written notice of the
deficiency, pursuant to §
111.14.
   (B)   The notice of deficiency shall specify:
      (1)   The total amount of tax due;
      (2)   The section of this chapter upon which the tax is based;
      (3)   The amount of tax paid;
      (4)   Any interest due;
      (5)   The balance owed;
      (6)   The manner and time period in which the person may respond to the
notice of deficiency; and
      (7)   The consequences to the person if he or she fails to respond as
specified.
(1981 Code, § 8-28)
§ 112.04 REQUEST FOR A CONFERENCE.
   (A)   The person may, within 10 days after the day on which notice is
served, request in writing a conference.
   (B)   The request shall specify the person's objections to the notice of
deficiency.
   (C)   By the way of illustration but not limitation, a person who receives
notice of deficiency may object on the following grounds:
      (1)   That the tax due has already been paid;
      (2)   That the Tax Collector miscalculated the amount of tax due; or
      (3)   That the Tax Collector based his or her calculation on incorrect or
insufficient information concerning either the nature or amount of business
conducted.
(1981 Code, § 8-29)
§ 112.05 DEFICIENCY TO BECOME FINAL.
   If the taxpayer fails to request a conference under §
112.04, the deficiency becomes final and the Tax Collector shall proceed to
collect the deficiency.
(1981 Code, § 8-30)
§ 112.06 CONFERENCE HELD.
   (A)   If the taxpayer requests a conference, the Tax Collector shall not
proceed to collect the deficiency until he or she hears the taxpayer's
objections and determines that the deficiency should become final.
   (B)   The Tax Collector shall maintain for 3 years record of each conference
held pursuant to §
112.04.
   (C)   The record shall contain the name of the taxpayer, the date of the
conference and a brief statement of the issues discussed and the results of the
discussion.
   (D)   A copy of this record shall be served upon the taxpayer in the manner
provided by §
112.14. After 3 years, the Tax Collector shall dispose of the record pursuant
to G.S. § 121-5.
(1981 Code, § 8-31)
§ 112.07 COLLECTION OF DEFICIENCY.
   (A)   The Tax Collector may use any of the following methods to collect a
deficiency:
      (1)   Criminal prosecution in accordance with §
112.99(A) below;
      (2)   Civil penalties in accordance with §
112.99(B) below;
      (3)   Equitable relief in accordance with §
112.99(C) below;
      (4)   The remedies of levy and sale and attachment and garnishment in
accordance with G.S. § 160A-207; or
      (5)   The remedies of levy and sale of real and personal property of the
taxpayer within the city in accordance with the provisions of G.S. § 105-109.
   (B)   Any person who commences or continues to conduct a business taxed
under this chapter without payment of the tax is liable for the additional tax
of 5% each 30 days imposed by G.S. § 105-109.
(1981 Code, § 8-32)
§ 112.08 APPEALS.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of this section, a person may appeal to the
Privilege License Tax Review Board a decision by the Tax Collector:
      (1)   That an applicant is not entitled to a privilege license;
      (2)   That a licensee's privilege license should be revoked;
      (3)   Concerning the amount of tax owed by an applicant; and/or
      (4)   That a person has not paid the amount of tax due for the current
license year or any prior years.
   (B)   An appeal may be taken only if the applicant has properly pursued and
exhausted his or her right to have a conference with the Tax Collector on any
of the matters specified in division (A) above.
   (C)   An appeal is taken by filing with the Tax Collector a written notice
of appeal. This notice of appeal must be filed not later than 10 days after the
appellant is served with the record of the conference as provided in §§
111.13 or
112.06.
   (D)   (1)   The Privilege License Tax Review Board shall hear and decide the
appeal within 30 days after notice of appeal is filed, unless the hearing is
continued for good cause.
      (2)   The appellant shall be given at least 5 working days’ notice of the
date and time of hearing and shall be served with a written copy of the Board’s
decision following the hearing.
      (3)   The burden of establishing the correctness of the Tax Collector's
decision shall be on the Tax Collector.
   (E)   The Privilege License Tax Review Board shall consist of the Mayor and
the members of the Council, sitting ex officio. The Board may choose its own
Chairperson and adopt its own rules of procedure, except that 3 members shall
constitute a quorum and decisions shall be made by a majority of those present
and voting.
(1981 Code, § 8-33)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A violation of §
110.03 constitutes a misdemeanor punishable as provided in G.S. § 14-4. Payment
of a fine imposed in criminal proceedings pursuant to this section does not
relieve a person of his or her liability for taxes imposed under this chapter.
   (B)   A violation of §§
110.03 or
112.02 shall subject the offender to a civil penalty of $10. If the offender
does not pay the penalty within 10 days after he or she has been cited for a
violation, the town may attempt to recover the penalty by filing a civil action
in the nature of debt. Payment of this civil penalty does not relieve a person
of his or her liability for taxes imposed under this chapter.
   (C)   The town may seek appropriate equitable relief from a court of
competent jurisdiction to prevent or re-dress violations of this chapter.
   (D)   Each day that a violation of §§
110.03 or
112.02 exists after the person has been notified of the violation shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense.
   (E)   This chapter may be enforced by any 1, all or a combination of the
remedies authorized and prescribed by this section.
(1981 Code, § 8-34)
CHAPTER 113: TAXICABS
Section
   
113.01   Privilege license required
   
113.02   Criteria for privilege license
   
113.03   Operator’s permit
   
113.04   Taxicabs to display required information
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 PRIVILEGE LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person may conduct a taxicab business within the town unless and
until that person has been issued a privilege license in accordance with this
chapter.
   (B)   For purposes of this chapter, a TAXICAB is defined as a vehicle that
transports passengers for hire and has a capacity of not more than 9
passengers. A person conducts a taxicab business when he or she operates 1 or
more taxicabs.
(1981 Code, § 8-40) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.02 CRITERIA FOR PRIVILEGE LICENSE.
   (A)   A privilege license for the operation of a taxicab business shall be
issued in accordance with the procedures set forth in Chapter
112 and subject to the following:
      (1)   In accordance with G.S. § 20-97, the applicant for a privilege
license shall pay the sum of $15 upon each vehicle operated as a taxicab;
      (2)   The privilege license shall not be issued until the applicant has
presented sufficient proof of financial responsibility (i.e., a certificate of
liability insurance) as required by G.S. § 20-280; and
      (3)   The privilege license shall not be issued until the applicant
demonstrates that all drivers of all taxicabs operated by the business have
been issued an operator's permit pursuant to §
113.03.
   (B)   A privilege license issued under this section may be revoked, in
accordance with the procedures specified in Chapter
112, for any reason that would have justified denial of the license.
(1981 Code, § 8-41)
§ 113.03 OPERATOR'S PERMIT.
   (A)   No person may operate a motor vehicle as a taxicab without a taxicab
operator's permit issued by the Police Chief in accordance with this section.
   (B)   An applicant for a taxicab operator's permit shall be required to
furnish to the Police Chief, on forms prescribed by the town or otherwise,
information deemed reasonably necessary by the Police Chief to determine
whether the permit should be issued according to the criteria set forth in
division (C) below.
   (C)   The taxicab operator's permit shall be issued unless the Police Chief
determines that the permit should be refused for one of the following reasons:
      (1)   Conviction of a felony against this state, or conviction of any
offense against another state which would have been a felony if committed in
this state;
      (2)   Violation of any federal or state law relating to the use,
possession or sale of intoxicating liquors or narcotic or barbiturate drugs;
      (3)   Addiction to or habitual use of intoxicating liquors or narcotic or
barbiturate drugs;
      (4)   Violation of any federal or state law relating to prostitution; or
      (5)   Habitual violation of traffic laws or ordinances.
   (D)   (1)   The taxicab operator's permit may be revoked by the Police Chief
for any reason that would have justified denial of the permit as specified in
division (C) above.
      (2)   Before revocation, the Police Chief shall notify the permit holder
of his or her intent to revoke the permit and the reasons therefor and shall
afford the permit holder a reasonable opportunity to appear and be heard on the
question of the revocation.
      (3)   After the hearing, the Police Chief shall notify the permit holder
in writing of his or her decision and the reasons therefor.
(1981 Code, § 8-42) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.04 TAXICABS TO DISPLAY REQUIRED INFORMATION.
   Any person who conducts a taxicab business, as well as the driver of any
taxicab, shall be responsible for ensuring that the following items are
displayed within the taxi so as to be visible to passengers:
   (A)   The taxicab operator's permit;
   (B)   A photograph of the driver; and
   (C)   The schedule of fares.
(1981 Code, § 8-43) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   A violation of §§
113.01(A) and
113.03(A) shall constitute a misdemeanor, punishable as provided in G.S. § 14-
4.
   (C)   A violation of the provisions listed in division (B) above shall also
subject the offender to a civil penalty of $25. If the offender fails to pay
this penalty within 10 days after being cited for a violation, the penalty may
be recovered by the town in a civil action in the nature of debt.
   (D)   Each day that a violation continues after notification that a
violation exists shall constitute a separate offense for purposes of the
penalties and remedies specified in this section.
   (E)   This chapter may be enforced by an appropriate equitable action.
   (F)   This chapter may be enforced by any one, all or any combination of the
remedies authorized by this section.
(1981 Code, § 8-44)
CHAPTER 114: SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
General Provisions
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   Purpose; scope; exemptions
   
114.03   Location of topless establishment
   
114.04   Hours of operation
   
114.05   Posting of license
   
114.06   Revocation; notice; hearing; consequences
Business License
   
114.20   Required
   
114.21   Application
   
114.22   Investigation
   
114.23   Issuance standards
   
114.24   Issuance and fee
   
114.25   Denial and appeal
   
114.26   Patronage of topless establishments by minors and employment of minors
Licenses; Employees
   
114.40   Employer to use only licensed employees
   
114.41   Term; due date
   
114.42   Transfers and the like
   
114.43   Revocation or termination
   
114.44   Employee license required
   
114.45   Application
   
114.46   Investigation
   
114.47   Issuance standards
   
114.48   Fee and issuance
   
114.49   Denial; appeal
   
114.50   Revocation
Cross-reference:
   General licensing provisions, see Ch.
110
   License regulations, see Ch.
111
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OPERATOR. The owner or operator of a topless establishment.
   TOPLESS EMPLOYEE. A female person employed by a topless establishment while
her dress attire exposes at least the upper 1/2 of her breasts or allows her
breasts to be seen through the attire.
   TOPLESS ESTABLISHMENT. Any business or establishment which employs a topless
employee in connection with any properly licensed business activity.
(Ord. passed 4-26-1993)
§ 114.02 PURPOSE; SCOPE; EXEMPTIONS.
   To protect public health, safety, welfare and morals, the privilege license
provisions and regulations in this chapter are ordained for the privilege of
operating a topless establishment.
(Ord. passed 4-26-1993)
§ 114.03 LOCATION OF TOPLESS ESTABLISHMENT.
   No topless establishment shall be located within 500 feet of an existing
church or school.
(Ord. passed 4-26-1993) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.04 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   No topless employee licensed under §§
114.40 through
114.50 shall be employed in capacity between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 8:00
a.m., Monday through Saturday, nor between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 1:00 p.m.
on Sunday, prevailing time.
   (B)   No operator licensed under §§
114.20 through
114.26 shall admit customers or prospective customers, or remain open for
business, or allow or permit or condone any business activity upon the premises
between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m., Monday through Saturday, nor
between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 1:00 p.m. on Sunday, prevailing time.
   (C)   No person in charge of managing a topless establishment upon the
premises shall allow, permit or condone any business activity on the premises
between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m., Monday through Saturday, nor
between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 1:00 p.m. on Sunday, prevailing time.
(Ord. passed 4-26-1993) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.05 POSTING OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Every operator shall post the license required by this subchapter in
his or her work area.
   (B)   Every person licensed under §§
114.20 through
114.26 below shall display the license in a prominent place.
(Ord. passed 4-26-1993) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.06 REVOCATION; NOTICE; HEARING; CONSEQUENCES.
   (A)   Before the Town Council revokes a license issued pursuant to this
subchapter, Town Council shall cause a written notice to be sent by certified
mail to the licensee affected or applicant affected, at the address stated in
the license or application.
   (B)   The notice shall advise the affected party of a right to appear before
the Town Council, with or without legal counsel, at a stated time and place,
for the purpose of presenting any evidence relevant to the revocation and for
the purpose of hearing all evidence submitted and examining or cross-examining
any person providing the evidence.
   (C)   If any person shall have had a topless establishment business operator
license issued to him or her or to a partnership, corporation or association in
which he or she held a legal or beneficial interest at the time the license was
issued or if any person shall have had issued to him or her a license as a
topless employee and either of the licenses is subsequently revoked pursuant to
any provision of this chapter, he or she shall be ineligible to apply for
either a topless establishment operator license or a license as a topless
employee or a renewal of either for a period of 3 years from the date of the
revocation.
   (D)   (1)   If any person holds both a topless establishment operator
license and a license as a topless employee, then the revocation of either the
license pursuant to any provision of this chapter shall be grounds for the
simultaneous revocation of the other simultaneously held license.
      (2)   The person shall be ineligible to apply for either a topless
establishment operator license or a license as a topless employee or a renewal
of either for a period of 3 years from the date of the revocation.
(Ord. passed 4-26-1993)
BUSINESS LICENSE
§ 114.20 REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate a topless establishment unless the person shall have
first received the privilege license for same.
(Ord. passed 4-26-1993) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.21 APPLICATION.
   Every application for the privilege license required by this subchapter
shall be upon a form approved by the Town Manager and shall be filed with the
Town Tax Collector. Every application shall be made under oath and shall
contain the following information:
   (A)   If the applicant is a person, the name and residence address of that
person. If the applicant is a partnership, corporation or association, the name
and residence address of all persons having any legal or beneficial interest in
the applicant;
   (B)   The address of the premises where the topless establishment shall be
located;
   (C)   A complete statement of all convictions of any person whose name is
required to be given in division (A) above for any felony, or prostitution or
any violation of any law relative to prostitution;
   (D)   A complete statement of any revocation, by any governmental unit, of
any license to operate a topless establishment held by any person whose name is
required to be given in division (A) above;
   (E)   A complete statement of any conviction of any person whose name is
required to be given in division (A) above, for violation of any statute, law,
ordinance or regulation of any government concerning the operation of a topless
establishment or the sale of any alcoholic beverage;
   (F)   The name and address of any topless establishment owned or operated by
any person whose name is required to be given in division (A) above; and
   (G)   A description of any other business to be operated on the same
premises or on adjoining premises owned or controlled by the applicant.
(Ord. passed 4-26-1993)
§ 114.22 INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   The Town Tax Collector shall transmit a copy of the application for
the license required by this subchapter to the Police Department for an
investigative report; to the Building Inspector to determine compliance with
all zoning and building regulations and ordinances; and to the Fire Department
to determine compliance with any law relating to fire protection.
   (B)   The Police and Fire Departments and the Building Inspector shall,
within a reasonable time, not to exceed 30 days, report the results of their
examinations to the Town Tax Collector.
(Ord. passed 4-26-1993)
§ 114.23 ISSUANCE STANDARDS.
   An application for the license required by this subchapter in proper form,
accompanied by all reports required by this subchapter, shall be approved by
the town Tax Collector if:
   (A)   The application contains no misstatement of fact;
   (B)   The applicant, or any person having any legal or beneficial ownership
interest in the applicant, has not been convicted of any crime involving sexual
misconduct, including but not limited to G.S. §§ 14-177 et seq. or 14-203 et
seq. or of any provision of this code, or of any federal statute relating to
prostitution, or of any violation of any law or ordinance of any governmental
unit concerning the sale of alcoholic beverages, or concerning the operation of
a topless establishment;
   (C)   The applicant conforms to all requirements of applicable zoning,
building and fire prevention codes; and
   (D)   The applicant or any person having a legal or beneficial ownership
interest in the applicant has not, for, the 3-year period preceding the
application, had a previously issued license for operating a topless
establishment revoked.
(Ord. passed 4-26-1993)
§ 114.24 ISSUANCE AND FEE.
   Upon approval of the application for the license required by this subchapter
and upon receipt of a the license fee per the Town of Liberty fee schedule, the
Town Tax Collector shall issue a privilege license to the applicant.
(Ord. passed 4-26-1993)
§ 114.25 DENIAL AND APPEAL.
   (A)   In the event the applicant for the license required by this subchapter
does not meet all of the conditions for issuance of the license, then the
application shall be denied by the Town Tax Collector.
   (B)   Thereafter, the applicant shall have 10 days in which to file an
appeal and request a hearing before the Town Council. Upon appeal, the Town
Council shall, within 30 days, hold a hearing on the appeal and make a final
determination thereof with respect to the application for a license.
(Ord. passed 4-26-1993)
§ 114.26 PATRONAGE OF TOPLESS ESTABLISHMENTS BY MINORS AND EMPLOYMENT OF
MINORS.
   (A)   No person licensed as a topless employee under §§
114.40 through
114.50 shall serve or entertain in any manner any person under the age of 18
upon the licensed premises. A violation of this section shall be grounds for
revocation of any license issued to the violator pursuant to this subchapter.
   (B)   No person licensed as an operator shall allow, permit or condone any
person under the age of 18 upon the licensed premises. A violation of this
section shall be grounds for revocation of any license issued to the violator
pursuant to this subchapter.
   (C)   No person licensed as an operator pursuant this chapter nor any agent
or employee of the operator shall employ any person under the age of 18 years
in the operation of the business on the licensed premises.
(Ord. passed 4-26-1993)
LICENSES; EMPLOYEES
§ 114.40 EMPLOYER TO USE ONLY LICENSED EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   No person licensed under this chapter shall allow or permit the
employment of any topless employee on the licensed premises unless the topless
employee has complied with all requirements of licensing under this section
through §
114.50 below.
   (B)   Violation of this section shall be grounds for revocation of the
license issued to the violator pursuant to this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 4-26-1993)
§ 114.41 TERM; DUE DATE.
   The licenses required by this subchapter are annual privilege licenses. The
licenses shall be due and payable in the same manner as prescribed for other
privilege licenses issued by the Town Tax Collector pursuant to the license and
privilege tax ordinance of the town.
(Ord. passed 4-26-1993)
Statutory reference:
   Privilege licenses, see G.S. §§ 160A-211 et seq.
§ 114.42 TRANSFERS AND THE LIKE.
   Any person who buys a topless establishment from a former owner or other
person having an ownership interest in a business does so subject to any
pending criminal charges which are grounds for revocation and which involve the
same business premises; upon any conviction resulting from the charges, the new
owner or operator shall be ineligible for a business license at the same
premises for a period of 3 years, and any topless establishment operator
license for the premises held by any person at the time of the conviction shall
be subject to revocation to the same extent as the former license would have
been.
(Ord. passed 4-26-1993)
§ 114.43 REVOCATION OR TERMINATION.
   (A)   A license issued pursuant to this subchapter shall be revoked by
action of the Town Council if the Town Council finds that:
      (1)   The licensee has violated any provision of this chapter;
      (2)   The licensee, or any agent of the licensee, employs or permits to
be on the premises of the applicant's topless establishment any topless
employee who has not been issued the privilege required by §§
114.40 through
114.50, or whose license under this subchapter has been revoked;
      (3)   The licensee, or the legal or beneficial owner of any interest in
the licensee is convicted of violating any regulation of the Alcoholic Beverage
Control Board or is convicted of any crime involving sexual misconduct,
including but not limited to G.S. §§ 14-177 et seq. or 14-203 et seq.;
      (4)   Any employee cf the licensee is convicted of any felony in
connection with his or her employment, or is convicted of any crime involving
sexual misconduct, including, but not limited to G.S. §§ 14-177 et seq. or 14-
203 et seq. or of any provision of this code; or
      (5)   The licensee violates any Zoning, Building or Fire Prevention
Chapters.
   (B)   (1)   A license issued pursuant to this subchapter is void if the
licensee moves or ceases operating a topless establishment at the location
required to be stated in the application for the license.
      (2)   Any person whose business license would have been subject to
revocation under any provision of this chapter for conduct which originated
during the time the license was held and which is pending criminal trial at the
time the license is surrendered or lapses may not receive a new license for
operating a topless establishment for a period of 3 years from the date of any
pertinent conviction, and any topless establishment operator license presently
held by the person shall be subject to revocation on the basis of the
conviction.
(Ord. passed 4-26-1993)
§ 114.44 EMPLOYEE LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall be employed as a topless employee unless that person shall
have first received a privilege license for same.
(Ord. passed 4-26-1993) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.45 APPLICATION.
   (A)   The application for the license required by this subchapter shall be
upon a form approved by the Town Manager and shall be filed with the Town Tax
Collector.
   (B)   The application shall be given under oath and shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   The name, age and residence address of the applicant;
      (2)   A complete statement of the previous business or occupation of the
applicant for the 2 years immediately preceding the date of application,
including any employment or association with a topless establishment;
      (3)   A complete statement of all convictions of the applicant for any
felony or misdemeanor or violation of a local ordinance; and
      (4)   The date and place of applicant's birth, the name of applicant's
parents and the residence address or addresses of the applicant for the 5 years
immediately preceding the date of application.
(Ord. passed 4-26-1993)
§ 114.46 INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   The Town Tax Collector shall transmit a copy of the application for
the license required by this subchapter to the Police Department for an
investigative report.
   (B)   The Police Department shall, within a reasonable time, not to exceed
30 days, report the results of its investigation to the Town Tax Collector.
(Ord. passed 4-26-1993)
§ 114.47 ISSUANCE STANDARDS.
   An application for the license required by this subchapter in proper form
accompanied by all required reports shall be approved by the Town Tax Collector
if:
   (A)   The applicant is at least 18 years of age;
   (B)   The application contains no misstatements of fact;
   (C)   The applicant has not been convicted of any crime involving sexual
misconduct, including, but not limited to G.S. §§ 14-177 et seq. or 14-203 et
seq., or of any provision of this code, or of any federal statute relating to
prostitution, or for violation of any law or ordinance of any governmental unit
concerning or related to a topless establishment;
   (D)   The applicant has not, for the 3-year period preceding the
application, had a previously issued license as a topless employee revoked; and
   (E)   The applicant has not been previously convicted of any violation of
any provision of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 4-26-1993)
§ 114.48 FEE AND ISSUANCE.
   Upon the approval of the application for the license required by this
division and upon receipt the license fee per the Town of Liberty fee schedule,
the Town Tax Collector shall issue a privilege license to the applicant.
(Ord. passed 4-26-1993)
§ 114.49 DENIAL; APPEAL.
   (A)   In the evert the applicant does not meet all of the conditions for the
license required by this subchapter, then the application shall be denied by
the Tax Collector.
   (B)   Thereafter, the applicant shall have 10 days in which to file an
appeal and request a hearing before the Town Council.
   (C)   Upon appeal, the Town Council shall, within 30 days, hold a hearing on
the appeal and make a final determination thereof with respect to the
application for a license.
(Ord. passed 4-26-1993)
§ 114.50 REVOCATION.
   A license issued pursuant to this subchapter shall be revoked by action of
the Town Council if the Town Council finds:
   (A)   The licensee has violated any provision of this chapter; and/or
   (B)   The licensee has been convicted of a felony, or any crime involving
sexual misconduct, including, but not limited to G.S. §§ 14-177 et seq. or 14-
203 et seq., or of violating any provision of this code, or under any federal
statute relating to prostitution, or for violation of any law or ordinance of
any governmental unit related to a topless establishment.
(Ord. passed 4-26-1993)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      Chapter
         
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND SAFETY
         
131.   BEGGING, PANHANDLING AND SOLICITING ALMS AND CONTRIBUTIONS
         
132.   BURGLAR AND FIRE ALARMS
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND SAFETY
Section
   
130.01   Noise generally
   
130.02   Particular noise
   
130.03   Discharge of firearms and air rifles
   
130.04   Operation of public enterprises without franchise
   
130.05   Curfew for minors
   
130.06   Consumption of beer and wine on public property
   
130.07   Loitering for the purpose of engaging in drug-related activity
   
130.08   Carrying concealed weapons on town property
   
130.09   Carrying weapons openly on town property
   
130.10   Urination and defecation on certain property prohibited
   
130.11   Trespass
   
130.12   General loitering
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 NOISE GENERALLY.
   No person may authorize or cause to be emitted from any property or source
under his or her control any noise that is both:
   (A)   Sufficiently loud to frighten or pose a danger to the health of or
seriously disturb any person who:
      (1)   If the noise emanates from a source located on private property, is
located on other property; or
      (2)   If the noise emanates from a street or other public property, is
located on private property or the street or other public property.
   (B)   Louder, or of greater duration, or otherwise more disturbing than is
reasonably necessary for the performance of some lawful public or private
function, enterprise, operation or activity.
   (C)   This section shall apply only to sound, vibration, and noise
originating within a residential zoning district within the corporate limits of
the town. Nothing in this article shall be construed to limit or prevent the
town or any person from pursuing any other legal remedies for damage or the
abatement of noises in the town.
      (1)   The complaints of two or more persons, at least one of whom resides
in a different home from the complaining person or persons, or the complaint of
one or more persons, when combined with the complaint of the investigating
police officer or a duly authorized investigating person, shall constitute a
valid determination of an unreasonably loud noise.
      (2)    It is not necessary for an investigating officer to utilize a
sound level meter to issue a violation under this section.
(1981 Code, § 5-1) (Ord. Passed 2-2-2019) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 PARTICULAR NOISE.
   (A)   Prohibited noises; examples. The following are declared to be
illustrations of noises prohibited under the foregoing section, and are hereby
declared to be unlawful, but this list shall not be exhaustive:
      (1)   The blowing of a horn on any motor vehicle except when the horn is
used as a warning device;
      (2)   The operation of any motor vehicle without a muffler or with a
muffler that is so defective or so designed that the vehicle emits an unusually
loud noise;
      (3)   The operation of a motor vehicle so as to create unnecessary and
unusual noise through the screeching of tires or racing of engines;
      (4)   The playing of any radio, television, tape recorder, phonograph or
similar electronic device or any musical instrument so as to disturb the
comfort, quiet or repose of persons in any place of residence or so as to
interfere substantially with the operations of any church, school, theater,
library or other similar place of assembly;
      (5)   The use of any drum, loudspeaker or other amplification instrument
or device for the purpose of attracting attention by the creation of noise to
any performance, show, sale, display, advertisement or merchandise or other
commercial venture; and
      (6)   The playing of any radio, tape recorder, cassette player or other
similar device for reproducing sound located on or in any motor vehicle on a
public street, highway or within the motor vehicular area of any public or
private parking lot or park, if the sound generated is audible at a distance of
50 feet from the radio, tape recorder, cassette player or other device that is
producing the sound.
   (B)   Special events impacting residential life. It is unlawful for anyone
within the town limits to cause, or allow, the emission of sound from any
source or sources which impact dwellings and other residential property, and
when measured according to the standards described and exceed the maximum
decibel limits specified in the residential decibel limits table.
 
Residential Decibel Limits Table
                 Daytime- Mon-Sat (7:00 a.m. to   Nighttime (10:00 p.m. to 7:00
Zoning Districts 10:00 p.m.)                      a.m.)
                 Sunday (1:00 p.m. to 10:00 p.m.) Nighttime (10:00 p.m. to 7:00
                                                  a.m.)
All              75 dB                            65 dB
 
      (1)   Measurement of sound. For the purpose of determining db(A)'s as
referred to in this section, the noise shall be measured on the A-weighting
scale on a sound level meter of standard design and quality having
characteristics established by the American National Standards Institute
(ANSI). An A-weighted sound level meter means an instrument which includes an
omnidirectional microphone, an amplifier, and output meter, internal
datalogger, and frequency weighting network for the measurement of sound.
      (2)   Time. Sound measurements shall be conducted at the time of day or
night when the suspect noise source is emitting sound, and where possible the
measurement should be made with clear view to the source of the sound.
      (3)   Location. Measurements shall be taken at or within the nearest
residential property line occupied by the complainant. The operator will take 4
consecutive readings of 30 seconds each. A maximum dB of any of these readings
which exceeds the allowed decibel limits is a violation of this section.
   (C)   Exceptions. In the interest of public safety and convenience, the
following are exempted from divisions (A) and (B) of this section:
      (1)   Organized fireworks displays carried on under the supervision of
licensed experts with authority from the town. Such displays shall be exempt
only between the hours of 12:00 noon and 10:00 p.m., except the July Fourth
Celebration, on which day they are exempt from 12:00 noon until 12:00 midnight.
      (2)   Parades, festivals, or other events in the downtown business
district for which a city permit is issued.
      (3)   Noise from authorized uses of public and private parks in the
downtown business district.
(1981 Code, § 5-2) (Am. Ord. passed 7-27-1998; Am. Ord. passed 6-27-2011)
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS AND AIR RIFLES.
   (A)   Subject to division (B) below, no person may discharge any firearm or
crossbow within the town.
   (B)   Division (A) above shall not apply to private citizens acting in
justifiable self defense or pursuant to the lawful directions of a police
officer nor to police officers acting in a lawful performance of their duties.
   (C)   No person may discharge or shoot within the town any air rifle, air
pistol, B-B gun, pellet gun, pump gun, or bow and arrow or similar weapon
within 100 yards of any building or house or gathering of people, provided that
this provision shall not apply to bow and arrow under the following
circumstances:
      (1)   To citizens who are engaged in target practice; and
      (2)   Are conducting said activity on their own property in a safe and
responsible manner; and
      (3)   Any minors under the age of 16 are supervised by a parent or
guardian.
(1981 Code, § 5-3) (Am. Ord. passed 5-26-2009) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 OPERATION OF PUBLIC ENTERPRISES WITHOUT FRANCHISE.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, it shall be
unlawful for any person operating or carrying on any public enterprise to
conduct an enterprise upon city-owned property without having prior written
agreement with the town concerning the enterprise in addition to any required
privilege license.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided bylaw, no person may operate within the
town any public enterprise, as defined in G.S. § 160A-311, without first
obtaining a franchise from the town, nor may any person continue to operate a
public enterprise after the expiration of a franchise.
(1981 Code, § 5-4) (Am. Ord. passed 8-28-2006) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   No minor under the age of 16 may loiter, wander, stroll, loaf or play
upon the streets, roads, alleys or other public places within the town, or in
any vehicle placed or parked thereon, between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and
sunrise of the following day, unless accompanied by the parent, guardian or
other adult person having the care, custody or control of the minor.
   (B)   No parent, guardian or other person having the care, custody or
control of any minor under the age of 16 may knowingly permit a minor to
violate the provisions of division (A) above.
(1981 Code, § 5-5)
   (C)   This section does not apply to a minor who is:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor's parent or guardian;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor's parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor's residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
police department about the minor's presence;
      (7)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
      (9)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed
in accordance with state law.
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.06 CONSUMPTION OF BEER AND WINE ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   No person may consume malt beverages or unfortified wines on any facility,
right-of-way or other property owned or occupied by the town (including county-
owned recreational facilities used by the town's recreational programs), except
at town sponsored or sanctioned events where consumption is specifically
authorized by a permit issued by the Council or pursuant to §
90.01(E)(5) where sidewalk dining is permitted.
(1981 Code, § 5-6) (Am. Ord. passed 5-28-2013) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.07 LOITERING FOR THE PURPOSE OF ENGAGING IN DRUG-RELATED ACTIVITY.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, PUBLIC PLACE means any street,
sidewalk, bridge, alley or alleyway, plaza, park, driveway, parking lot or
transportation facility, or the doorways and entrance ways to any building
which fronts on any of those places, or a motor vehicle in or on any of those
places, or any property owned by the Town of Liberty.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for a person to remain or wander about in a
public place under circumstances manifesting the purpose to engage in a
violation of the North Carolina Controlled Substances Act, G.S. Ch. 90, Article
5.
   (C)   These circumstances are:
      (1)   Repeatedly beckoning to, stopping or attempting to stop passers-by,
or repeatedly attempting to engage passers-by in conversations;
      (2)   Repeatedly stopping or attempting to stop motor vehicles;
      (3)   Repeatedly interfering with the free passage of other persons;
      (4)   The person behaves in a manner so as to raise a reasonable
suspicion that he or she is about to engage in or is engaged in an unlawful
drug-related activity;
      (5)   The person repeatedly passes to or receives from passers-by,
whether on foot or in a vehicle, money or objects;
      (6)   The person takes flight upon the approach or appearance of a police
officer; or
      (7)   The person is at a location frequented by persons who use, possess
or sell drugs.
   (D)   If any provision of this section is held invalid, that invalidity
shall not affect any other provision, or the application thereof, which can be
given effect without the invalid provision or application, and to this end the
provisions of this section are declared to be severable.
(Ord. passed 3-22-1993) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.08 CARRYING CONCEALED WEAPONS ON TOWN PROPERTY.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person willfully and intentionally
to carry concealed about his or her person any bowie knife, dirk, dagger, slung
shot, loaded cane, metallic knuckles, razor, shurikin, stun gun, or other
deadly weapon of like kind, except when the person is on the person's own
premises.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person willfully and intentionally to
carry concealed about his or her person any pistol or gun except in the
following circumstances:
         (a)   The person is on the person's own premises.
         (b)   The deadly weapon is a handgun, and the person has a concealed
handgun permit issued in accordance with G.S. Ch. 14, Article 54B or considered
valid under G.S. § 14-415.24.
         (c)   The deadly weapon is a handgun and the person is a military
permittee as defined under G.S. § 14-415.10(2a) who provides to the law
enforcement officer proof of deployment as required under G.S. § 14-415.11(a).
   (B)   (1)   This prohibition shall not apply to the following persons:
         (a)   Officers and enlisted personnel of the armed forces of the
United States when in discharge of their official duties as such and acting
under orders requiring them to carry arms and weapons;
         (b)   Civil and law enforcement officers of the United States;
         (c)   Officers and soldiers of the militia and the national guard when
called into actual service;
         (d)   Officers of the state, or of any county, city, town, or company
police agency charged with the execution of the laws of the state, when acting
in the discharge of their official duties;
         (e)   Sworn law-enforcement officers, when off-duty, provided that an
officer does not carry a concealed weapon while consuming alcohol or an
unlawful controlled substance or while alcohol or an unlawful controlled
substance remains in the officer's body.
      (2)   It is a defense to a prosecution under this section that:
         (a)   The weapon was not a firearm;
         (b)   The defendant was engaged in, or on the way to or from, an
activity in which he legitimately used the weapon;
         (c)   The defendant possessed the weapon for that legitimate use; and
         (d)   The defendant did not use or attempt to use the weapon for an
illegal purpose.
      (3)   The burden of proving this defense is on the defendant.
      (4)   It is a defense to a prosecution under this section that:
         (a)   The deadly weapon is a handgun;
         (b)   The defendant is a military permittee as defined under G.S. §
14-415.10(2a); and
         (c)   The defendant provides to the court proof of deployment as
defined under G.S. § 14-415.10(3a).
(Am. Ord. passed 9-28-2015) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.09 CARRYING WEAPONS OPENLY ON TOWN PROPERTY.
   (A)   (1)   Definitions. For purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         DEADLY WEAPON. Any gun, rifle, pistol or other firearm of any kind,
any explosive as defined in G.S. § 14-284.1, any knife or dagger, any BB gun,
air rifle, air pistol or any other weapon specified in G.S. §§ 14-269,14-269.2
or 14-288.8. This section shall not apply to an ordinary pocket knife carried
in a closed position.
         ORDINARY POCKET KNIFE. A small knife, designed for carrying in a
pocket, which has its cutting edge and point fully enclosed by its handle and
that may not be opened by a throwing, explosive or spring action.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for a person to possess, on or about his
person, any deadly weapon as defined above, while on the premises of any town-
owned or operated building or in any town-owned park. This prohibition does not
apply to such weapon which is otherwise lawfully stored within a motor vehicle.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to the following
persons:
      (1)   Personnel of the armed forces of the United States when in
discharge of their official duties and acting under orders requiring them to
carry weapons;
      (2)   Civil officers of the United States and other states, while in the
discharge of their official duties;
      (3)   Officers and soldiers of the state militia and national guard when
called into actual service and under orders requiring them to carry weapons;
      (4)   Licensed security guards and company police or other person
specifically authorized by law to carry firearms on such premises while acting
within the scope of their authority pursuant to their employment; and
      (5)   A person engaged in a function or activity which is specifically
authorized by the city as an approved educational or recreational activity or
by a city employee as necessary in performing particular duties of employment.
(Ord. passed 9-28-2015) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.10 URINATION AND DEFECATION ON CERTAIN PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to urinate or defecate, or cause human
urine or feces to be placed on any public place, street, road, highway,
alleyway, sidewalk, right-of-way or in any public building except in designated
water closets or toilet facilities.
(Ord. passed 11-27-2000) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.11 TRESPASS.
   (A)   No person shall enter upon the lands or premises owned or in
possession of another, after notice from the owner or person in possession
prohibiting an entry.
   (B)   No person shall enter upon the lands or premises owned or occupied by
another for any other than a legitimate cause when the property is posted with
visible “NO TRESPASSING” notices.
   (C)   No person shall fail or refuse to leave the lands or premises owned or
occupied by another, after having been requested to do so.
   (D)   No person shall enter in or upon private or public property for the
purpose and design of creating or inciting a disturbance, or when any entry
might be calculated to create or incite a disturbance.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2004) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.12 GENERAL LOITERING.
   (A)   A person commits the offense of loitering when one is in a place, at a
time or in a manner not usual for law abiding individuals under circumstances
that warrant a justifiable and reasonable alarm or immediate concern for the
safety of persons or property in the vicinity. It shall further be unlawful for
any person to loiter, wander, stand or remain idle, either alone or in consort
with others, in any public place so as to:
      (1)   Obstruct any public street, public highway, public sidewalk or any
other public place or building by hindering or impeding or tending to hinder or
impede the free and uninterrupted passage of vehicles, traffic or pedestrians;
or
      (2)   Commit in or upon any public street, public highway, public
sidewalk or any other public place or building any act or thing which is an
obstruction or interference to the free and uninterrupted use of property or
with any business lawfully conducted by anyone in or facing or fronting on any
public street, public highway, public sidewalk, right-of-way or any other
public place or building, all of which permits the free and uninterrupted
ingress, egress or regress therein, thereupon and thereto.
   (B)   When any person causes or commits any of the conditions enumerated
division (A) above, a police officer or any law enforcement officer shall order
that person to stop causing or committing the conditions and to move or to
disperse.
   (C)   Any person who fails or refuses to obey those orders shall be guilty
of a violation of this section.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2004) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall constitute
a misdemeanor, punishable as provided in G.S. § 14-4.
   (B)   A violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall also
subject the offender to a civil penalty in accordance with the town’s annually
adopted fee schedule. If a person fails to pay this penalty within 10 days
after being cited for a violation, the town may seek to recover the penalty by
filing a civil action in the nature of debt.
   (C)   The town may seek to enforce this chapter through any appropriate
equitable action.
   (D)   Each day that a violation continues after the offender has been
notified of the violation shall constitute a separate offense.
   (E)   The town may seek to enforce this chapter by using any one or a
combination of the foregoing remedies.
   (F)   Any person in violation of §
130.08 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be fined $500
or imprisoned for 30 days, or both.
   (G)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of §
130.11 shall be subject to a fine not exceeding $100. Any like violation shall
constitute a separate offense on each successive day continued.
   (H)   Penalties for violations of this article may be assessed against the
owner of a non-residential premises, the occupant of the premises, persons
responsible for the premises or the device producing or causing the noise.
   (I)   An owner of any non-residential premises subject to this article who
is not also an occupant of the premises shall be responsible for any actions by
tenants, guests, or other licensees that constitute second or subsequent
violations of this article; provided, that:
      (1)   No absentee owner shall be liable unless notified of first of
previous violations of the article;
      (2)   Such first violation or previous violation shall have occurred
within the previous twelve-month period;
      (3)   Notice of any first or previous violations pursuant to this
paragraph shall be effected by registered or certified mail;
      (4)   No absentee owner may be subject to criminal liability under this
section, but shall be subject to all civil penalties and equitable relief.
   (J)   This section shall in no way relieve any other person from
responsibility for violations of this article.
   (K)   Civil penalty. Violators shall be subject to a civil penalty pursuant
to the provisions above. Violators may be issued a written citation which must
be paid within 10 days of the issue date and time. The town attorney, or
designee, is authorized to file a civil action on behalf of the town to collect
any unpaid citations, and the police chief, or designee, is authorized to
verify and sign complaints on behalf of the town in such civil actions.
(1981 Code, § 5-9) (Ord. passed 11-27-1995; Am. Ord. passed 2-2-2004; Am. Ord.
passed 2-25-2019; Am. Ord. passed 11-22-2021)
CHAPTER 131: BEGGING, PANHANDLING AND SOLICITING ALMS AND CONTRIBUTIONS
Section
   
131.01   Definitions
   
131.02   Intimidation
   
131.03   Streets and roads
   
131.04   Obstruction of traffic
   
131.05   Prohibition in certain places
   
131.06   Exceptions
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCOSTING ANOTHER PERSON. Approaching or speaking to someone in a manner as
would cause a reasonable person to fear imminent bodily harm or the commission
of a criminal act or damage to property in his or her immediate possession.
   BEG. Asking for money or goods as a charity.
   FORCING ONESELF UPON THE COMPANY OF ANOTHER PERSON.
      (1)   Continuing to request or solicit alms in close proximity to the
person addressed after that person has responded negatively;
      (2)   Blocking the passage of the person addresses; or
      (3)   Otherwise engaging in conduct, which reasonably could be
understood, as intended to force, a person to accede to demands.
   INTIMIDATE ANOTHER PERSON. Acting in a manner as would cause a reasonable
person to fear bodily harm and therefore to do something he or she would not
otherwise have done.
   OBSTRUCT PEDESTRIAN TRAFFIC OR VEHICULAR TRAFFIC. Walking, standing,
sitting, lying or placing an object in a manner so as to block the passage by
another person or vehicle, or to require another person or a driver of a
vehicle to take evasive action to avoid physical contact.
   PANHANDLE. Asking for money or goods as a charity.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes streets, sidewalks, alleys and other public property,
as well as town-owned and town-controlled property and private property open to
the public unless permission to solicit has been obtained from the town or from
the private property owner or other person in authority.
   SOLICIT ALMS OR CONTRIBUTIONS. Asking for money or goods as a charity.
   TO BEG, PANHANDLE OR SOLICIT ALMS OR CONTRIBUTIONS. Includes, without
limitation, the spoken, written or printed word or other acts as are conducted
in furtherance of the purpose of obtaining alms or contributions.
(Ord. passed 2-25-2002)
§ 131.02 INTIMIDATION.
   No person shall beg, panhandle or solicit alms or contributions in a public
place in a manner so as to intimidate another person or by accosting another
person, or by forcing oneself upon the company of another person.
(Ord. passed 2-25-2002) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.03 STREETS AND ROADS.
   No person shall beg, panhandle or solicit alms or contributions while
sitting, standing or loitering in the right-of-way of any street or road.
(Ord. passed 2-25-2002) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.04 OBSTRUCTION OF TRAFFIC.
   No person shall beg, panhandle or solicit alms or contributions in such a
manner as to intentionally obstruct pedestrian or vehicular traffic in a public
place.
(Ord. passed 2-25-2002) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.05 PROHIBITION IN CERTAIN PLACES.
   No person shall engage in begging, panhandling or solicitation of alms or
contributions at the following locations or times:
   (A)   Within 50 feet of the entrance or exit of any residential, commercial
or industrial structure;
   (B)   Within 50 feet of any automatic teller machine or any other machine at
which money is dispensed to the public; or
   (C)   At any location between dusk and dawn.
(Ord. passed 2-25-2002) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.06 EXCEPTIONS.
   This chapter shall not apply to recognized religious, governmental or civic
organizations that are soliciting charitable contributions.
(Ord. passed 2-25-2002)
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   Begging, panhandling or solicitation of alms or contributions in any form is
a misdemeanor offense and may be punished by a fine of not to exceed $50 or by
imprisonment for not more than 30 days.
(Ord. passed 2-25-2002)
CHAPTER 132: BURGLAR AND FIRE ALARMS
Section
   
132.01   Definitions
   
132.02   Permits
   
132.03   False alarm
   
132.04   Authority to waive penalty
   
132.05   Liability for payment of civil penalties
   
132.06   Obligations of alarm contractors and alarm users
 
   
132.99   Penalty
§ 132.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM CONTRACTOR. Any person, corporation, proprietorship, partnership or
other organization engaged in the business of selling, leasing, installing,
maintaining and/or monitoring alarm systems installed on the premises of
another for the purpose of protection of the premises.
   ALARM SYSTEM.
      (1)   Any electronic or mechanical device which emits any signal
(electronic, visible, audible, silent, recorded or otherwise) which is
designed, intended or used to detect an unauthorized entry into a building,
structure or premises, or to signal an attempted robbery, burglary or holdup.
      (2)   In addition, ALARM SYSTEMS may also refer to fire, heat, smoke or
other related detection related to fire alarms in general.
      (3)   ALARM shall be deemed to include any device which initiates a
telephone call and delivers a recorded message to any emergency telephone
number assigned to the communications center or by which a third party
telephones any emergency telephone number and requests enforcement services on
the basis of having received an automatic signal from a subscriber of an alarm
service.
   ALARM USER. Any person, corporation, partnership, proprietorship,
governmental or educational entity owning or leasing an alarm system, or on
whose premises an alarm system is maintained for the protection of a premises.
   CHIEF. When used in this chapter, the Chief of Police, for the Town of
Liberty, his or her designee or agent or the Fire Chief for the Town of
Liberty, his or her designee or agent.
   FALSE ALARM.
      (1)   The activation of an alarm system through mechanical or electronic
failure, malfunction, improper installation or the negligence of the
subscriber, his or her employees or agents, and signals purposely activated to
summon police personnel in non-emergency situations unless law enforcement
response was cancelled by the alarm user or his or her agent before police
personnel arrive at the alarm location.
      (2)   A FALSE ALARM shall not include an alarm which can reasonably be
determined to have been activated by adverse weather conditions, a failure in
the electrical power to the alarm or other condition beyond the control of the
alarm user.
      (3)   In addition, an alarm activated during an alarm system testing
procedure shall not be considered a FALSE ALARM if the alarm user first
notifies and receives permission from the Randolph County 911 Communications
Center to test the system.
      (4)   An alarm is FALSE within the meaning of this chapter when, upon
inspection by the Chief of Police, evidence indicates that no unauthorized
entry, robbery or other crime was committed or attempted in or on the premises
which would have activated a properly functioning alarm system or by the Fire
Chief when evidence indicates that no fire, smoke, heat or other source would
have properly activated a properly functioning alarm.
   TOWN. When used in this chapter, shall mean the Town of Liberty, Liberty,
North Carolina, and Randolph County.
(Ord. passed 10-24-2005)
§ 132.02 PERMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any alarm user to operate an alarm system
within the corporate limits of the town without first obtaining a permit and
paying the 1-time fee as established by the Town of Liberty Fee Schedule.
   (B)   The application for a permit shall be filed on a form provided by the
town collector who will in turn send copies of the permit to the offices of
Randolph County 911 Communications Center, the Liberty Police and Fire
Departments.
   (C)   At the time of filing the application, a fee as fixed, from time to
time, by the Council shall be paid to the town collector of revenue to cover
the cost of issuing and maintaining the permit. No fee will be charged for any
permit issued for an alarm system existing on the date of the adoption of this
chapter if the permit is obtained prior to October 24, 2005.
   (D)   (1)   Permits shall be renewed without charge upon the application of
a permit holder at any time between June 1 and July 1 while the permit is in
force.
      (2)   An applicant shall request renewal in writing and state at that
time any changes applicable to his or her initial application for a permit.
      (3)   No other action on his or her part shall be deemed necessary.
      (4)   Upon application for renewal, the town fee collector shall issue
the applicant a renewal permit covering the period of the new year.
      (5)   No permit issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be
transferable.
(Ord. passed 10-24-2005) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.03 FALSE ALARM.
   (A)   Third false alarms.
      (1)   If within any calendar year, the Police or Fire Departments
responds to 3 false alarms (burglar and or fire alarms, respectfully) at the
same premises or location, the Chief of Police or Fire Chief, as appropriate,
shall send a notice to the alarm user informing him or her of the false alarm
(s) and encouraging the prevention of future false alarms.
      (2)   The written notice will also advise the alarm user that the fifth
and subsequent false alarms will result in a $100 civil monetary penalty.
   (B)   Fifth and subsequent false alarms.
      (1)   If within any calendar year, the Police or Fire Departments
responds to a fifth or subsequent false alarms at the same premises or
location, the alarm user shall be subject to a civil penalty of $100 for any
like alarm(s).
      (2)   Provided, after the fourth false alarm only, the civil penalty may
be waived by the Chief of Police or Fire Chief or their designee upon written
evidence from a person or company licensed by the North Carolina Alarm Systems
Licensing Board certifying that the false alarm was caused by electronic or
mechanical malfunction of the alarm system and that the alarm system has been
repaired.
   (C)   False alarm with seven days of installation. Any false alarms
occurring within 7 days of installation of a new alarm system for which a
permit has been issued shall not be considered false alarms for the purposes of
the assessment of civil penalties.
   (D)   Continuing alarms.
      (1)   An alarm user or his or her representative shall reset an alarm
when notified by the Police Department or communications center that the alarm
has been activated.
      (2)   All audible alarms, with the exception of fire alarms which require
a manual reset, shall be equipped with an automatic reset device that will
reset and cease to sound the alarm after no more than 30 minutes of continuous
activation.
      (3)   When any alarm activates continuously for a period of 60 minutes
from the time a town official initially responded to the alarm due to the
failure of the alarm user or his or her representative to reset the alarm, it
shall be deemed a false alarm and each subsequent 60 minute period or portion
thereof that the alarm continues to be activated shall be considered a separate
false alarm.
      (4)   The alarm user shall be subject to a civil penalty for the
continuing alarm at a flat rate of $10 for each false alarm as defined herein,
not to exceed $100 for any 24-hour period.
      (5)   The absence of direct notice to the alarm user or his or her
representative of the activation shall not constitute a defense to these fees
if the Police Department, Fire Department or communications center is not
reasonably able to contact the person due to the failure of the alarm user to
conform to the provisions of this section.
   (E)   Fees subject to change. All fees and/or civil penalties referred to in
this section shall be subject to change as approved by the Liberty Town Council
and listed in the most current updates of the Liberty Fee Schedule.
(Ord. passed 10-24-2005)
§ 132.04 AUTHORITY TO WAIVE PENALTY.
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall have the authority, in his or her sole
discretion, to waive any penalty charged to an alarm user when a burglary,
intrusion or robbery alarm user submits to the Chief of Police adequate
evidence that the alleged false alarm was not actually false as defined in §
132.06 below.
   (B)   The Fire Chief shall have the authority, in his or her sole
discretion, to waive any penalty charged to an alarm user when fire, smoke or
heat detection alarm user submits to the Fire Chief adequate evidence that the
alleged false alarm was not actually false as defined in §
132.06 below.
(Ord. passed 10-24-2005)
§ 132.05 LIABILITY FOR PAYMENT OF CIVIL PENALTIES.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any contractual agreement between an alarm contractor
and an alarm user, the alarm user shall be liable for payment of any civil
penalty due the Town of Liberty under section §
132.03 above.
   (B)   Any town employee authorized by the Chief of Police (or Fire Chief, as
appropriate) may issue to the known owner of, or person having control of, any
place of business or residence a civil penalty citation giving notice of the
violation of this chapter.
   (C)   Any like employee shall be authorized to secure the name and address
of the owner or person in control of the place of business or residence found
to be in violation of exceeding the number of alarms allowed.
   (D)   Citations so issued may be delivered in person or mailed by registered
mail to the person charged if he or she cannot readily be found.
   (E)   Each citation issued shall impose upon the owner or person in charge a
civil penalty as prescribed by this chapter which shall be paid to the Town of
Liberty, fee collector, within 30 days of receipt in full satisfaction of the
assessed civil penalty.
   (F)   If the civil penalty is not paid within the time prescribed in the
citation, the appropriate personnel of the town may initiate a civil action in
the nature of debt to collect the civil penalty.
(Ord. passed 10-24-2005)
§ 132.06 OBLIGATIONS OF ALARM CONTRACTORS AND ALARM USERS.
   (A)   Each alarm user in the Town of Liberty shall post in a conspicuous
place on the premises where the alarm system is maintained and shall furnish to
the Police Department (or Fire Department, as appropriate) the name(s) and
telephone number(s) of the person(s) currently authorized and able to
deactivate the alarm system.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for an alarm contractor or alarm user to activate
an alarm system without first obtaining a permit from the Town of Liberty and
notifying the Chief of Police (or Fire Chief, as appropriate) of the name(s)
and telephone numbers) of those person(s) authorized and able to deactivate the
alarm systems.
   (C)   It shall be the responsibility of the alarm user to provide an
adequate number of responsible persons to permit notification of an activation
at any time and to keep this information current.
(Ord. passed 10-24-2005) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully cause a false alarm.
A violation of this provision shall be a misdemeanor punishable as provided in
G.S. § 14-286.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of this
chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and punished as provided by
10.99, and shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned for not more than 30
days and shall be further subject to the provisions of G.S. § 160A-175.
(Ord. passed 10-24-2005; Am. Ord. passed 11-22-2021)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      Chapter
         
150.   MINIMUM HOUSING
         
151.   BUILDING CODE
         
152.   SUBDIVISIONS
         
153.   WATERSHED PROTECTION
         
154.   ZONING
         
155.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
         
156.   NONRESIDENTIAL MAINTENANCE CODE
CHAPTER 150: MINIMUM HOUSING
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Finding; purpose
   
150.02   Definitions
   
150.03   Minimum standards of fitness for dwelling and dwelling units
   
150.04   Structural condition; minimum standards
   
150.05   Plumbing, heating and electrical equipment and facilities
   
150.06   Minimum standards for ventilation
   
150.07   Space, use and location; minimum standards
   
150.08   Safe and sanitary maintenance
   
150.09   Control of insects, rodents and infestations
   
150.10   Rooming houses; minimum standards and exceptions
Specific Regulations
   
150.25   Responsibilities of owners and occupants
   
150.26   Powers and duties of Housing Inspector
   
150.27   Inspections; duty of owners and occupants
   
150.28   Procedure for enforcement
   
150.29   Methods of service of complaints and orders
   
150.30   In rem action by inspection; placarding
   
150.31   Costs; lien on premises
   
150.32   Alternative remedies
   
150.33   Zoning Board of Adjustment to hear appeals
   
150.34   Conflict
 
   
150.98   Violations
   
150.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 FINDING; PURPOSE.
   Pursuant to G.S. § 160A-441, it is hereby declared that there exist in the
town dwellings which are unfit for human habitation due to dilapidation;
defects increasing the hazards of fire, accidents and other calamities; lack of
ventilation, light and sanitary facilities; and other conditions rendering the
dwellings unsafe or unsanitary, dangerous and detrimental to the health, safety
and morals, and otherwise inimical to the welfare of the residents of the town.
(Ord. – § 1, passed 8-27-1990)
§ 150.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASEMENT. A portion of a dwelling which is located partly underground,
having direct access to light and air from windows located above the level of
the adjoining ground.
   CELLAR. A portion of a dwelling which is located partly or wholly
underground having an inadequate access to light and air from windows located
partly or wholly below the level of the adjoining ground.
   DETERIORATION. A dwelling is unfit for human habitation and can be repaired,
altered or improved to comply with all of the minimum standards established by
this chapter at a cost not in excess of 50% of its value, as determined by
finding of the Inspector.
   DILAPIDATED. That dwelling is unfit for human habitation and cannot be
repaired, altered or improved to comply with all of the minimum standards
established by this chapter except at a cost in excess of 50% of its value, as
determined by finding of the Inspector.
   DWELLING.
      (1)   Any building, structure or part thereof which his or her wholly or
partly used or intended to be used for living, sleeping or habitation by human
occupants, and includes any outhouses and appurtenances belonging thereto or
usually enjoyed therewith.
      (2)   Temporary housing, as hereinafter defined, shall not be regarded as
a DWELLING.
      (3)   The term shall include within its meaning the terms ROOMING HOUSE
and ROOMING UNIT, as hereinafter defined.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms located within a dwelling and
forming a single habitable unit with facilities which are used or intended to
be used for living, sleeping, cooking and eating.
   EXTERMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rodents or other
pests by removing or making inaccessible materials that may serve as their
food; by poisoning, spraying, fumigating or trapping; or by any other
recognized and legal pest elimination methods approved by the Inspector.
   GARBAGE. The organic waste resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking
and consumption of food.
   GENDER. Words having a masculine gender shall include the feminine and
neuter genders.
   HABITABLE ROOM. A room or enclosed floor space used or intended to be used
for living, sleeping, cooking or eating purposes, excluding bathrooms, water
closet compartments, laundries, heater rooms, foyers or communicating
corridors, closets and storage spaces.
   INFESTATION. The presence, within or around a dwelling, of any insects,
rodents or other pests in a number as to constitute a menace to the health,
safety or welfare of the occupants or the public.
   INSPECTOR. The Housing Inspector of the town or any authorized agent of the
Inspector.
   MULTIPLE DWELLING. Any dwelling containing more than 2 dwelling units.
   OCCUPANT. Any person, living, sleeping, cooking or eating in, or having
actual possession of a dwelling, dwelling unit or rooming unit.
   OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care or control of a building, or part
thereof, in which dwelling units or rooming units are let.
   OWNER. Any person who alone, jointly or severally with others:
      (1)   Shall have title to any dwelling, dwelling unit or rooming unit,
with or without accompanying actual possession thereof;
      (2)   Shall be a mortgagee of record for any dwelling, dwelling unit or
rooming unit; or
      (3)   Shall have charge, care or control of any dwelling, dwelling unit
or rooming unit, as owner or agent of the actual owner, or as executor,
executrix, administrator, administratrix, trustee or guardian of the estate of
the actual owner. Any person thus representing the actual owner shall be bound
to comply with the provisions of this chapter, and of rules and regulations
adopted pursuant thereto, to the same extent as if he or she were the owner.
   PARTY or PARTIES IN INTEREST. All persons who have interests of record in a
dwelling, dwelling unit or rooming unit and any persons who are in possession
thereof.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, firm, partnership, association or other
legal entity.
   PLUMBING. Includes all of the following supplied facilities and equipment:
gas pipes, gas burning equipment, water pipes, mechanical garbage disposal
units (mechanical sink grinders), sewage disposal pipes, water closets, sinks,
installed dishwashers, lavatories, bathtubs, shower baths, installed clothes
washing machines, catch basins, drains, vents and other similar supplied
fixtures, together with all connections to water, sewer or gas lines.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. The Town Housing Inspector or any officer who is in charge
of any department or branch of the government of the town or of Randolph County
or the State of North Carolina relating to health, fire, building regulations
or other activities concerning dwellings in the town.
   ROOMING HOUSE. Any dwelling, or that part of any dwelling containing 1 or
more rooming units, in which space is let by the owner or operator to 3 or more
persons who are not husband or wife, son or daughter, mother or father or
brother or sister of the owner or operator.
   ROOMING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit
used or intended to be used for living and sleeping, but not for cooking or
eating purposes.
   RUBBISH. Non-organic waste materials. The term shall include paper, rags,
cartons, boxes, wood, excelsior, rubber, leather, tree branches, yard
trimmings, tin cans, metals, mineral matter, glass and dust.
   SUPPLIED. Paid for, furnished or provided by, or under the control of, the
owner or operator.
   TEMPORARY HOUSING. Any tent, trailer or other structure used for human
shelter which is designed to be transportable and which is not attached to the
ground, to another structure, or to any utilities system on the same premises
for more than 30 consecutive days.
   UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION. Conditions exist in a dwelling, dwelling unit,
rooming house or rooming unit which violate or do not comply with 1 or more of
the requirements established by this chapter.
   WORDS HAVING CERTAIN MEANING. Whenever the word dwelling, dwelling unit,
rooming house, rooming unit, premises are used in this chapter, they shall be
construed as though they were followed by the words “or any part thereof.”
(Ord. – § 2, passed 8-27-1990)
§ 150.03 MINIMUM STANDARDS OF FITNESS FOR DWELLING AND DWELLING UNITS.
   (A)   Every dwelling and dwelling unit used as a human habitation, or held
out for use as a human habitation, shall comply with all of the minimum
standards of fitness for human habitation and all of the requirements of §§
150.05 through
150.09 below.
   (B)   No person shall occupy as owner-occupant, or let to another for
occupancy or use as a human habitation, any dwelling or dwelling unit which
does not comply with all of the minimum standards of fitness for human
habitation and all of the requirements of §§
150.04 through
150.09 below.
(Ord. – § 3, passed 8-27-1990) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.04 STRUCTURAL CONDITION; MINIMUM STANDARDS.
   The following standards shall constitute the minimum standards for
structural condition of a dwelling or dwelling unit:
   (A)   Walls or partitions or supporting members, sills, joists, rafters or
other structural members shall not list, lean or buckle, and shall not be
rotted, deteriorated or damaged, and shall not have holes or cracks which might
admit rodents;
   (B)   Floors or roofs shall have adequate supporting members and strength to
be reasonably safe for the purpose used;
   (C)   Foundations, foundation walls, piers or other foundation supports
shall not be deteriorated or damaged;
   (D)   Steps, stairs, landings, porches or other parts or appurtenances shall
be maintained in a condition that they will not fail or collapse;
   (E)   Adequate facilities for egress in case of fire or panic shall be
provided;
   (F)   Interior walls and ceilings of all rooms, closets and hallways shall
be finished of suitable materials, which will, by use of reasonable household
methods promote sanitation and cleanliness, and shall be maintained in a manner
so as to enable the occupants to maintain reasonable privacy between various
spaces;
   (G)   The roof, flashings, exterior walls, basement walls, floors and all
doors and windows exposed to the weather shall be constructed and maintained so
as to be weather and watertight;
   (H)   There shall be no chimneys or parts thereof which are defective,
deteriorated or in danger of falling, or in a condition or location as to
constitute a fire hazard; and
   (I)   There shall be no use of the ground for floors, or wood floors on the
ground.
(Ord. – § 4, passed 8-27-1990) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.05 PLUMBING, HEATING AND ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT AND FACILITIES.
   (A)   Plumbing system.
      (1)   Each dwelling unit shall be connected to a potable water supply and
to a public sewer or other approved sewage disposal system.
      (2)   Each dwelling unit shall contain not less than a kitchen sink,
lavatory, tub or shower, water closet, and adequate supply of both cold water
and hot water. All water shall be supplied through an approved pipe
distribution system connected to a potable water supply.
      (3)   All plumbing fixtures shall meet the standards of the State
Plumbing Code and shall be maintained in a state of good repair and in good
working order.
      (4)   All required plumbing fixtures shall be located within the dwelling
unit and be accessible to the occupants of same. The water closet and tub or
shower shall be located in a room or rooms affording privacy to the user.
   (B)   Heating system. Every dwelling and dwelling unit shall have facilities
for providing heat in accordance with the following.
      (1)   Central and electric heating systems. Every central or electric
heating system shall be of sufficient capacity to heat all habitable rooms,
bathrooms and water closet compartments in every dwelling unit to which it is
connected with a minimum temperature of 70°F measured at a point 3 feet above
the floor during ordinary winter conditions.
      (2)   Other heating facilities. Where a central or electric heating
system is not provided, each dwelling and dwelling unit shall be provided with
sufficient fireplaces, chimneys, flues, gas vents or other facilities to which
heating appliances may be connected to heat all habitable rooms with a minimum
temperature of 70°F measured 3 feet above the floor during ordinary winter
conditions.
   (C)   Electrical system.
      (1)   Every dwelling and dwelling unit shall be wired for electric lights
and convenience receptacles. Every habitable room shall contain at least 2
floor or wall-type electric convenience receptacles connected in manner as
determined by the State Electrical Code. There shall be installed in every
bathroom, water closet room, laundry room and furnace room at least 1 supplied
ceiling or wall-type electric light fixture. In the event wall or ceiling light
fixtures are not provided in any habitable room, then each habitable room shall
contain at least 3 floor or wall-type electric convenience receptacles.
      (2)   Every public hall and stairway in every multiple dwelling shall be
adequately lighted by electric lights at all times when natural daylight is not
sufficient.
      (3)   All fixtures, receptacles, equipment and wiring shall be maintained
in a state of good repair, safe, capable of being used, and installed in
accordance with the State Electrical Code.
(Ord. – § 5, passed 8-27-1990) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.06 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR VENTILATION.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   Every habitable room shall have at least 1 window or skylight
facing directly to the outdoors.
      (2)   The minimum total window area, measured between stops, for every
habitable room shall be 10% of the floor area of the room.
      (3)   Whenever walls or other portions of structures face a window or any
room and light-obstructing structures are located less than 5 feet from the
window and extend to a level above that of the ceiling of the room, the window
shall not be deemed to face directly to the outdoors and shall not be included
as contributing to the required minimum total window area.
      (4)   Whenever the only window in a room is a skylight-type window in the
top of the room, the total window area of the skylight shall equal at least 15%
of the floor area of the room.
   (B)   Habitable rooms.
      (1)   Every habitable room shall have at least 1 window or skylight which
can easily be opened, or other device as will adequately ventilate the room.
      (2)   The total openable window area in every habitable room shall be
equal to at least 45% of the minimum window area size or minimum skylight-type
window size as required, or shall have other approved, equivalent ventilation.
   (C)   Bathroom and water closet rooms. Every bathroom and water closet
compartment shall comply with the light and ventilation requirements for
habitable rooms except that no windows or skylight shall be required in
adequately ventilated bathrooms and water closet rooms equipped with an
approved ventilation system.
(Ord. – § 6, passed 8-27-1990) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.07 SPACE, USE AND LOCATION; MINIMUM STANDARDS.
   (A)   Room sizes.
      (1)   Every dwelling unit shall contain at least the minimum room size in
each habitable room as required by the State Residential Building Code.
      (2)   Every dwelling unit shall contain at least 150 square feet of
habitable floor area for the first occupant, at least 100 square feet of
additional habitable area for each of the next 3 occupants, and at least 75
square feet of additional habitable floor area for each additional occupant.
      (3)   In every dwelling unit and in every rooming unit, every room
occupied for sleeping purposes by 1 occupant shall contain at least 70 square
feet of floor area, and every room occupied for sleeping purposes by more than
1 occupant shall contain at least 50 square feet of floor area for each
occupant 12 years of age and over and at least 35 square feet of floor area for
each occupant under 12 years of age.
   (B)   Ceiling height. At least 1/2 of the floor area of every habitable room
shall have a ceiling height of not less than 7 feet and 6 inches.
   (C)   Floor area calculation.
      (1)   Floor area shall be calculated on the basis of habitable room area.
However, closet area and wall area within the dwelling unit may count for not
more than 10% of the required habitable floor area.
      (2)   The floor area of any part of any room where the ceiling height is
less than 4-1/2 feet shall not be considered as part of the floor area for the
purpose of determining maximum permissible occupancy.
   (D)   Cellar. No cellar shall be used for living purposes.
   (E)   Basements. No basement shall be used for living purposes unless:
      (1)   The floor and walls are substantially watertight;
      (2)   The total window area, total openable window area and ceiling
height are equal to those required for habitable rooms; and
      (3)   The required minimum window area of every habitable room is
entirely above the grade adjoining the window area, except where the window or
windows face a stairwell, window well or accessway.
(Ord. – § 7, passed 8-27-1990) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.08 SAFE AND SANITARY MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Exterior foundation, walls and roofs.
      (1)   Every foundation wall, exterior wall and exterior roof shall be
substantially weathertight and rodent proof; shall be kept in sound condition
and good repair; shall be capable of affording privacy; and shall be safe to
use and capable of supporting the load which normal use would cause to be
placed thereon.
      (2)   Every exterior wall shall be protected with paint or other
protective covering to prevent the entrance or penetration of moisture or the
weather.
   (B)   Interior floors walls and ceilings. Every floor, interior wall and
ceiling shall be substantially rodent-proof; shall be kept in sound condition
and good repair; and shall be safe to use and capable of supporting the load
which normal use would cause to be placed thereon.
   (C)   Windows and doors. Every window, exterior door, basement or cellar
door and hatchway shall be substantially weather-tight, watertight and rodent
proof and shall be kept in sound working condition and good repair.
   (D)   Stairs, porches and appurtenances. Every outside and inside stair,
porch and any appurtenance thereto shall be safe to use and capable of
supporting the load that normal use would cause to be placed thereon and shall
be kept in sound condition and good repair.
   (E)   Bathroom floors. Every bathroom floor surface and water closet
compartment floor surface shall be constructed and maintained so that it will
be reasonably impervious to water and will permit the floor to be easily kept
in a clean and sanitary condition.
   (F)   Supplied facilities. Every supplied facility, piece of equipment or
utility which is required under this chapter shall be so constructed or
installed that it will function safely and effectively and shall be maintained
in satisfactory working condition.
   (G)   Drainage. Every yard shall be properly graded in order to obtain
thorough drainage and to prevent the accumulation of stagnant water.
   (H)   Noxious weeds. Every yard and all exterior property areas shall be
kept free of species of weeds or plant growth which are noxious or detrimental
to health.
   (I)   Egress. Every dwelling unit shall be provided with adequate means of
egress as required by the State Residential Building Code.
(Ord. – § 8, passed 8-27-1990) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.09 CONTROL OF INSECTS, RODENTS AND INFESTATIONS.
   (A)   Screens.
      (1)   In every dwelling unit, for protection against mosquitoes, flies
and other insects, every door opening directly from a dwelling unit to outdoor
space shall be equipped with screens and a self-closing device.
      (2)   Every window or other device with openings to outdoor space, used
or intended to be used for ventilation, shall likewise be equipped with
screens; provided that dwelling units containing central air conditioning
equipment or window-type air conditioning units which will satisfactorily cool
and ventilate the dwelling unit are not required to have screens in door and
window openings.
   (B)   Rodent control. Every basement or cellar window used or intended to be
used for ventilation, and every other opening to a basement which might provide
an entry for rodents, shall be equipped with screens or such other approved
device as will effectively prevent their entrance.
   (C)   Infestation.
      (1)   Every occupant of a dwelling containing a single dwelling unit
shall be responsible for the extermination of any insects, rodents or other
pests therein or on the premises; and every occupant of a dwelling unit in a
dwelling containing more than 1 dwelling unit shall be responsible for
extermination whenever his or her dwelling unit is the only one infested.
      (2)   Whenever infestation is caused by failure of the owner to maintain
a dwelling in a rodent proof or reasonably insect proof condition,
extermination shall be the responsibility of the owner.
      (3)   Whenever infestation exists in 2 or more or the dwelling units in
any dwelling or in the shared or public parts of any dwelling containing 2 or
more dwelling units, extermination shall be the responsibility of the owner.
   (D)   Rubbish storage and disposal. Every dwelling and every dwelling unit
shall be supplied with approved containers and covers for storage of rubbish as
required by town ordinances, and the owner, operator or agent in control of a
dwelling or dwelling unit shall be responsible for the removal of rubbish.
   (E)   Garbage storage and disposal. Every dwelling and every dwelling unit
shall be supplied with approved garbage cans or approved garbage disposal
facility, which may be an adequate mechanical garbage disposal unit (mechanical
sink grinder) in each dwelling unit, or an approved outside garbage can as
required by town ordinances.
(Ord. – § 9, passed 8-27-1990) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.10 ROOMING HOUSES; MINIMUM STANDARDS AND EXCEPTIONS.
   All of the provisions of this chapter, and all of the minimum standards and
requirements of this chapter, shall be applicable to rooming houses, and to
every person who operates a rooming house, or who occupies or lets to another
for occupancy and any rooming unit in any rooming house, except as provided in
the following divisions.
   (A)   Water closet, hand lavatory and bath facilities.
      (1)   At least 1 water closet, lavatory basin and bathtub or shower,
properly connected to an approved water and sewer system and in good working
condition, shall be supplied for each 4 rooms within a rooming house wherever
these facilities are shared.
      (2)   All like facilities shall be located within the residence building
served and shall be directly accessible from a common hall or passageway and
shall be not more than 1 story removed from any of the persons sharing the
facilities.
      (3)   Every lavatory basin and bathtub or shower shall be supplied with
hot and cold water at all times. The required facilities shall not be located
in a cellar.
   (B)   Minimum floor area for sleeping purposes. Every room occupied for
sleeping purposes by 1 occupant shall contain at least 70 square feet of floor
area, and every room occupied for sleeping purposes by more than 1 occupant
shall contain at least 50 square feet of floor area for each occupant 12 years
of age and over and at least 35 square feet of floor area for each occupant
under 12 years of age.
   (C)   Sanitary conditions.
      (1)   The operator of every rooming house shall be responsible for the
sanitary maintenance of all walls, floors and ceilings, and for the sanitary
maintenance of every other part of the rooming house.
      (2)   He or she shall be further responsible for the sanitary maintenance
of the entire premises where the entire structure or building within which the
rooming house is contained is leased or occupied by the operator.
   (D)   Sanitary facilities. Every water closet, flush urinal, lavatory basin
and bathtub or shower required by division (A) above shall be located within
the rooming house and within a room or rooms which afford privacy, are separate
from the habitable rooms, are accessible from a common hall, and are accessible
without going outside the rooming house or through any other room therein.
(Ord. – § 10, passed 8-27-1990) Penalty, see §
150.99
SPECIFIC REGULATIONS
§ 150.25 RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   Public areas. Every owner of a dwelling containing 2 or more dwelling
units shall be responsible for maintaining in a clean and sanitary condition
the shared or public areas of the dwelling and premises thereof.
   (B)   Cleanliness. Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall keep
in a clean and sanitary condition that part of the dwelling, dwelling unit and
premises thereof which he or she occupies and controls.
   (C)   Rubbish and garbage.
      (1)   Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall dispose of all
his or her rubbish and garbage in a clean and sanitary manner by placing it in
the supplied storage facilities.
      (2)   In all cases, the owner shall be responsible for the availability
of rubbish and garbage storage facilities.
   (D)   Supplied plumbing fixtures. Every occupant of a dwelling unit shall
keep all supplied plumbing fixtures therein in a clean and sanitary condition
and shall be responsible for the exercise of reasonable care in the proper use
and operation of same.
   (E)   Care of facilities, equipment and structure. No occupant shall
willfully destroy, deface or impair any of the facilities or equipment, or any
part of the structure of a dwelling or dwelling unit.
(Ord. – § 11, passed 8-27-1990) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.26 POWERS AND DUTIES OF HOUSING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   The Housing Inspector is hereby designated as the officer to enforce
the provisions of this chapter and to exercise the duties and powers herein
prescribed.
   (B)   The Housing Inspector is authorized to exercise powers that may be
necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate the purpose and provisions
of this chapter.
   (C)   The Housing Inspector shall have the following powers and duties:
      (1)   To investigate the dwelling conditions, and to inspect dwellings
and dwelling units located in the town, in order to determine which dwellings
and dwelling units are unfit for human habitation, and for the purpose of
carrying out the objectives of this chapter with respect to the repair, closing
or demolition of dwelling and dwelling units;
      (2)   To take action, together with other appropriate departments and
agencies, public and private, as may be necessary to effect rehabilitation of
housing which is deteriorated;
      (3)   To keep a record of the inspections made under this chapter and an
inventory of those dwellings that do not meet the minimum standards of fitness
herein prescribed;
      (4)   To administer oaths and affirmations, examine witnesses and receive
evidence;
      (5)   To enter upon premises for the purpose of making examinations and
inspections; provided, entries shall be made in accordance with §
150.27 below and state law, and shall be made in a manner so as to cause the
least possible inconvenience to the persons in possession;
      (6)   To appoint and fix the duties of officers, agents and employees as
he or she deems necessary to assist in carrying out the purposes of this
chapter, and to delegate any of his or her functions and powers to officers,
agents and employees; and
      (7)   To preform other duties as may be prescribed herein or by the Town
Council.
(Ord. – § 12, passed 8-27-1990)
§ 150.27 INSPECTIONS; DUTY OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   (1)   For the purpose of making inspections, the Inspector is hereby
authorized to enter, examine and survey at all reasonable times all dwellings,
dwelling units, rooming houses, rooming units and the premises associated
therewith.
      (2)   The owner or occupant of every dwelling, dwelling units, rooming
house or rooming unit or the person in charge thereof shall give the Inspector
free access to the dwelling and its premises at all reasonable times for the
purposes of inspection, examination and survey.
   (B)   Every occupant of a dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming house or rooming
unit shall give the owner thereof, or his or her agent or employee, access to
any part of the dwelling or dwelling unit and its premises at all reasonable
times for the purpose of making repairs or alterations as are necessary to
effect compliance with the provisions of this chapter or with any lawful order
issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. – § 13, passed 8-27-1990)
§ 150.28 PROCEDURE FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Preliminary investigation; notice; hearing.
      (1)   Whenever a petition is filed with the Inspector by a public
authority or by at least 5 residents of the town charging that any dwelling or
dwelling unit is unfit for human habitation, or whenever it appears to the
Inspector, upon inspection, that any dwelling or dwelling unit is unfit for
human habitation he or she shall, if his or her preliminary investigation
discloses a basis for charges, issue and cause to be served upon the owner of
and parties in interest in the dwelling or dwelling unit a complaint stating
the charges and containing a notice that a hearing will be held before the
Inspector at a place therein fixed, not less than 10 nor more than 30 days
after the serving of the complaint.
      (2)   The owner or any party in interest shall have the right to file an
answer to the complaint and to appear in person, or otherwise, and give
testimony at the place and time fixed in the complaint.
      (3)   Notice of the hearing shall also be given to at least 1 of the
persons signing a petition relating to the dwelling.
      (4)   Any person desiring to do so may attend the hearing and give
evidence relevant to the issue or issues being heard. The rules of evidence
prevailing in courts of law or equity shall not be controlling in hearings
before the Inspector.
   (B)   Procedure after hearing.
      (1)   After notice and hearing, the Inspector shall state in writing his
or her determination whether the dwelling or dwelling unit is unfit for human
habitation, and, if so, whether it is deteriorated or dilapidated.
      (2)   If the Inspector determines that the dwelling or dwelling unit is
deteriorated, he or or she shall state in writing his or her findings of fact
in support of that determination, and shall issue and cause to be served upon
the owner thereof an order directing and requiring the owner to repair, alter
or improve the dwelling or dwelling unit to comply with the minimum standards
of fitness established by this chapter within a specified period of time, not
to exceed 90 days.
      (3)   The order may also direct and require the owner to vacate and close
the dwelling or dwelling unit until the repairs, alterations and improvements
have been made.
      (4)   If the Inspector determines that the dwelling is dilapidated, he or
she shall state in writing his or her findings of fact to support that
determination, and shall issue and cause to be served upon the owner thereof an
order directing and requiring the owner either to repair, alter or improve the
dwelling or dwelling unit to comply with the minimum standards of fitness
established by this chapter, or else to vacate and remove or demolish the same
within a specified period of time not to exceed 90 days.
   (C)   Failure to comply with order.
      (1)   In personam remedy. If the owner of any deteriorated dwelling or
dwelling unit shall fail to comply with an order of the Inspector to repair,
alter or improve or to vacate and close the same within the time specified
therein, or if the owner of a dilapidated dwelling or dwelling unit shall fail
to comply with an order of the Inspector to repair, alter or improve or to
vacate and close and remove or demolish the same within the time specified
therein, the Inspector shall submit to the Council at its next regular meeting
a resolution directing the Town Attorney to petition the Superior Court for an
order directing the owner to comply with the order of the Inspector, as
authorized by G.S. § 160A-446(g).
      (2)   In rem remedy. After failure of an owner of a deteriorated or
dilapidated dwelling or dwelling unit to comply with an order of the Inspector
within the time specified therein, if injunctive relief has not been sought or
has not been granted as provided in the preceding division (C)(1), the
Inspector shall submit to the Council an ordinance ordering the Inspector to
cause the dwelling or dwelling unit to be repaired, altered, improved, vacated,
closed, removed or demolished, as provided in the original. Order of the
Inspector, and pending removal or demolition, to place a placard on the
dwelling as provided by G.S. § 160A-443 and §
150.30 below.
   (D)   Appeals from orders of Inspector.
      (1)   An appeal from any decision or order of the Inspector may be taken
by any person aggrieved thereby.
      (2)   Any appeal from the Inspector shall be taken within 10 days from
the rendering of the decision or service of the order, and shall be taken by
filing with the Inspector and with the Zoning Board of Adjustment a notice of
appeal which shall specify the grounds upon which the appeal is based.
      (3)   Upon the filing of any notice of appeal, the Inspector shall
forthwith transmit to the Board all the papers constituting the record upon
which the decision appealed from was made.
      (4)   When an appeal is from a decision of the Inspector refusing to
allow the person aggrieved thereby to do any act, his or her decision shall
remain in force until modified or reversed.
      (5)   When an appeal is from a decision of the Inspector requiring the
person aggrieved to do any act, the appeal shall have the effect of suspending
the requirement until the hearing by the Board, unless the Inspector certifies
to the Board, after the notice of appeal is filed with him or her, that by
reason of the facts stated in the certificate (a copy of which shall be
furnished the appellant), a suspension of his or her requirement would cause
imminent peril to life or property, in which case the requirement shall not be
suspended except for due cause shown upon not less than 1-day's written notice
to the Inspector, by the Board, or by a court of record upon petition made
pursuant to G.S. § 160A-446(f) and division (E) below.
      (6)   The Board shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of all
appeals, shall give due notice to all the parties, and shall render its
decision within a reasonable time.
      (7)   Any party may appear in person or by agent or attorney. The Board
may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the decision or order
appealed from, and may make a decision and order as in its opinion ought to be
made in the matter, and to that end it shall have all the powers of the
Inspector, but the concurring vote of 4 members of the Board shall be necessary
to reverse or modify any decision or order of the Inspector.
      (8)   The Board shall have power also in passing upon appeals, in any
case where there are practical difficulties of unnecessary hardships in the way
of carrying out the strict letter of the ordinance, to adapt the application or
the ordinance to the necessities of the case to the end that the spirit of the
ordinance shall be observed, public safety and welfare secured, and substantial
justice done.
      (9)   Every decision of the Board shall be subject to review by
proceedings in the nature of certiorari instituted within 15 days of the
decision of the Board, but not otherwise.
   (E)   Petition of Superior Court by owner. Any person aggrieved by an order
issued by the Inspector or a decision rendered by the Board shall have the
right, within 30 days after issuance of the order or rendering of the decision,
to petition the Superior Court for a temporary injunction restraining the
Inspector pending a final disposition of the cause, as provided by G.S. § 160A-
446(f).
(Ord. – § 14, passed 8-27-1990)
§ 150.29 METHODS OF SERVICE OF COMPLAINTS AND ORDERS.
   (A)   Complaints or orders issued by the Inspector shall be served upon
persons either personally or by registered or certified mail.
   (B)   If the whereabouts of the persons are unknown and the same cannot be
ascertained by the Inspector in the exercise of reasonable diligence, the
Inspector shall make an affidavit to that effect, and the serving of the
complaint or order upon the person may be made by publishing the same at least
once no later than the time at which personal service would be required under
the provisions of this chapter in a newspaper having general circulation in the
town.
   (C)   Where service is made by publication, a notice of the pending
proceedings shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises affected by
the complaint or order.
(Ord. – § 15, passed 8-27-1990)
§ 150.30 IN REM ACTION BY INSPECTION; PLACARDING.
   (A)   After failure of on owner of a dwelling or dwelling unit to comply
with an order of the Inspector issued pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter, and upon adoption by the Council of an ordinance authorizing and
directing him or her to do so, as provided by G.S. § 160A-433(5) and §
150.28(C) above, the Inspector shall proceed to cause the dwelling or dwelling
unit to be repaired, altered or improved to comply with minimum standards of
fitness established by this chapter, or to be vacated and closed and removed or
demolished, as directed by the ordinance of the Council, and shall cause to be
posted on the main entrance of the dwelling or dwelling unit a placard with the
following words: “This building is unfit for human habitation; the use or
occupation of this building for human habitation is prohibited and unlawful.”
   (B)   Occupation of a building so posted shall constitute a misdemeanor.
Each ordinance shall be recorded in the office of the Register of Deeds in the
county wherein the property is located, and shall be indexed in the name of the
property owner in the grantor index, as provided by G.S. § 160A-443(5).
(Ord. – § 16, passed 8-27-1990) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.31 COSTS; LIEN ON PREMISES.
   (A)   As provided by G.S. § 160A-446(6), the costs of any repairs,
alterations or improvements, or of vacating and closing, or removal or
demolition, caused to be made or done by the Inspector pursuant to §
150.30 above shall be a lien against the real property upon which the cost was
incurred.
   (B)   The lien shall be filed, having priority, and be collected in the same
manner as the lien for special assessments established by G.S. Ch. 160A,
Article 10.
(Ord. – § 17, passed 8-27-1990)
§ 150.32 ALTERNATIVE REMEDIES.
   Neither this chapter nor any of its provisions shall be construed to impair
or limit in any way the power of the town to define and declare nuisances and
to cause their abatement by summary action or otherwise, or to enforce this
chapter by criminal process as authorized by G.S. § 14-4 and §
150.34 below, and the enforcement of any remedy provided herein shall not
prevent the enforcement of any other remedy or remedies provided herein or in
other ordinances or laws.
(Ord. – § 18, passed 8-27-1990)
§ 150.33 ZONING BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT TO HEAR APPEALS.
   (A)   All appeals which may be taken from decisions or orders of the
Inspector pursuant to §
150.28(D) above shall be heard and determined by the Zoning Board of
Adjustment.
   (B)   As the appeals body, the Board shall have the power to fix the times
and places of its meetings, to adopt necessary rules of procedure and any other
rules and regulations which may be necessary for the proper discharge of its
duties.
   (C)   The Board shall perform the duties prescribed by §
150.28(D) above and shall keep an accurate journal of all its proceedings.
   (D)   If the Zoning Board of Adjustment consists of more than 5 members, the
Chairperson shall designate 5 members to hear appeals under this chapter.
(Ord. – § 19, passed 8-27-1990)
§ 150.34 CONFLICT.
   In the event any provision, standard or requirement of this chapter is found
to be in conflict with any provision of any other ordinance or code of the
town, the provision which establishes the higher standard or more stringent
requirement for the promotion and protection of the health and safety of the
residents of the town shall prevail.
(Ord. – § 20, passed 8-27-1990)
§ 150.98 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dwelling or dwelling unit to
fail, neglect or refuse to repair, alter or improve the same, or to vacate and
close and remove or demolish the same, upon order of the Inspector duly made
and served as herein provided, within the time specified in the order. Each day
that any like failure, neglect or refusal to comply with the order continues
shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dwelling or dwelling unit,
with respect to which an order has been issued pursuant to §
150.28 above, to occupy or permit the occupancy of the same after the time
prescribed in the order for its repair, alteration or improvement or its
vacation and closing. Each day that the occupancy continues after the
prescribed time shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
   (C)   In addition to the penalty established by division (C) above, and the
remedies provided by other provisions of this chapter, this chapter may be
enforced by an appropriate equitable remedy issued by a court of competent
jurisdiction.
(Ord. – § 21, passed 8-27-1990) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   The violation of any provision of this chapter shall constitute a
misdemeanor, as provided by G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. – § 21, passed 8-27-1990)
CHAPTER 151: BUILDING CODE
Section
   
151.01   Duty of Building Inspector
   
151.02   Duty of owner; procedure upon owner’s failure to comply
   
151.03   Notice and hearing by Building Inspector prior to action by town
   
151.04   Order by Building Inspector to remedy or demolish
   
151.05   Appeal from decision of Building Inspector
   
151.06   Report by Building Inspector when owner fails to comply
   
151.07   Order by Town Council on noncompliance by owner; assessment of town
   
151.08   When notice of hearing by Town Council required
   
151.09   Presumption of danger to public
   
151.10   Willful failure or refusal to comply with chapter
§ 151.01 DUTY OF BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   Any building or structure or part thereof, partially destroyed or
otherwise, which is found by the Building Inspector to be in a dilapidated
state of disrepair or other substandard condition so as to be dangerous to
life, health or other property, or to constitute a fire or safety hazard or a
public nuisance shall be declared by the Building Inspector to be unsafe.
   (B)   An unsafe condition may be caused by defective construction,
overloaded structural parts, decay, susceptibility to fire, unsafe exits or any
other hazardous conditions or circumstances.
   (C)   The Building Inspector shall have authority, and it shall be his or
her duty, to declare all like buildings or structures unsafe and to take
appropriate action to have the conditions corrected or removed.
   (D)   A like declaration by the Building Inspector shall constitute an order
of condemnation for the purposes of this chapter.
(1981 Code, § 15-36) (Ord. passed 4-25-1988)
§ 151.02 DUTY OF OWNER; PROCEDURE UPON OWNER'S FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   Whenever any building or structure has been condemned by the Building
Inspector, and the existence of a building or structure in a dilapidated state
of disrepair or other substandard condition is found and determined by the
Building Inspector or, upon appeal from or report by the Building Inspector as
hereafter provided, by the Town Council to be dangerous to life, health or
other property, or is in a condition so as to constitute a fire or safety
hazard or a public nuisance, the owner or owners of that building or structure
shall be required to demolish and remove the same or remedy the conditions
under the regulations and procedures herein provided; and in the event the
owner fails or refuse so to do within the time directed by the Building
Inspector or by the Town Council as hereinafter provided, the Town Council may
in its judgment cause the same to be demolished and removed or cause other
steps to be taken as it may find to be necessary to suppress and abate the
nuisance and remove the fire or safety hazard and the danger to life, health or
other property found to exist, and specially assess the cost and expense of
doing the work, including the cost of abstracting the title to the property,
against the lot or parcel of land on which the building or structure is
located.
(1981 Code, § 15-37) (Ord. passed 4-25-1988)
§ 151.03 NOTICE AND HEARING BY BUILDING INSPECTOR PRIOR TO ACTION BY TOWN.
   (A)   Before any building or structure may be ordered to be demolished and
removed as provided in §
151.04 below, the Building Inspector shall notify the owner or owners thereof,
in writing, by certified or registered mail to the last known address of the
owner, or by personal service of notice by the Building Inspector or his or her
assistant or by posting notice as hereinafter provided, that the building or
structure is in a condition as appears to constitute a fire or safety hazard or
is dangerous to life, health or other property, or to be a public nuisance, and
that a hearing will be held before the Building Inspector at a designated place
at a time not less than 10 days after the date of the written notice, at which
time and place the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or by counsel
upon all legal or factual questions relating to the matter and shall be
entitled to offer evidence as he or she may desire which is relevant or
material to the questions sought to be determined or the remedies sought to be
effected.
   (B)   If the name or whereabouts of the owner cannot, after due diligence,
be discovered, the notice herein referred to shall be considered properly and
adequately served at least 10 days prior to the date fixed for the hearing if a
notice of the hearing is published 1 time in a newspaper having general
circulation in the town at least 10 days prior to the date fixed for the
hearing. The notice shall state the address or location of the building or
structure and the time, place and purpose of the hearing.
(1981 Code, § 15-38) (Ord. passed 4-25-1988)
§ 151.04 ORDER BY BUILDING INSPECTOR TO REMEDY OR DEMOLISH.
   If, upon the hearing, the Building Inspector shall find that the building or
structure in question is in a dilapidated or substandard state of disrepair as
to constitute a fire or safety hazard or to be dangerous to life, health or
other property, or is a public nuisance, he or she shall make an order in
writing, directed to the owner of the building or structure, requiring the
owner to remedy the conditions so found to exist by demolishing and removing
the buildings or structure or taking other steps as may be necessary to abate
the nuisance and remove the hazards, within a period, not less than 60 days, as
the Building Inspector may prescribe.
(1981 Code, § 15-39) (Ord. passed 4-25-1988)
§ 151.05 APPEAL FROM DECISION OF BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   The owner of any building or structure ordered by the Building
Inspector to be demolished and removed, or who is directed by the Building
Inspector to take any other steps to abate a nuisance or remove hazards found
by the Building Inspector to exist, shall have the right of appeal from the
order to the Town Council; provided, that the owner gives notice of appeal to
the Building Inspector at the time of the hearing at which the order is made,
or within 10 days after the order is made, files with the Building Inspector a
written notice of the appeal.
   (B)   Notice of appeal shall state the grounds therefor.
   (C)   Unless an appeal is taken within the time and in the manner herein
prescribed, the action of the Building Inspector shall be deemed final, subject
only to action as the Town Council may take as herein elsewhere provided.
   (D)   Where an appeal has been properly taken and notice thereof given in
accordance with the provisions of this section, it shall be the duty of the
Building Inspector to report the same to the Mayor who shall cause the matter
to be placed on the agenda for action by the Town Council at its next ensuing
regular meeting.
   (E)   The Town Council shall have the right to continue the hearing of the
appeal from time to time, in its discretion.
(1981 Code, § 15-40) (Ord. passed 4-25-1988)
§ 151.06 REPORT BY BUILDING INSPECTOR WHEN OWNER FAILS TO COMPLY.
   (A)   In the event the owner does not appeal from the final order or
direction of the Building Inspector requiring that the building or structure be
demolished and removed or the taking of other steps as may be required to abate
the nuisance and remove the hazards, and fails or refuses to comply with the
order and direction, it shall be the duty of the Building Inspector to file a
written report thereof with the Mayor, who shall cause the report to be placed
on the agenda for action by the Town Council at its next ensuing regular
meeting or to some subsequent meeting to which the Town Council may continue
the same.
   (B)   The Building Inspector shall mail a copy of the report by certified or
registered mail to the owner at his or her last known address, or have a copy
of the report delivered to the owner. The report shall specify the date of the
meeting of the Town Council for which the matter will be docketed for action.
(1981 Code, § 15-41) (Ord. passed 4-25-1988)
§ 151.07 ORDER BY TOWN COUNCIL ON NONCOMPLIANCE BY OWNER; ASSESSMENT OF TOWN.
   In all cases referred to in this chapter which reach the Town Council for
action, either upon appeal of the owner from the ruling of the Building
Inspector or upon report of the Building Inspector that the owner fails or
refuses to comply with his or her order or direction, the Town Council shall
hear the matter, and if it finds and determines that the building or structure
in question is in a dilapidated or substandard state of disrepair so as to
constitute a fire or safety hazard, or to be dangerous to life, health or other
property, or is a public nuisance, and that the owner of the building or
structure has failed or refused to abate the nuisance and has failed or refused
to have the building or structure demolished and removed or has failed or
refused to take other steps as may be necessary to abate the nuisance and
remove the hazards found to exist, it may cause the demolition and removal of
the building or structure to be done, or effect other remedies as may be
necessary to abate the nuisance and remove the hazards, and specially assess
the cost of the work, including the cost of abstracting the title to the
property, against the lot or parcel of land on which the building or structure
was situated; and the assessment shall constitute a specific lien upon the lot
or parcel of land, which may be enforced by an action instituted in the name of
the town as in the case of ad valorem taxes and local improvement assessments.
(1981 Code, § 15-42) (Ord. passed 4-25-1988)
§ 151.08 WHEN NOTICE OF HEARING BY TOWN COUNCIL REQUIRED.
   In cases in which the Building Inspector has been unable to give the owner
actual notice of hearing in the manner herein above provided, and has given
notice by posting and publishing the same as authorized in §
151.03 above, and the owner has failed or refused to comply with the order or
direction of the Building Inspector to demolish and remove the building or
structure, or take other remedial actions as will remove the hazards, and the
case is referred to the Town Council for action, the Town Council shall before
taking action, cause to be posted on the outside of the building or structure
in question at least 10 days prior to the date fixed for the hearing, and
published 1 time in a newspaper having general circulation in the town at least
10 days prior to the date fixed for the hearing, a written notice stating the
address or location of the building or structure involved and the time, place
and purpose of the hearing, and other information as the Town Council may deem
advisable.
(1981 Code, § 15-43) (Ord. passed 4-25-1988)
§ 151.09 PRESUMPTION OF DANGER TO PUBLIC.
   In all cases in which the Town Council, under authority of this chapter,
causes the demolition and removal of any building or structure to be carried
out, or directs other remedial steps to be taken as may be necessary to abate
the nuisance and remove the hazards, it shall be conclusively presumed that the
public nuisance and the fire and safety hazard and danger to life, health or
other property, created and maintained by the continued presence of a building
or structure in a condition as is found to exist, constitute a clear and
present danger amounting to a situation of emergency involving the public
health, safety and general welfare, which requires entry upon private property
for the summary abatement and removal of the danger, in the public interest.
(1981 Code, § 15-44) (Ord. passed 4-25-1988)
§ 151.10 WILLFUL FAILURE OR REFUSAL TO COMPLY WITH CHAPTER.
   (A)   After a building or structure has been declared unsafe by the Building
Inspector or by the Town Council, it shall be unlawful for any owner to convey,
attempt to convey or enter into a contract to convey the subject property or
any interest therein without first notifying in writing the Building Inspector
and advising in writing the proposed purchaser that the building or structure
has been declared unsafe.
   (B)   It shall also be unlawful for any person to willfully fail or refuse
to comply with any final order or direction of the Building Inspector or Town
Council made by virtue and in pursuance of this chapter, and any person
violating this chapter shall, upon conviction, be punished as provided by G.S.
§ 14-4 for the violation of municipal ordinances, and every day the person
shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any final order or direction of
the Building Inspector or Town Council made by virtue and in pursuance of this
chapter shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
(1981 Code, § 15-45) (Ord. passed 4-25-1988) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 152: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
   
152.01   Title and purpose
   
152.02   Authority and jurisdiction
   
152.03   Prerequisite to plat recordation and approval of public services
   
152.04   Legal provisions
   
152.05   Definitions
   
152.06   Compliance with official plans
   
152.07   Procedure for review and approval of subdivision plats
   
152.08   Requirements for approval of subdivision plats
   
152.09   Required improvements and design standards
   
152.10   Planned unit developments
Appendix A: Typical street sections
§ 152.01 TITLE AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Subdivision
Chapter of the Town of Liberty, North Carolina, and may be referred to as the
Subdivision Chapter.
   (B)   (1)   The purpose of this chapter is to establish procedures and
standards for the development and subdivision of land within the territorial
jurisdiction of the Town of Liberty, North Carolina.
      (2)   It is further designed to provide for the orderly growth and
development of Liberty; for the coordination of streets and highways within
proposed subdivisions with existing or planned streets and highways and with
other public facilities; for the dedication or reservation of recreation areas
serving residents of the immediate neighborhood within the subdivision and
rights-of-way or easements for street and utility purposes; and for the
distribution of population and traffic in a manner that will avoid congestion
and overcrowding and will create conditions essential to public health, safety
and the general welfare.
      (3)   This chapter is designed to further facilitate adequate provision
for water, sewerage, parks, schools and playgrounds, and also to facilitate the
further re-subdivision of larger tracts into small parcels of land.
(Ord. passed 5-26-1997)
§ 152.02 AUTHORITY AND JURISDICTION.
   (A)   This chapter is hereby adopted under the authority and provisions of
G.S. Ch. 160A, Article 19, Part 2.
   (B)   The regulations of this chapter contained herein as provided in G.S.
Ch. 160A, Article 19 shall apply throughout the Town of Liberty and its
extraterritorial planning jurisdiction, as it may from time to time exist.
(Ord. passed 5-26-1997)
§ 152.03 PREREQUISITE TO PLAT RECORDATION AND APPROVAL OF PUBLIC SERVICES.
   (A)   Prerequisite to plat recordation. After the effective date of this
chapter, each individual subdivision plat of land within the territorial
jurisdiction of the Town of Liberty shall be approved by the Town of Liberty in
accordance with the procedures for submission and approval as set forth herein.
   (B)   Approval of public services. No street shall be maintained by the town
nor street dedication accepted for ownership and maintenance, no construction
permits shall be issued, nor shall water, or sewer or other town facilities or
services be extended to or connected within any subdivision for which a plat is
required to be approved unless and until the requirements set forth in this
chapter have been fully complied with and the final plat has been approved by
the Town of Liberty and recorded with the Randolph County Register of Deeds.
(Ord. passed 5-26-1997)
§ 152.04 LEGAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Administration.
      (1)   The Town Manager shall be the Administrator of this chapter.
      (2)   The Town Manager shall be responsible for administering the
provisions of this chapter, providing necessary materials and information to
the Planning and Zoning Board and Town Council and performing all other duties
consistent with the administration of this chapter.
      (3)   It shall further be the duty of the Town Manager to enforce these
regulations and to bring to the attention of the Liberty Town Attorney any
violation or lack of compliance herewith.
   (B)   Procedure for plat approval. After the effective date of this chapter,
no subdivision plat of land within the territorial jurisdiction of the Town of
Liberty shall be filed or recorded until it has been submitted to and approved
by the Town of Liberty and until approval is certified in writing on the face
of the plat by the Town Manager.
   (C)   Enforcement.
      (1)   Register of Deeds. After the effective date of this chapter, the
Register of Deeds shall not file or record a plat of a subdivision of land
located within the territorial jurisdiction of the Town of Liberty that has not
been approved in accordance with these provisions, nor shall the Clerk of
Superior Court order or direct the recording of a plat if the recording would
be in conflict with this section.
      (2)   Building Inspector. After the effective date of this chapter, the
Building Inspector(s) shall not issue any permits for construction until a
final plat has been approved and recorded in accordance with these provisions.
      (3)   Violation. It is a violation of this chapter to record any deed
indicating a lot on a preliminary or sketch plat until a final plat has been
recorded.
   (D)   Penalties for violation.
      (1)   After the effective date of this chapter, any person who, being the
owner or agent of the owner of any land located within the territorial
jurisdiction of this chapter, thereafter subdivides his or her land in
violation of this chapter or transfers or sells land by reference to,
exhibition of, or any other uses of a plat showing a subdivision of the land
before the plat has been properly approved under the terms of this chapter and
recorded in the office of the Randolph County Register of Deeds, shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor.
      (2)   The description by metes and bounds in the instrument of transfer
or other document used in the process of selling or transferring land shall not
exempt the transaction from this penalty.
      (3)   The Town of Liberty through its attorney or other official
designated by the Town Council, may enjoin illegal subdivision, transfer or
sale of land, and the court shall, upon appropriate findings, issue an
injunction and order requiring the offending party to comply with the
Subdivision Chapter. Further, violators of this chapter shall be subject, upon
conviction, to fine and/or imprisonment as provided by G.S. § 14-4.
   (E)   Effect of plat approval on dedications. The approval of a plat
pursuant to this chapter shall not be deemed to constitute or effect the
acceptance by the Town of Liberty of the dedication or maintenance of any
street or other ground, public utility line or other public facility shown on
the plat.
   (F)   Variances.
      (1)   Where, because of severe topographical or other conditions peculiar
to the site, strict adherence to the provisions of this chapter would cause an
unnecessary hardship, the Town Council upon recommendation of the Planning and
Zoning Board, may authorize a variance to the terms of this chapter only to the
extent that is absolutely necessary and not to an extent which would violate
the intent of the chapter.
      (2)   All requests for variances shall be submitted in writing, by the
subdivider or his or her agent, to the Town Manager. The request shall be
accompanied by materials providing sufficient evidence to support the claim of
hardship.
   (G)   Amendments.
      (1)   The Town Council of the Town of Liberty may from time to time amend
the terms of this chapter, but no amendment shall become effective unless it
shall have been proposed by or shall have been submitted to the Planning and
Zoning Board for review and recommendation.
      (2)   The Planning and Zoning Board shall have 60 days within which to
submit its report. If the Planning and Zoning Board fails to submit a report
within the specified time, it shall be deemed to have approved the amendment.
      (3)   Upon receipt of the Planning and Zoning Board's recommendation, or
upon the expiration of the above mentioned 60-day period with no recommendation
from the Planning and Zoning Board, the Town Council shall schedule a public
hearing on the proposed amendment.
      (4)   After the hearing the Town Council may adopt, by ordinance,
amendments to this chapter.
   (H)   Abrogation. It is not intended that this chapter repeal, abrogate,
annul, impair or interfere with any existing easements, covenants, deed
restrictions, permits previously issued pursuant to law or other agreements
between parties, provided however, where this chapter imposes greater
restrictions upon the land or requires a higher standard of development, the
provision of this chapter shall govern.
   (I)   Re-enactment and repeal of existing Subdivision Chapter.
      (1)   This chapter in part carries forward by re-enactment some of the
provisions of the Town of Liberty Subdivision Chapter adopted September 28,
1981 as amended, and it is not the intention to repeal but rather to re-enact
and continue in force those existing provisions so that all rights and
liabilities that have accrued thereunder are preserved and may be enforced.
      (2)   All provisions of the Subdivision Chapter, which are not re-enacted
herein are hereby repealed.
      (3)   All suits at law or in equity and/or all prosecutions resulting
from the violation of any subdivision ordinance heretofore in effect, which are
now pending in any of the courts of this state or of the United States, shall
not be abated or abandoned by reason of the adoption of this chapter, but shall
be prosecuted to their finality the same as if this chapter had not been
adopted; and any and all violations of the existing chapter, prosecutions for
which had not yet been instituted, may be hereafter filed and prosecuted; and
nothing in this chapter shall be construed as to abandon, abate or dismiss any
litigation or prosecution now pending and/or which may heretofore have been
instituted or prosecuted.
(Ord. passed 5-26-1997)
§ 152.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A minor right-of-way privately or publicly owned, primarily for
service access to the back or side of properties.
   BUILDING INSPECTOR. The officer or other designated authority charged with
the administration and enforcement of the building code, or his or her duly
authorized representative or agent.
   BUILDING LINE. A line parallel to the front property line in front of which
no structure shall be erected. This line is established according to the
Chapter
154.
   COLLECTOR STREET. Collector streets perform the function of collecting
traffic from local streets and cul-de-sacs and carrying the traffic to minor
and major thoroughfares.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A cul-de-sac is a short street having but one end open to
traffic and the other end being permanently terminated and a vehicular turn-
around provided.
   DEDICATION. A gift, by the owner, or a right to use of land for a specified
purpose or purposes. Because a transfer of property rights is entailed,
DEDICATION must be made by written instrument, and is completed with an
acceptance.
   EASEMENT. A grant by the property owner of a strip of land for a specified
purpose and use by public, corporation or persons.
   EXTRA-TERRITORIAL AREA. That portion of the territorial jurisdiction of the
Town of Liberty which lies outside the corporate limits of the Town of Liberty.
   LOCAL STREET. A local street serves primarily to provide direct access to
abutting land and access to higher systems. It offers the lowest level of
mobility and through-traffic is usually deliberately discouraged.
   LOT.
      (1)   A portion of subdivision, or any other parcel of land, intended as
a unit for transfer of ownership or for development or both.
      (2)   Includes the words PLOT, PARCEL or TRACT.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is part of a subdivision, a plat of which has
been recorded in the Office of the Register of Deeds of Randolph County prior
to the adoption of this chapter, or a lot described by metes and bounds, the
description of which has been so recorded prior to the adoption of the original
Subdivision Ordinance, dated September 28, 1981.
   LOT TYPES.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/9c69637d794a56a84a5b0bc879c1b5550c19a150/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1582.bmp]
 
      CORNER LOT.
         (a)   Any lot located at the intersection of 2 or more streets.
         (b)   A lot abutting a curved street or streets shall be considered a
CORNER LOT if straight lines drawn from the foremost points of the side lot
lines to the foremost point of the lot (projected if rounded) meet at an
interior angle of less than 135 degrees. (See lots marked A in the diagram
above diagram).
      INTERIOR LOT. Any lot other than a corner lot and abutting 1 street.
Alleys shall not be considered as streets for purposes of this definition.
      REVERSED FRONTAGE LOT.
         (a)   Any lot on which the frontage is at right angles or
approximately right angles (interior angles less than 135 degrees) to the
general pattern in the area.
         (b)   A REVERSED FRONTAGE LOT may also be in a corner lot (A-D in the
diagram above diagram), an interior lot (B-D) or a through lot (C-D).
      THROUGH LOT or a DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOT. Any lot other than a corner lot,
and with frontage on more than 1 street. THROUGH LOTS abutting 2 streets (may)
shall be referred to as double-frontage lots unless a corner lot. Alleys shall
not be considered as streets for purposes of this definition.
   MAJOR THOROUGHFARE. Streets that provide for urban areas. These
thoroughfares are specifically designated in the Thoroughfare Plan of the Town
of Liberty.
   MINOR SUBDIVISION. The division of 1 existing tract of land into parcels,
whether contiguous or not. No new streets or street extensions shall be
included in a MINOR SUBDIVISION.
(G.S. § 160A-376)
   MINOR THOROUGHFARE. Minor thoroughfares are important streets in the system
and perform the function of collecting traffic from collector streets and
carrying it to the major thoroughfare system. MINOR THOROUGHFARES are
specifically designated in the Thoroughfare Plan of the Town of Liberty.
   OFFICIAL MAPS OR PLANS. Any maps or plans officially adopted by the Town
Council as a guide to the development of the Town of Liberty.
   OPEN SPACE. An area (land and/or water) generally lacking in humanmade
structures and reserved for enjoyment in its unaltered state.
   PLAN. Any documented and approved program of recommended action, policy,
intention and the like, which sets forth goals and objectives along with
criteria, standards and implementing procedures necessary for effectively
guiding and controlling decisions relative to facilitating development and
growth management.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   A permitted use designed to provide for developments incorporating
a single type or a variety of residential and related uses which are planned
and developed as a unit.
      (2)   This development may consist of individual lots or common building
sites.
      (3)   Common land must be an element of the plan related to effecting the
long-term value of the entire development.
   PLANNING AND ZONING BOARD. The Planning and Zoning Board of the Town of
Liberty, North Carolina.
   PLAT. A map or plan of a parcel of land which is to be, or has been,
subdivided.
   PRIVATE STREET. An undedicated private right-of-way which affords access to
abutting properties and requires a subdivision streets disclosure statement in
accordance with G.S. § 136-102.6.
   PUBLIC SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. A system serving 2 or more dwelling units and
approved by the Randolph County Health Department or the North Carolina
Department of Natural Resources and Community Development, Division of
Environmental Management.
   PUBLIC STREET. A public right-of-way which affords access to abutting
properties and when the rights-of-way are designated as PUBLIC, it shall be
presumed to be an offer of dedication to the public.
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY. Any water supply furnishing potable water to ten or
more residences or businesses, or combination of residences or businesses.
Approval by the Division of Health Services, Department of Human Resources is
required.
   RECREATION AREA or PARK. An area of land or combination of land and water
resources that is developed for active and/or passive recreation pursuits with
various manmade features that accommodate those activities.
   RESERVATION. A reservation of land does not involve any transfer of property
rights. It simply constitutes an obligation to keep property free from
development for a stated period of time.
   SHALL. Always mandatory and not merely directory.
   STRUCTURE. Includes the word BUILDING.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person, firm or corporation who subdivides or develops any
land deemed to be a subdivision as herein defined.
   USED FOR. Includes the meaning DESIGNED FOR.
(Ord. passed 5-26-1997)
§ 152.06 COMPLIANCE WITH OFFICIAL PLANS.
   (A)   Thoroughfare plans. Where a proposed subdivision includes any part of
a thoroughfare which has been designated as so upon the officially adopted
Thoroughfare Plan of the Town of Liberty that part of the thoroughfare shall be
platted by the subdivider in the location shown on the plan and at the width
specified.
   (B)   School plans. Where a tract of land that has been approved by the
Randolph County School Board of Education as a proposed school site lies wholly
or partially within an area proposed to be subdivided, and provided the Board
of Education has notified the Planning and Zoning Board and the property owner
of its approval of the school site prior to or within 10 days after the
presentation of a preliminary design plat to the Planning and Zoning Board for
approval, the subdivider shall reserve the proposed school site for a period of
at least 60 days from the date of approval of the preliminary design plat.
   (C)   Zoning. Proposed subdivisions shall comply in all respects with the
requirements of Chapter
154 in effect in the area to be subdivided.
   (D)   Recreation facilities and open spaces. Where a tract of land that is
an approved site for a public recreation facility or public open space lies
wholly or partially within an area proposed to be subdivided, and provided the
Planning and Zoning Board has notified the property owners of its approval of
the site prior to or within 10 days after the presentation of the preliminary
design plat for Planning and Zoning Board approval, the subdivider shall
reserve the proposed recreation site as required by G.S. § 160A-372.
   (E)   Other public facilities plan. Where a tract of land that is an
approved site for a public facility such as a fire station, water treatment
plant or other public facility lies wholly or partially within an area proposed
to be subdivided, and provided the public agency concerned has notified the
Planning and Zoning Board and the property owners of the approved public
facilities prior to or within 10 days after the presentation of the preliminary
design plat to the Planning and Zoning Board for approval, the subdivider shall
reserve the proposed public facilities for a period of at least 60 days from
the date of approval of the sketch design plat.
(Ord. passed 5-26-1997)
§ 152.07 PROCEDURE FOR REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF SUBDIVISION PLATS.
   (A)   Minor subdivisions.
      (1)   The Town Council of the Town of Liberty, North Carolina hereby
designates the Town Manager to approve minor subdivisions, pursuant to G.S. Ch.
160A, Article 19, Part 1, § 361.
      (2)   Whenever a subdivision of land is within the definition of a minor
subdivision as set forth in §
152.05 above, the subdivider shall submit to the Town Manager copies of a
surveyed plat which shall meet the requirements set forth in §
152.08 below.
      (3)   The Town Manager shall, within 21 days from the date of submission
of the plat, review the plat for compliance with the requirements set forth in
§
152.08 below. No minor subdivision plat shall be approved unless it complies
with all the requirements of this chapter.
      (4)   When a minor subdivision plat has met all the requirements of this
chapter, the Town Manager shall place the stamp of approval and his or her
signature on the plat. The stamp of approval and the signature of the Town
Manager on the minor subdivision plat will constitute approval.
      (5)   The subdivider shall record the approved plat with the Randolph
County Register of Deeds. No building permits shall be issued for any lot in a
minor subdivision until the Town Manager is informed of the book and page
number assigned to the plat by the Register of Deeds.
   (B)   Major subdivisions.
      (1)   Preliminary plat.
         (a)   Whenever a subdivision of land is within the definition of a
major subdivision as set forth in §
152.05 above and which is located within the territorial jurisdiction
established by §
152.02 above, the subdivider shall submit copies of a preliminary plat which
shall meet the requirements set forth in §
152.08 below to the Town Manager at least 20 days prior to a regularly
scheduled meeting of the Planning and Zoning Board.
         (b)   The Town Manager shall refer copies of the preliminary plat and
all accompanying materials to those public officials and agencies concerned
with new development or those whose advice will in the opinion of the Town
Manager be useful to the Planning and Zoning Board including, but not limited
to the Randolph County Health Department, the Randolph County Board of
Education, the District Engineer of the North Carolina Department of
Transportation, the Town Engineer, the Director of Public Works and the
Building Inspector.
         (c)   If no response is received from these agencies within 15 days
from the date the Town Manager issues the plats for review, “no comment” will
be recorded as the response.
         (d)   At its next regular meeting, the Planning and Zoning Board shall
review the preliminary plat for compliance with this chapter and consider any
recommendations made by public officials or agencies concerned with new
development.
         (e)   Within 60 days from the date of its review of the preliminary
plat, the Planning and Zoning Board shall transmit the plat along with its
recommendations including any conditions or modifications to the Town Council.
         (f)   Failure to transmit the plat within the 60 days shall have the
same effect as a recommendation to the Town Council that the plat be approved.
The subdivider or the subdivider’s authorized agent may waive this requirement
and consent to an extension of the 60-days’ period.
         (g)   Upon receipt of the preliminary plat with recommendations
including any recommended conditions or recommended changes from the Planning
and Zoning Board or upon the expiration of 60 days from the date of the
Planning and Zoning Board meeting at which the preliminary plat was first
reviewed, the Town Council shall review it for compliance with the requirements
of this chapter and shall consider the recommendations of the Planning and
Zoning Board and any public official or agency concerned with new development.
         (h)   The Town Council shall approve, approve conditionally, or
disapprove the preliminary plat.
            1.   If the Town Council approves the preliminary plat, approval
shall be noted on at least 2 copies of the plat by the Town Clerk.
            2.   One copy shall be returned to the subdivider and 1 shall be
retained as a part of the records of the Town Council.
         (i)   If the Town Council approves the preliminary plat with
conditions, the conditions and the reasons for the conditional approval shall
be recorded in the minutes of the meeting. A copy of any conditions shall be
attached to the plat that is returned to the subdivider.
         (j)   If, after Town Council approval of a preliminary plat, the
subdivider wishes to modify the plat the Town Manager shall determine if the
modification is substantial (i.e., increase in the number of lots, relocation
of streets and the like).
         (k)   If found to be substantial, the subdivider shall re-submit the
preliminary plat for approval in accordance with the requirements of this
subchapter.
      (2)   Engineering data.
         (a)   The subdivider may choose to submit the engineering data
concerning approximate street grade, design data for street corners and curves
and the plan and profile for streets and water and sewer lines after receiving
preliminary plat approval.
         (b)   If this option is chosen, the engineering data shall be approved
by the Town Manager before installation of improvements is begun.
      (3)   Improvements. Upon approval (with or without conditions) of the
preliminary plat by the Town Council and approval of the engineering data by
the Town Manager, the subdivider may proceed with the installation of or the
guarantee for the installation of the required improvements and the preparation
of the final plat in accordance with the approved preliminary plat and the
requirements of this chapter.
      (4)   Final plat certification.
         (a)   Upon installation of or guarantee for the required improvements,
the subdivider shall submit a final plat which shall meet the requirements set
forth in §
152.08 below, to the Town Manager at least 15 days prior to a regularly
scheduled meeting of the Planning and Zoning Board.
         (b)   The submission shall not be more than 12 months after the date
on which the preliminary plat was approved, otherwise the preliminary plat
approval shall be null and void unless a written extension of his or her time
limit is granted by the Town Council.
         (c)   The final plat shall contain only that portion of the
preliminary plat which the subdivider proposes to develop and record at that
time.
         (d)   No final plat shall be certified unless and until the subdivider
has installed in that area, represented on the final plat, all improvements
required by this chapter or shall have guaranteed their installation as
required by §
152.08(B)(2) below.
         (e)   The final plat and accompanying material shall be submitted
together with inspection fee to be fixed by the Town Council in the amount
sufficient to defray all costs involved in inspection of the property and
improvements for compliance with all provisions of this chapter.
         (f)   At its next regular meeting, the Planning and Zoning Board shall
review the final plat for conformance with the approved preliminary plat and
for compliance with all requirements of this chapter and consider any
recommendations made by public officials or agencies concerned with new
development.
         (g)   Within 60 days from the date of its review of the final plat,
the Planning and Zoning Board shall transmit the plat along with its
recommendations including any conditions or changes to the Town Council.
         (h)   Failure to transmit the plat within 60 days shall have the same
effect as a recommendation that the plat be certified. The subdivider or the
subdivider's authorized agent may waive this requirement and consent to an
extension of the 60-day period.
         (i)   Upon receipt of the final plat with recommendations including
any conditions or modifications from the Planning and Zoning Board or upon
expiration of 60 days from the date of the Planning Board meeting at which the
final plat was first reviewed, the Town Council shall review it for conformance
with the approved preliminary plat and for compliance with the requirements of
this chapter, and shall consider the recommendations of the Planning and Zoning
Board and any public official or agency concerned with new development.
         (j)   The subdivider shall record the approved plat with the Randolph
County Register of Deeds. No building permits shall be issued for any lot in a
major subdivision until the Town Manager is informed of the book and page
number assigned to the plat by the Register of Deeds.
         (k)   If the Town Council certifies the final plat with modifications,
the subdivider shall prepare and submit to the Town Council a new final plat or
additional materials which incorporate the modifications. The Town Council may
refer the modified final plat and accompanying material to the Planning and
Zoning Board or to public officials or agencies concerned with new development
for their recommendations.
         (l)   If the Town Council denies certification of the final plat, the
reasons for the denial shall be recorded in the minutes of the meeting.
         (m)   Upon City Council approval of a final plat the Town Manager
shall transmit copies of the approved final plat to appropriate public
officials and agencies.
(Ord. passed 5-26-1997)
§ 152.08 REQUIREMENTS FOR APPROVAL OF SUBDIVISION PLATS.
   (A)   Minor subdivisions.
      (1)   Plat prepared. A minor subdivision plat shall be prepared by a
surveyor, licensed and registered to practice in the State of North Carolina.
      (2)   Number of copies and graphic media. Four copies of the minor
subdivision plat shall be submitted, two of these shall be on sepia mylar, and
two shall be black or blue line paper prints.
      (3)   Plat size and scale.
         (a)   Minor subdivision plats shall have an outside marginal size of
not more than 18 inches by 24 inches nor less than 8-1/2 inches by 11 inches,
including 1-1/2 inch for binding on the left margin and 1/2-inch border on each
of the other sides.
         (b)   Where size of land areas, or suitable scale to assure legibility
require, maps may be placed on 2 or more sheets with appropriate match lines.
Minor subdivision plats shall be drawn at any scale that assure legibility.
      (4)   Contents required. The minor subdivision plat shall depict or
contain the following information.
         (a)   Title information:
            1.   Name of proposed subdivision;
            2.   Name(s), address(es) and telephone number(s) of owner(s) of
property included in the proposed subdivision;
            3.   Name(s) of the city, township(s), county and state in which
the subdivision is located;
            4.   Scale denoted graphically and numerically;
            5.   North arrow with indication of true grid if within 2,000 feet
of grid reference;
            6.   Date of preparation;
            7.   Name(s), address(es) and telephone number(s) of
surveyor,engineer, landscape architect, planner or other individual responsible
for the design and layout of the proposed subdivision or for the preparation of
the plat; and
            8.   Vicinity map at any convenient scale, inset on the plat
showing the location of the proposed subdivision with respect to the
surrounding area including principal highways and streets.
         (b)   Existing information:
            1.   The tract to be subdivided shall show boundaries fully with
bearings, distances and closures indicated (the tract to be subdivided includes
the original entire tract and the new tract being created), however if the
residual portion of the tract that is left after all new parcels are created
exceeds 5 acres in area a survey shall not be required for that residual
portion. The residual area shall be shown on the plat of the subdivision
including its bearings and distances either as a dashed line at the same scale
or as a reduced scale map insert. A note indicating that the area is drawn from
non surveyed data, where the data was obtained and a statement that this area
is not part of the final plat but is reserved for future division or use shall
be placed on the plat;
            2.   The location of existing and platted property lines,
railroads, utility transmission lines, water lines, bridges, culverts, storm
drain pipes, town limit lines and any easements within the boundaries of the
tract to be subdivided and on a 50-foot area of the land immediately adjoining
it;
            3.   The locations of wooded areas, swamps, bogs, rock outcrops of
a magnitude to cause development problems, ponds or lakes, streams or stream
beds, channels and any other natural features affecting the site of the
proposed subdivision;
            4.   Zoning classification of the land to be subdivided and of a
50-foot area of the property immediately adjoining it;
            5.   Existing topography of the proposed subdivision and of a 50-
foot area contiguous to it, at a contour interval of no more than 5 feet. (This
information may be submitted on separate sheet); and
            6.   Base flood elevation data if proposed subdivision is within a
flood hazard area.
         (c)   Information concerning proposed subdivision.
            1.   Proposed riding trails, natural buffers, pedestrian, bicycle
or other rights-of-way or other easement; their location, width and purpose;
            2.   Layout of lot arrangement including lot lines, lot dimensions
and lot and block numbers;
            3.   Layout of proposed utilities (sewer, water, drainage, gas,
electricity, telephone and the like) showing connections to existing systems or
location plans for individual water supply, sewage disposal, storm drainage and
other. Provisions for the installation or the installation of these utilities
shall be made prior to minor subdivision plat approval;
            4.   Proposed location and size of parks, school sites and other
recreational or open spaces accompanied by provisions concerning their future
ownership;
            5.   Site data:
               a.   Acreage in total tract;
               b.   Acreage in parks and other non-residential use;
               c.   Total number of lots; and
               d.   Average lot size.
            6.   Any proposed modification to the topography of the proposed
subdivision at a contour interval of not more than 10 feet.
      (5)   Certification required.
         (a)   Certification of ownership and dedication. The following
certificate shall be placed on the minor subdivision plat and signed by the
owner(s) of the subdivision.
I (We) hereby certify that I am (we are) the owner(s) of the property shown and
described hereon and that I (we) hereby adopt this plan of subdivision with my
(our) free consent.
Further I (we) certify the land as shown hereon is within the subdivision
regulation jurisdiction of the Town of Liberty, North Carolina.
_________________(Date)   ______________________________________________
(Owner)
               ______________________________________________ (Owner)
         (b)   Certificate of survey.
            1.   The following certificate shall be placed on the minor
subdivision plat and shall be signed by the surveyor preparing the plat or
under whose supervision it was prepared.
            2.   The signature shall be accompanied by the seal and
registration number of the above mentioned survey and shall be certified as
true by a Notary Public or Clerk of Superior Court.
I, ______________________________, certify that this map was (drawn by me)
(drawn under my supervision) from (an actual survey made by me) (an actual
survey made under my supervision) (deed description recorded in Book
___________, page __________, Book ____________________, page ________, and the
like) (Other); that the error of closure as calculated by latitudes and
departures is 1:____; that the boundaries not surveyed are shown are broken
lines plotted from information found in Book ____________, page________; that
this map was prepared in accordance with G.S. § 47-30 as amended.
Witness my hand and seal this ________ day of ______________ A.D., 20_____.
         (c)   Certificate of approval of the design of public utilities
connections. A minor subdivision plat that proposes the installation or
connection(s) to public utilities such as water and sewer shall have the
following certificate placed upon it and signed by the Public Works Director.
I hereby certify that the water and sewer facilities are existing or have been
designed in an acceptable manner according to the town specifications and
standards in the _____________ subdivision.
____________________
(Date)   ____________________________________________________Town Manager
      (6)   Design standards.
         (a)   General. All minor subdivision shall be designed so as to
minimize flood damage to any lots, buildings or other facilities within the
subdivision.
         (b)   Utilities.
            1.   All utilities in a minor subdivision including water systems,
sewerage systems, gas lines and electrical distribution facilities shall be
designed and constructed so as to eliminate or minimize flood damage to those
facilities.
            2.   All water supply and sewerage systems within a proposed minor
subdivision shall be designed in accordance with Town of Liberty specifications
and standard details.
            3.   Any on-site waste disposal system shall be located so as to
avoid impairment of the system or contamination from the system during
flooding.
         (c)   Drainage. Adequate drainage shall be provided in all
subdivisions so that exposure to flood hazards will be at a minimum.
         (d)   Rights-of-way.
            1.   Existing street rights-of-ways shall be designated 50 feet
wide minimum, or 25 feet minimum when measured from the property line to the
center line of an existing right-of-way.
            2.   Triangular sight distances must be designated at intersections
in accordance with the N.C. D.O.T. minimum standards for subdivision roads.
   (B)   Major subdivision plats.
      (1)   Preliminary plat.
         (a)   Number of copies and graphic media. A minimum of 8 copies of the
preliminary plat shall be submitted. No specific graphic media must be employed
unless the preliminary plat will also serve as the final plat. In that case,
the graphic media employed shall be of the same type as required for final
plat.
         (b)   Scale. Major subdivision preliminary plats shall be drawn at a
scale that assures legibility.
         (c)   Contents required. The preliminary plat shall depict or contain
the following information:
            1.   Title information.
               a.   Name of proposed subdivision;
               b.   Name(s), address(es) and telephone number(s) of owner(s) of
the property included in the proposed subdivision;
               c.   Name(s) of the city, township(s), county and state in which
the subdivision is located;
               d.   Scale denoted graphically and numerically;
               e.   North arrow with indication whether true grid or magnetic
and date of magnetic reading;
               f.   Date of preparation;
               g.   Name(s), address(es) and telephone number(s) of surveyor,
engineer, landscape architect, planner or other individual responsible for the
design and layout of the proposed subdivision or for the preparation of the
plat; and
               h.   Vicinity map at any convenient scale, inset on the plat
showing the location of the proposed subdivision with respect to the
surrounding area including principal highways and streets.
            2.   Existing information.
               a.   Boundaries of the tract to be subdivided;
               b.   The location of existing and platted property lines,
streets, structures, water courses, railroads, utility transmission lines,
water lines, bridges, culverts, storm drain pipes, town limit lines and any
easements within the boundaries of the tract to be subdivided and on a 50-foot
area of land immediately adjoining it;
               c.   The locations of wooded areas, swamps, bogs, rock outcrops
of a magnitude to cause development problems, ponds or lakes, streams or stream
beds, channels and any other natural features affecting the site of the
proposed subdivision;
               d.   Zoning classification of the land to be subdivided and of a
50-foot area of the property immediately adjoining it; and
               e.   Existing topography of the proposed subdivision and a 50-
foot area of the property immediately adjoining it, at a contour interval of no
more than 5 feet. (This information may be submitted on a separate sheet).
            3.   Information concerning proposed subdivision. 
               a.   Names of proposed streets and the locations and widths of
proposed street rights-of-way and street pavement;
               b.   Proposed riding trails, natural buffers, pedestrian,
bicycle or other rights-of-way or other easement, their location, width and
purpose;
               c.   Layout of lot arrangement including lot lines, lot
dimensions and lot and block numbers;
               d.   Proposed minimum building setback lines; in conformance
with the Liberty Zoning Chapter;
               e.   Location of proposed utilities (sewer, water, drainage,
gas, electricity, telephone and the like) showing connections to existing
systems or location plans to existing systems or location plans for individual
water supply, sewage disposal, storm drainage and other;
               f.   Proposed location and size of parks, school sites and other
recreational or open spaces accompanied by provisions concerning their future
ownership;
               g.   Site data:
                  i.   Acreage in total tract;
                  ii.   Acreage in parks and other non-residential use;
                  iii.   Total number of lots;
                  iv.   Average lot size; and
                  v.   Linear feet of streets.
               h.   Grading plan indicating proposed modifications to the
topography, other than street construction, at a contour of not more than 5
feet;
               i.   Engineering data: approximate street grade; design data for
street corners and curves; and plan and profiles for streets, water and sewer
lines; and
               j.   Base flood elevation data if proposed subdivision is within
a flood hazard area.
      (2)   Final plat.
         (a)   Improvements, installation or guarantees. Prior to certification
of a final plat the subdivider shall have installed improvements specified in §
152.09 below or guaranteed their installation in one of the following ways:
            1.   File with the Town Clerk a performance or surety bond made by
a surety company licensed to do business in North Carolina. The guarantee shall
be in an amount of not less than 100% nor more than 110% of the construction of
required uncompleted improvements as estimated by the Town Manager. Performance
guarantees shall run for a period of 1 year and may be renewed once for a
period of 1 year upon written approval from the Town Manager;
            2.   Deposit or place in escrow with the Town Clerk a certified
check or cash in an amount not less than 100% nor more than 110% estimated cost
of the construction of the required improvements. The funds shall not be
returned by the town until improvements have been satisfactorily installed.
Portions of the deposit may be released as work progresses provided that the
refunds shall be made no often than 1 calendar month; or
            3.   File with the Town Clerk a letter of credit from a financial
institution licensed to do business in the State of North Carolina for the
cost. The letter of credit shall be in an amount of not less than 100% nor more
than 110% of the construction of required uncompleted improvements as estimated
by the Town Manager. The letter of credit shall run for a period of 1 year and
may be renewed once for a period of 1 year upon written approval from the Town
Manager. The guarantee shall not apply to the installation of the water and
sewer systems. These systems shall be installed prior to approval of any final
plat.
         (b)   Maintenance and defects guarantee.
            1.   The Town Clerk shall secure from all subdividers a letter in
which the subdivider shall agree to maintain the backfill on any improvements,
stabilize erosion control as required, and guarantee improvements against
defects for 1 year, except those improvements made by utility companies.
            2.   The letter shall be binding on the subdivider for a period of
1 year after the acceptance of such improvements by the town.
         (c)   Plat prepared. The final plat shall be prepared by a surveyor
licensed and registered to practice in the State of North Carolina.
         (d)   Number of copies and graphic media. A minimum of 8 copies of the
final plat shall be submitted; at least 2 of these shall be on 3 or 4 mill
sepia mylar and the others shall be black or blue line prints.
         (e)   Plat size and scale. Final plats shall have an outside marginal
size of not more than 8-1/2 inches by 11 inches, including 1-1/2 inch for
binding on the left margin and 1/2-inch border on each of the other sides.
Where size of land areas or suitable scale to assure legibility require, maps
may be placed on 2 or more sheets with appropriate match lines. Final plat
shall be drawn at a scale not to exceed 1 inch equals 200 feet.
         (f)   Contents required. The final plat shall depict or contain the
following information:
            1.   Title information:
               a.   Name of proposed subdivision;
               b.   Name(s), address(es) and telephone number(s) of owner(s) of
the property included in the proposed subdivision;
               c.   Name(s) of the city, township(s), county and state in which
the subdivision is located;
               d.   Scale denoted graphically and numerically;
               e.   North arrow with indication of true grid; if within 2,000
feet of grid reference;
               f.   Date of preparation;
               g.   Name(s), address(es) and telephone number(s) of surveyor,
engineer, landscape architect, planner or other individual responsible for the
design and layout of the proposed subdivision or for the preparation of the
plat; and
               h.   Vicinity map at any convenient scale, inset on the plat
showing the location of the proposed subdivision with respect to the
surrounding area including principal highways and streets.
            2.   Existing information:
               a.   Names of proposed streets and the locations and widths of
proposed street rights-of-way and street pavements;
               b.   Layout of lot arrangement including lot lines, lot
dimensions and lot and block numbers;
               c.   Site data:
                  i.   Acreage in total tract;
                  ii.   Acreage in parks and other non-residential use;
                  iii.   Total number of lots;
                  iv.   Average lot size; and
                  v.   Linear feet of streets.
               d.   As built engineering data. The following information shall
be contained in a plan and profile accompanying the final plat.
                  i.   The plans for utility layout, including sanitary sewers,
water distribution lines, natural gas, telephone and electric service,
illustrating connections to existing systems or plans for individual water
supply systems and/or sewerage disposal systems. Plans must show lines sizes,
the location of fire hydrants, blowoffs, manholes, pumps, force mains and gate
valves;
                  ii.   Location and dimensions of all rights-of-way, utility
or other easements, riding trails, natural buffers, pedestrian or bicycle paths
and areas to be dedicated to public use with the purpose of each stated;
                  iii.   Location, purpose and dimensions of areas to be used
for purposes other than residential;
                  iv.   Right-of-way lines, sight distance lines, pavement
widths and names of all streets and the location, name and width of all
adjacent streets and easements;
                  v.   Property lines, building or other structures, water
courses, railroads, bridges, culverts, storm drains, corporate limits on land
to be subdivided and on a portion of the land immediately adjoining;
                  vi.   Sufficient engineering data to determine readily and
reproduce on the ground every straight or curved boundary line, street line,
lot line, right-of-way line, easement line, setback line, sight distance line
including dimensions, bearings or deflection angles, radii, central angles and
tangent distances for the center line of curved streets and curved property
lines that are not the boundary of curved streets. All dimensions shall be
measured to the nearest 1/100 of a foot and all angles to the nearest minute;
                  vii.   Accurate location and description of all monuments,
markers and control points; and
                  viii.   Modifications other than street construction, if any,
to the topography of the proposed subdivision at a contour interval of not more
than 5 feet.
               e.   Base flood elevation data if proposed subdivision is within
a flood hazard area.
         (g)   Certification required.
            1.   Certification of ownership and dedication. The following
certificate shall be placed on the final plat and signed by the owner(s) of the
subdivision.
I (We) hereby certify that I am (we are) the owner(s) of the property shown and
described hereon and that I (we) hereby adopt this plan of subdivision with my
(our) free consent.
Further I (we) certify the land as shown hereon is within the subdivision
regulation jurisdiction of the Town of Liberty, North Carolina.
____________________ Date   ________________________________________ Owner
               ________________________________________ Owner
            2.   Certificate of survey.
               a.   The following certificate shall be placed on the final plat
and shall be signed by the surveyor preparing the plat or under whose
supervision it was prepared.
               b.   The signature shall be accompanied by the seal and
registration number of the above mentioned survey and shall be certified as
true by Notary Public or Clerk of Superior Court:
_________________________________, certify that this map was (drawn by me)
(drawn under my supervision) from (an actual survey made by me) (an actual
survey made under my supervision) (deed description record in Book_________,
page _________, Book ___________, page ___________, and the like) (Other); that
the error of closure as calculated by latitudes and departures is 1:
___________; that the boundaries not surveyed are shown are broken lines
plotted from information found in Book ___________, page __________, that this
map was prepared in accordance with G.S. § 47-30 as amended.
Witness my hand and seal this ____________day of _______________,
20_________________.
            3.   Certificate of approval of the design and installation of
required improvements. The following certificate shall be placed on the final
plat and shall be signed by the Town Manager.
I hereby certify that the street, utility, monument and other required
improvements have been installed or provisions have been made for installation
in an acceptable manner and according to town specifications and standards in
the _______________________ subdivision.
(Date) ___________   Town Manager ______________________________________
(Ord. passed 5-26-1997)
§ 152.09 REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS AND DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Required improvements.
      (1)   General. Each subdivision as defined in §
152.05 above shall contain the following improvements as applicable:
         (a)   Survey;
         (b)   Streets;
         (c)   Sidewalks;
         (d)   Storm water drainage system;
         (e)   Water and sewerage systems;
         (f)   Blocks; and
         (g)   Lots.
      (2)   Survey. Survey, plat, monuments and control corners shall be
provided in accordance with the latest edition of the Manual of Practice for
Land Surveying in North Carolina by the North Carolina State Board of
Registration for Professional Engineers and Land Surveyors.
      (3)   Streets, publicly maintained.
         (a)   Design standards.
            1.   All streets shall be designed and built in accordance with the
current edition of the North Carolina Department of Transportation Division of
Highways Minimum Construction Standards for Subdivision Roads, with the
following modifications:
               a.   Streets with curb and gutter section:
                  i.   Curb and gutter shall be 30 inches concrete per North
Carolina Department of Transportation Standard #846.01; and
                  ii.   Right-of-way, pavement width and typical street
sections for local and collector roads shall conform to the attached
illustration for curb and gutter sections.(See Appendix A of this chapter)
               b.   Streets with shoulder section:
                  i.   Right-of-way, pavement width and typical street sections
for local and collector roads shall conform to the attached illustration for
shoulder section. (See Appendix A of this chapter); and
                  ii.   The erosion control plan for shoulder section streets
must include the following items certified by a registered professional
engineer: storm water quantity and town calculations for side ditches exceeding
5% slope; properly designed measures for permanent erosion control of side
ditches; and storm water in grassed side ditches will have a non-erodible
velocity.
               2.   All streets, drainage systems and erosion control shall be
built in accordance with Town of Liberty specifications and standard details.
         (b)   Construction. Streets shall be cleared and graded to the full
width of the right-of-way and as required for stable side slopes.
         (c)   Coordination and continuation of streets. The proposed street
layout within a major subdivision shall be coordinated with the existing street
system of the surrounding area and where possible, existing principal streets
shall be extended.
         (d)   Conformity to Thoroughfare Plan. The alignment of all proposed
streets shall follow the general alignments shown in the adopted Liberty
Thoroughfare Plan. Proposed thoroughfare streets shall be designed to
appropriate thoroughfare standards.
         (e)   Access to adjacent property.
            1.   If the adjacent property is undeveloped and the street must be
a dead-end street temporarily, the right-of-way shall be extended to the
property line.
            2.   A temporary cul-de-sac, or a T or L-shaped turnabout shall be
provided for all temporary dead-end streets, with the notation on the
subdivision plat that land outside the normal street right-of-way shall revert
to the abutters whenever the street is continued.
            3.   The Town Council may limit the length of temporary dead-end
streets.
         (f)   Half-streets.
            1.   The dedication of half streets of less than 50 feet at the
perimeter of a new subdivision shall be prohibited.
            2.   If circumstances render this impracticable, adequate provision
for the concurrent dedication of the remaining half of the street must be
furnished by the subdivider.
            3.   Where there exists a half street in an adjoining subdivision,
the remaining half shall be provided by the proposed development.
         (g)   Private streets and reserve strips. Private streets or reserve
strips shall be prohibited within any platted subdivision, unless required to
obtain access to existing inaccessible property. Ownership and maintenance of a
private street shall be designated on the plat..
         (h)   Subdivision street disclosure statement (G.S. § 136-102.6). All
streets shown on the final plat and designated as public shall be presumed an
offer of dedication to the public.
         (i)   Street names.
            1.   Proposed streets which are obviously in alignment with
existing streets shall be given the same name. In assigning new names,
duplication of existing names shall be avoided and in no case shall the
proposed name be phonetically similar to existing names irrespective of the use
of a suffix such as street, road, drive, place, court and the like. Street
names shall be subject to the approval of the Planning and Zoning Board.
            2.   Street name signs will be provided by the Town of Liberty
inside the town limits, and shall be provided by the developer outside the town
limits.
         (j)   Street traffic signs. Traffic signs such as stop and yield signs
will be provided by the Town of Liberty inside the town limits, and shall be
provided by the developer or North Carolina Department of Transportation
outside the town limits.
         (k)   Cul-de-sac (dead end street).
            1.   Permanent dead end streets shall not exceed 500 feet in length
unless necessitated by topography or property configuration and shall be
provided with a turnaround.
            2.   Where a street does not extend to the boundary of the
subdivision and its continuation is not required by the Town Council for access
to adjoining property, its terminus shall not normally be nearer to the
boundary than 50 feet.
         (l)   Street intersection.
            1.   Angle of intersection. All streets shall intersect as nearly
as possible at right angles and no street shall intersect at less than 75
degrees.
            2.   Spacing of intersection. The number of intersections with a
major or minor thoroughfare should be limited to a minimum number necessary to
adequately serve normal traffic. The number and spacing of intersections shall
be determined by the Town Manager if within the corporate limits and the
District Highway Engineer if outside the corporate limits. Generally,
intersections on major or minor thoroughfares should be at least 1,000 feet
apart measured from centerline to centerline.
            3.   Curb radii. Curb radii at street intersections shall not be
less than 20 feet. At an angle of intersection of less than 90 degrees, or on
major or minor thoroughfares a greater radius may be required.
            4.   Sight distances at intersections. Property sight distances
shall be maintained at all intersections of streets. There shall be a clear
sight distance in the triangular area formed by the intersecting street right-
of-way lines and a straight line connecting points on the street right-of-way
lines in accordance with the current edition of the North Carolina Department
of Transportation Division of Highways Minimum Construction Standards for
Subdivision Roads. The sight distance shall be surveyed and platted as street
right-of-way, and no obstruction shall be permitted in this area.
         (m)   Rights-of-way. Existing street rights-of-way shall be designated
50 feet wide minimum, or 25 feet minimum when measured from the property line
to the center line of an existing right-of-way. Triangular sight distances must
be designated at intersections in accordance with the N.C. D.O.T. minimum
standards for subdivision roads.
      (4)   Sidewalks. Sidewalks are not required, however, the subdivider is
encouraged to provide sidewalks especially in high density developments where
provided, the design and construction of sidewalks shall be subject to the
approval of the Town Manager. The Planning and Zoning Board may require
adequate grading along streets for future sidewalks.
      (5)   Storm water drainage system. The subdivider shall provide an
adequate drainage system for the proper drainage of all surface water. The
design of a system shall be subject to the approval of the Town Manager.
         (a)   No surface water shall be channeled or directed into a sanitary
sewer.
         (b)   Where feasible, the subdivider shall connect to existing storm
drainage.
         (c)   Storm water drainage collectors shall be adequately sized and
placed to carry the flow of 10-year frequency.
         (d)   Cross drainage pipes and bridges shall be adequately sized and
placed to carry the flow of a flood of 25-year frequency.
         (e)   Catch basins shall be placed at low points and as otherwise
needed.
      (6)   Water and sewerage systems.
         (a)   Within the corporate limit.
            1.   Water mains and sanitary sewers shall be installed in
accordance with Town of Liberty specifications and standard details for each
lot in the tract of land to be subdivided in whole or in part. The developer
shall provide complete water and sewer services for all residential lots when
street construction or water and sewer utility construction is proposed. The
town will install water meters when required upon payment of the applicable
fee.
            2.   Before installation, a complete set of construction plans for
the proposed water and/or sewerage system prepared by a registered professional
engineer shall be submitted for approval by the Town Manager. Also, plans for
water improvements must be submitted to the North Carolina Department of Human
Resources for approval, and plans for sewer improvements must be submitted to
the North Carolina Department of Natural Resources and Community Development
for approval.
            3.   Water supply systems shall be approved by the Fire Chief as to
location of hydrants and size of mains. Water mains shall not be less than 6
inches in diameter, except that 2-inch mains may be used on permanent cul-de-
sacs where approved by the Fire Chief. Water mains shall be designed to form a
complete circuit where practical, and fire hydrants or blowoffs shall be placed
at deadends.
            4.   Water and sewer lines should be installed outside of the
street pavement where possible.
         (b)   Within the extraterritorial area.
            1.   Any connection to either water and/or sewerage system operated
by the town shall require the approval of the Town Manager. If approval is
obtained, the water and/or sewerage system must meet the requirements of
division (A)(6)(a) above.
            2.   If the proposed water distribution and/or sewerage disposal
system is to be a private system, it shall be approved by the Randolph County
Health Department; Division of Health Services, North Carolina Department of
Human Resources; Division of Environmental Management, North Carolina
Department of Natural Resources and Community Development whichever is (are)
appropriate and the Town Manager. Layout and easements for the future extension
of town sewer must be provided.
         (c)   General. The town may require installation of certain oversized
facilities such as water mains in excess of 6 inches in diameter, when it is in
the interest of future development. The town may pay for that portion of the
improvement which exceeds the standards set forth in this chapter.
      (7)   Blocks.
         (a)   General. The lengths, widths and shapes of blocks shall be
determined with due regard to: provision of adequate building sites suitable to
the special needs of the type of use contemplated; zoning requirements as to
lot sizes and dimensions; needs for vehicular and pedestrian circulation,
control and safety of street traffic; limitations and opportunities of
topography; and convenient access to water areas.
         (b)   Block length. Blocks shall not be less than 400 feet nor more
than 1,320 feet in length.
         (c)   Block width. Blocks shall have sufficient width to allow 2 tiers
of lots of minimum depth except where single-tier lots are required to separate
residential development from through vehicular traffic or another type of use,
or when abutting a water area.
         (d)   Pedestrian crosswalks. Where deemed necessary by the Planning
and Zoning Board and approved by the Town Council a dedicated pedestrian
crosswalk easement at least 15 feet in width may be required to provide
convenient public access to a public area such as a park or school or to a
water area such as a stream, river or lake.
      (8)   Lots.
         (a)   General.
            1.   The lot size, width, depth, shape and orientation, and the
minimum building setback lines shall be in conformance with the Liberty Zoning
Chapter for the type of development and use contemplated.
            2.   The width, depth, shape and orientation, and the minimum
building setback lines may be modified from this chapter’s requirements where
it is necessary to allow the subdivision of land which is developed prior to
the time of subdivision application.
            3.   Modifications may be permitted to make reasonable use of
property. The modifications may be approved where the following findings are
met:
               a.   That the intent and purpose of the Zoning Chapter
concerning width, depth, shape and separation, are maintained;
               b.   That the approval will not alter the existing plan of the
neighborhood;
               c.   That the approval is compatible with the existing
neighborhood;
               d.   That the modifications approved are only to the extent
necessary to allow reasonable use of the property and that no additional
nonconformities beyond those currently existing will be created; and
               e.   The resulting subdivision will promote home ownership, or
will more likely result in improved maintenance, and economic productivity of
the property.
         (b)   Utility easements.
            1.   Easements for underground or above ground utilities shall be
provided where necessary across lots or preferably located along rear or side
lot lines.
            2.   Easements for utilities to be maintained by the Town of
Liberty shall have a minimum width of 20 feet and shall be designated “Town of
Liberty Water (or Sewer) Easement.”
         (c)   Drainage easements. Where street construction grading or street
drainage structures extend outside of the street right-of-way, a drainage
easement shall be provided as necessary for street maintenance.
   (B)   Sedimentation pollution control.
      (1)   In order to prevent soil erosion and sedimentation pollution of
streams, springs, flat water bodies, or other drainage networks, the subdivider
shall comply with all requirements of the North Carolina Sedimentation
Pollution Control Act of 1973 and the Liberty Sedimentation Pollution Control
Ordinance.
      (2)   Erosion control shall be provided in accordance with Town of
Liberty specifications for grassing and Town of Liberty standard details for
erosion control.
   (C)   Plans required for proposed improvements. Plans signed by a
professional engineer for the following proposed improvements are required and
must be submitted to the Town Manager for approval.
      (1)   Streets and storm drainage. Plans and profiles for streets and
storm drainage must be submitted per the application requirements of the North
Carolina Department of Transportation's Minimum Construction Standards for
Subdivision Roads.
      (2)   Water and sewerage systems. Plans and profiles for water and sewer
improvements must be submitted for review by the Town Manager prior to
submission to the appropriate North Carolina regulatory agencies.
      (3)   Erosion control. Erosion control plans are required when the
construction area exceeds 1 acre.
      (4)   Mylar sepias for as-built drawings.
         (a)   In order to meet certification requirements by state review
agencies, the subdivider will be required to resubmit revised mylar sepias of
the engineering plans showing changes made during construction in the location
and grade of streets or water and sewer utilities.
         (b)   These revised plans must also be certified by the design
engineer.
(Ord. passed 5-26-1997)
§ 152.10 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   General. The intent of this section is to permit greater flexibility
in the design of residential and other developments by allowing certain
variations in lot size and design requirements and the establishment of
townhouses and condominiums so that open space in commonly owned areas, tree
covered and recreation areas can be provided.
   (B)   Coordination with the Liberty Zoning Chapter.
      (1)   Site plans. Site plans for planned unit developments shall meet the
requirements set forth in §§
154.190 through
154.239 special use regulations of the Liberty Zoning Chapter.
      (2)   Design requirements. Individual lot size may be varied but the
overall density of a planned unit development shall not exceed the applicable
zoning requirements of that district.
      (3)   Review process. Planned unit development plans shall be reviewed
simultaneously for compliance with this chapter and §
154.220.
   (C)   Plat requirements. The preliminary and final plats for a planned unit
development shall meet the requirements of this chapter and in addition the
following requirements.
      (1)   Common areas.
         (a)   Common areas or areas not shown as lots shall be held in
nonprofit corporate ownership by the owners of the lots within the development.
         (b)   The title to common areas of property shall be preserved to the
perpetual benefit of the private properties in the development and shall be
restricted against private ownership for any other purpose.
         (c)   Improvements may be made within the common areas provided that
maximum coverage of the area shall not exceed 25% of the entire common
property.
         (d)   The developer shall submit and after approval by the Town
Council, record a declaration of the covenants and restrictions that govern the
ownership, management and maintenance of the common area and the ownership and
maintenance of private streets and alleys, if any.
      (2)   Improvements.
         (a)   All improvements required in this chapter shall apply to planned
unit developments regardless of private ownership of streets and utilities.
         (b)   Private streets and alleys shall be designed as required for
emergency services and garbage collection if public collection is desired.
         (c)   All private streets within residential and commercial
developments shall have a paved surface.
         (d)   The street layout of the development shall be in conformity with
the Liberty Thoroughfare Plan and:
            1.   Where a proposed development will extend an existing public
street the extension shall be a public street unless it is an existing deadend
street not necessary for access to adjacent property; and
            2.   Where a through street is required to provide access to
adjacent properties or for general public usefulness the street shall be a
public street.
      (3)   Public access, easements, private party walls.
         (a)   Building lots may abut or be provided with frontage on common
areas or private streets or alleys, properly restricted through a property
owners association to assure access.
         (b)   Easements over the common areas for access, ingress and egress
from and to public streets and walkways and easements for enjoyment of the
common areas, as well as for parking, shall be granted to each owner of a
residential site.
         (c)   All common walls between individual residences shall be party
walls and provisions for the maintenance thereof and restoration in the event
of destruction or damage shall be established.
         (d)   Ownership and maintenance responsibility of a private street
shall be designated on the plat.
         (e)   In developments containing private streets or alleys, a release
of liability shall be included in the recorded covenants and restrictions which
releases the Town of Liberty from any liability resulting from utility
maintenance, garbage collection and responsibility for failing to provide any
emergency or regular fire, police or other public service to the developments
or their occupants when the failure is due to the lack of access to the areas
due to inadequate design or construction, blocking of access routes, inadequate
maintenance or any other factor within the control of the developer,
homeowner's association or occupants. In no case shall the town or the state be
responsible for maintaining any private street. The responsibility shall rest
with the homeowner's association and occupants in that the private streets will
not be constructed to the minimum standards sufficient to allow their inclusion
for public maintenance.
      (4)   Landscape plan. A landscape plan for all planned development shall
show all existing and proposed plant material. The plan shall indicate the size
and type of existing plant material and the size and type of plants to be
planted.
(Ord. passed 5-26-1997)
APPENDIX A: TYPICAL STREET SECTIONS
 [https://export.amlegal.com/media/9c69637d794a56a84a5b0bc879c1b5550c19a150/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1588.bmp]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/9c69637d794a56a84a5b0bc879c1b5550c19a150/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1591.bmp]
 
CHAPTER 153: WATERSHED PROTECTION
Section
Authority and General Provisions
   
153.01   Intent
   
153.02   Authority and enactment
   
153.03   Jurisdiction
   
153.04   Exceptions to applicability
   
153.05   General subdivision provisions
   
153.06   Standards and required improvements
   
153.07   Definitions
   
153.08   Word interpretation
Development Regulations
   
153.20   Establishment of Watershed Overlay Districts
   
153.21   Sandy Creek and Rocky River; balance of watershed
   
153.22   Cluster development
   
153.23   Buffer areas required
   
153.24   Rules governing the interpretation of watershed area boundaries
   
153.25   Application of regulations
   
153.26   Existing development
   
153.27   Watershed protection permit
   
153.28   Building permit required
   
153.29   Watershed protection occupancy permit
Public Health; Administration; Enforcement; Appeals
   
153.40   Public health in general
   
153.41   Abatement
   
153.42   Watershed Administrator; duties
   
153.43   Appeal from the Town Manager
   
153.44   Changes and amendments to the watershed protection chapter
   
153.45   Public notice and hearing required
   
153.46   Watershed Review Board
   
153.47   Powers and duties of the Board of Adjustment acting as Watershed
Review Board
   
153.48   Appeals from the Board of Adjustment
 
   
153.99   Penalty
AUTHORITY AND GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 INTENT.
   The intent of the Water Supply Watershed Chapter is to protect surface water
supplies whose watersheds are located wholly or partially with the jurisdiction
of Liberty.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 153.02 AUTHORITY AND ENACTMENT.
   Pursuant to authority given to municipalities in G.S. Ch. 160A, Article 19,
Planning and Regulation of Development, and G.S. § 143-214.5, Water Supply and
Watershed Protection, the Liberty Town Council does hereby ordain and enact
into law the following sections as the Watershed Protection Ordinance of
Liberty.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 153.03 JURISDICTION.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall apply in those areas within the
corporate limits and the extraterritorial jurisdiction of Liberty designated as
public water supply watersheds by the North Carolina Environmental Management
Commission and within the Randleman Lake Watershed designated by the Liberty
Town Council and shall be defined and established on the map entitled,
Watershed Protection Map of Liberty, North Carolina (the Watershed Map) which
is adopted simultaneously herewith. The Watershed Map and all explanatory
matter contained thereon accompanies and is hereby made a part of this chapter.
This chapter shall be permanently kept on file in the office of the Town
Manager.
   (B)   The following public water supply watersheds designated by the North
Carolina Environmental Management Commission and the Liberty Town Council are
located within Liberty.
 
Watershed   Classification River Basin
Rocky River WS-111         Cape Fear
Sandy Creek WS-III         Cape Fear
 
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 153.04 EXCEPTIONS TO APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Nothing contained herein shall repeal, modify or amend any federal or
state law or regulations, or any ordinance or regulation pertaining thereto
except any ordinance which these regulations specifically replace; however, the
adoption of this chapter shall and does amend any and all ordinances,
resolutions and regulations in effect in the town at the time of the adoption
of this chapter that may be construed to impair or reduce the effectiveness of
this chapter or to conflict with any of its provisions.
   (B)   It is not intended that these regulations interfere with any easement,
covenants or other agreements between parties. However, if the provisions of
these regulations impose greater restrictions or higher standards for the use
of a building or land, then the provisions of these regulations shall control.
   (C)   Existing development, as defined in this chapter, is not subject to
the requirements of this chapter. Expansions to structures classified as
existing development must meet the requirements of this chapter; however, the
built-upon area of the existing development is not required to be included in
the density calculations.
   (D)   A pre-existing lot owned by an individual prior to the effective date
of this chapter, regardless of whether or not a vested right has been
established, may be developed for single-family residential purposes without
being subject to the restriction of this chapter. However, this exemption is
not applicable to multiply contiguous lots under single ownership. See §
153.26(B)(3) regarding the recombination of existing lots.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 153.05 GENERAL SUBDIVISION PROVISIONS.
   (A)   No subdivision plat of land within the Public Water Supply Watershed
shall be filed or recorded by the Register of Deeds of Randolph County until it
has been approved in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. Likewise,
the Clerk of Superior Court shall not order or direct the recording of a plat
of the recording of the plat would be in conflict with this chapter.
   (B)   All applications to subdivide land in a designated water supply
watershed shall comply with the application, review and mapping requirements of
the Liberty Subdivision Chapter.
   (C)   If the Planning Board approves the application, the approval shall be
indicated on both copies of the plat by the following certificate and signed by
the Chairperson or other authorized member of the Board.
Certificate of Approval for Recording, Minor Subdivision
I certify that the plat shown hereon complies with the subdivision regulations
for Liberty, North Carolina and any supplemental regulations that may apply and
that the plat has been approved according to the procedures for approval of
minor subdivisions.
____________________________         _____________________________________
Date                        Town Manager
NOTICE: This property is located within a Public Water Supply Watershed
development restrictions may apply.
Certificate of Approval for Recording, Major Subdivision
This subdivision plat has been found to comply with the provisions of the
Subdivision Chapter of Liberty, provided that it is recorded in the Office of
the Register of Deeds within 60 days of final approval by the Planning Board.
____________________               ____________________________
Date                        Town Manager
NOTICE: This property is located within a Public Water Supply Watershed –
development restrictions may apply.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 153.06 STANDARDS AND REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Drinking supply. Subdivision in any designated drinking supply
watershed shall comply with general requirements and minimum standards of
design of the Liberty Subdivision Chapter as well as the requirements specified
below.
   (B)   Space. All lots shall provide adequate building space in accordance
with the development standards contained in §§
153.20 through
153.29. Lots which are smaller than the minimum required for residential lost
shall be identified on the plat as, “not for residential purposes.”
   (C)   Calculation. For the purpose of calculating built-upon area, total
project area shall include total acreage in the tract on which the project is
to be developed.
   (D)   Storm water drainage facilities. The application shall be accompanied
by a description of the proposed method of providing storm water drainage. The
subdivider shall provide a drainage system that diverts storm water runoff away
from surface waters and incorporates best management practices to minimize
water quality impacts.
   (E)   Erosion and sedimentation control. The application shall, where
required, be accompanied by a written statement that a Sedimentation and
Erosion Control Plan has been submitted to and approved by the North Carolina
Division of Land Quality.
   (F)   Roads constructed in critical areas and watershed buffer areas. Where
possible roads should be located outside of critical areas and watershed buffer
areas. Roads constructed within these areas shall be designed and constructed
so to minimize their impact on water quality.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 153.07 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGRICULTURAL USE. The use of waters for stock watering, irrigation and other
farm purposes.
   ANIMAL UNIT. A unit of measurement developed by the United States
Environmental Protection Agency that is used to compare different types of
animal operations.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP). A structural or nonstructural management-
based practice used singularly or in combination to reduce non point source
inputs to receiving waters in order to achieve water quality protection goals.
   BUFFER.
      (1)   An area of natural or planted vegetation through which storm water
runoff flows in a diffuse manner so that the runoff does not become channelized
and which provides for infiltration of the runoff and filtering of pollutants.
      (2)   The BUFFER is measured landward from the normal pool elevation of
impounded structures and from the bank of each side of streams or rivers.
   BUILDING. Any structure having a roof supported by columns or by walls, and
intended for shelter, housing or enclosure of persons, animals or property. The
connection of 2 buildings by means of an open porch, breezeway, passageway,
carport or other open structure, with or without a roof, shall not be deemed to
make them 1 BUILDING.
   BUILT-UPON AREA. Built-upon areas shall include that portion of a developed
project that is covered by impervious or partially impervious cover including
buildings, pavement, gravel roads, recreation facilities (e.g. tennis courts)
and the like. (Note: Wooden slatted decks and the water area of a swimming pool
are considered pervious.)
   CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT. The grouping of buildings in order to conserve land
resources and provide for innovation in the design of the project. This term
includes non-residential development as well as single-family residential
subdivisions and multi-family developments that do not involve the subdivision
of land.
   COMPOSTING FACILITY. A facility in which only stumps, limbs, leaves, grass
and untreated wood collected from land clearing or landscaping operations is
deposited.
   CRITICAL AREA.
      (1)   The area adjacent to a water supply intake or reservoir where risk
associated with pollution is greater than from the remaining portions of the
watershed.
      (2)   The CRITICAL AREA is defined as extending either 1/2 mile from the
normal pool elevation of the reservoir in which the intake is located or to the
ridge line of the watershed (whichever comes first); or 1/2 mile upstream from
the intake located directly in the stream or river (run-of-the-river), or the
ridge line of the watershed (whichever comes first).
      (3)   Since WS-I watersheds are essentially undeveloped, establishment of
a CRITICAL AREA is not required.
      (4)   Local governments may extend the CRITICAL AREA as needed.
      (5)   Major landmarks such as highways or property lines may be used to
delineate the outer boundary of the CRITICAL AREA if these landmarks are
immediately adjacent to the appropriate outer boundary of 1/2 mile.
   CUSTOMARY HOME OCCUPATIONS. Any use conducted entirely within a dwelling and
carried on by the occupants thereof, which use is clearly incidental and
secondary to the use of the dwelling for residential purposes and does not
change the character thereof. Provided further that no mechanical equipment is
installed or used except as is normally used for domestic or professional
purposes, and that not over 25% of the total floor space of any structure is
used for the occupation. No home occupation shall be conducted in any accessory
building except for the storage and service of a vehicle that is driven off
site, such as a service repair truck, delivery truck and the like.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any land disturbing activity, which adds to or changes the
amount of impervious or partially impervious cover on a land area or which
otherwise decreases the infiltration of precipitation into the soil.
   DISCHARGE LANDFILL. A facility with liners, monitoring equipment and other
measures to detect and/or prevent leachate from entering the environment and in
which the leachate is treated on site and discharged to a receiving stream.
   DWELLING UNIT. A building, or portion thereof, providing complete and
permanent living facilities for 1 family.
   EXISTING DEVELOPMENT. Those projects that are built or those projects that
at a minimum have established a vested right under North Carolina zoning law as
of the effective date of this chapter based on at least 1 of the following
criteria:
      (1)   Substantial expenditures of resources (time, labor, money) based on
a good faith reliance upon having received a valid local government approval to
proceed with the project;
      (2)   Having an outstanding valid building permit as authorized by G.S.
§§ 153A-344.1 and 160A-385.1; or
      (3)   Having expanded substantial resources (time, labor, money) and
having an appropriate site specific or phased development plan as authorized by
G.S. 160A-385.1.
   EXISTING LOT (LOT OF RECORD). A lot which is part of a subdivision, a plat
of which has been recorded in the office of the Register of Deeds prior to the
adoption of this chapter, or a lot described by metes and bounds, the
description of which has been so recorded prior to the adoption of this
chapter.
   FAMILY. One or more persons occupying a single dwelling unit, provided that
unless all members are related by blood or marriage or adoption, no family
shall contain over 5 persons, but further provided that domestic servants
employed or living on the premises may be housed on the premises without being
counted as a family or families.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any substance listed as so in: SARA § 302, Extremely
Hazardous Substances, CERCLA Hazardous Substances, or § 311 of CWA (oil and
hazardous substances).
   INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT. Any non-residential development that requires an
NPDES permit for an industrial discharge and/or requires the use or storage of
any hazardous material for the purpose of manufacturing, assembling, finishing,
cleaning or developing any product or commodity.
   LANDFILL. A facility for the disposal of solid waste on land in a sanitary
manner in accordance with G.S. Ch. 130A, Article 9, §§ 130A-290 through 130A-
310.58. For the purpose of this chapter this term does not include composting
facilities.
   LOT. A parcel of land occupied or capable of being occupied by a building or
group of buildings devoted to a common use, together with the customary
accessories and open spaces belonging to the same.
   NON-RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT. All development other than residential
development, agriculture and silviculture.
   PLAT. A map or plan of a parcel of land which is to be, or has been
subdivided.
   RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT. Buildings for residences such as attached and
detached single-family dwellings, apartment complexes, condominiums,
townhouses, cottages and the like and their associated outbuilding such as
garages, storage buildings, gazebos and the like and customary home
occupations.
   SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL. Any development where:
      (1)   No building contains more than 1 dwelling unit;
      (2)   Every dwelling unit is on a separate lot; and
      (3)   Where no lot contains more than 1 dwelling unit.
   STREET (ROAD). A right-of-way for vehicular traffic which affords the
principal means of access to abutting properties.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, including but not limited to
buildings, which requires location on the land or attachment to something
having permanent location on the land.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person, firm or corporation who subdivides or develops any
land deemed to be a subdivision as herein defined.
   SUBDIVISION. All divisions of a tract or parcel of land into 2 or more lots,
building sites or other divisions for the purpose of sale or building
development (whether immediate or future) and shall include all divisions of
land involving the dedication of a new street or a change in existing streets;
but the following shall not be included within this definition nor be subject
to the regulations authorized by this chapter:
      (1)   The combination or recombination of portions of previously
subdivided and recorded lots where the total number of lots is not increased
and the resultant lots are equal to or exceed the standards of this chapter;
      (2)   The division of land into parcels greater than 10 acres where no
street right-of-way dedication is involved;
      (3)   The public acquisition by purchase of strips of land for the
widening or opening of streets;
      (4)   The division of a tract in single ownership whose entire area is no
greater than 2 acres into not more than 3 lots, where no street rights-of-way
dedication is involved and where the resultant lots are equal to or exceed the
standards of this chapter; and
      (5)   The division of a tract into plots or lots used as a cemetery.
   TOXIC SUBSTANCE. Any substance or combination of substances (including
disease causing agents) which after discharge and upon exposure, ingestion,
inhalation or assimilation into any organism, either directly from the
environment or indirectly by ingestion through food chains, has the potential
to cause death, disease, behavioral abnormalities, cancer, genetic mutations,
physiological malfunctions (including malfunctions or suppression in
reproduction or growth) or physical deformities in the organisms or their off
spring or other adverse health effects.
   VARIANCE.
      (1)   A permission to develop or use property granted by the Board of
Adjustment relaxing or waiving a water supply watershed management requirement
adopted by the Environmental Management Commission that is incorporated into
this chapter.
      (2)   MAJOR VARIANCE. A variance that results in any one or more of the
following:
         (a)   The complete waiver of a management requirement;
         (b)   The relaxation by a factor of more than 10%, of any management
requirement that takes the form of a numerical standard; or
         (c)   The relaxation of any management requirement that applies to a
development proposal intended to qualify under the high-density option.
      (3)   MINOR VARIANCE. A variance that does not qualify as a major
variance.
   WATER DEPENDENT STRUCTURE. Any structure for which the use requires access
to or proximity to or citing within surface waters to fulfill its basic
purpose, such as boat ramps, boat houses, docks and bulkheads. Ancillary
facilities such as restaurants, outlets for boat supplies, parking lots and
commercial boat storage area are not water dependent structures.
   WATERSHED. The entire land area contributing surface drainage to a specific
point (e.g. the water supply intake).
   WATERSHED ADMINISTRATOR. The Liberty Town Manager who is responsible for
administration and enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 153.08 WORD INTERPRETATION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, certain words shall be interpreted as
follows.
   (A)   Words in the present tense include the future tense.
   (B)   Word uses in the singular number include the plural, and words used in
the plural number include the singular, unless the natural construction of the
wording indicates otherwise.
   (C)   The word PERSON includes a firm, association, corporation, trust and
company as well as an individual.
   (D)   The word STRUCTURE shall include the word BUILDING.
   (E)   The word LOT shall include the words PLOT, PARCEL or TRACT.
   (F)   The word SHALL is always mandatory and not merely directory.
   (G)   The word WILL is always mandatory and not merely directory.
(Ord. passed - -)
DEVELOPMENT REGULATIONS
§ 153.20 ESTABLISHMENT OF WATERSHED OVERLAY DISTRICTS.
   (A)   To provide an additional layer of protection for drinking water supply
watersheds, the following watershed overlay districts are established.
   (B)   Within each watershed shall be 2 tiers of control. The are nearest the
water supply shall have the higher level of regulation because approximately to
the intake creates higher risk of contamination.
   (C)   The remaining part of the watershed balance of the watershed shall
have less restriction because the greater distance from the point of intake
lower risk of contamination.
   (D)   The following overlay districts shall apply to the watersheds in
Liberty:
      (1)   Sandy Creek; WS-III-BW (Balance of Watershed); and
      (2)   Rocky River; WS-III-BW (Balance of Watershed).
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 153.21 SANDY CREEK AND ROCK RIVER; BALANCE OF WATERSHED.
   (A)   In order to maintain a low to moderate land use intensity pattern,
single-family detached uses shall develop at a maximum of 2 dwelling units per
acre. However, in the absence of public sewer, all waste treatment must be
permitted by the County Health Department, in which case the minimum lot size
is 40,000 square feet.
   (B)   All other residential and nonresidential development shall be allowed
a maximum of 24% built-upon area. In addition, non-single family residential
uses may occupy 10% of each watershed with a 70% built-upon area when approved
as a 10/70 option development.
   (C)   The Town Council is authorized to consider a special use permit for
SNIAs consistent with the provisions of §§
154.190 through
154.239.
   (D)   Projects must minimize built-upon surface area, direct storm water
away from surface waters and incorporate best management practices to minimize
water quality impacts.
   (E)   Non-discharge landfills and sludge application sites are allowed,
provided they are permitted uses in the underlying zoning districts.
      (1)   Permitted uses:
         (a)   All uses permitted in the underlying zoning districts where the
watershed is located subject to the modifications below, unless specifically
prohibited in division (E)(2) below;
         (b)   Agriculture, subject to the provisions of the Food Security Act
of 1985 and the Food, Agricultural, Conservation and Trade Act of 1990; and
         (c)   Silviculture, subject to the provisions of the Forest Practices
Guidelines Related to Water Quality (15 NCAC 11.6101-0209).
      (2)   Prohibited uses:
         (a)   Discharging landfills;
         (b)   New chemical storage tanks unless a spill containment plan for
spill containment shall be designed and certified by a professional engineer.
Prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy, a professional engineer
shall provide certification that the spill containment was built according to
the plan. The continued maintenance of all spill containment measures shall be
the responsibility of the property owner; and
         (c)   Storage of toxic and hazardous materials unless plans for spill
containment shall be designed and certified by a professional engineer. Prior
to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy, a professional engineer shall
provide certification that the spill containment was built according to the
plans. The continued maintenance of all spill containment measures shall be the
responsibility of the property owner.
      (3)   Density and built-upon limits:
         (a)   Single-family residential. Development shall not exceed 2
dwelling units per acre, as defined on a project by project basis. No
residential lot shall be less than 1/2 acre, except within an approved cluster
development. In the absence of public sewer, however, all waste treatment must
be permitted by the County Health Department, in which case the minimum lot
size is 40,000 square feet; and
         (b)   All other residential and non-residential. Development shall not
exceed 24% built-upon area on a project by project basis except that up to 10%
of the balance of the watershed may be developed for non-residential uses to
70% built-upon area on a project by project basis. For the purpose of
calculating built-upon area, total project area shall include total acreage in
the tract on which the project is to be developed.
(Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. passed 8-25-2008; Am. Ord. passed 3-23-2009; Am.
Ord. passed 8-8-2023)
§ 153.22 CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT.
   Clustering of development is allowed in all watershed areas under the
following conditions.
   (A)   Minimum lot sizes are not applicable to single-family cluster
development projects; however, the total number of lots shall not exceed the
number of lots allowed for single-family detached developments in §
153.21 above.
   (B)   Built-upon area or storm water control requirements of the project
shall not exceed that allowed for the critical area or balance of watershed,
whichever applies.
   (C)   All built-upon area shall be designed and located to minimize storm
water runoff impact to the receiving waters and minimize concentrated storm
water flow.
   (D)   The remainder of the tract shall remain in a vegetated or natural
state. Where the development has an incorporated property owners association,
the title of the open space area shall be conveyed to the association for
management.
   (E)   Where a property association is not incorporated, a maintenance
agreement shall be filed with the property deeds.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 153.23 BUFFER AREAS REQUIRED.
   (A)   A minimum of 100-foot vegetative buffer is required for all new
development activities that exceed the low density option; otherwise, a minimum
50-foot vegetative buffer for development activities is required along all
perennial waters indicated on the most recent versions of U.S.G.S. 1:24,000
(7.5 minute) scale topographic maps or as determined by local government
studies. Desirable artificial streambank or shoreline stabilization is
permitted.
   (B)   No new development is allowed in the buffer except for water dependent
structures and public projects such as road crossings and greenways where no
practical alternative exists. These activities should minimize built-upon
surface area, direct runoff away from the surface waters and maximize the
utilization of storm water best management practices.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.24 RULES GOVERNING THE INTERPRETATION OF WATERSHED AREA BOUNDARIES.
   Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of the watershed areas, as
shown on the watershed map, the following rules shall apply.
   (A)   Where area boundaries are indicated as approximately following either
street, alley, railroad or highway lines or centerlines thereof; the lines
shall be construed to be the boundaries.
   (B)   Where area boundaries are indicated as approximately following lot
lines, the lot lines shall be construed to be the boundaries. However, a
surveyed plat prepared by a registered land surveyor may be submitted to the
town as evidence that 1 or more properties along these boundaries do not lie
within the watershed area.
   (C)   Where the watershed area boundaries lie at a scaled distance more than
25 feet from any parallel lot line, the location of watershed area boundaries
shall be determined by use of the scale appearing on the watershed map.
   (D)   Where the watershed area boundaries lie at a scaled distance of 25
feet or less from any parallel lot line, the location of watershed area
boundaries shall be construed to be the lot line.
   (E)   Where other uncertainty exists, the Town Manager shall interpret the
watershed map as to location of the boundaries. This decision may be appealed
to the Board of Adjustment.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 153.25 APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No building or land shall hereafter be used and no development shall
take place except in conformity with the regulations herein specified for the
watershed area in which it is located.
   (B)   No area required for the purpose of complying with the provisions of
this chapter shall be included in the area required for another building.
   (C)   Every residential building hereafter erected, moved or structurally
altered shall be located on a lot which conforms to the regulations herein
specified, except as permitted in §
153.26 below.
   (D)   If a use or class of use is not specifically indicated as being
allowed in a watershed area, the use or class of use is prohibited.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.26 EXISTING DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Any existing development as defined in §§
154.135 through
154.147 may be continued and maintained subject to the provisions provided
herein.
   (B)   Expansions to structures classified as existing development must meet
the requirements of this chapter, however, the built-upon area of the existing
development is not required to be included in the density calculations.
      (1)   Vacant lots. This category consists of vacant lots for which plats
or deeds have been recorded in the Office of the Register of Deeds of Randolph
County. Lots may be used for any of the uses allowed in the watershed area in
which it is located, provided the following:
         (a)   Where the lot area is below the minimum specified in this
chapter the owner may apply for a variance, which provides for compliance with
the buffer requirement to the maximum extent practicable. The Town Manager is
authorized to issue a watershed protection permit; and
         (b)   Where the buffer standard needs to be modified due to the shape
and/or size of a residential or non-residential lot, the owner may apply for a
variance in order to obtain a watershed protection permit, provided the buffer
requirement is complied with to the maximum extent practicable. The procedures
for obtaining a minor or major variance are found in §
153.47 below.
      (2)   Occupied lots. This category consists of lots, occupied for
residential purposes at the time of the adoption of this chapter. These lots
may continue to be used.
      (3)   Uses of land. This category consists of uses existing at the time
of adoption of this chapter where the use of land is not permitted to be
established hereafter in the watershed area in which it is located. Those uses
may be continued except as follows:
         (a)   When the use of land has been charged to an allowed use, it
shall not thereafter revert to any prohibited use;
         (b)   Use of land shall be changed only to an allowed use; and
         (c)   When the use ceases for a period of at least 1 year, it shall
not be reestablished.
      (4)   Reconstruction of buildings or built-upon areas. Any existing
building or built-upon area not in conformance with the restrictions of this
chapter that has been damaged or destroyed by any means to an extent of more
than 50% of its replacement cost or bulk, exclusive of foundations and land
value may be repaired and/or reconstructed, except that there are no
restrictions on single-family residential development, provided:
         (a)   Repair or reconstruction is initiated within 12 months and
completed within 2 years of the damage; and
         (b)   The total amount of space devoted to built-upon area may not be
increased unless storm water control that equals or exceeds the previous
development is provided.
(Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. passed 9-26-2005)
§ 153.27 WATERSHED PROTECTION PERMIT.
   (A)   Except where a single-family residence is constructed on a lot deeded
prior to the effective date of this chapter, no building or built-upon area
shall be erected, moved, enlarged or structurally altered, nor shall any
building permit be issued nor shall any change in the use of any building or
land be made until a watershed protection permit has been issued by the Town
Manager.
   (B)   No watershed protection permit shall be issued except in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Watershed protection permit applications shall be filed with the Town
Manager. The application shall include a completed application form and
supporting documentation deemed necessary by the Town Manager.
   (D)   Prior to issuance of a watershed protection permit, the Town Manager
may consult with qualified personnel for assistance to determine of the
application meets the requirements of this chapter.
   (E)   A watershed protection permit shall expire if a building permit or
watershed occupancy permit for the use is not obtained by the applicant within
12 months from the date of issuance.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 153.28 BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   After receiving a watershed protection permit, a building permit shall be
obtained from the Randolph County Inspections Department for construction or
alteration of any building or structure pursuant to the procedures of the
County Inspections Department.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 153.29 WATERSHED PROTECTION OCCUPANCY PERMIT.
   (A)   The Town Manager shall issue a watershed protection occupancy permit
certifying that all requirements of this chapter have been met prior to the
occupancy or use of a building hereafter erected, altered or moved and/or prior
to the change of use of any building or land.
   (B)   A watershed protection occupancy permit, either for the whole or part
of a building, shall be applied for at the same time as the application for a
watershed protection permit and shall be issued or denied within 10 days after
the erection or structural alterations of the building.
   (C)   When only a change in use of land or existing building occurs, the
Town Manager shall issue a watershed protection occupancy permit certifying
that all requirements of this chapter have been met at the same time the
watershed protection permit is issued.
   (D)   If the watershed protection occupancy permit is denied, the Town
Manager shall notify the applicant in writing stating the reasons for denial.
   (E)   No building or structure which has been erected, moved or structurally
altered may be occupied until the Manager has approved and issued a watershed
protection occupancy permit.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
153.99
PUBLIC HEALTH; ADMINISTRATION; ENFORCEMENT; APPEALS
§ 153.40 PUBLIC HEALTH IN GENERAL.
   (A)   No activity, situation, structure or land use shall be allowed within
the watershed, which poses a threat to water quality and the public health,
safety and welfare.
   (B)   Conditions may arise from inadequate on-site sewage systems which
utilize ground absorption; inadequate sedimentation and erosion control
measures; the improper storage or disposal of junk, trash or other refuse
within a buffer area; the absence or improper implementation of a spill
containment plan for toxic and hazardous materials; the improper management of
storm water runoff; or any other situation found to pose a threat to water
quality.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.41 ABATEMENT.
   (A)   The Town Manager shall monitor land use activities within the
watershed areas to identify situations that may pose a threat to water quality.
   (B)   The Town Manager shall report all findings to the Board of Adjustment.
The Manager may consult with any public agency or official and request
recommendations.
   (C)   Where the Board of Adjustment finds a threat to water quality and the
public health, safety and welfare, the Board shall institute any appropriate
action or proceeding to restrain, correct or abate the condition and/or
violation.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 153.42 WATERSHED ADMINISTRATOR; DUTIES.
   (A)   The Liberty Town Manager is hereby appointed the Watershed
Administrator, who shall be duly sworn in that capacity.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Town Manager acting as Watershed
Administrator to administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter as
follows:
      (1)   The Town Manager shall issue watershed protection permits and
watershed protection occupancy permits as prescribed herein. A record of all
permits shall be kept on file and shall be available for public inspection
during regular office hours of the Town Manager;
      (2)   The Town Manager shall serve as Clerk to the Board of Adjustment,
which sits as the Watershed Review Board;
      (3)   The Town Manager shall keep records of all amendments to the Town's
Water Supply Watershed Protection Chapter and shall provide copies of all
amendments upon adoption to the Supervisor of the Classification and Standards
Group, Water Quality Section, Division of Environmental Management;
      (4)   (a)   The Town Manager shall keep records of the jurisdictions
utilization of the provision that a maximum of 10% of the non-critical area of
WS-III-BW watersheds may be developed with non-residential development to a
maximum of 70% built-upon surface area.
         (b)   Records for each watershed shall include the total acres of non-
critical watershed area, total acres eligible to be developed under this
option, total acres approved for this development option and individual record
for each project with the following information: location, acres, site plan,
use, storm water management plan as applicable and inventory of hazardous
materials as applicable;
      (5)   The Town Manager is granted the authority to administer and enforce
the provisions of this chapter, exercising in the fulfillment of his or her
responsibility the full police power of the town. The Town Manager, or his or
her duly authorized representative, may enter any building, structure or
premises, as provided by law, to perform any duty imposed upon him or her by
this chapter; and
      (6)   (a)   The Town Manager shall keep a record of variances to the
local Water Supply Watershed Protection Chapter.
         (b)   This record shall be submitted to the Supervisor of the
Classification and Standards Group, Water Quality Section, Division of
Environmental Management on an annual basis and shall provide a description of
each project receiving a variance and the reasons for granting the variance.
(Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. passed 8-25-2008)
§ 153.43 APPEAL FROM THE TOWN MANAGER.
   Any order, requirement, decision or determination made by the Town Manager
may be appealed to and decided by the Board of Adjustment as specified in §
154.047.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 153.44 CHANGES AND AMENDMENTS TO THE WATERSHED PROTECTION CHAPTER.
   (A)   The Liberty Town Council may, on its own motion or on petition, after
public notice and hearing, amend, supplement, change or modify the watershed
regulations and restrictions as described herein.
   (B)   No action shall be taken until the proposal has been submitted to the
Board of Adjustment for review and recommendation. If no recommendation has
been received from the Board of Adjustment within 45 days after submission of
the proposal to the Chairperson of the Board of Adjustment, the Town Council
may proceed as though a favorable report had been received.
   (C)   Under no circumstances shall the Town Council adopt the amendments,
supplements or changes that would cause this chapter to violate the watershed
protection rules as adopted by the North Carolina Environmental Management
Commission. All amendments must be filed with the North Carolina Division of
Environmental Management, North Carolina Division of Environmental Health and
the North Carolina Division of Community Assistance.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 153.45 PUBLIC NOTICE AND HEARING REQUIRED.
   Before adopting or amending this chapter, the Town Council shall hold a
public hearing on the proposed changes. A notice of the public hearing shall be
given once a week for 2 successive calendar weeks in a newspaper having general
circulation in the area.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 153.46 WATERSHED REVIEW BOARD.
   The Liberty Board of Adjustment shall serve as the Watershed Review Board.
The same rules of procedure as specified in the Zoning Chapter shall apply.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 153.47 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT ACTING AS WATERSHED
REVIEW BOARD.
   (A)   Administrative review. The Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide
appeals from any decision or determination made by the Town Manager in the
enforcement of this chapter.
   (B)   Variances. The Board of Adjustment shall have the power to authorize,
in specific cases, minor variances from the terms of this chapter as will not
be contrary to the public interests where, owing to special conditions, a
literal enforcement of this chapter will result in practical difficulties or
unnecessary hardship, so that the spirit of this chapter shall be observed,
public safety and welfare secured and substantial justice done.
      (1)   Application for a variance shall be made on the proper form
obtained from the Town Manager and shall include information required by the
Planning Department, at a minimum:
         (a)   A site plan, drawn to scale, indicating the property lines of
the parcel upon which the use is proposed; and existing or proposed structures;
parking areas and other built-upon areas; surface water drainage;
         (b)   A complete and detailed description of the proposed variance,
together with any other pertinent information which the applicant feels would
be helpful to the Board of Adjustment in considering the application; and
         (c)   The Town Manager shall notify in writing each local government
having jurisdiction in the watershed. The notice shall include a description of
the variance bring requested. Local governments receiving notice of the
variance request may submit comments to the Town Manager prior to a decision by
the Board of Adjustment. The comments shall become a part of the record of
proceedings of the Board of Adjustment.
      (2)   Before the Board of Adjustment may grant a variance, it shall make
the following 3 findings, which shall be recorded in the permanent record of
the case, and shall include the factual reasons on which they are based:
         (a)   That there are practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships
in the way of carrying out the strict letter of this chapter. In order to
determine that there are practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships, the
Board must find that the 5 following conditions exist:
            1.   If he or she complies with the provisions of this chapter, the
applicant can secure no reasonable return from, nor make reasonable use of, his
or her property. Merely providing that the variance would permit a greater
profit to be made from the property will not be considered adequate to justify
the Board in granting an variance. Moreover, the Board shall consider whether
the variance is the minimum possible deviation from the terms of this chapter
that will make possible the reasonable use of his or her property;
            2.   The hardship results from the application of this chapter to
the property rather than from other factors such as deed restriction or other
hardship;
            3.   The hardship is due to the physical nature of the applicant's
property, such as its size, shape or topography, which is different from that
of neighboring property;
            4.   The hardship is not the result of the actions of an applicant
who knowingly or unknowingly violates this chapter, or who purchases the
property after the effective date of this chapter, and then comes to the Board
for relief; and
            5.   The hardship is peculiar to the applicant's property, rather
than the result of conditions that are widespread. If other properties are
equally subject to the hardship created in the restriction, then granting a
variance would be a special privilege denied to others, and would not promote
equal justice.
         (b)   That the variance is in harmony with the general purpose and
intent of this chapter and preserves its spirit; and
         (c)   That in the granting of the variance, the public safety and
welfare have been assured and substantial justice has been done. The Board
shall not grant a variance if it finds that doing so would in any respect
impair the public health, safety or general welfare.
      (3)   In granting the variance, the Board may attach the conditions
regarding the location, character and other features of the proposed building,
structure or use as it may deem advisable in furtherance of the purpose of this
chapter. If a variance for the construction, alteration or use of property is
granted, the construction, alteration or use shall be in accordance with the
approved site plan.
      (4)   The Board of Adjustment shall refuse to hear an appeal or an
application for a variance previously denied if it finds that there have been
no substantial changes in conditions or circumstances bearing on the appeal or
application.
      (5)   A variance issued in accordance with the section shall be
considered a watershed protection permit and shall expire if a building permit
or watershed occupancy permit for the use is not obtained by the applicant
within 6 months from the date of the decision.
      (6)   If the application calls for the granting of a major variance, and
if the Board of Adjustment decides in favor of granting the variance, the Board
shall prepare a preliminary record of the hearing with all deliberate speed.
The preliminary record of the hearing shall include:
         (a)   The variance application;
         (b)   The hearing notices;
         (c)   The evidence presented;
         (d)   Motions, offers of proof objections to evidence and rulings on
them;
         (e)   Proposed findings and exceptions;
         (f)   The proposed decision, including all conditions proposed to be
added to the permit.
      (7)   The preliminary record shall be sent to the Environmental
Management Commission for its review as follows:
         (a)   If the Commission concludes from the preliminary record that the
variance qualifies as a major variance and that:
            1.   The property owner can secure no reasonable return from, nor
make any practical use of the property unless the proposed variance is granted;
and
            2.   The variance, if granted, will not result in a serious threat
to the water supply, then the Commission shall approve the variance as proposed
or approve the proposed variance with conditions and stipulations. The
Commission shall prepare a Commission decision and send it to the Watershed
Review Board. If the Commission approves the variance as proposed, the Board
shall prepare a final decision granting the proposed variance. If the
Commission approves the variance with conditions and stipulations, the Board
shall prepare a final decision, including the conditions and stipulations,
granting the proposed variance.
         (b)   If the Commission concludes from the preliminary record that the
variance qualifies as a major variance and that:
            1.   The property owner can secure a reasonable return from and
make a practical use of the property without the variance; or
            2.   The variance, if granted, will result in a serious threat to
the water supply, then the Commission shall deny approval of the variance as
proposed. The Commission shall prepare a Commission decision and send it to the
Board of Adjustment. The Board shall prepare a final decision denying the
variance as proposed.
   (C)   Subdivision approval. See §§
153.05 and
153.06.
   (D)   Public health. See §§
153.40 and
153.41.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 153.48 APPEALS FROM THE BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   Appeals from the Board of Adjustment must be filed with the Superior Court
within 30 days from the date of the decision. The decisions of the Superior
Court will be in the manner of certiorari.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punished in accordance with G.S. §
14-4. The maximum fine for each offense shall not exceed $500. Each day that
the violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   (1)   If any subdivision, development and/or land use is found to be
in violation of this chapter, the Town Council may, in addition to all other
remedies available either in law or in equity, institute a civil penalty in the
amount of $100, action or proceedings to restrain, correct or abate the
violation; to prevent occupancy of the building, structure or land; or to
prevent any illegal act, conduct business or use in or about the premises. In
addition, the North Carolina Environmental Management Commission may assess
civil penalties in accordance with G.S. § 143-215.6A. Each day that the
violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   If the Town Manager finds that any of the provisions of this
chapter are being violated, he or she shall notify in writing the person
responsible for the violation, indicating the nature of the violation, and
ordering the action necessary to correct it. He or she shall order
discontinuance of the illegal use of land, buildings or structures; removal of
illegal building or structures, or of additions, alterations or structural
changes thereof; discontinuance of any illegal work being done; or shall take
any action authorized by this chapter to ensure compliance with or to prevent
violation of its provisions. If a ruling of the Town Manager is questioned, the
aggrieved party or parties may appeal the ruling to the Board of Adjustment.
(Ord. passed - -)
CHAPTER 154: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
154.001   Authority and intent
   
154.002   Short title
   
154.003   Jurisdiction
   
154.004   Interpretation of commonly used words
   
154.005   Rules for construction of language
   
154.006   Definitions
Application of Regulations
   
154.015   Zoning affects every building and use
   
154.016   Reduction of lot and yard areas prohibited
   
154.017   Relationship of building to lot
   
154.018   Height regulations generally
   
154.019   Visibility at intersections
   
154.020   Averaging an existing residential front setback line
   
154.021   Lot requirements cannot be transferred to another use
   
154.022   Every lot shall abut a street
   
154.023   Locations of building lines on irregularly shaped lots
   
154.024   Mixed uses
   
154.025   Fractional requirements under this chapter
   
154.026   Nonconformances may continue
   
154.027   Location of building line where the streetline is unknown
   
154.028   Parcels not having sanitary sewer or water service
   
154.029   Historic Overlay District (HD) designated; purpose defined
   
154.030   Location of building line on major and minor thoroughfares
   
154.031   Prohibition of use of residentially zoned property for access to uses
not permitted in residential districts
   
154.032   Lots; dimensions, access and related
   
154.033   Permitted projections into required setbacks
   
154.034   Special purpose lots
Administrative Mechanisms
   
154.045   Town Council
   
154.046   Planning Board
   
154.047   Board of Adjustment
   
154.048   Zoning Administrator
District Regulations
   
154.060   Use districts named
   
154.061   District boundaries shown on zoning map
   
154.062   Due consideration given to district boundaries
   
154.063   Only one official map
   
154.064   Description and purpose of each zoning district
   
154.065   Schedule of permitted and permissible special uses by district
   
154.066   Area, height, bulk and placement regulations
   
154.067   Table of permitted uses
   
154.068   Note file for §
154.067
Supplemental Regulations
   
154.080   Historic Overlay District (HD)
   
154.081   Parking of domestic, commercial and recreational vehicles
   
154.082   Buffers and screening
   
154.083   Screening of open storage
   
154.084   Screening of mechanical equipment
   
154.085   Central solid waste storage area
   
154.086   Parking restricted within required front yards
   
154.087   Vehicle towing operations
   
154.088   Construction trailers and temporary offices
   
154.089   Model dwelling units
   
154.090   Repair of privately owned motor vehicles in residential districts
   
154.091   Garage sales, yard sales and the like
   
154.092   Animals
   
154.093   Stacking or waiting lanes for drive-in windows
   
154.094   Industrial districts; performance standards
   
154.095   Commercial districts; performance standards
   
154.096   Residential districts; performance standards
   
154.097   Trees; shrubs; screening
   
154.098   Solar farm(s) located in I and IP Districts
Development Standards for Wireless Communication Facilities
   
154.110   Purpose
   
154.111   Uses not covered by this subchapter
   
154.112   Interpretation and definitions
   
154.113   Preferred locations for wireless communications facilities and
applicability
   
154.114   Development standards
   
154.115   Review process
   
154.116   Approval process
   
154.117   Shared facilities and collocation policy
   
154.118   Removal of abandoned support structures
   
154.119   Nonconforming wireless communications facilities
   
154.120   Enforcement
Off-Street Parking and Loading
   
154.135   Purpose and intent
   
154.136   Off-street parking required
   
154.137   Compliance with regulations
   
154.138   Methods of providing required parking
   
154.139   Joint use facilities and shared parking
   
154.140   Number of required off-street parking spaces
   
154.141   Determination for unlisted uses
   
154.142   Off-street parking space design standards
   
154.143   Landscaping standards for off-street parking
   
154.144   Required off-street loading space
   
154.145   Determination of unlisted uses
   
154.146   Off-street loading space standards
   
154.147   Parking requirements table and diagram
Signs
   
154.160   Intent
   
154.161   Signs subject to control
   
154.162   Signs not subject to control
   
154.163   Traffic safety precautions
   
154.164   Prohibited locations for signs
   
154.165   Maximum size for signs
   
154.166   Maximum height for signs
   
154.167   Restriction of direct illumination
   
154.168   Electrical requirements
   
154.169   Zoning compliance permit required
   
154.170   Responsible party identified
   
154.171   Temporary signs
   
154.172   Trailer, mobile home, A-frame and T-frame portable signs prohibited
   
154.173   Billboards (off-premises business signs) prohibited
   
154.174   Maintenance required
   
154.175   Removal of obsolete signs
   
154.176   All other sign types
   
154.177   Schedule of permitted and permissible signs
   
154.178   Note file for §
154.177
Special Use Regulations
   
154.190   Intent
   
154.191   General standards
   
154.192   Procedure for submission and consideration of applications for
approval of special uses
   
154.193   Imposed conditions
   
154.194   Discontinuance of permitted activity
   
154.195   Contents of application for a special use
   
154.196   Minor changes to be approved by Zoning Administrator; modifications
require action by Town Council
   
154.197   General compliance with this chapter
   
154.198   Failure to comply with plans and conditions of the permit
   
154.199   Withdrawal of application
   
154.200   Effect of denial on subsequent petitions
   
154.201   Appeals
   
154.202   Fees
   
154.203   Standards applicable to individual special uses
   
154.204   Adult day care facilities for more than thirty clients
   
154.205   Airport; heliport
   
154.206   Child day care facilities in districts where those facilities require
a special use permit
   
154.207   Colleges; universities
   
154.208   Combustible liquid storage in quantities greater than two thousand
but less than one-hundred thousand-gallons’ aggregate
   
154.209   Combustible liquid storage in quantities greater than one-hundred
thousand-gallons’ aggregate
   
154.210   Congregate living facilities; nursing home; group home
   
154.211   Cultural facility
   
154.212   Dwelling multi-family up to .35 FAR
   
154.213   Extraction of earth products
   
154.214   Golf course
   
154.215   Home occupations
   
154.216   Junkyards
   
154.217   Landfills; sanitary
   
154.218   Manufacturing, processing and assembly; light
   
154.219   Mobile and manufactured home parks
   
154.220   Planned unit development
   
154.221   Public use facilities
   
154.222   Reserved
   
154.223   Recreational vehicle; travel parks and camps
   
154.224   Public, private elementary and high schools
   
154.225   Adult establishments
   
154.226   Nonconforming situations
   
154.227   Mental institution; sanitarium
   
154.228   Professional residential facility (structured environment)
   
154.229   Game rooms
   
154.230   Storage of hazardous material within balance of watershed
   
154.231   Transfer stations
   
154.232   Dwellings in I and IP Districts
   
154.233   Structures may exceed height limits established in §
154.066(A)
   
154.234   Telecommunications towers
   
154.235   Commercial developments with multi-use and/or structures and FAR
between .27 and .35
   
154.236   Commercial developments with multi-use and/or structures and FAR up
to .35
   
154.237   Country, racquet, tennis and swim clubs
   
154.238   Fraternity and sorority houses
   
154.239   Watershed 10/70 option development
   
154.240   Solar farm in R40 District
Nonconforming Situations
   
154.250   Continuation of nonconforming situations
   
154.251   Nonconforming lots
   
154.252   Extension or enlargement of nonconforming situations
   
154.253   Change in kind of nonconforming use
   
154.254   Abandonment and discontinuance of nonconforming situations
Administration and Legal Provisions
   
154.265   Establishment of Administrative Officer
   
154.266   Duties of the Zoning Administrator
   
154.267   Powers and limitations of the Zoning Administrator
   
154.268   Zoning compliance permit required
   
154.269   Contents of application for zoning compliance permit
   
154.270   Certificate of zoning compliance
   
154.271   Site specific development plan
   
154.272   Fees
   
154.273   Determination of exact location of zoning district boundary lines
   
154.274   Building permits issued prior to adoption of this chapter
   
154.275   Changes and amendments
   
154.276   Prohibition of certain testimony
   
154.277   Reserved
   
154.278   Enforcement and review
   
154.279   Interpretation; conflict; purpose
 
   
154.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.001 AUTHORITY AND INTENT.
   In accordance with G.S. Ch. 160A, Article 19, Part 3, the Town of Liberty
has the authority to adopt and enforce a Zoning Chapter. The general intent of
this chapter shall be to promote the general health, safety, morals and welfare
of the community. More specifically, it shall be to promote the orderly
development of the town; lessen congestion of its streets and roads; protect
citizens and their property from fire, panic and other dangers; provide
adequate light and air; prevent overcrowding of the land; and facilitate the
adequate provision of transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks and other
public requirements.
(1981 Code, § 101) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.002 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the Zoning Chapter of Liberty North Carolina,
and shall consist of this text, Table of Permitted Uses and the official zoning
map.
(1981 Code, § 102) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.003 JURISDICTION.
   This chapter shall apply to all territory within the corporate limits of the
Town of Liberty and its extraterritorial planning jurisdiction.
(1981 Code, § 103) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.004 INTERPRETATION OF COMMONLY USED WORDS.
   (A)   Words used in the present tense include the future tense.
   (B)   Words used in the singular number include the plural, and words used
in the plural number include the singular unless the natural construction of
the wording indicates otherwise.
   (C)   The word PERSON includes a firm, association, corporation, trust and
company as well as an individual.
   (D)   The words USED FOR shall include the meaning DESIGNED FOR.
   (E)   The word STRUCTURE shall include the meaning BUILDING.
(1981 Code, § 104) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.005 RULES FOR CONSTRUCTION OF LANGUAGE.
   The following rules apply to the text of this chapter.
   (A)   The particular controls the general.
   (B)   In case of any difference of meaning or implication between the text
of this chapter and any caption, illustration, summary table or illustrative
example, the text shall control.
   (C)   The word SHALL is mandatory and not discretionary. The word MAY is
permissive. The word SHOULD is discretionary.
   (D)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future; and words
used in the singular number shall include the plural, and the plural the
singular, unless the context clearly indicates the contrary.
   (E)   A BUILDING or STRUCTURE includes any part thereof.
   (F)   The phrase USED FOR includes ARRANGED FOR, DESIGNED FOR, MAINTAINED
FOR or OCCUPIED FOR.
   (G)   The word PERSON includes an individual, a corporation, a partnership,
an incorporated association or any other similar entity.
   (H)   Unless the context clearly indicates the contrary, where a regulation
involves 2 or more times, conditions, provisions or events connected by the
conjunction AND, OR or EITHER OR, the conjunction shall be interpreted as
follows.
      (1)   AND indicates that all the connected items, conditions, provisions
or events shall apply.
      (2)   OR indicates that the connected items, conditions, provisions or
events may apply singly or in any combination.
      (3)   EITHER OR indicates that the connected items, conditions,
provisions or events shall apply singly, but not in combination.
   (I)   The word INCLUDES shall not limit a term to the specified examples,
but is intended to extend its meaning to all other instances or circumstances
of like kind or character.
   (J)   Words not defined in §
154.006 below shall have the meaning commonly assigned to them. The reference
for dictionary common meanings shall be the latest edition of Webster's New
World Dictionary of the American Language.
(1981 Code, § 1201) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.006 DEFINITIONS.
    For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY. Having a subordinate function. (See also BUILDING, ACCESSORY;
STRUCTURE, ACCESSORY; and USE, ACCESSORY).
   ACCESSORY APARTMENTS.
      (1)   A second dwelling unit either in or added to an existing single-
family detached dwelling or in a separate accessory structure on the same lot
as the main dwelling, for use as a complete, independent living facility with
provision within the accessory apartment for cooking, eating, sanitation and
sleeping for use by an extended family member on a noncommercial basis.
      (2)   The use shall not include manufactured homes as the accessory
structure.
   ADULT DAY CARE CENTER. Institutions for the care or instruction of non-
preschool aged persons.
   ADULT ESTABLISHMENTS. Business dealing in any activity which exhibits
specified sexual activities or specific anatomical areas. The display of
specific of sexual activities or specific anatomical areas are not the primary
function of the establishment. Such as, but not limited to, adult cabaret,
adult lounge, adult bar, adult nightclub, adult carwash.
   ADULT USES.
      ADULT BOOKSTORE. An establishment which has a substantial portion of it
stock in trade in books, magazines or other periodicals and which excludes
minors by reason of age.
      ADULT CABARET. An establishment which features go-go-dancers, exotic
dancers, strippers, male or female impersonators or similar entertainment and
from which minors are excluded by reason of age.
      ADULT DRIVE-IN THEATER. A drive-in theater for the showing of movies,
slide shows, closed circuit TV or similar offerings and from which minors are
excluded by reason of age.
      ADULT MASSAGE PARLOR. An establishment in which body massages are offered
as a service and from which minors are excluded by reason of age.
      ADULT MINI-PICTURE THEATERS. An enclosed building or part thereof with a
capacity of 50 persons or less used for showing movies, slide shows, closed
circuit TV or similar offerings and from which minors are excluded by reason of
age.
      ADULT PICTURE THEATER. An enclosed building or portion thereof with a
capacity of more than 50 persons used for showing movies, slide shows, closed
circuit TV or similar offerings and from which minors are excluded by reason of
age.
   AGRICULTURE. The use of the land for:
      (1)   The tilling of the soil;
      (2)   The growing of crops or plants, including truck farming, field
crops, vegetables, fruit, nut, sod, seed or tree production;
      (3)   Pasturage, including pasture for cattle, horse, sheep or goats and
other farm animals;
      (4)   Forestry and other forms of food and fiber production for human and
animal consumption;
      (5)   Greenhouses, nurseries and ornamental horticulture;
      (6)   Bee keeping;
      (7)   Aquiculture; and/or
      (8)   The raising, breeding, working and use of farm animals excepting
hog parlors, broiler houses, laying parlors, turkey houses and feed lot
operations.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES. Beverages containing more than 0.5% of alcohol by
volume.
   ALLEY. A dedicated and publicly maintained right-of-way, 20 feet or less in
width, that provides a secondary means of access to abutting property and not
intended for general vehicular traffic circulation.
   AMUSEMENT DEVICE. Any pool, billiard, bagatelle, pigeon-hole or similar
table; pinball machine; or mechanical or electronic amusement device which is
or may be operated for or upon the payment of money, trade-token or slug,
either directly or indirectly, and which operates or may be operated by retail
patrons as a game or contest of skill or amusement of any kind or description,
and which contains no automatic payoff device for the return of money, trade-
token or slug, or for which no provision whatever is made for the return of
money to the player; except any table, alley, machine or other game or device
which would otherwise fall within this definition shall not be exempted
therefrom by reason of arrangement or provisions whereby a player may from time
to time win, earn or be awarded prizes, money, free or reduced cost play of the
game or device, or other incentives or renumeration for or by reason of playing
the game or device.
   AMUSEMENT DEVICE, MECHANICAL or ELECTRONIC.
      (1)   Any machine which, upon insertion of a coin, trade-token or slug,
or upon other activation for payment or promise of payment in money, operates
or may be operated by retail patrons as a game or contest of skill or amusement
of any kind of description, and which contains no automatic payoff device for
the return of money, trade-token or slug, or which make no provision whatsoever
for the return of money to the player; except any table, alley, machine or
other game or device which would otherwise fall within this definition shall
not be exempted therefrom by reason of arrangement or provisions whereby a
player may from time to time win, earn or be awarded prizes, money, free or
reduced cost play of the game or device, or other incentives or renumeration
for or by reason of playing the game or device.
      (2)   Includes any machine, apparatus or contrivance which is used or
which may be used as a game of skill and amusement wherein or whereby the
player initiates, employs or directs any force, action or image generated by,
on or in the machine.
   ANIMAL HOSPITAL or VETERINARY CLINIC. Any structure and land used (primarily
and essentially) for the medical and surgical care of ill, injured or disabled
animals other than humans.
   ANIMALS, HOUSEHOLD.
      (1)   Animals which are customarily kept for personal use or enjoyment
within the home, not exhibited to the public, nor raised for commercial
purposes.
      (2)   Animals which are dangerous to humans or property when they reach
maturity or have cloven or solid hooves are not HOUSEHOLD ANIMALS.
      (3)   HOUSEHOLD ANIMALS shall include but not be limited to domestic
dogs, domestic cats, canaries, parakeets, love birds, parrots, cockatoo,
finches, toucans, mynah birds, guinea pigs, hamsters, mice, rats, gerbils,
small reptiles, small amphibians and aquarium fish.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land area within the zoning jurisdiction
of the Town of Liberty which is subject to a 1% chance of flooding annually,
i.e., the 100-year flood.
   ART GALLERY. The use of a structure or building for the display of
sculpture, painting, photographs or other artistic works for public viewing
with only incidental sales.
   AUCTION SALES. A public sale at which items are sold one by one, each going
to the last and highest of a series of competing bidders.
   AUTOMOBILE WASHING ESTABLISHMENT. A structure or portion thereof the
principal use of which is the washing of automobiles or other motor vehicles.
   AWNING. A covering which extends from a structure as a shelter from the
weather or as a shading device. This does not include a canopy or marquee.
   BAKERY. The use of a structure or building for the production of bakery
products including but not limited to breads cakes, pastries and doughnuts.
When identified in this chapter as a use under RETAIL, the bakery products
produced must be for the direct sale to the consumer with no wholesale
production or sales. Wholesale BAKERIES, for the purpose of this chapter, shall
be considered manufacturing.
   BANK. Financial institution engaged in deposit banking and closely related
functions such as the extension of credit by means of loans and investments,
and fiduciary activities.
   BANQUET FACILITY or RENTAL HALL or RECEPTION HALL or MEETING HALL. A
building, facility, room, or portion thereof, which is rented, leased, or
otherwise made available to any person or group for private events or
functions, such as hosting a party, banquet, or reception, that is not open to
the public, whether or not a fee is charged. Food may be prepared or brought in
from offsite. Live entertainment may be featured as accessory to the meeting or
banquet.
   BARRIER. Curbs, walls, fences or similar protective devices designed and
located to protect public right-of-way and adjoining properties from damaging
effects.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION. The crest elevation in relation to mean-sea-level
expected to be reached by the 1% annual chance flood, i.e., the 100-year flood.
   BASEMENT/CELLAR.
      (1)   A story partly underground but having at least 60% of its height
above the average level of the adjoining ground.
      (2)   A BASEMENT shall be counted as a story for the purpose of height
measurement if the vertical distance between the ceiling and the average level
of the adjoining ground is more than 5 feet.
   BED AND BREAKFAST INN. A owner occupied dwelling unit that contains guests
rooms where short term lodging rooms and meals are provided for compensation.
   BERM. A related system of earth mounds and plantings which taken as a whole,
form a visual barrier.
   BILLBOARD/OFF PREMISES ADVERTISING SIGN. Any sign used as an outdoor display
for the purpose of directing attention to a business, commodity, service or
entertainment conducted, sold, manufactured or offered at a location other than
the location of the sign.
   BOARDING/ROOMING HOUSE. A building that is the primary residence of the
owner, and in which rooms are provided by the owner, for compensation, to not
more than 3 adult persons not related by blood, marriage or adoption to the
owner.
   BUFFER. A strip of land together with planting/screening required thereon.
Both the amount of land and the type of planting/screening may be specified.
   BUILDABLE AREA. The portion of a lot remaining after required yards have
been provided and any conservation or preservation areas, submerged lands,
easements or road rights-of-way have been subtracted from the lot area.
   BUILDING. Any structure built for the support, shelter or enclosure of
persons, animals, chattels or property of any kind which has enclosing walls
for 50% of its perimeter.
   BUILDING, ACCESSORY. A subordinate building detached from but located on the
same lot as the principal building, the use of which is incidental and
accessory to that of the principal building.
   BUILDING, HEIGHT OF. The vertical distance from the mean elevation of the
finished grade along the front of the building, or from the established grade
where the building is within 10 feet of the street line, to the highest point
of a flat root or to the deckline of a mansard roof, or to the mean height
level between eaves and ridge for gable, hip and gambrel roofs.
   BUILDING INSPECTOR. The Town of Liberty Officer or other designated
authority charged with the administration and enforcement of the Building Code,
or his or her duly authorized representative or agent.
   BUILDING LINE. A line which established the minimum allowable horizontal
distance between the lot line and the nearest portion of any structure on the
lot.
   BUILDING PERMIT. Permission granted by the Building Inspector for the
erection, relocation, reconstruction or structurally altering any building.
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A building or, where the context so indicates, a group
of buildings in which is conducted the principal use of the lot on which the
building is located.
   BUSINESS DISTRICTS. B1 and B2 Districts shall be considered as BUSINESS
DISTRICTS.
   BUSINESS SERVICES. An establishment offering primarily services to the
business community and to individuals. These SERVICES include but are not
limited to advertising agencies, blueprinting and photocopying services,
cleaning and maintenance of building services, computer and data processing
services, detective agencies and security services, insurance agency,
management consulting and public relations services, news syndicates, personnel
services, art and graphics services and real estate services.
   CAMP. Land containing 2 or more campsites which are located, established or
maintained for occupancy by people in temporary living quarters, such as tents,
recreation vehicles or cabins, for recreation, education or vacation purposes.
   CAMPSITE. Any plot of ground within a camp intended for the exclusive
occupancy by a cabin, recreation vehicle or tent.
   CANOPY. A structure attached to or cantilevered from a building. This may be
a roof type canopy which is supported only by its flush attachment to the
building, or it may be supported also by columns, braces or poles which extend
to the ground. This does not include an awning.
   CAR WASH. An establishment engaged in the business of washing domestic
vehicles with self serve, automated or staffed facilities.
   CELLAR/BASEMENT. A story partly underground but having at least 60% of its
height above the average level of the adjoining ground. A basement shall be
counted as a story for the purpose of height measurement if the vertical
distance between the ceiling and the average level of the adjoining ground is
more than 5 feet.
   CEMETERY, HUMAN. Land used or intended to be used for the burial of the
human dead and dedicated for cemetery purposes, including crematories,
mausoleums, columbarium and mortuaries, if operated in connection with and
within the boundaries of the cemetery.
   CEMETERY, PET. Land used or intended to be used for the burial of animals in
individual burial plots or a mausoleum and dedicated for cemetery purposes.
   CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY. A document issued by an authorized official
setting forth that land, a building or structure legally complies with the Town
of Liberty Building Code, this chapter and other pertinent local and state
requirements and that the same may be used for the purposes stated therein.
   CERTIFICATE OF ZONING COMPLIANCE. A document issued by the Zoning
Administrator certifying compliance with all terms of an approved zoning
compliance permit, and authorizing occupancy of a building, structure or land.
It may either be a separate document or part of the normal documents associated
with a certificate of occupancy, occupational license, building permit or the
like.
   CHAPTER. This chapter, including any amendments. Whenever the effective date
of the chapter is referred to, the reference includes the effective date of any
amendment to it.
   CHILD DAY CARE. Any child care arrangement wherein 3 or more children less
than 13 years old receive care away from their own home by persons other than
their parents, grandparents, aunts, uncles, brothers, sisters, first cousins,
guardians or full-time custodians, or in the child's own home where other
unrelated children are in care.
   CHILD DAY CARE HOME.
      (1)   Any day care program or child care arrangement wherein any person
not excluded in the above provides day care on a regular basis of at least once
per week for more than 4 hours per day for more than 2 children under 13 years
of age and fewer than 6 children at any one time, wherever operated, and
whether or not operated for profit.
      (2)   The 4-hour limit applies regardless of the time of day and
regardless of whether the same or different children attend. Cooperative
arrangements among parents to provide care for their own children as a
convenience rather than for employment are not included.
      (3)   To determine whether a child care arrangement is a child day care
home, all children shall be counted except the operator’s own school-aged
children and school-aged children who reside at the location of the day care
home.
      (4)   Notwithstanding the limitation to 5 children prescribed above, the
day care home operator may care for 3 additional school-aged children.
   CHURCH/SYNAGOGUE. Tax exempt buildings used for non-profit purposes by a
recognized and legally established sect for purpose of worship, including
educational buildings when operated by the church/synagogue.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. The Town of Liberty officer or other designated
authority charged with administration and enforcement of this Zoning Chapter,
or his or her duly authorized representative or agent.
   COLLEGE/UNIVERSITY.
      (1)   A degree-granting establishment, accredited or qualified for
accreditation by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools, providing
formal academic education and generally requiring for admission at least a high
school diploma or equivalent academic training, including colleges, community
colleges, universities, technical institutes, seminaries and professional
schools.
      (2)   Accessory uses under this definition include but are not limited to
dormitories, cafeterias, bookstores, libraries, classrooms, administrative
offices, research facilities, sports arenas and auditoriums.
   COMBUSTIBLE LIQUID.
      (1)   A liquid having a flash point at or above 100°F (378°C).
      (2)   COMBUSTIBLE LIQUIDS shall be divided as follows:
         (a)   Class II liquids shall include those having flash points at or
above 100°F (37.8°C) and below 140°F (60 degrees C);
         (b)   Class IIIA liquids shall include those having flash points at or
above 140°F (60°C) and below 200°F (93°C); and
         (c)   Class IIIB liquids shall include those having flash points at or
above 200°F (93°C).
   COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENTS. Developments consisting primarily of commercial
uses.
   COMMERCIAL USE. Any use permitted within the B1 and B2 districts.
   COMMUNICATION FACILITIES, COMMERCIAL. The use of land, buildings or
structures for uses such as but not limited to motion picture studios; radio
and television receiving antenna and dishes; radio and television studios; and
radio and television transmitting and receiving facilities.
   COMMUNICATION FACILITIES, NON-COMMERCIAL. The use of land, buildings or
structures for uses such as but not limited to radio and television receiving
antenna and dishes; and radio and television transmitting and receiving
facilities not for commercial gain.
   COMMUNITY CENTER. A government or nonprofit facility used for recreational,
social, educational, cultural services and activities. Services may be targeted
to certain populations but membership is available to the general public.
Examples: tax assistance, fitness training, tutoring, food pantries or public
assemblies. Use does not include schools, places of worship, banquet halls,
social club, or counseling services.
   COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT/PLANNING DEPARTMENT. The unit of government
of the Town of Liberty that supervises planning and redevelopment activities of
the town. Also known as the PLANNING DEPARTMENT.
   COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR. The individual charged with the supervision
of the Community Development Department. Short title: C.D. DIRECTOR.
   COMMUNITY RECREATIONAL USES. Parks and playgrounds; community centers,
recreation clubs, such as Boys and Girls Clubs; swimming clubs; tennis clubs;
and paddle, racquetball and handball courts.
   CONGREGATE LIVING FACILITY.
      (1)   Any building, buildings, section of a building or distinct part of
a dwelling unit, home for the aged or other place, whether operated for profit
or not, which undertakes through its ownership or management to provide, for a
period exceeding 24 hours, housing, food services and one or more personal care
services to persons not related to the owner or operator by blood, marriage or
adoption and licensed, certified or approved by the North Carolina Department
of Social Services.
      (2)   PERSONAL SERVICES. For the purpose of this definition, services in
addition to housing and food service which include, but are not limited to,
personal assistance with bathing, dressing, ambulation, supervision of self-
administered medication, transportation, emotional security and other related
service.
      (3)   PERSONAL SERVICE does not include nursing or medical treatment.
      (4)   These facilities shall contain congregate kitchen, dining and
living areas only, with separate sleeping rooms. Further, the facilities shall
not be used for those persons in need of a structured environment, as it is
defined herein. For purposes of this chapter, congregate living facilities
shall not be deemed to include boarding/rooming houses; fraternities/
sororities; monasteries; convents; hotels/motels; professional residential
facilities; or nursing, convalescent and extended care facilities.
   CONTRACTORS OFFICE. An establishment engaged in the provision of
construction activities including but not limited to plumbing, electrical work,
building, paving, carpentry and other like contracting activities.
   CORRECTIONAL FACILITY. A public facility for the housing of persons
convicted of a crime.
   CREMATORIUM. An establishment for the burning of human or animal remains.
   CULTURAL FACILITY. The use of land, buildings or structures to provide
educational and informational services to the general public, including but not
limited to aquariums, arboreta, botanical and zoological gardens, art
galleries, museums and libraries.
   DAY CARE FACILITY.
      (1)   See CHILD CARE.
      (2)   Any child care center or child care arrangement which provides day
care for more than 5 children, under the age of 13 years, on a regular basis of
at least once per week for more than 4 hours but less than 24 hours per day,
regardless of the time of day and regardless of whether the same or different
children attend.
      (3)   The following are not included: public schools; non-public schools
whether or not accredited by the State Department of Public Instruction, which
regularly and exclusively provide a course of grade school instruction to
children who are of public school age; summer camps having children in full-
time residence; Bible Schools conducted during vacation periods; facilities
licensed under G.S. Ch. 122C, Article 2; and cooperative arrangements among
parents to provide care for their own children as a convenience rather than for
employment.
      (4)   DAY CARE FACILITIES are separated by capacity into the following
categories which determine applicable requirements and standards by the Child
Day-Care Commission pursuant to G.S. § 110-88: large home, small center, medium
center, large center. The Child Day-Care Commission shall establish the maximum
capacity for each of the 4 categories of facilities.
   DAY CARE FACILITY, ADULT. Institutions for the care or instruction of non-
preschool aged persons.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any humanmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations.
   DIMENSIONAL NON-CONFORMITY. A non-conforming situation that occurs when the
height, size, maximum or minimum floor space of a structure or the relationship
between an existing building or buildings and other buildings or lot lines does
not conform to the regulations applicable to the district in which the property
is located.
   DORMITORY.
      (1)   A building used as group living quarters for a student body,
religious order or other group as an associated use to a college, university,
boarding school, orphanage, convent, monastery or other similar use.
      (2)   DORMITORIES do not include kitchen facilities except a group
kitchen to serve all residents.
   DRINKING ESTABLISHMENT.
      (1)   An establishment where alcoholic beverages are obtainable within or
thereon and where the beverages are consumed on the premises.
      (2)   If the facility also sells food and the sale of food products
represent more than 50% of the facility's total sales, the facility shall be
considered an EATING ESTABLISHMENT.
   DRINKING ESTABLISHMENT; ADULT. An establishment where alcoholic beverages
are obtainable within or thereon and where the beverages are consumed on the
premises and where any activity displaying specified anatomical areas or
specified sexual activities occurs. If the facility also sells food and the
sale of food products represent more than 50% of the facility's total sales,
the facility shall be considered an EATING ESTABLISHMENT.
   DRIVE-IN THEATER. A facility designed for the outdoor projection of motion
pictures onto a permanent screen to be viewed from the patron's automobile.
   DRIVE-IN WINDOW. A window or other opening in the wall of a principal or
accessory building through which goods or services are provided directly to
customers in motor vehicles by means that eliminate the need for the customers
to exit their motor vehicles.
   DRY CLEANERS. An establishment engaged in providing laundry, dyeing and dry
cleaning services to individual customers.
   DRY CLEANERS, SMALL. An establishment engaged on a small scale in providing
laundry, dyeing and dry cleaning services to individual customers.
   DRY CLEANING PLANT. An establishment engaged in providing laundry, dyeing
and dry cleaning services on a large scale for institutions, businesses or
other such establishments.
   DWELLING/RESIDENCE. A building designed for, or used by, 1 or more families
for residential purposes.
   DWELLING/RESIDENCE, 2-FAMILY. A structure containing 2 dwelling units.
   DWELLING/RESIDENCE, ATTACHED SINGLE-FAMILY. Two or more 1-family dwellings
connected by common walls or floors, where each unit is intended for separate
ownership.
   DWELLING/RESIDENCE, DETACHED SINGLE-FAMILY. An individual dwelling unit for
1 family located on an independent lot containing no other dwelling units.
   DWELLING/RESIDENCE, MODULAR. A dwelling unit constructed in accordance with
the standards set forth in the North Carolina State Building Code and composed
of components substantially assembled in a manufacturing plant and transported
to the building site for final assembly on a permanent foundation. Among other
possibilities, a MODULAR HOME may consist of 2 or more sections transported to
the site in a manner similar to a manufactured home (except that the modular
home meets the North Carolina State Building Code), or a series of panels or
room sections transported on a truck and erected or joined together on the
site.
   DWELLING/RESIDENCE, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A structure containing 3 or more
dwelling units.
   DWELLING/RESIDENCE, PREFAB. A dwelling constructed from standardized
sections fabricated beforehand for shipment and quick assembly.
   DWELLING/RESIDENCE, SINGLE-FAMILY. A structure containing a single dwelling
unit.
   DWELLING/RESIDENCE UNIT. A room or group of rooms forming a single
independent habitable unit used for, or intended to be used for living,
sleeping, sanitation, cooking and eating purposes by 1 family only; for owner
occupancy or for rental, lease or other occupancy.
   EATING ESTABLISHMENT. An establishment whose principal business is the sale
of food, frozen desserts or beverages to the customer in a ready to consume
state.
      DRIVE-IN EATING ESTABLISHMENTS. Those at which food or beverages are
served for consumption by customers in parked motor vehicles.
      SIT-DOWN EATING ESTABLISHMENTS. Those at which food and/or beverages are
served by waitresses or waiters to patrons seated at booths or tables.
      WALK-IN/CARRY OUT EATING ESTABLISHMENTS. Those at which the customers
receive but do not consume the food and/or beverages at a counter, bar or from
a drive-in window.
   EATING ESTABLISHMENT, ADULT. An establishment whose principal business is
the sale of food, frozen desserts or beverages to the customer in a ready to
consume state and where any activity displaying specified anatomical areas or
specified sexual activities occurs.
   ELECTRICAL and ELECTRONIC REPAIR, LARGE. An establishment engaged in the
repair of electrically powered equipment or electronic equipment such as but
not limited to large appliances, large computers, radio and television
broadcasting equipment and similar items.
   ELECTRICAL and ELECTRONIC REPAIR, SMALL. An establishment engaged in the
repair of electrically powered equipment or electronic equipment such as but
not limited to small appliances, televisions, radios, non-commercial stereo
equipment, personal or mini computers and similar equipment. As a general rule,
if the item is too large to be hand carried by 1 or 2 people, it is not
considered SMALL EQUIPMENT.
   EMERGENCY SHELTER. A transitional housing facility designed to temporarily
feed and shelter individuals.
   EQUIPMENT, HEAVY. Large equipment including but not limited to earth moving
equipment, forklifts, tractors, large generators and like items.
   EQUIPMENT, LIGHT. Equipment including but not limited to wedding supplies,
party supplies, small appliances, hand tools, furniture and like items.
   ESTABLISHED GRADE. The elevation of the street grade as fixed by the town.
   EXPENDITURE. A sum of money paid out in return for some benefit or to
fulfill some obligation. Whenever the term is used hereafter, it also includes
binding, contractual commitments to make future expenditures as well as any
other substantial changes in position.
   EXTRATERRITORIAL AREA. The land beyond the corporate limits extending for a
distance of up to 1 mile in all directions as delineated on the official zoning
map of the Town of Liberty.
   FAMILY.
      (1)   Any number of people related by blood, marriage or adoption or not
more than 5 unrelated persons living together as a single housekeeping unit,
using a single facility in a dwelling unit for culinary purposes.
      (2)   The term FAMILY shall not be construed to include a fraternity or
sorority, club, rooming house, institutional group or the like.
   FAMILY DAY CARE HOME. A residence within which child care and supervision is
provided for no more than 5 children, unrelated to the caregiver, for less than
a 24-hour period.
   FARMERS MARKET. A structure or structures erected for the display and sale
of agricultural products and rented or otherwise provided, and which are
intended for use by various unrelated individuals to sell the products. This is
not an accessory use to an existing principal use.
   FIRE ESCAPE. A fireproof stairway down an outside wall, to help people
escape from a burning building.
   FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS.
      (1)   A liquid having a flash point below 100°F (37.8°C) and having a
vapor pressure not exceeding 40 pounds per square inch (absolute) (2,068 mm Hg)
at 1,000°F (37.8°C) shall be known as a Class I liquid.
      (2)   Class I liquids shall be subdivided as follows:
         (a)   Class IA liquids shall include those having flash points below
73°F (22.8°C) and having a boiling point below 100°F (37.8°C);
         (b)   Class IB liquids shall include those having flash points below
73°F (22.8°C) and having a boiling point at or above 100°F (37.8°C); and
         (c)   Class IC liquids shall include those having flash points at or
above 73°F (22.8°C) and below 100°F (37.8°C).
   FLEA MARKETS, OPEN AIR SALES. A building or open area in which stalls or
sales areas are set aside, and rented or otherwise provided, and which are
intended for use by various unrelated individuals to sell articles that are
either homemade, homegrown, handcrafted, old, obsolete or antique and may
include the selling of goods at retail by businesses or individuals who are
generally engaged in retail trade. This use shall be considered a principal use
of a lot.
   FLEA MARKETS, OPEN AIR SALES; TEMPORARY. A temporary use of a building or
open area in which stalls or sales areas are set aside, and rented or otherwise
provided, and which are intended for use by various unrelated individuals to
sell articles that are either homemade, homegrown, handcrafted, old, obsolete
or antique. Sales of this type are not generally considered to be part of or
accessory to the principal use on the lot.
   FLEX PARKING SPACES. Parking spaces provided for a use that has not been
stated.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD CONTROL WORKS. Any humanmade construction, such as a dam, levee, groin
or jetty designed to alter the flood potential of the body of water on or
adjacent to which it is built.
   FLOOD FRINGE AREA. That area of the flood plain lying outside the floodway
but still lying within the area of special flood hazard, i.e., within the 100-
year flood plain.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY.
      (1)   The official report provided by the Federal Insurance
Administration.
      (2)   The report may contain flood profiles, as well as the flood hazard
boundary-floodway map and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOOD PLAIN. Any normally dry land area that is susceptible to being
inundated by waters of the 1% chance flood, i.e., the 100-year flood.
   FLOOD-PROOFING. Structural additions, changes or adjustments to structures
subject to flooding which will reduce or eliminate flood damages to water and
sewer facilities, structures and contents of buildings.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other water course and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the velocity waters of the
regulatory flood.
   FLOOR AREA, GROSS.
      (1)   The sum of enclosed areas on all floors of a building or buildings
measured from the outside faces of the exterior walls, including halls,
lobbies, arcades, stairways, elevator shafts, enclosed porches and balconies,
and any below-grade floor area used for habitation, access and storage.
      (2)   Not countable as FLOOR AREA are open terraces, patios, atriums,
balconies and breezeways.
   FLOOR AREA RATIO. The ratio of permitted floor area to the area of the lot.
   FRATERNITY or SORORITY HOUSES. A dwelling or combination of dwellings on a
single lot occupied by and maintained exclusively for college students who are
affiliated with a social, honorary or professional organization recognized by
the college or university.
   FUNERAL PARLOR. An establishment engaged in preparing human remains for
burial and conducting funerals.
   FURNITURE REFINISHING AND REPAIR. An establishment engaged in the stripping,
cleaning, painting, staining, sealing, varnishing or other like refinishing of
the wood or metal components of furniture or the replacement or repair of
broken or missing portions of a piece of furniture.
   GAME ROOMS. Any establishment offering the operation of 1 or more amusement
devices, and/or mechanical or electronic amusement devices including machines
and software that requires skill to manipulate the outcome of winning. Included
in this definition is SWEEPSTAKES BUSINESS/INTERNET CAFÉ.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. A building for the private use of the owner or occupant of
a principal building situated on the same lot of the principal building for the
storage of motor vehicles with no facilities for mechanical service or repair
of a commercial or public nature.
   GAS STATION.
      (1)   An establishment where gasoline or diesel fuel is supplied and
dispensed at retail and where no servicing or repair of vehicles is permitted.
      (2)   Convenience goods may be sold at the facilities but the sales shall
be accessory to the sale of gasoline or diesel fuel.
   HEALTH PRACTITIONER'S OFFICE. An establishment offering diagnostic and
routine health care on an outpatient basis by licensed practitioners such as
but not limited to physicians, dentists and chiropractors.
   HEALTH SERVICES. The use of land, buildings and structures for uses such as
but not limited to hospitals, medical clinics, medical and dental laboratories
and rehabilitation centers.
   HEIGHT.
      (1)   The vertical distance between the lowest proposed finished grade of
the structure and the highest point of the structure.
      (2)   Finished grade shall be determined using all applicable regulations
of the town, state and federal governments.
   HELIPORT. Any landing area used by helicopters which, in addition, includes
all necessary passenger and cargo facilities, maintenance and overhaul,
fueling, service, storage, tie-down areas, hangars and other necessary
buildings and open spaces.
   HELISTOP. Any landing area used for the landing and taking off of
helicopters for the purpose of picking up or discharging of passengers or
cargo. No fueling, refueling or service facilities.
   HELISTOP, EMERGENCY MEDICAL. Any landing area used for the taking off or
landing of helicopters for the purpose of picking up and discharging of
emergency medical patients, personnel or equipment and the like.
   HOME OCCUPATION. An accessory use of a dwelling unit which constitutes,
either entirely or partly, the livelihood of the person(s) living in the
dwelling unit.
   HOSPITAL. An institution providing physical and mental health services
primarily for human in-patient medical or surgical care for the sick or
injured, including related facilities such as laboratories, out-patient
services, training facilities, central service facilities, emergency services
and staff offices.
   HOTEL or MOTEL. A building or group of buildings containing lodging units
intended primarily for rental or lease to transients by the day or week, and
providing additional services such as restaurants, meeting rooms and recreation
facilities.
   INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS. I and IP Districts shall be considered as Industrial
Districts.
   JUNK. Includes but is not limited to old, or dilapidated, scrap or abandoned
metal, paper, building material and equipment, bottles, glass, appliances,
furniture, beds and bedding, rags, rubber, tires, motor vehicles and parts
thereof.
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES. A vehicle that does not display a current license
plate and that:
      (1)   Is partially dismantled or wrecked;
      (2)   Cannot be self-propelled or moved in the manner in which it
originally was intended to move; or
      (3)   Is more than 5 years old and appears to be worth less than $100.
   JUNKYARD. Land used for the storage or keeping or handling or display of
junk.
   KENNEL. An establishment licensed to operate a facility housing dogs, cats
or other household pets and where grooming breeding, boarding, training or
selling of animals is conducted as a business.
   LAND EXCAVATION. Removal of 500 cubic yards or more of sand, soil, peat,
muck, clay, stone, shell and the like, for disposal off-site.
   LANDFILL.
      (1)   Land used for the disposal of waste excluding hazardous waste.
      (2)   LANDFILLS are classified into 2 different types based upon the type
of wastes received at the landfill:
         CLEAN MATERIAL LANDFILLS. Land used for the disposal of only non-
water-soluble, non-decomposable, inert material, consisting of concrete, brick,
steel, clean fill dirt and other similar material; and
         SANITARY LANDFILLS. A facility used for the disposal of solid waste.
SANITARY LANDFILLS are divided into 2 classes based on the amount of wastes
received:
            1.   Class I sanitary landfills are those which receive solid waste
at a monthly average of 20 tons or more of solid waste per day or 50 cubic
yards or more of solid waste per day; and
            2.   Class II sanitary landfills are those which receive solid
waste at a monthly average of 20 tons or less of solid waste per day or less
than 50 cubic yards of solid waste per day.
   LEAST DIMENSIONS.
      (1)   The least dimension of a yard is the least of the horizontal
dimensions of the yards.
      (2)   If 2 opposite sides of a yard are not parallel, the LEAST DIMENSION
shall be deemed to be the mean distance between them.
   LIBRARY. A building in which literary, musical, artistic or reference
materials are kept for use but not generally for sale.
   LIQUOR STORE. An establishment engaged in the retail sale of packaged
alcoholic beverages for consumption off-premises.
   LIMITED DURATION. An activity carried out for a period of not less than 1
day nor more than 21 days.
   LOADING, OFF-STREET. Space located outside of any street right-of-way
easement and designed to accommodate the temporary parking of vehicles used for
bulk pickups and deliveries.
   LOT. Land bounded by lines legally established for the purpose of property
division. As used in this chapter, unless the context indicates otherwise, the
term refers to a ZONING LOT.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot at the junction of and abutting upon 2 or more streets.
   LOT, DEPTH. The mean horizontal distance between the front and rear lot
lines.
   LOT, FRONT OF. The front of a lot shall be considered to be that side(s) of
the lot which fronts on a street. In the case of a corner lot, the narrower
side fronting on the street shall be considered to be the front of the lot. If
the lot has equal frontage on two or more streets, frontage shall be determined
by the Zoning Administrator in accordance with the prevailing building pattern,
or the prevailing lotting pattern. If a pattern has not been established
frontage shall be determined at the option of the owner.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot.
   LOT LINE. A line that marks the boundary of a lot.
   LOT LINE, INTERIOR. Any lot line that is not a street lot line; a lot line
separating a lot from another lot.
   LOT LINE, STREET. Any lot line separating a lot from a street rights-of-way
or general access easement. Where a lot line is located within the street
right-of-way or easement, the right-of-way or easement boundary adjacent to the
lot shall be considered the street lot line.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is part of a subdivision, the plat of which has
been recorded in the office of the Register of Deeds of Randolph County, or any
parcel of land, whether or not part of a subdivision, that has been officially
and legally recorded by a deed in the office, provided the lot was of a size
which met the minimum dimensions for lots in the district in which it was
located at the time of recording or was recorded prior to the effective date of
zoning in the area where the lot is located.
   LOT WIDTH. The horizontal distance measured along a straight line connecting
the points where the minimum front yard line meets the interior lot lines or,
if on a corner, the other front yard line.
   LOWEST HABITABLE FLOOR. Any floor, including a basement, used for living,
which includes working, sleeping, eating, cooking or recreation facilities, or
any combination thereof.
   LUMBER and OTHER BUILDING MATERIALS SALES. An establishment engaged in the
retail sale of finished lumber, packaged roofing materials, doors and other
materials used by individuals or builders.
   LUMBERYARD. An establishment engaged in the cutting, dressing, finishing and
wholesale sale of lumber.
   MAJOR THOROUGHFARE. A major thoroughfare as identified by the Thoroughfare
Plan for the Town of Liberty.
   MANUFACTURED/MOBILE HOME. A dwelling unit that is not constructed in
accordance with the standards set forth in the North Carolina State Building
Code, and is composed of 1 or more components, each of which was substantially
assembled in a manufacturing plant and designed to be transported to the home
site on its own chassis and exceeds 32 feet in length and 8 feet in width.
      (1)   Class A: A manufactured home constructed after July 1, 1976 that
meets or exceeds the construction standards promulgated by the United States
Department of Housing and Urban Development that were in effect at the time of
construction and also meet Town of Liberty appearance criteria.
      (2)   Class B: A manufactured home constructed after July 1, 1976 that
meets or exceeds the construction standards promulgated by the United States
Department of Housing and Urban Development that were in effect at the time of
construction but which do not meet Town of Liberty appearance criteria.
      (3)   Class C: Any manufactured home that does not meet the definitional
criteria of a Class A or Class B manufactured home.
   MANUFACTURED/MOBILE HOME PARK. A parcel of land under single ownership that
has been planned and improved for the placement of manufactured housing for
dwelling purposes.
   MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING and ASSEMBLING, LIGHT. Activities described in
manufacturing, processing and assembling, heavy conducted wholly within an
enclosed structure and not employing more than 15 persons and utilizing no more
than a total of 25 horsepower in power driven machines and material handling
equipment.
   MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING and ASSEMBLING, HEAVY. The mechanical or chemical
transformation of materials or substances into new products. The land uses
engaged in these activities are usually described as plants, factories or mills
and characteristically use power-driven machines and materials handling
equipment. Establishments engaged in assembling component parts of manufactured
products are also considered under this definition, if the new product is
neither a fixed structure nor other fixed improvement. Also included is the
blending of materials such as lubricating oils, plastics, resins or liquors.
   MARQUEE. An ornamental structure projecting over an entrance attached to or
cantilevered from a building. This does not include an awning.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. The average height of the sea for all stages of the tide. It
is used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the flood
plain. For purposes of this chapter, the term is synonymous with National
Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD).
   MEDICAL and DENTAL LABORATORY. An establishment engaged in the testing and
analysis of material for medical or dental services or for the patient on
prescription of a health practitioner.
   MEETING HALL. See BANQUET FACILITY.
   MEMBERSHIP ORGANIZATIONS. A membership establishment operated by a
corporation or association of persons for activities which include but are not
limited to business, professional, social, literary, political, educational,
fraternal, charitable or labor activities, but which are not operated for
profit or to render a service which is customarily conducted as a business.
   MENTAL INSTITUTIONS/SANITARIUMS. An institution providing mental health and
physical care services for inpatient medical or surgical care for the mentally
ill who are dangerous to others as defined in G.S. § 122C-3 or the physically
sick.
   MINILUBE. The use of a structure for the express purpose of changing fluids,
filters and grease in a motor vehicle.
   MINOR THOROUGHFARE. A minor thoroughfare as identified by the Thoroughfare
Plan for the Town of Liberty.
   MIXED USE RESIDENTIAL IN B1 DISTRICTS. A residential conversion of any
existing structure within the B 1. The conversion shall maintain the ground
floor for commercial use, thus creating a mixed-use structure.
   MIXED USE STRUCTURE. A structure, where permitted, that houses multiple
uses. See Note 16 of §§
154.060 through
154.068.
   MOBILE HOME/MANUFACTURED HOME. A dwelling unit that is not constructed in
accordance with the standards set forth in the North Carolina State Building
Code, and is composed of 1 or more components, each of which was substantially
assembled in a manufacturing plant and designed to be transported to the home
site on its own chassis and exceeds 32 feet in length and 8 feet in width.
      (1)   Class A: A manufactured home constructed after July 1, 1976 that
meets or exceeds the construction standards promulgated by the United States
Department of Housing and Urban Development that were in effect at the time of
construction and also meet Town of Liberty appearance criteria, as determined
by the Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   Class B: A manufactured home constructed after July 1, 1976 that
meets or exceeds the construction standards promulgated by the United States
Department of Housing and Urban Development that were in effect at the time of
construction but which do not meet Town of Liberty appearance criteria, as
determined by the Zoning Administrator.
      (3)   Class C: Any manufactured home that does not meet the definitional
criteria of a Class A or Class B manufactured home.
   MOBILE/MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. A parcel of land under single ownership that
has been planned and improved for the placement of manufactured housing for
dwelling purposes.
   MOTOR VEHICLE REPAIR, MAJOR.
      (1)   Any automotive repairs or servicing not listed under “Motor Vehicle
Repair, Minor.”
      (2)   Further, it is determined to be any structure in which machinery
operated by mechanical power is installed which is designed for making major
repairs to motor vehicles, or where in making repairs to motor vehicles the
mechanical power employed in the operation of any machine or tool exceeds 3-HP
or the total mechanical power provided or employed exceeds 15-HP.
   MOTOR VEHICLE REPAIR, MINOR.
      (1)   Sale and service of spark plugs, batteries and distributor and
ignition system parts;
      (2)   Sales, service and repair of tires, but not recapping or
regrooving;
      (3)   Replacement of mufflers, tail pipes, water hose, fan belts, brake
fluids, light bulbs, fuses, floor mats, seat covers, windshield wipers and
blades, grease retainers, wheel bearing, mirrors and the like;
      (4)   Radiator cleaning, flushing and fluid replacement;
      (5)   Greasing and lubrication;
      (6)   Providing and repairing fuel pumps, oil pumps and lines;
      (7)   Minor adjustment and repair of carburetor;
      (8)   Emergency repair of wiring;
      (9)   Adjusting brakes and installing exchange brake shoes;
      (10)   Minor motor adjustment not involving removal of the head or
crankcase and grinding valves;
      (11)   Wheel balancing;
      (12)   Battery recharging;
      (13)   Warranty maintenance and safety inspections; and/or
      (14)   Other minor servicing of a similar intensity to those listed
above.
   MULCH. A natural or artificial layer of plant residue or other materials
(i.e., leaves, straw, peat moss, rock brick rubble, stone, bark, wood chips)
covering the land surface which conserves moisture, holds soil in place, aids
in establishing plant cover and minimizes temperature fluctuations.
   MUSEUM. An establishment engaged in the procurement, care, study and display
of objects of historical, educational and cultural value and interest.
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD). A vertical control, corrected in
1929, used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within the flood
plain.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of this chapter.
   NONCONFORMITY.
      (1)   Lots, uses of land, uses of structures, structures or
characteristics of uses, which were lawful before this chapter was passed or
amended, but which would be prohibited, regulated or restricted under the terms
of this chapter.
      (2)   The following constitute types of nonconformities:
         (a)   Lots;
         (b)   Uses of land without structures or with minor structures only;
         (c)   Uses of major structures and premises;
         (d)   Structures; and
         (e)   Characteristics of use which were lawful but would be
prohibited, regulated or restricted by the enactment of this chapter or a
subsequent amendment thereto.
      (3)   Nonconformity may also be created where lawful public taking or
actions pursuant to a court order have the same effect as violations of this
chapter, if undertaken privately.
   NON-RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS. B1, B2, I and IP Districts shall be considered as
NON-RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   NUISANCE VEHICLE. A junked motor vehicle on public or private property that
is determined and declared to be a health or safety hazard, a public nuisance
or unlawful, including a vehicle found to be:
      (1)   A breeding ground or harbor for mosquitoes, other insects, rats or
other pests;
      (2)   A point of heavy growth of weeds or other noxious vegetation over 8
inches in height;
      (3)   A point of collection of pools or ponds of water;
      (4)   A point of concentration of quantities of gasoline, oil or other
flammable or explosive materials as evidenced by odor;
      (5)   One which has areas of confinement which cannot be operated from
the inside, such as trunks, hoods and the like;
      (6)   So situated or located that there is a danger of it falling or
turning over;
      (7)   Any other vehicle specifically declared a health and safety hazard
and a public nuisance by the Town Council;
      (8)   Offensive to the sight as to damage the community, neighborhood or
area appearance, upon a finding that the aesthetic regulation is necessary and
desirable for the protection of property values, promotion of tourism, indirect
protection of health and safety, preservation of the character and integrity of
the community, or promotion of the comfort, happiness and emotional stability
of area residents; or
      (9)   Used by children in play activities.
   NURSING, CONVALESCENT and EXTENDED CARE FACILITY.
      (1)   Any facility which provides nursing services as defined in the
North Carolina Statutes Annotated.
      (2)   FACILITY means any institution, building, residence, private home
or other place, whether operated for profit or not, including those places
operated by a county or municipality, which undertakes through its ownership or
management to provide nursing care, personal care or custodial care for persons
not related to the owner or manager by blood or marriage, who for reason of
illness, physical infirmity, or advanced age require those services, but shall
not include any place providing care and treatment primarily for the acutely
ill.
   OBSTRUCTION. Any dam, wall, embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment, spoil
material, bridge conduit, culvert, building, wire, fence, refuse, fill,
structure or matter in, along, across or projecting into any channel,
watercourse or regulatory flood hazard area which may impede, retard or change
the direction of the flow of water, either in itself or by catching or
collecting debris carried by water, or that is placed where the flow of water
might carry the same downstream to the damage of life or property.
   OFF-PREMISES. Not located on the zoning lot with the principal use or
structure.
   OFF-PREMISES ADVERTISING SIGN/BILLBOARD. Any sign used as an outdoor display
for the purpose of directing attention to a business, commodity, service or
entertainment conducted, sold, manufactured or offered at a location other than
the location of the sign.
   OFF-STREET LOADING. Loading space located on the same lot as the principal
use.
   OFF-STREET PARKING. Parking spaces located on the same lot as the principal
use.
   OPAQUE (DENSE).
      (1)   Difficult to get through, penetrate, having parts crowded together
packed tightly together, compact.
      (2)   Not allowing light to pass through.
   OPEN SPACE.
      (1)   That area of a zoning lot not encumbered by buildings, parking or
other required improvements.
      (2)   OPEN SPACE may contain required buffers, screens, lawn and the
required recreation space.
      (3)   Included within this OPEN SPACE may be open balconies, open
courtyards, open atriums.
   OPEN SPACE RATIO. The open space ration is used to establish minimum open
space requirements. The minimum of open space required shall not be less than
the number of square feet in the zoning lot multiplied by the open space ratio.
   OVEN STORAGE. The storage outside of a building, or within buildings with
less than 3 sides, of materials, supplies, merchandise, equipment, commercial
vehicles and like items, but excluding junk.
   PARKING AREA, GROSS.
      (1)   The total area provided for the off-street parking of automobiles,
including parking stalls and the necessary driveway access space thereto.
      (2)   Walkways, planting strips and other landscaped areas shall not be
counted as GROSS PARKING SPACE.
   PARKING, OFF-STREET. Space located outside of any street right-of-way or
easement and designed to accommodate the parking of domestic vehicles.
   PARKING SPACE.
      (1)   The off-street storage space available for the parking of motor
vehicles.
      (2)   The minimum dimensions of a PARKING SPACE shall be 9 feet in width
and 18 feet in length, with a total area of 162 square feet exclusive of
passageways and driveways appurtenant thereto and giving passage thereto.
   PARKING SPACE, HANDICAPPED. A parking space as defined by the North Carolina
Building Code.
   PERSON. Any natural person, firm, partnership, association, corporation or
governmental unit.
   PERSONAL CARE SERVICES.
      (1)   The furnishing of services to residents including but not limited
to individual assistance with, or supervision of, essential activities of daily
living, such as eating, bathing, grooming, dressing and ambulating; the
supervision of self-administered medication and other similar services.
      (2)   PERSONAL CARE SERVICES shall not be construed to mean the provision
of medical, nursing, dental or mental health services.
   PERSONAL SERVICES. Services generally involving the care of a person or a
person's apparel, including but not limited to barber shops, beauty salons,
tattoo/body piercing studios, seamstress shops, shoe repair and shining shops,
dry cleaning and laundry pickup facilities, and coin-operated laundry
facilities.
   PLACE OF ASSEMBLY. A place designed to accommodate the assembly of persons
attending athletic events, musical performances, dramatic or dance
performances, speeches or ceremonies and other entertainment events, and
including but not limited to coliseums, athletic centers, concert halls and
auditoriums.
   PLANNED DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   Land under unified control to be planned and developed as a whole
in a single development operation or a definitely programmed series of
development operations.
      (2)   A PLANNED DEVELOPMENT includes principal and accessory structures
and uses substantially related to the character and purposes of the planned
development.
      (3)   A PLANNED DEVELOPMENT is built according to general and detailed
plans which include not only streets, utilities, lots and building location and
the like, but also site plans for all buildings as are intended to be located,
constructed, used and related to each other, and plans for other uses and
improvements on the land as related to the buildings.
      (4)   A planned development includes a program for the provision,
operation and maintenance of those areas, facilities and improvements as will
be for common use by some or all of the occupants of the planned development
district, but which will not be provided, operated or maintained at general
public expense.
   PLANNING/CD DEPARTMENT. The unit of government of the Town of Liberty that
supervises planning and redevelopment activities of the town. Also known as the
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT.
   PLANNING DIRECTOR. The individual charged with the supervision of the
Planning Department.
   PRINCIPAL BUILDING. A building in which is conducted the principal use of
the parcel on which it is situated.
   PRINCIPAL USE. The primary purpose of function that a parcel serves or is
intended to serve.
   PRODUCE SALES. The display and sale of agricultural products that is not an
accessory use to an existing principal use, on an undeveloped or developed lot.
Not to include flea market and open air sales or produce/farmers market.
   PROFESSIONAL RESIDENTIAL FACILITY. Any residential establishment, other than
a hospital or nursing home, providing to persons in need of a structured
environment board, lodging, supervision, medication, counseling or other
diagnostic or therapeutic services and licensed by the North Carolina
Department of Social Services.
   PROFESSIONAL SERVICES. Services generally involves practitioners of a
calling or vocation in which a knowledge of some department of science or
learning is used in its application to the affairs of others. These activities
would include but not be limited to accounting, auditing and bookkeeping
services, architectural services, engineering and surveying services, interior
design services and legal services. Physicians and dentists are classified as
health practitioners. See HEALTH SERVICES and HEALTH PRACTITIONERS.
   PUBLIC NOTICE. Public notice of a hearing means notice of the time and place
thereof published in a newspaper.
   PUBLIC USE FACILITY. The use of land, buildings, or structures by a public
utility, railroad, or a unit of government, to provide public services,
governmental or proprietary, directly to the general public. This definition
includes, but is not limited to, water treatment plants or pumping stations,
sewage treatment plants or pumping stations, substations, telephone exchanges,
and other similar public service structures. This definition also includes
police and fire stations, municipal buildings, bus terminals or similar
facilities for public transportation, community centers, emergency response
facilities and any other public facility providing the above services but not
including land, buildings, or structures devoted solely to the storage and
maintenance of equipment and materials.
   PUBLISHING and PRINTING. An establishment primarily engaged in preparing,
publishing and printing of newspapers, periodicals, books and pamphlets,
reports, advertisements and the like.
   RADIO and TELEVISION RECEIVING ANTENNA and DISH, ACCESSORY. An antenna or
dish designed for the above-ground reception of airborne radio or television
signals and serving only the needs of the occupants of a single building or of
a single residential development.
   RADIO and TELEVISION STUDIO. A facility for the production and broadcast of
radio and television shows, including things such as offices, dressing rooms,
broadcast and taping studios, file rooms, set storage and related
installations, but not including radio and television transmitting and
receiving facilities, as defined in this chapter.
   RECEPTION HALL. See BANQUET FACILITY.
   RECREATION. Any form of play, amusement or relaxation.
   RECREATION and AMUSEMENT SERVICES. A commercial facility providing
recreational activities including but not limited to swimming pools, tennis
clubs, public gymnasiums, discotheques, bowling alleys, shuffleboard courts,
baseball hitting ranges, miniature golf, golf driving ranges, dance schools or
classes, skating rinks, zoos and indoor movie theaters.
   RECREATION, COMMERCIAL INDOOR.
      (1)   Any form of play, amusement or relaxation used for monetary gain
conducted within an enclosed structure.
      (2)   Does not include amusement arcades, gamerooms or billiards or pool
halls. See GAMEROOMS.
   RECREATION, COMMERCIAL OUTDOOR. Any form of play, amusement or relaxation
used for monetary gain not conducted within an enclosed structure.
   RECREATION SPACE.
      (1)   Recreation space is part of the total open space requirement, and
is an exterior area for common passive or active recreation use; i.e. play
areas for children, outdoor seating areas and the like where the facilities are
available for common use by tenants and visitors.
      (2)   Active RECREATION SPACE shall be at least 20 feet from any
residential unit.
   RECREATION SPACE RATIO.
      (1)   The recreation space ratio is used to establish minimum recreation
space requirements.
      (2)   The minimum recreation space required shall not be less than the
number of square feet in the required open space multiplied by the RECREATION
SPACE RATIO.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
      (1)   A vehicular type portable structure which can be towed, hauled or
driven and is primarily designed as temporary living accommodations for
recreational, camping and travel use and includes but is not limited to travel
trailers, motor homes, camping trailers, campers, auto truck and recreational
vans.
      (2)   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES are considered domestic vehicles.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK. The provision of 2 or more recreational vehicle
spaces on a single zoning lot.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE SPACE. An area of land designated for the location of a
recreational vehicle while the recreational vehicle is in use as a dwelling
unit.
   RECYCLING CENTER. A facility that is not a junkyard and in which recoverable
resources, such as newspapers, glassware and metal cans, are collected, stored,
flattened, crushed or bundled, essentially by hand within a completely enclosed
building.
   RECYCLING COLLECTION POINT. An incidental use that serves as a neighborhood
drop-off point for temporary storage of recoverable resources. No processing of
these items would be allowed. This facility would generally be located in a
shopping center parking lot or in other public/quasi-public areas, such as in
churches and schools.
   RECYCLING PLANT. A facility that is not a junkyard and in which recoverable
resources, such as newspapers, magazines, books and other paper products;
glass; metal cans; and other products, are recycled, reprocessed and treated to
return the products to a condition in which they may again be used for
production.
   REGULATORY FLOOD. For purposes of this chapter, a flood event having a 1%
chance of occurring in any given year, i.e., the 100-year flood.
   REGULATORY FLOOD ELEVATION. The crest elevation in relation to mean sea
level expected to be reached by the regulatory flood at any given point in an
area of special flood hazard.
   REHABILITATION CENTERS. An establishment engaged exclusively in the
provision of outpatient services to correct, cure or assist an individual in
adjusting to a physical disability. These services include but are not limited
to physical therapy, occupational therapy, speech therapy, audiology, radiology
and respiratory therapy, but excluding therapy for mental illness, drug or
alcohol dependency, or rehabilitation of criminals.
   RENTAL HALL. See BANQUET FACILITY.
   REPAIR SERVICES.
      (1)   The use of land, structures or buildings for the purposes of
mending or restoring items after decay, damage, dilapidation or partial
destruction.
      (2)   Services include but are not limited to bicycle repair, electrical
and electronic repairs, gunsmiths, locksmiths, re-upholstery services,
furniture, refinishing and repair, small motor repair and watch, clock and
jewelry repair.
      (3)   Construction activities and motor vehicle repair shall not be
included in REPAIR SERVICES.
   RESEARCH ACTIVITY. Research, development and prototype testing related to
fields such as chemical, pharmaceutical, medical, electrical, transportation
and engineering, provided those activities are conducted within entirely
enclosed buildings and produce no noise, smoke, glare, vibration or odor
detectable outside the buildings.
   RESIDENCE/DWELLING. A building designed for, or used by, 1 or more families
for residential purposes.
   RESIDENCE/DWELLING, 2-FAMILY. A structure containing 2 dwelling units.
   RESIDENCE/DWELLING, ATTACHED SINGLE-FAMILY. Two or more 1-family dwellings
connected by common walls or floors, where each unit is intended for separate
ownership.
   RESIDENCE/DWELLING, DETACHED SINGLE-FAMILY. An individual dwelling unit for
1 family located on an independent lot containing 1 other dwelling unit.
   RESIDENCE/DWELLING, MODULAR. A dwelling unit constructed in accordance with
the standards set forth in the North Carolina State Building Code and composed
of components substantially assembled in a manufacturing plant and transported
to the building site for final assembly on a permanent foundation. Among other
possibilities, a modular home may consist of 2 or more sections transported to
the site in a manner similar to a manufactured home (except that the modular
home meets the North Carolina State Building Code), or a series of panels or
room sections transported on a truck and erected or joined together on the
site.
   RESIDENCE/DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A structure containing 3 or more
dwelling units.
   RESIDENCE/DWELLING, PREFAB. A dwelling constructed from standardized
sections fabricated beforehand for shipment and quick assembly.
   RESIDENCE/DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A structure containing a single dwelling
unit.
   RESIDENCE/DWELLING UNIT. A room or group of rooms forming a single
independent habitable unit used for, or intended to be used for living,
sleeping, sanitation, cooking and eating purposes by 1 family only; for owner
occupancy or for rental, lease or other occupancy.
   RESIDENTIAL CONVERSION WITHIN A B1 DISTRICT. A residential conversion of any
existing structure within the B1 District. A conversion shall maintain the
ground floor for commercial uses, thus creating a mixed use structure.
Conversions of this type shall be permitted only upon the issuance of a special
use permit.
   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS. R40, R12, R6, and RMF Districts shall be considered
as residential districts.
   RETAIL. The use of land, buildings or structures for the sale of
merchandise, new or used.
   RETAIL SALES, CONVENIENCE GOODS. Commercial establishments that generally
service day-to-day commercial needs of a residential neighborhood, including,
but not limited to, convenience stores, tobacco shops, newsstands, bakeries,
candy, nut and confectionery stores, delicatessens, dairy products, meat and
seafood markets, produce markets, food stores with less than 10,000 square feet
in floor area.
   RETAIL SALES, SHOPPERS’ GOODS. Commercial establishments that, supply the
more durable and permanent needs of a community, including but not limited to,
apparel and footwear stores; appliance stores; art supplies stores; automotive
supply stores; book and stationery stores; camera and photography supplies
stores; department stores; discount stores; drug stores; drinking
establishments; farm supplies stores; florists; furniture and home furnishing
stores; gift shops; gun and ammunition sales; hardware stores; hobby, toy and
crafts stores; jewelry stores; lawn and garden supply stores; liquor stores,
mail order pickup facilities; novelty and souvenir shops; office equipment
stores; optician and optical supplies stores; paint and wallpaper stores; pet
shop; radio and television sales stores; sporting goods stores; supermarkets;
trading stamps redemption stores; and variety stores.
   ROLLOFF TRAILER BODY. A container without motive power designed for carrying
property or persons wholly within its own structure and is carried on the
chassis or undercarriage of a motor vehicle.
   SCHOOL. A facility which is in compliance with the North Carolina Compulsory
School Attendance Law and provides a curriculum of elementary and secondary
academic instruction, including kindergartens, elementary schools, junior high
schools and high schools.
   SCHOOL, BUSINESS. An establishment offering to the public, for a
consideration, instruction in administration, accounting, bookkeeping, computer
use, typewriting and other skills for use in commercial or service activities.
   SCREEN. A dense, evergreen hedge or solid fence or wall used to enclose,
screen or separate certain uses as specified in this chapter. The design,
composition, height and location of these facilities are established in §§
154.080 through
154.097 below.
   SEASONAL SALES; TEMPORARY. The display and sale of pumpkins, Christmas trees
and the like, that is not an accessory use to an existing principal use, on an
undeveloped or developed lot. Not to include flea market and open air sales or
produce/farmers market.
   SERVICE STATION.
      (1)   An attended or unattended establishment where gasoline and/or
diesel fuel is supplied and dispensed at retail and where, in addition, the
following services only may be rendered and sales made accessory to the sale of
gasoline and/or diesel fuel:
         (a)   Sales and service of spark plugs, batteries and distributor and
ignition system parts;
         (b)   Sales, service and repair of tires, but not recapping or
regrooving;
         (c)   Replacement of mufflers, tail pipes, water hose, fan belts,
brake fluid, light bulbs, fuses, floor mats, seat covers, windshield wipers and
blades, grease retainers, wheel bearings, mirrors and the like;
         (d)   Radiator cleaning, flushing and fluid replacement;
         (e)   Washing and polishing, and sale of automotive washing and
polishing supplies;
         (f)   Greasing and lubrication;
         (g)   Providing and repairing fuel pumps, oil pumps and lines;
         (h)   Minor adjustment and repair of carburetors;
         (i)   Emergency repair of wiring;
         (j)   Minor motor adjustment not involving removal of the head or
crankcase;
         (k)   Sale of beverages, packaged food, tobacco products and similar
convenience goods for customers, as accessory and incidental to principal uses;
         (l)   Provision of road maps and other travel information to
customers;
         (m)   Provision of restroom facilities;
         (n)   Warranty maintenance and safety inspections.
      (2)   Uses permissible at a SERVICE STATION do not include major
mechanical and body work, straightening of body parts; painting, welding,
storage of automobiles not in operating condition or other work involving
noise, glare, fumes, smoke or other characteristics to an extent greater than
normally found in service stations.
   SEXUALLY EXPLICIT MATERIALS OR ACTIVITIES. Those materials or activities
showing specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities.
   SIGHT DISTANCES. The triangular area formed by the intersecting streets
pavement edges and a straight line connecting points on the street pavement
edges, each of which is 35 feet in distance from the point or intersection.
(Where 2 state maintained streets intersect, regulations of N.C. DOT shall
apply.)
   SIGN. Any structure designed to inform or attract the attention of persons
not on the premises on which the device is located.
   SIGN, ADVERTISING. A sign which directs attention to a business, commodity,
service or entertainment conducted, sold manufactured or offered.
   SIGN, AWNING ADVERTISING. A sign designated on a canopy or awning
permanently extended over a sidewalk or walkway advertising the business of a
building or an establishment contained therein.
   SIGN, AWNING IDENTIFICATION. A sign designated on a canopy or awning and
identifying the name or address of a building or an establishment contained
therein.
   SIGN, BANNER; TEMPORARY. A banner to be used only for messages of a public
service nature, such as announcements of charity fund campaigns, conventions
and the like, for no more than 30 days.
   SIGN, CHANGEABLE COPY.
      (1)   A sign such as an electronically or electrically controlled public
service such as time, temperature and date sign, message center or readerboard,
where different copy changes of a public service or commercial nature are shown
on the same lampbank.
      (2)   CHANGEABLE COPY SIGNS are not classified as flashing signs.
   SIGN, CHURCH DIRECTORY OR IDENTIFICATION. A sign used to announce meetings
or programs to be held on the premises of a church. The sign shall not exceed
25 square feet.
   SIGN, ENTRANCE and EXIT. Signs directing and guiding traffic on private
property, but which bear no advertising matter and do not exceed 2 square feet
in area. These signs shall be limited to 2 per entrance.
   SIGN, FLASHING, BLINKING, PULSATING, ROTATING, OCCULTING. Signs which
contain, include or are illuminated by any flashing, intermittent or moving
light or lights, including beacons, rotating discs and other devices which
resemble traffic lights, traffic signs, emergency vehicle flashing lights.
Changeable copy signs are not classified as FLASHING SIGNS.
   SIGN, FREESTANDING (POLE). A sign erected which is wholly independent of any
building for support. All like signs must be permanently affixed to or
constructed upon the lot where they are located.
   SIGN, GROUND. A sign supported by 1 or more upright braces or posts placed
directly upon or in the ground, and not attached to any part of a building.
   SIGN, IDENTIFICATION. A sign which carries no advertising message, and is
used to identify the name of an institution, organization, title and/or
occupation or profession, the name of a building and the firms located within.
   SIGN, INCIDENTAL. A sign carrying no advertising message, but giving
information for the convenience and necessity of the public such as entrance,
exit, no admittance, telephone, parking and the like.
   SIGN, MARQUEE. A sign affixed to a permanent roof-like structure of rigid
materials supported by and extending from the facade of a building.
   SIGN, NONCONFORMING. A sign not in compliance with any provision of this
chapter, specifically §§
154.080 through
154.097 as of the effective date of its adoption; or any sign located on the
premises of land annexed by the town which does not comply with all of its
provisions.
   SIGN, OBSOLETE. Signs identifying business establishment's no longer in
existence, products no longer being sold, and/or services no longer being
rendered.
   SIGN, OFF-PREMISE (ADVERTISING/BILLBOARD). A commercial sign which directs
attention to a business, commodity, service or entertainment not conducted,
sold or offered on the premises where the sign is located.
   SIGN, OFF-PREMISE CHURCH DIRECTIONAL. A sign which provides directions to a
church not located on the premises where the sign is located.
   SIGN, OFF-PREMISE DIRECTIONAL. A sign which bears no advertising message
providing directions to an establishment or establishments not located on the
premises where the sign is located.
   SIGN, POLITICAL. A sign conveying an advertising message for a political
candidate or organization.
   SIGN, PORTABLE. A sign which rests on the ground and which is designed or
constructed in such a manner so that it can be moved or relocated without
involving any substantial structural or support changes. This definition
includes, but is not limited to, A-shaped, T-shaped and mobile-type portable
signs.
   SIGN, PROJECTING. A sign projecting out from, and attached to, the exterior
wall of a building and forming an angle of 30 degrees or more with the wall.
   SIGN, REAL ESTATE. A sign located on the premises and offering the premises
for sale, rent, lease or development.
   SIGN, ROOF. A sign erected, constructed or maintained upon the roof of any
building.
   SIGN, SUBDIVISION NAME MARKERS. A sign identifying the name of a subdivision
provided the location of the marker is outside the intersection sight triangle
and the normal maintenance limits. In non-residential districts these markers
may include a listing of the occupants of the subdivision.
   SIGN, SUSPENDED. A sign which is suspended from the underside of a
horizontal plane surface, such as a canopy or marquee, and is supported by the
surfaces.
   SIGN, TEMPORARY. A sign displayed for a period of not more than 30 days.
   SIGN, TEMPORARY CIVIC. A temporary sign displaying the civic organization's
current activities, programs and the like.
   SIGN, WALL. A sign affixed to the surface of, and whose plane is parallel to
the plane of, the exterior wall of the building; or which forms an angle of
less than 30 degrees.
   SIGN, WINDOW. Any sign, pictures, symbol or combination thereof, designed to
communicate information about an activity, business, commodity, event, sale or
service that is placed inside a window or upon the window panes or glass and is
visible from the exterior of the window.
   SIGNS, AREA.
      (1)   The surface area of a sign shall be computed as including the
entire area within a parallelogram, triangle, circle, semi-circle or other
regular geometric figure, including all of the elements of the display, but not
including frames, display of identification or licensing officially required by
any governmental body, or structural elements outside the sign surface and
bearing no advertising matter.
      (2)   When 2 identical sign faces are placed back to back so that both
faces cannot be viewed from any point at the same time and when the sign faces
are part of the same sign structure and are not more than 42 inches apart, the
sign areas shall be computed by the measurement of one of the faces. In the
case of cylindrical signs, signs in the shape of cubes or other signs which are
substantially 3-dimensional with respect to their display surfaces, the entire
display surface or surfaces shall be included in computations of area.
      (3)   In the case of embellishments (display portions of signs extending
outside the general display area), surface area extending outside the general
display area and bearing advertising material shall be computed separately as
part of the total surface area of the sign.
   SIGNS, NUMBER OF.
      (1)   For the purpose of determining the number of signs, a sign shall be
considered to be a single display surface or display device containing elements
organized, related and composed to form a unit.
      (2)   Where matter is displayed in a random manner without organized
relationship of units, or where there is a reasonable doubt about relationship
of elements, each element or light shall be considered to be a single sign.
      (3)   When 2 identical sign faces are placed back to back so that both
faces cannot be viewed from any point at the same time and when the sign faces
are part of these same sign structure, then this shall be considered to be a
single sign.
   SLAUGHTERHOUSE. An establishment where animals are killed, butchered and
prepared for further processing.
   SOLAR ENERGY. Radiant energy received from the sun that can be collected in
the form of heat or light by a solar collector.
   SOLAR FARM. A utility-scale commercial facility that uses solar energy,
specifically for the conversion of sunlight into electricity by photovoltaics,
concentrating solar thermal devices or various experimental technologies, for
the primary purpose of wholesale or retail sales of generated electricity. The
use of solar collectors for personal or business consumption that occurs on-
site is not considered a SOLAR FARM.
   SOLID WASTE. Garbage, rubbish, refuse or other discarded solid or semi-solid
material resulting from domestic, commercial, industrial, agricultural
activities or governmental operations, excluding solids or dissolved materials
in domestic sewage or other significant pollutants in water resources such as
silt, dissolved or suspended solids in industrial waste water effluents,
dissolved materials in irrigation return flows or other common water
pollutants.
   SPECIAL PURPOSE LOT. A lot legally created to accommodate a unique
nonresidential use, that upon approval by the Zoning Administrator in
accordance with this chapter, is not required to possess the typical lot size,
area, width, and road frontage mandated by the underlying zoning district.
   SPECIAL EVENT. Any public or private occurrence, elsewhere permitted by
ordinance, which generates at least 1,000 vehicles trips within a 24-hour
period.
   SPECIAL USE. A use which would not be appropriate generally or without
special study throughout the zoning district but which, if controlled as to
number, size, location or relation to the neighborhood, would promote the
public health, safety and general welfare.
   SPECIAL USE PERMIT. The grant of permission by the Town Council for certain
property uses.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. 
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered:
         (a)   Human genitals, pubic region;
         (b)   Buttock; and/or
         (c)   Female breast below point immediately above the top of the
areola.
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.
      (1)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal;
      (2)   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse or sodomy; and/or
      (3)   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttock or female breast.
   STABLE. A building in which horses or cattle are sheltered and fed.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION.
      (1)   The first placement or permanent construction of a structure on a
site, such as pouring of slabs or footings or any work beyond the stage of
excavation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation such as
clearing, grading or filling; nor does it include excavation for a basement,
footings, piers or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it
include the installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as
garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the principal
structure.
      (2)   For a structure without a basement or poured footings, the START OF
CONSTRUCTION shall be the first permanent framing or assembly of the structure
or any part thereof on its piling or foundation for sites other than mobile
home parks, or the affixing of any prefabricated structure to its permanent
site.
      (3)   For mobile home parks, which are equipped with concrete pads on
which mobile homes are to be placed, START OF CONSTRUCTION means the date on
which the pouring of the pads commences.
      (4)   For mobile home parks which are not equipped with concrete pads,
START OF CONSTRUCTION means the date on which installation of utilities and
final site grading are completed.
   STORY. The portion of a building included between the upper surface of a
floor and the upper surface of the floor or roof next above.
   STREET. A thoroughfare which affords the principal means of access to
abutting property.
   STREET LINE. The street line is the dividing line between the street and the
lot, as established by the Town of Liberty; also called the RIGHTS-OF-WAY LINE.
   STREET, PRIVATE. A roadway, not dedicated to the public, providing primary
access to adjacent properties and meeting the regulations of the Town of
Liberty for private street development.
   STREET, PUBLIC. A dedicated and accepted right-of-way maintained by the Town
of Liberty or the State of North Carolina and providing access to adjacent
property.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATION. Any change, except for repair or replacement, in the
supporting members of a structure, such as, but not limited to, bearing walls,
columns, beams or girders.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected which requires location on the
ground or attachment to something having a fixed location on the ground,
including but not limited to principal accessory buildings, signs, fences,
walls, bridges, monuments, flagpoles, antennas, transmission poles, towers and
cables.
   STRUCTURE, ACCESSORY. A subordinate structure detached from, but located on
the same lot as the principal structure, the use of which is incidental and
accessory to that of the principal structure.
   STRUCTURE, PRINCIPAL. A structure or, where the context so indicates, a
group of structures in or on which is conducted the principal use of the lot on
which a structure is located.
   STRUCTURE, PORTABLE ACCESSORY. A structure used only for storage and not
habitation which is placed on a zoning lot and is designed or constructed in a
manner so that it can be moved or relocated without involving any substantial
structural or support changes. PORTABLE ACCESSORY STRUCTURES shall include
tractor-trailer bodies and rolloffs and exclude mobile homes.
   STRUCTURE, TEMPORARY. A structure which is placed on a zoning lot for a
specific time period which is not intended to be a permanent structure; neither
principal nor accessory.
   STRUCTURE, TEMPORARY ACCESSORY. A structure used only for storage and not
habitation which is placed on a zoning lot for a specific time period which is
not intended to be a permanent structure.
   STRUCTURED ENVIRONMENT. A residential setting within which persons,
progressing from relatively intensive treatment for crime, delinquency, mental
or emotional illness, alcoholism, drug addiction or similar conditions to full
participation in community life, are provided professional staff services, as
well as board, lodging, supervision, medication and other treatment.
   SWEEPSTAKES BUSINESS / INTERNET CAFÉ. Any business that uses computer
terminals or machines equipped with legal sweepstakes software to promote the
sale of Internet usage by revealing sweepstakes winnings or machines and
software that requires skill to manipulate the outcome of winning. Excluded are
the operation of illegal video gaming machines and other such devices as
described by the State of North Carolina. Also excluded is business services
space where sweepstakes software is not utilized.
   TATTOO/BODY PIERCING STUDIO. An establishment whose principal business
activity, either in terms of operation or as held out to the public, is the
practice of one or more of the following: (1) placing of designs, letters,
figures, symbols, or other marks upon or under the skin of any person, using
ink or other substances that result in the permanent coloration of the skin by
means of the use of needles or other instruments designed to contact or
puncture the skin; (2) creation of an opening in the body of a person for the
purpose of inserting jewelry or other decoration. Body piercing does not
include piercing an ear lobe with a disposable, single-use stud or solid needle
that is applied using a mechanical device to force the needle or stud through
the ear lobe.
   TECHNICAL SCHOOLS. The use of land, structures or buildings for the
provision of training in various skills and may include but not limited to
business schools, trade schools and vocational schools.
   TELECOMMUNICATION TOWER. Any structure which is designed for the support of
1 or more antennas, including monopole towers, self-supporting lattice towers
and guy towers. Towers included in this definition are television and radio
transmission towers, microwave towers, common-carrier towers, personal
communications service towers, cellular towers and the like.
   TRACTOR-TRAILER BODY. A container without motive power designed for carrying
property or persons wholly within its own structure and is drawn by a motor
vehicle.
   TRANSFER STATION. A use of land where nonhazardous or toxic waste such as
residential, commercial or industrial is temporarily deposited for the purpose
of a break in bulk and further shipment to a landfill or other appropriate
destination.
   TRAVEL PARK. An area intended and equipped for the temporary parking of
vehicles and tents designed for travel, recreational and vacation dwellings.
   TRAVEL TRAILER. A structure that is intended to be transported over the
streets and highways (either as a motor vehicle or attached, to or hauled by a
motor vehicle), and is designed for temporary use as sleeping quarters, but
does not satisfy one or more of the definitional criteria of a manufactured
home.
   TRUCK TERMINAL. Uses primarily devoted to the storage, sorting or breaking
of bulk products or distributing or delivery of parcels, post or other goods.
   USE. The specific activity or function for which land, a building or a
structure is designated, arranged, occupied or maintained.
   USE, ACCESSORY. A use on the same lot or in the same structure with, and of
a nature and extent customarily incidental and subordinate to, the principal
use of the lot or structure.
   USE, PRINCIPAL. The primary use and chief purpose of a lot or structure.
   USED MERCHANDISE. An establishment engaged in the sale of previously owned
goods, except the sale of used motor vehicles.
   VARIANCE. A relaxation by the Board of Adjustment of the dimensional
regulations of this chapter where an action will not be contrary to the public
interest and where, owing to conditions peculiar to the property and not the
result of actions or the situation of the applicant, a literal enforcement of
this chapter would result in unnecessary and undue hardship.
   VEHICLE, COMMERCIAL. Any vehicle, licensed by any state of the United States
or Mexico or province or territory of Canada, other than domestic vehicles, as
defined in this chapter, or over 1 ton in weight or 20 feet in length.
   VEHICLE, DOMESTIC. Any vehicle, licensed by any state of the United States
or Mexico or province or territory of Canada, as a private vehicle for
operation on streets and may include but not be limited to automobiles, private
pickup trucks and vans.
   VEHICLE, NUISANCE. A junked motor vehicle on public or private property that
is determined and declared to be a health or safety hazard, a public nuisance
or unlawful, including a vehicle found to be:
      (1)   A breeding ground or harbor for mosquitoes, other insects, rats or
other pests;
      (2)   A point of heavy growth of weeds or other noxious vegetation over 8
inches in height;
      (3)   A point of collection of pools or ponds of water;
      (4)   A point of concentration of quantities of gasoline, oil or other
flammable or explosive materials as evidenced by odor;
      (5)   One which has areas of confinement which cannot be operated from
the inside, such as trunks, hoods and the like;
      (6)   So situated or located that there is a danger of it falling or
turning over;
      (7)   Any other vehicle specifically declared a health and safety hazard
and a public nuisance by the Town Council;
      (8)   Offensive to the sight as to damage the community, neighborhood or
area appearance, upon a finding that the aesthetic regulation is necessary and
desirable for the protection of property values, promotion of tourism, indirect
protection of health and safety, preservation of the character and integrity of
the community, or promotion of the comfort, happiness and emotional stability
of area residents; or
      (9)   Used by children in play activities.
   VEHICLES, JUNKED MOTOR. A vehicle that does not display a current license
plate and that:
      (1)   Is partially dismantled or wrecked;
      (2)   Cannot be self-propelled or moved in the manner in which it
originally was intended to move; or
      (3)   Is more than 5 years old and appears to be worth less than $100.
   VOCATIONAL SCHOOL. An establishment in which is offered, for compensation,
instruction in a vocation such as but not limited to barbering, cosmetology,
hair styling, bartending and interior decorating.
   WAREHOUSE. A building or group of buildings for the storage of goods or
wares belonging either to the owner of the facility or to one or more lessees
of space in the facility or both.
   WAREHOUSE, MINI. A building or group of buildings in a controlled access
compound that contains varying sizes of individual, compartmentalized and
controlled access stalls or lockers for the storage of goods belonging to the
individual lessees of the stalls and accessible to the lessees through
individual doors.
   WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTION. Establishments engaged in selling merchandise to
retailers, to industrial, commercial, institutional or professional business
users or to other wholesalers.
   YARD. An open space unoccupied and unobstructed by any structure or portion
of a structure.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending between the side lot lines across the entire
portion of a lot adjacent to a street.
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the rear of a lot between the side yard
lines. The rear yard shall be at the opposite end of the lot from the front
yard, excepting in the case of through lots and corner lots.
   YARD SALE. The sale of residential household items or personal possessions
which have been incidentally accumulated during normal residential use of the
property by a person residing on the premises where the sale is conducted, but
not including items purchased for resale, or items transported to the premises
solely for sale. The term includes, but is not limited to sales commonly known
as GARAGE, PATIO, DRIVEWAY, LAWN, ATTIC or other general sale of like nature.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard extending along the side of a lot between the front yard
and the rear yard except on corner lots where the side yard is the yard along
any interior lot line which intersects with a street lot line.
   ZONING COMPLIANCE PERMIT. A permit issued by the Zoning Administrator
authorizing the recipient to make use of property in accord with the
requirements of this chapter. This PERMIT may either be a separate document or
part of the normal permits associated with certificates of occupancy,
occupational license applications, building permits or the like.
   ZONING DISTRICTS. Areas of land or water, whose boundaries are indicated on
the official zoning atlas, within which all properties are regulated by the
general regulations of this chapter and the specific regulations of the
individual district.
   ZONING LOT. A lot or combination of lots shown on an application for a
zoning compliance permit.
(1981 Code, § 1202) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004; Am. Ord. passed 11-23-2009; Am.
Ord. passed 7-6-2015; Am. Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord.
passed 3-25-2019; Am. Ord. passed 3-23-2020; Am. Ord. passed 1-9-2023; Am. Ord.
passed 8-8-2023)
APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS
§ 154.015 ZONING AFFECTS EVERY BUILDING AND USE.
   After adoption and enforcement of this chapter, no building or land shall be
used and no building part shall be erected, moved or altered except in
conformity with the regulations specified for the district in which it is
located, except as provided in this chapter.
(1981 Code, § 201) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.016 REDUCTION OF LOT AND YARD AREAS PROHIBITED.
   No yard or lot existing at the time of passage of this chapter shall be
reduced in size or area below the minimum requirements set forth, except as
necessary for public street widening. Yards or lots created after the effective
date of this chapter shall meet at least the minimum requirements established
by this chapter.
(1981 Code, § 202) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.017 RELATIONSHIP OF BUILDING TO LOT.
   Not more than 1 principal building shall be constructed on any R40, R12 or
R6 lot.
(1981 Code, § 203) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.018 HEIGHT REGULATIONS GENERALLY.
   (A)   Measurement of building height (general). Except as otherwise provided
in this chapter, the height of a building shall be the vertical distance from
the mean elevation of the finished grade along the front of the building, or
from the established grade where the building is within 10 feet of the street
line, to the highest point of a flat roof or to the deck line of a mansard roof
or to the mean height level between eaves and ridge for gable, hip and gambrel
roofs.
   (B)   Measurement of building height on through lots.
      (1)   On through lots 150 feet or less in depth, the height of a building
may be measured from the average elevation of the finished grade along the
front of the building, considering the end facing either street as the front.
      (2)   On through lots more than 150 feet in depth, the regulations and
basis of height measurements for the street front permitting the greater height
shall apply to a depth of not more than 150 feet from that street.
   (C)   Excluded portions of structures. Except as specifically provided
herein, the height limitations of this chapter shall not apply to any roof
structures for housing elevators, stairways, tanks, ventilating fans, solar
energy collectors, or similar equipment required to operate and maintain a
building, provided that the structures shall not cover more than 20% of roof
area or extend over 10 feet in height; nor to church spires, steeples,
belfries, cupolas, domes, monuments, water towers, skylights, flag poles,
vents, construction or mining cranes or draglines or similar structures, which
may be erected above the height limit, nor to fire or parapet walls, provided,
however, that walls shall not extend more than 5 feet above the roof.
   (D)   Television and radio receiving and transmitting antenna. Television
and radio receiving and transmitting antenna may be permitted to exceed the
height limits established in §
154.066, subject to the issuance of a special use permit.
   (E)   Aviation hazards. No building or other structure, regardless of
exclusions set forth at divisions (C) and (D) above, shall be located in a
manner or built to a height which constitutes a hazard to aviation or creates
hazards to persons or property by reason of unusual exposure to aviation
hazards.
(1981 Code, § 204) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.019 VISIBILITY AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   On a corner lot nothing shall be erected, placed, planted or allowed
to grow that would materially block vision between a height of 3 feet and 10
feet above the center grade of the 2 intersecting roads that form the sight
triangle.
   (B)   The sight triangle shall have sides of 10 feet and 70 feet. The
smaller side shall be measured from the intersection of the 2 right-of-way
lines back 10 feet along the right-of-way of the road with the yield or stop
sign.
   (C)   The larger side shall be measured from the intersection of the 2
right-of-way lines outward 70 feet along the road that does not have a yield or
stop sign.
(1981 Code, § 205) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.020 AVERAGING AN EXISTING RESIDENTIAL FRONT SETBACK LINE.
   (A)   In a residential district, where the average of the front setback for
all adjacent lots, which are located within 200 feet of either side of a lot is
greater than the required front setback specified in this chapter, a required
setback line shall be provided on the lot equal to this greater average depth
but not to exceed 60 feet.
   (B)   Where the average of the front setback is less than the minimum
required front setback, the required setback line may be reduced to this lesser
average depth, but in no case to less than 15 feet.
   (C)   For the purpose of computing the average, an adjacent vacant lot shall
be considered as having the minimum required front setback specified for the
zoning district.
(1981 Code, § 206) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.021 LOT REQUIREMENTS CANNOT BE TRANSFERRED TO ANOTHER USE.
   (A)   The minimum yards, open spaces or off-street parking and loading
requirements can not be encroached upon.
   (B)   For each new building or altered existing one, the requirements can
not be met by using existing areas established for another use.
   (C)   A common facility such as a parking lot can be shared by 2 buildings
if it is large enough to accommodate the requirements of both uses.
(1981 Code, § 207) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.022 EVERY LOT SHALL ABUT A STREET.
   No building, structure or use of land, other than for genuine agricultural
purposes, shall be established on a lot which does not abut a dedicated public
street.
(1981 Code, § 208) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.023 LOCATIONS OF BUILDING LINES ON IRREGULARLY SHAPED LOTS.
   (A)   Locations of front, side and rear building lines on irregularly shaped
lots shall be determined by the Zoning Enforcement Officer.
   (B)   The determination shall be based on the spirit and intent of the
district regulations to achieve spacing and location of buildings or groups of
buildings on individual lots.
(1981 Code, § 209) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.024 MIXED USES.
   (A)   When two or more uses occupy the same building, the use that has the
largest yard requirements shall apply to the building.
   (B)   The off-street parking and loading requirements shall be met for each
use in any building containing more than one permitted use or activity, except
uses classified as commercial with multi uses or structures.
(1981 Code, § 210) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.025 FRACTIONAL REQUIREMENTS UNDER THIS CHAPTER.
   When any requirement of this chapter results in a fraction of a unit, a
fraction of 1/2 or more shall be considered a whole unit and a fraction of less
than 1/2 shall be disregarded.
(1981 Code, § 211) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.026 NONCONFORMANCES MAY CONTINUE.
   Any lot or structure being used lawfully before this chapter was enacted may
continue to be used in the same manner after the date of adoption of this
chapter even though the use or situation is not now permitted under the terms
of this chapter, except specific uses or situations where amortization or
compliance is required. More specific regulations concerning nonconformances
are given in §§
154.250 through
154.254 below.
(1981 Code, § 212) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.027 LOCATION OF BUILDING LINE WHERE THE STREET LINE IS UNKNOWN.
   Where there is uncertainty as to the location of a street line, the Board of
Adjustment shall determine the line for the purposes of this chapter, provided
that any street width determined shall be uniform for the entire length of the
portion of the street about which uncertainty exists.
(1981 Code, § 213) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.028 PARCELS NOT HAVING SANITARY SEWER OR WATER SERVICE.
   When any parcel of land is to be developed and will not be converted to the
Town of Liberty's sanitary sewerage or water system in the near future, it
shall comply with the regulations governing the design, installation and use of
sewerage disposal systems in Randolph County.
(1981 Code, § 214) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.029 HISTORIC OVERLAY DISTRICT (HD) DESIGNATED; PURPOSE DEFINED.
   (A)   The Historic District establishes regulations which will help maintain
the historic integrity of certain areas within the town.
   (B)   The use districts established in §
154.060 below may also be zoned as an Historic Overlay District as designated
herein and as shown on the official zoning map.
   (C)   In that case the land is subject to not only the requirements of the
underlying use district but also the additional requirements of the Historic
Overlay District.
(1981 Code, § 215) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.030 LOCATION OF BUILDING LINE ON MAJOR AND MINOR THOROUGHFARES.
   (A)   Building setback requirements for structures located along any major
or minor thoroughfare shall be measured from the ultimate rights-of-way as
shown in the adopted Thoroughfare Plan.
   (B)   The area of a lot outside of existing rights-of-way yet located within
the ultimate rights-of-way may be used in calculations that require area
determinations.
   (C)   All other streets shall utilize existing rights-of-way lines for
measurement of setback and yard requirements.
(1981 Code, § 216) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.031 PROHIBITION OF USE OF RESIDENTIALLY ZONED PROPERTY FOR ACCESS TO USES
NOT PERMITTED IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   No private land which is residentially zoned shall be used for vehicular or
pedestrian access to land or structures in other districts used for any purpose
not permitted in residential districts, except as provided below or otherwise
authorized by this chapter or other lawful regulations:
   (A)   Where provision does not exist for safe access for emergency and
public service vehicles and access is not reasonably feasible except through
privately owned residentially zoned land, access reserved for and limited to
the vehicles may be authorized by the Board of Adjustment, subject to
conditions and safeguards designed to protect the tranquillity and character of
the residential land so traversed; and
   (B)   Where convenience and safety would be promoted, walkways and bicycle
paths to non-residentially zoned land may be authorized by the Board of
Adjustment across privately owned residentially zoned land, subject to
conditions and safeguards to protect the tranquillity and character of the
residential land so traversed.
(1981 Code, § 217) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.032 LOTS; DIMENSIONS, ACCESS AND RELATED.
   (A)   Lots, measurement of width. The width of a lot shall be measured
across the required front setback line, provided, however, that the width
between side lot lines where they intersect with the street line shall not be
less than 80% of the required minimum lot width except in the case of lots on
the turning circles of cul-de-sacs or at similar points of street curvature
where the radius of the rights-of-way line (or a circle approximately following
the rights-of-way line and intersecting the foremost points of the side lot
lines) is less than 90 feet, in which case the 80% requirement shall not apply.
However, in no case shall the required minimum lot width be less than 50% on
the turning circles of cul-de-sacs. The minimum building line on such lots
where the radius is less than 90 feet, will be the point where the required lot
width is met. The following diagram showing lot measurement and width indicates
the relationships involved.
         Lot Measurement and Width
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/9c69637d794a56a84a5b0bc879c1b5550c19a150/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1594.bmp]
 
   (B)   Lot, area. The area of a lot shall be constructed as total area within
its boundaries. However, no portion indicated to be located within any street
rights-of-way shall be included in lot area calculations.
   (C)   Lots, types. The following diagram showing lot types illustrates
terminology used herein with reference to corner, interior and through lots.
               Lot Types
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/9c69637d794a56a84a5b0bc879c1b5550c19a150/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1597.bmp]
 
      (1)   In the above diagram, Lot A is a corner lot, defined as a lot
located at the intersection of two or more streets. A lot abutting a curved
street or streets shall be considered a corner lot if straight lines drawn from
the foremost points of the side lot lines to the foremost point of the lot
(projected if rounded) meet at an interior angle of less than 135 degrees. (See
lots marked A(l) in diagram.)
      (2)   In the above diagram, Lot B is an interior lot, defined as a lot
other than corner lot and abutting one street. Alleys shall not be considered
as streets for purposes of this definition.
      (3)   In the above diagram, Lot C is a through lot, defined as a lot
other than a corner lot, and with frontage on more than one street. Through
lots abutting two streets may be referred to as double-frontage lots. Alleys
shall not be considered as streets for purposes of this definition.
   (D)   Lot front.
      (1)   On interior lots, the front of a lot shall be construed as the
portion adjacent to the street.
      (2)   On corner lots, the narrower side fronting on the street shall be
considered to be the front of the lot. If the lot has equal frontage on two or
more streets, frontage shall be determined by the Zoning Administrator in
accordance with the prevailing building pattern, or the prevailing lotting
pattern. If a pattern has not been established frontage shall be determined at
the option of the owner.
      (3)   On through lots, all portions adjacent to streets shall be
considered as a front for regulatory purposes. If the Zoning Administrator
finds that the pattern of lots or the pattern of required yards, on lots
adjacent to the through lot, is such as to justify the elimination of the
requirement that more than one front be provided, such additional front shall
not be required.
   (E)   Lot yards; methods for measurement; special requirements. The
following rules shall apply with regard to determination of required yards on
lots.
      (1)   Yards adjacent to streets shall be front yards. Required yards
adjacent to streets shall be measured as follows.
         (a)   A straight line shall be drawn between the two points at which
lot lines for the portion of the lot line involved intersect the street line.
Where property corners are rounded, such points shall be plotted by projecting
the lot lines to the point where they would have met without rounding.
         (b)   Depth or width of required yards adjacent to streets shall be as
prescribed in district regulations and measured perpendicular to such straight
lines.
         (c)   The inner line of such required yards shall be parallel to the
outer line
      (2)   Front yards on interior lots. Front yards on interior lots shall be
construed as extending between side lot lines across the front of the lot.
      (3)   Front yards on corner lots. Front yards on corner lots shall be
construed as extending across all the front of the lot from each interior side
lot line to the opposite street line (parallel to the street lot lines and
equal to the distance from the street lot line prescribed in the district
regulations for front yards.)
      (4)   Side yards. Side yards shall be construed as running from the rear
line of the required front yard to the front line of the required rear yard, if
required or, if no rear yard is required, to the opposite lot line. The width
of a required side yard shall be measured perpendicular to the side lot line
and the inner line of the required yard shall be parallel to the outer line, at
the minimum distance therefrom prescribed in district regulations.
      (5)   Side yards on through lots with more than one front yard. Side
yards on through lots with more than 1 front yard shall be construed as running
to the rear lines of the front yards involved, and measurements and
requirements shall be as for division (E)(4) above.
      (6)   Side yards on corner lots. On corner lots, the side yard is the
yard along any lot line which intersects with a street lot line. When a corner
lot has four sides, the two sides not adjacent to the streets are both side
yards and the lot has no rear yard. If the corner lot has more than four sides,
the yards along lot lines which do not intersect with a street lot line shall
be considered rear yards.
      (7)   Rear yards. Rear yards shall be construed as extending across the
full width of the lot at its rear. The width of a required rear yard shall be
measured perpendicular to the rear lot line and the inner line of the required
yard shall be parallel to the outer line, at the minimum distance therefrom
prescribed in district regulations. On through lots providing two front yards,
and on corner lots with four sides, there will be no required rear yard, and
yards other than those adjacent to streets shall be construed as side yards. If
a corner lot has more than four sides, the yards along lot lines which do not
intersect with a street lot line shall be considered rear yards.
      (8)   Yards abutting railroad tracks. No yard shall be required along the
side or rear of a non-residential lot where the side or rear respectively of
the lot abuts a track which is or will be used to provide railroad service to
the lot.
   (F)   Special yards.
      (1)   A special yard, for the purposes of these regulations, shall be
construed as a yard other than adjacent to a street, required to perform the
same functions as a side or rear yard, but adjacent to a lot line so placed or
oriented that neither the term side yard nor the term rear yard, as generally
determined defined, or applied with respect to regular lots, fits the
circumstances of the case.
      (2)   In those instances, the special yard shall be considered a rear
yard unless the Zoning Administrator determines that side yard requirements of
the district shall apply because of the relationship of the portion of the lot
on which the yard is to be located to the adjoining lot or lots, with due
regard to the orientation of structures and buildable areas thereon.
   (G)   Diagram; yards. The following diagram indicates nomenclature, and
location of yards.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/9c69637d794a56a84a5b0bc879c1b5550c19a150/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1600.bmp]
 
   (H)   Minimum lot area. Minimum lot area is the minimum square footage
required for a lot by this chapter. If a zoning lot includes different zoning
districts, the minimum lot area requirements for each district shall be met.
   (I)   Building spacing. The spacing between principal structures located on
the same zoning lot shall be determined by the North Carolina State Building
Code. However, in no case shall there be less than 20 feet between principal
structures.
(1981 Code, § 218) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004; Am. Ord. passed - - )
§ 154.033 PERMITTED PROJECTIONS INTO REQUIRED SETBACKS.
   (A)   Every part of a required yard shall be open and unobstructed from its
lowest level to the sky except for certain architectural features, such as, but
not limited to, cornices, bay windows, eaves, stoops and gutters, may project
no more than 3 feet into the required front setback, 5 feet into the required
rear setback and 2 feet into the required side setback except that no such
architectural feature shall be permitted within the required buffer yard.
   (B)   Mechanical equipment, such a air conditioning units, heat pumps,
heating equipment, solar panels, and similar installations, may not project
into the required front setback, but may project 5 feet into the required rear
setback and 2 feet into the required side setback except that no such
mechanical equipment shall be permitted within the required buffer yard.
(Am. Ord. passed 7-6-2015)
§ 154.034 SPECIAL PURPOSE LOTS.
   Requirements of this chapter with respect to street frontage, minimum lot
and buildable area, and minimum lot dimensions shall not apply to lots for
family cemeteries or cemeteries on property owned by a place of worship, public
facilities, communication facilities, communication towers and similar utility
uses. A special purpose lot shall be permitted only after the Zoning
Administrator has determined that the proposed lot has sufficient dimensions to
accommodate the intended use and planting yards, if required by the town’s
zoning ordinance. If the special purpose lot does not have a minimum of 20 feet
direct access to a public or private street, an easement for ingress and egress
with a minimum width of 20 feet shall be platted from the street to the lot.
The subdivision to create the lot shall be approved in accordance with the
town’s subdivision ordinance. The final plat shall label the proposed use of
the lot.
(Ord. passed 8-8-2023)
ADMINISTRATIVE MECHANISMS
§ 154.045 TOWN COUNCIL.
   The Town Council shall have the following duties in relation to the Zoning
Chapter:
   (A)   Adopt and repeal the Zoning Chapter;
   (B)   Amend the Zoning Chapter;
   (C)   Authorize special uses as specified in §§
154.190 through
154.239; and
   (D)   Authorize conditional use permits as specified in §§
154.265 through
154.279.
(1981 Code, § 301) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.046 PLANNING BOARD.
   (A)   The Planning Board shall operate under the rules established in its
by-laws.
   (B)   The duties of the Planning Board in relation to this chapter shall be
as follows:
      (1)   Certify the original ordinance to the Town Council; and
      (2)   Review and submit recommendations concerning all amendments;
   (C)   The Planning Board shall function as the Board of Adjustment. When it
is performing this role the Board shall comply with the rules and procedures
specified for the Board of Adjustment.
(1981 Code, § 302) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.047 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   The Liberty Planning Board shall serve as the Board of Adjustment and/
or the Watershed Review Board for this chapter. There shall be 2 alternate
members of the Board of Adjustment. The members appointed as alternate members
(one from the extraterritorial jurisdiction and one from inside the town
limits) shall be the Planning Board member from each type of representation
which has the least time of service. The alternate member shall be appointed as
a regular member upon appointment of a new Planning Board member from his or
her designated area.
   (B)   The alternate members of the Board of Adjustment shall be called upon
to attend only those meetings and hearings at which one or more members are
absent or unable to participate in the hearing of a case because of financial
or other interest.
   (C)   Members of the Planning Board, when acting as the Board of Adjustment
and/or Watershed Review Board, shall serve without compensation, but may be
reimbursed for direct expenses incurred in connection with the discharge of
their duties.
   (D)   Members length of term and filling of vacancies shall be as provided
for in the Liberty Town Code for members of the Liberty Planning Board.
   (E)   Extraterritorial members shall have equal rights, privileges and
duties as the members who live inside the town limits.
   (F)   The Board of Adjustment shall operate under the organizational and
administrative procedures established in its by-laws and the State of North
Carolina.
   (G)   The Board of Adjustment shall have the following powers and duties:
      (1)   To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged that there is an
error in any order, requirement, decision or determination made by the Zoning
Administrator; and
      (2)   Hear and grant a properly filed request for a variance from the
terms of this chapter where practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships
would result from carrying out the strict letter of this chapter and where the
requested variance serves to observe the sprite of the ordinance, secure public
safety and welfare, and do substantial justice. Nothing in this section shall
be construed to authorize the Board of Adjustment to permit a use in a district
where that use is neither a permitted use nor a permissible special use.
   (H)   Before a variance is granted, the following conditions must exist:
      (1)   The alleged hardships or practical difficulties are unique and
singular as regards the property of the person requesting the variance and are
not those suffered in common with other property similarly located;
      (2)   The alleged hardship and practical difficulties, which will result
from failure to grant the variance, extend to the inability to use the land in
question for any use in conformity with the provision of this chapter and
include substantially more than mere inconvenience and inability to attain a
higher financial return;
      (3)   The variance, if allowed, will not substantially interfere with or
injure the rights of others whose property would be affected by allowance of
the variance;
      (4)   The variance is in harmony with and serves the general intent and
purpose of this chapter and the adopted Land Development Plan; and
      (5)   That allowing the variance will result in substantial justice being
done, considering both the public benefits intended to be secured by this
chapter and the individual hardships that will be suffered by a failure of the
Board to grant a variance.
   (I)   Any person aggrieved by any decision, order, requirement or
determination by the Zoning Administrator in the administration of this chapter
may appeal to the Board of Adjustment. An appeal shall specify the reasons for
the appeal and be submitted within a reasonable time. The Zoning Enforcement
Officer Administrator shall transmit to the Board all papers and other records
of the case.
   (J)   (1)   An appeal stays all proceedings unless the Zoning Enforcement
Officer Administrator certifies that a stay would, in his or her opinion, cause
imminent peril to life or property.
      (2)   In those cases, proceedings shall not be stayed other than by a
restraining order granted by the Board of Adjustment or by a court.
      (3)   The Board of Adjustment shall fix a reasonable time to hear and
decide the appeal. At the hearing, any party may appear in person, by agent or
by attorney.
   (K)   Any appeal from the decision of the Board of Adjustment shall be taken
to the Superior Court within 30 days.
   (L)   The Board of Adjustment shall refuse to hear any case it has
previously denied if it finds that there has been no substantial change in the
conditions or circumstances.
   (M)   The concurring vote of 4/5 of the members of the Board of Adjustment
shall be necessary:
      (1)   To reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination of the
Zoning Administrator Enforcement Officer;
      (2)   To decide in favor of the applicant any matter upon which it is
required to pass under this chapter; and/or
      (3)   Or to effect any variance authorized by this chapter.
   (N)   Applications for variances, requests for interpretations and appeals
for review of decisions of the Zoning Administrator shall be filed with the
Zoning Administrator, as agent for the Board, on forms provided by the Zoning
Administrator at least 20 days prior to the Board of Adjustment meeting at
which the request will be considered. For a fully dimensional plat of the
property with sufficient information to illustrate the necessity for the
variance shall be submitted along with the application.
   (O)   The town shall advertise the application for an appeal or variance as
required by the current G.S. Ch. 160A, as may be amended.
   (P)   After conducting the public hearing, the Board shall approve, approve
conditionally, or disapprove the request.
(1981 Code, § 303) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.048 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Town Manager may assume the duties of the Zoning Administrator or
appoint someone to the position.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator shall enforce and administer the provisions
of this chapter.
   (C)   If a ruling of the Zoning Enforcement Officer Administrator is
questioned, the aggrieved party or parties may appeal the ruling to the Board
of Adjustment if desired.
(1981 Code, § 304) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 154.060 USE DISTRICTS NAMED.
   For the purpose of this chapter the Town of Liberty and its extraterritorial
planning jurisdiction is divided into the following use districts:
   (A)   R40: Residential District;
   (B)   R12: Residential District;
   (C)   R6: Residential District;
   (D)   RMF: Residential Multi-Family District;
   (E)   B1: Central Business District;
   (F)   B2: General Business District;
   (G)   I: Industrial District; and
   (H)   IP: Industrial Park District.
(1981 Code, § 401) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004; Am. Ord. passed 8-8-2023)
§ 154.061 DISTRICT BOUNDARIES SHOWN ON ZONING MAP.
   (A)   The boundaries of the districts as shown on the map accompanying this
chapter are entitled official zoning map, Liberty, North Carolina.
   (B)   The zoning map and all the notations, references, amendments and other
information shown are made a part of this chapter the same as if the
information set forth on the map was all fully described.
   (C)   The zoning map properly attested is posted at the Liberty Town Hall
and is available for inspection by the public.
(1981 Code, § 402) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.062 DUE CONSIDERATION GIVEN TO DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of any of the districts as
shown on the zoning map, the following rules shall apply:
   (A)   Where the district boundaries are indicated as approximately following
streets, alleys or highways, the centerlines shall be construed to be the
boundaries.
   (B)   Where district boundaries are indicated as approximately following lot
lines, the lot lines shall be construed to be the boundaries.
   (C)   Where district boundaries are indicated as approximately being
parallel to the center lines of streets, alleys, highways or the rights-of-way
of same, the district boundaries shall be construed as being parallel and at
the distance indicated on the zoning map.
   (D)   Where a district boundary line divides a lot or tract in single
ownership, the district requirements for the least restricted portion of the
lot or tract shall be deemed to apply to the whole provided the extensions
shall not include a part of a lot or tract more than 50 feet beyond the
district boundary line. The term LEAST RESTRICTED shall refer to use
restrictions, not lot or tract size.
(1981 Code, § 403) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.063 ONLY ONE OFFICIAL MAP.
   The final authority for the current zoning status of land, buildings or
other structures in the affected territory shall be the official zoning map,
which is located in the Town Hall. If any copies of the official map are
different from the original, the official map shall be the final authority.
(1981 Code, § 404) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.064 DESCRIPTION AND PURPOSE OF EACH ZONING DISTRICT.
   (A)   R-40 Residential. The R40 Residential District is intended to provide
regulations which will produce a low intensity mixture of single-family, 2-
family dwellings and Class A and B Manufactured Homes, usually served by
individual wells and/or sewage disposal systems, plus the necessary
governmental and other support facilities to provide service to the suburban
intensity living.
   (B)   R-12 Residential. The R12 Residential District is intended to provide
regulations which will produce a medium intensity of single-family dwellings
and is usually served by central water supply and sewage disposal systems, plus
the necessary governmental and other support facilities to service the urban
intensity living.
   (C)   R-6 Residential. The R-6 Residential District is intended to provide
regulations which will produce a higher intensity mixture of single-family, 2-
family dwellings and Class A manufactured homes and is required to be served by
central water supply and sewage disposal systems, plus the necessary
governmental and other support facilities to service the urban intensity
living.
   (D)   R-MF Residential Multi-Family District. The R-MF Residential District
is intended to produce a high intensity mixture of single-family, 2-family and
multi-family dwellings in close proximity to major nodes of non-residential
development, characterized primarily by multi-family housing, plus the
necessary governmental and other support facilities to service that level of
development. Land designed R-MF shall normally be located with access to a
major or minor thoroughfare with access to local residential streets
discouraged.
   (E)   B-1 Downtown Commercial District. The B-1 Downtown Commercial District
is intended to include the traditional commercial, governmental, administrative
and service core of Liberty where uses are generally in structures with no
setbacks (front, side or rear). Off-street parking is not required. Uses are
discouraged that are not contained inside a structure. Multi-family dwellings
are permitted if they comply with the R-6 Residential lot and parking
requirements.
   (F)   B-2 General Commercial District. The B2 General Commercial District is
intended to serve the convenience and shoppers goods, retail and service needs
of the public, both local and transient. This district should always be located
with access directly to major or minor thoroughfare, never local streets.
   (G)   I Industrial. The intent of the I Industrial Development District is
to produce areas for manufacturing, processing and assembly uses, commercial
uses, distribution and servicing enterprises, controlled by performance
standards to limit the effect of those uses on uses within the district and on
adjacent districts.
   (H)   IP Industrial. The intent of the IP Industrial Development District is
to produce areas for intensive manufacturing, warehousing, processing and
assembly uses, controlled by performance standards to limit the effect of those
uses on adjacent districts.
(1981 Code, § 405) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004; Am. Ord. passed 8-8-2023)
§ 154.065 SCHEDULE OF PERMITTED AND PERMISSIBLE SPECIAL USES BY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Except as specifically provided in this chapter, regulations governing
the use of land, water and structures within the various districts within the
zoning jurisdiction of the Town of Liberty shall be as shown in the schedule of
permitted and permissible uses by district.
   (B)   Use of land or structures which are not expressly listed in this
schedule as permitted principal uses, permitted accessory uses or permissible
special uses are prohibited uses and shall not be established in that district.
Uses listed as permissible special uses may be established in that district
only after approval of an application for a special use permit in accord with
the procedures and requirements in §§
154.190 through
154.239.
   (C)   Section
154.067 indicates the permitted and permissible uses for the regular zoning
districts.
(1981 Code, § 406) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004; Am. Ord. passed 8-8-2023)
§ 154.066 AREA, HEIGHT, BULK AND PLACEMENT REGULATIONS.
   Except as specifically provided in this chapter, regulations governing the
minimum lot width and area; required front, side and rear yards; maximum
permitted floor area ratio, maximum permitted height of structures, maximum
permitted lot coverage, and related matters shall be for the several regular
districts as shown below.
Table of Area, Height, Bulk and Placement Regulations
                                Required Yards
         Minimum Lot Lot Width  * (Setbacks)   Maximum    Maximum    Maximum
District Size in     (Frontage)                Height* in Floor Area Floor Area
         Square Feet in Feet                   Feet Ratio Ratio      by SUP
Table of Area, Height, Bulk and Placement Regulations
                              Required Yards *
         Minimum   Lot Width  (Setbacks)        Maximum Maximum    Maximum
District Lot Size  (Frontage)                   Height* Floor Area Floor Area
         in Square in Feet    Front Side Rear   in Feet Ratio      by SUP
         Feet                                   Ratio

         40,000
R40      per       100        30    15   25     35
         dwelling
         unit
R12      12,000    75         30    10   20     35
         6,000 for
         single-
R6       family;   60         25    10   20     35
         10,000
         for 2-
         family
         6,000 for
         single-
         family;
         10,000
RMF      for 2-    60         25    10   20     35      0.27       0.35
         family
         and
         multi-
         family
B1       No        No minimum 0     0    0      50
         minimum
B2       10,000    75         20    10   10     50      0.27       0.35
I        10,000    75         10    10   10     50
IP       30,000    100        50    20   20     50
* Except as modified by §
154.032 or by buffering and screening requirements.
 
(1981 Code, § 400-1, Article 400, Table 400-1) (Ord. passed 6-28-2001)
§ 154.067 TABLE OF PERMITTED USES.
   Following is the table of permitted uses by district.
Permitted Uses by District
Use Buffer Group R40 R12 R6 RMF B2 B1 I IP See Note
Permitted Uses by District
Use                               Buffer  R40 R12 R6  RMF B2  B1  I   IP  See
                                  Group                                   Note
Accessory apartment; non-
commercial; manufactured homes    SF      A   A   A   A                   1 and
not permitted (Refer to Notes 1                                           33
and 33)
Adult day care facility (for more 2                       S   S
than 30)
Adult day care facility (for less 2                       P   P
than 30)
Adult day care homes (for less            P   P   P   P
than 6 persons)
Adult establishment (see business
dealing in primarily sexually
explicit materials in table
below)
Agricultural roadside stand;              A   A   A   A   A   A   A   A
produce produced on site
Agricultural uses; genuine except
hog parlors, chicken houses,              P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   41
turkey houses, feed lots
operations
Airport/heliport                                                  S   S
Amusement parks                   3                       P       P
Animal hospital/veterinary        3                       P       P
clinic; general
Bakery distribution center with
retail sales permitted; no baking 2                       P       P       2
permitted
Bakery; on and off premises sale  3                               P
permitted; wholesale and retail
Bakery; on premises sale only     2                       P   P
Bank                              2                       P   P   P
Bank; automatic teller            2                       P   P   P
Banquet facility                                          P   P   P
Bed and breakfast                 1       P   P   P   P   P               3
Boarding/rooming houses (owner    1       P   P   P   P
occupied only) maximum 3 roomers
Bus terminal                      3                       P   P   P
Business primarily dealing in     3                               S
sexually explicit materials
Business services                 1                       P   P   P
Cemetery, human                   1       A   A   A   A   P   P   P
Cemetery, pet                     1                       P       P
Child day care center; large (80  2                       S   S   A   A   4
+ children)
Child day care center; medium (30 2                       S   S   A   A   4
to 79 children)
Child day care center; small (13  1                   S   P   P   A   A   4
to 29 children)
Child day care; large home (9 to  1       S   S   S   P                   4
12 children)
Church/synagogue (not place of    1       P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P
assembly)
Church/synagogue child care
center (or other non-profit       2       A   A   A   A   A   A   A   A   44
organization)
Circus, carnival and fair and                             P   P   P       42
concerts; limited duration
College/university seminary       2       S   S   S   S   P   P           5
Columbarium                       1       A   A   A   A   P   P   P
Combustible and flammable liquid
storage > 100,000 gallons         3                               S
aggregate
Combustible and flammable; liquid
storage above ground < 2,000              A   A   A   A   A   A   A   A   6
gallons
Combustible and flammable; liquid
storage above ground > 2,000      3                               S   S
gallons < 100,000 gallons
Combustible and flammable; liquid
storage below ground < 2,000              A   A   A   A   A   A   A   A   7
gallons
Combustible and flammable liquid
storage below ground > 2,000                              A   A   P   P   8
gallons
Commercial developments with
multi-use and/or structures and   2                       S       S       9
FAR between 0.27 and 0.35
Commercial developments with
multi-use and/or structures and   2                       P   P   P       9
FAR up to 0.27
Communication facilities;         2                       P   P   P   P   10
commercial
Communication facilities; non-            A   A   A   A   P   P   P   P   11
commercial
Community center                          S   S   S   S   P   P
Congregate living facility (does
not include structured                    S               P   P
environment)
Congregate living facility; for 6
or less persons (family care              P   P   P   P                   12
home)
Contractor’s office             1                       P   P   P   P   13
Correctional facilities           3                               P
Country, racquet, tennis and swim 2       S   S   S   S   P   P           43
clubs
Crematorium                       2                       A   A   P
Cultural facility                 1       S   S   S   P   P   P   P
Dormitories                       2       A   A   A   A   A   A
Drinking establishments; bar,
cocktail lounge, tavern,          2                       P   P   P
coffeehouse cabaret and the like
Drive-in theater                  3                       P       P       14
Dry cleaners; small               2                       P   P   P
Dry cleaning plant                2                       P       P   P
Dwelling for caretaker/security                           A   A   A   A
guard on premises where employed
Dwelling; multiple-family units   MF                  P   P   P           15
up to 0.27 FAR
Dwelling; multiple-family units   MF                  S   S   S           15
up to .35 FAR
Dwelling; single-family units     SF      P   P   P   P   P   P   S   S   15
Dwelling; 2-family units          SF      P       P   P   P   P           15
Dwelling; within mixed use                                    P           16
structure
Eating establishments; drive- in  2                       P   P   P
Eating establishments; drive- in  2                       S       S
(adult establishment)
Eating establishments; sit down   2                       P   P   P   A
Eating establishments; sit down   2                       S   S   S
(adult establishment)
Eating establishments; walk- in;  2                       P   P   P
carry-out
Electronic and electrical repair; 2                       P       P   P
large
Electronic and electrical repair; 1                       P   P   P
small
Exterminator                      2                       P       P       17
Extraction of earth products      3       S   S   S   S   S   S   S   S
Family care home (see congregate
living facility for 6 or less in
table above)
Farmers market                                            P   P   P       47
Flea markets; open air sales      2                       P   P   P
Flea markets; open air sales;                             P   P   P       49
temporary
Fraternity and sorority houses    2               S   S                   18
Funeral parlor                    2                   P   P   P   P
Furniture refinishing and repair  2                       P   P   P
Game rooms                        3                       S
Gas station                       2                       P   P   P   P
Golf course not including Par 3   1       S   S   S                       41
or miniature courses
Government land reserves                  P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P
Health practitioners offices      1                       P   P   P
Health services                   2                       P   P   P
Heliport; emergency medical                           A   A   A   A   A   19
Home occupation                   SF      A/S A/S A/S A/S                 20
Hotels/motels                     2                       P   P   P
Industrial developments with
multi use and or structures with                                  P   P   45
FAR up to 0.27
Industrial developments with
multi use and or structures with                                  P   P   45
FAR up to 0.35
Interior cleaning services        2                       P   P   P
Junkyards                         3                               S
Kennel                            2                       P       P       21
Landfills; clean material         3                               P
Liquor store                      2                       P   P   P
Lumber and building material      2                       P       P       22
sales
Lumberyard                        3                               P
Mail order distribution center    2                       P   P   P
Mail order office                 1                       P   P   P
Manufactured home/mobile homes
park with Class A and B homes     2       S
(Class C not permitted)
Manufactured home/mobile homes on
individual lots; Class A and B;   SF      P                               23
double wide (Class C not
permitted)
Manufactured home/mobile homes on
individual lots; Class A and B;   SF      P                               23
single wide (Class C not
permitted)
Manufacturing, processing and     3                               P   P
assembly; heavy
Manufacturing, processing and     2                       S       P   P
assembly; light
Massages (See business primarily
dealing in sexual explicit
material in table above)
Massagists; therapeutic health    1                       P   P           38
Meat packing/ slaughterhouse      3
Medical and dental labs           2                       P   P   P   P
Membership organization; not for  2                       P   P   P
commercial gain
Mental institutions/ sanitariums  3                       S   S   S
Mini-warehouse                    2                       P       P       24
Mobile home sales lots            2                       P       P   A
Motor vehicle repair              2                       P       P
Non-conforming buildings and uses         P/S P/S P/S P/S P/S P/S P/S P/S 26
Nursing, convalescent and         2                   P   P   P
extended care facilities
Open air sales, accessory                                 A   A   A   A   51
Open storage                      3                       A       A   A   27
Parking lots as principal use of
zoning lot (Must meet             2                       P   P   P
requirements of §
154.144)
Personal services                 1                       P   P   P
Photographic lab facility;        2                       P   P   P   P
commercial
Photographic lab facility; 1-hour 2                       P   P   P
type
Photography studio with lab for   1                       P   P   P
in-house use only
Place of assembly (does not       3                       P   P   P       39
include churches)
Planned Unit Development (PUD)            S   S   S   S   S   S   S   S
Printing and publishing           2                       P   P   P   P
Produce/farmers market            1                       P   P   P
Produce sales; temporary                                  P   P   P       50
Professional residential facility
(structured environment; halfway  2                       S   S
houses)
Professional services             1                       P   P   P
Public use facility               2       S   S   S   S   S   S   S   S   54
Radio and television receiving            A   A   A   A   A   A   A   A   28
antenna and dish, accessory
Railroad classification yard      3                               P
Recreation and amusement services
(commercial does not include game 2                       P   P   P
rooms)
Recreational vehicle/travel park  3       S               S
camp
Recycling center                  2                       P       P   P
Recycling collection point        2       A   A   A   A   P   P   P   P   25
Recycling plant                   3                               P   P
Rehabilitation center             1                       P   P
Rental/sales of commercial        3                       P       P   A   29
vehicles and heavy equipment
Rental/sales of domestic vehicles 2                       P       P   A   29
Repair services                   2                       P   P   P
Research activities               2                               P   P
Retail convenience goods
(accessory use allowed in PUD     2       A   A   A   A   P   P   P       30
only)
Retail shoppers goods (accessory  2       A   A   A   A   P   P   P       30
use allowed in PUD only)
School; business                  2                       P   P   P
School; technical/ vocational     2                       P   P   P   P
Schools, nursery/ preschools and  2       S   S   S   S   P   P           31
the like
Schools; public, private,         2       S   S   S   S   P   P           32
elementary and high school
Seasonal sales; temporary                                 P   P   P       50
Service station                   2                       P   P   P   P
Sign painting                     2                       P       P   P
Signs, off premise billboard and
poster, as, panel and the like
(not permitted see §§
154.177 and
154.178)
Solar farm                                S                       P   P   52,
                                                                          53
Stable; commercial                2       S               P       P
Structure, accessory; no mobile
homes, tractor trailer bodies,            A   A   A   A   A   A   A   A   33
nor roll-offs permitted. Refer to
Notes 1 and 33
Taxi stand                        1                   P   P   P   P   P
Telecommunication towers (see §  See §  P/S P/S P/S P/S P/S P/S P/S P/S
154.097)                          154.097
Temporary portable building;              A   A   A   A   A   A   A   A   34
construction related
Transfer station                  3                               S   S
Truck terminal                    3                               P   P
Uses; customary accessory                 A   A   A   A   A   A   A   A
Vehicle towing operation          3                       P       P
Warehouse                         3                               P   P
Watershed Overlay District                                S       S   S
(storage of hazardous waste)
Wholesale distribution            3                               P   P
Yard sales                                A   A   A   A                   35
P = Permitted as principal use in district
S = Permitted by special use permit only
A = Permitted as an accessory use only
 
(1981 Code, § 400-1, Article 400, Table 400-2) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004; Am. Ord.
passed 11-23-2009; Am. Ord. passed 7-6-2015; Am. Ord. passed 7-11-2016; Am.
Ord. passed 3-23-2020; Am. Ord. passed 8-8-2023)
§ 154.068 NOTE FILE FOR § 154.067.
   (A)   Note 1: For related family members only of the owner who shall reside
at the residence.
   (B)   Note 2: No enterprise shall be located less than 200 feet from any
residential district. Where all buildings and exercise areas are enclosed and
soundproofed, the foregoing space separating the use from residential districts
shall not be required.
   (C)   Note 3: A bed and breakfast inn may be established in R40, R12, R6 and
RMF Residential Districts and in the B2 Commercial District in accordance with
the standards below.
      (1)   The maximum number of guest bedrooms for each proposed bed and
breakfast inn shall be 4 unless the applicant can demonstrate that the original
floor plan of the structure contained a larger number of bedrooms, in which
case, the original number of bedrooms may be approved as allowable guest
lodging.
      (2)   The operator shall be a full-time resident of the premises.
      (3)   The serving of meals to guests shall be limited to breakfast only.
      (4)   Parking for bed and breakfast inns shall be located in the rear or
interior side yard of the property but not in the front or in the street side
yard. Guest parking within the street rights-of-way is prohibited. All other
requirements of §§
154.135 through
154.147 shall be met.
      (5)   Signs for bed and breakfast inns shall be limited to 1 ground sign
per establishment. A sign shall not exceed 5 square feet and shall not be
illuminated and shall be identification sign only. Location of sign shall be
governed by sign regulations for district in which establishment is located. No
advertising signs of any nature shall be permitted. Establishments located
within the B2 district shall comply with sign regulations for that district.
      (6)   Accessory use associated with a bed and breakfast inn shall be only
those permitted in the zoning districts in which the development is located.
   (D)   Note 4: All childcare facilities are defined by the G.S. § 110-86 as
to type and size of facilities.
   (E)   Note 5: The site for any college, university or seminary shall have an
area of at least 10 acres, plus 5 acres for each 100 pupils, or major portion
thereof, in excess of 400 pupils. A site shall have a frontage on a major or
minor thoroughfare.
   (F)   Note 6: A maximum of 2,000 gallons of heating fuel shall be permitted.
In addition, storage of not more than 2,000 gallons of kerosene for retail sale
shall be permitted as an accessory use in B I, B2, I and IP Districts, provided
containment in an UL approved (or other approved testing agency) tank/
dispensing system or a tank/dispensing system constructed under NFPA Standards.
All installations shall be according to the North Carolina Building Code and
NFPA Standards and all like installations shall be approved by the Liberty Fire
Department. Not more than 2,000 gallons of motor vehicle fuel for genuine
agricultural use shall be permitted as an accessory use in any residential
district provided containment in an UL approved (or other approved testing
agency) tank/dispensing system or a tank/dispensing system constructed under
NFPA Standards. All installations shall be according to the North Carolina
Building Code and NFPA Standards and all like installations shall be approved
by the Liberty Fire Department.
   (G)   Note 7: A maximum of 2,000 gallons of heating fuel only shall be
permitted.
   (H)   Note 8: Combustible and flammable liquid stored for retail sales shall
be permitted as an accessory in B1 and B2 Districts. Combustible and flammable
liquid storage may be considered a by right principle use or an accessory use
in the I and IP Districts. Within all of these districts not more than 100,000
gallons aggregate shall be permitted within 1 facility. All storage shall be
according to all applicable local, state and federal regulations. If storage
facility is principal use of property, it shall be considered a Group 3
buffering and screening purposes.
   (I)   Note 9: This type of development generally includes more than 1
principal structure and use with associated accessory structures and uses on 1
zoning lot which will not be subdivided into customary building lots. The
development as a whole (including all principal structures and accessory
structures) may not exceed the permitted FAR for the district in which the
development is located. All yard, height, setback, parking, buffer and
screening and the like, requirements of this chapter shall be met for the
development as a whole.
   (J)   Note 10: Height limitations for specific districts may be exceeded as
set forth in §§
154.015 through
154.032.
   (K)   Note 11: All structures (towers, poles and the like) used to support
communication receiving or transmitting apparatus shall comply with the
applicable height and setback regulations of the district in which the
structure is located and as modified and permitted by §§
154.015 through
154.032.
   (L)   Note 12: Facilities meeting the definitions established in G.S. Ch.
168, Article 3, Family Care Homes.
   (M)   Note 13: Open storage yards as accessory uses to a contractor's office
are permitted in B2, I and IP districts by right, subject to screening and
buffering requirements as per §§
154.080 through
154.097. Open storage yards shall be considered as a Group 3 use for buffering
and screening purposes.
   (N)   Note 14: Drive inn theaters are subject to the following regulations:
      (1)   No part of any theater screen, projection booth, or other building
shall be located closer that 300 feet from any residential district nor closer
than 50 feet from any lot line.
      (2)   The image on the theater screen shall not be visible from any major
or minor thoroughfare or from any residential district.
      (3)   Queuing space within the zoning lot shall be provided for patrons
awaiting admission in an amount equal to 30% of the vehicular capacity of the
theater.
      (4)   No ingress and egress shall be permitted except from major and
minor thoroughfares, as shown on the Liberty Thoroughfare Plan.
      (5)   Emergency exits shall be provided and shall meet the approval of
the Liberty Fire Department. Exits may be allowed on local streets.
      (6)   Any lights used to illuminate the theater site shall be so arranged
as to reflect the light away from adjoining property and streets. No unshaded
light sources shall be permitted. Necessary safety lighting of roads and
buildings, and lighting required by governmental regulations shall be
permitted.
      (7)   The theater site shall be graded, surfaced, drained and suitably
maintained to the extent necessary to avoid nuisances of dust, erosion or
excessive water flow across public ways or adjacent lands. Storm water
management shall be provided to protect adjoining property from erosion or
flooding.
      (8)   Buffers and screens shall be provided as required by this chapter.
      (9)   No central loudspeaker system shall be permitted as part of the
theater operation.
      (10)   Sound shall be transmitted by means of individual speakers mounted
adjacent to the automobile parking stalls.
   (O)   Note 15: See §
154.066 above.
   (P)   Note 16: See §
154.066 above. The combined floor area of all uses shall not exceed the maximum
permitted by §
154.066. Residential conversions of existing non-residential structures are
permitted within the B1 District provided the following additional requirements
are met.
      (1)   Each dwelling unit shall provide complete, separate and independent
living facilities for 1 or more persons, including permanent provisions for
living, sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation. Boarding houses, group
housing, residential hotels or any residential design which provides for
sharing of kitchen or bath facilities shall not be permitted.
      (2)   All parts of any structure renovated to provide residential units,
including parts maintained for non-residential uses, shall fully comply with
all applicable provision of the most current edition of the North Carolina
State Building Code, as it may be amended from time to time. The following
chapters of the North Carolina Building Code are listed as an example of the
requirement to be met. (This list is not meant to be all inclusive):
         (a)   Chapter III “Fire District;”
         (b)   Chapter IV “Occupancy Classification;”
         (c)   Chapter V “Special Occupancy Requirements;”
         (d)   Chapter VII “Fire Protection Requirements;”
         (e)   Chapter X “Safety to Life Requirements for Existing Buildings;”
and
         (f)   Chapter XI “Means of Egress Requirements, Exits and Exits
Access.”
      (3)   All renovated residential units shall meet the requirements of the
Liberty Minimum Housing Code.
      (4)   No residential conversion shall be permitted on any ground floor.
      (5)   The area, yard and height requirements as set forth in§
154.066 shall apply to any residential conversion under this section.
      (6)   Sign regulations are as set forth in §§
154.160 through
154.178.
      (7)   The owner of each building offering residential units shall provide
evidence to the town that for each unit within the building 2 off-street
parking spaces are provided. Parking shall be convenient to the units and shall
have a safe walking route to the unit.
      (8)   Plans detailing the proposed conversion shall be submitted as part
of the application for zoning compliance. The plans shall be specific to the
requirements of the North Carolina Building Code and all requirements of this
section. The Randolph County Building Inspection Department shall be provided
with a copy of the plans. A report by the Randolph County Building Inspection
Department shall be required as part of the review process.
   (Q)   Note 17: Open storage yards as accessory uses to an exterminator's
office are permitted in B2 and I Districts by right, subject to screening and
buffering requirements as per §§
154.080 through
154.097. Open storage yards shall be considered as a Group 3 use for buffering
and screening purposes.
   (R)   Note 18: Minimum lot area shall be at least 6,000 square feet. The
maximum floor area ratio shall be as permitted in §
154.066. A minimum of 250 square feet of floor area shall be provided for each
resident. Signs shall be regulated as per §§
154.160 through
154.178. Off-street parking shall be regulated as per §§
154.135 through
154.147. Evidence of authentication of chapter shall be submitted with an
application for certificate of zoning compliance.
   (S)   Note 19: Accessory to a permitted health services use only.
   (T)   Note 20: Shall be subject to the following limitations:
      (1)   No home occupation shall be permitted that:
         (a)   Changes the outside appearance of the dwelling unit or is
visible from a street;
         (b)   Generates traffic, parking, sewage or water use in excess of
that which is normal in a residential district;
         (c)   Creates a hazard to persons or property or is a nuisance per se
or per accidents;
         (d)   Utilizes any accessory structure;
         (e)   Results in outside storage or display of anything; and
         (f)   Results in the erection of any sign for advertising purposes.
      (2)   The following are permitted home occupations in all residential
districts, provided that they meet the requirements of A, above:
         (a)   Dressmaking, sewing and tailoring;
         (b)   Painting, sculpting and writing;
         (c)   Telephone answering service;
         (d)   Home crafts such as weaving, lapidary, potting;
         (e)   Tutoring of no more than 4 students at a time;
         (f)   Computer programming and other home offices which do not require
clients/customers to visit the home or create conflicts with other provisions
of this note; and
         (g)   Music teaching.
      (3)   The following are prohibited as home occupations:
         (a)   Animal hospitals;
         (b)   Physicians, dentists and chiropractors;
         (c)   Dance studios;
         (d)   Exercise studios;
         (e)   Mortuaries;
         (f)   Nursery schools;
         (g)   Private clubs;
         (h)   Repair shops;
         (i)   Restaurants;
         (j)   Retail sales;
         (k)   Stables and kennels; and
         (l)   Automotive repair and paint shops.
      (4)   Any proposed home occupation that is neither specifically permitted
by division (T)(2) above nor prohibited by division (T)(3) above shall, in
order to be established, obtain a special use permit from the Town Council in
accordance with §§
154.190 through
154.239.
   (U)   Note 21: All activities, with the exception of animal exercise areas,
shall be conducted within an enclosed, soundproofed building. Exercise areas
shall observe as 200 foot setback from any residential district. The disposal
methods for wastes generated shall be reviewed and approved by the Randolph
County Department of Health.
   (V)   Note 22: Open storage yards as accessory uses to a lumber and building
materials sales use are permitted in B2 and I Districts by right, subject to
screening and buffering requirements as per §§
154.080 through
154.097. Open storage yards shall be considered as a Group 3 use for buffering
and screening purposes.
   (W)   Note 23:
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator shall use the following criteria in
determining the classification of mobile homes:
         (a)   Roof pitch. The pitch of the main roof of the building shall
have a minimum rise of 2.4/12;
         (b)   Exterior finish. The exterior materials shall be a texture,
color, material, and scale compatible with those existing in the immediate
vicinity and in no case shall the degree of reflectivity of exterior finishes
exceed that of gloss white paint;
         (c)   Foundation. A continuous permanent masonry foundation, unpierced
except for required ventilation and access shall be installed under all
elements of the building; and
         (d)   Chassis and tongue removal. Undercarriage of the chassis shall
be removed upon final placement of unit. Towing tongue may be removed if
attached by bolts or anchor or similar removable method. If towing tongue is
not removed, then tongue must be included within masonry foundation.
      (2)   In additional to meeting classification standards any home
permitted on an individual lot shall be located so that its longest dimension
is parallel to or at least not less than 30 degrees from parallel to the front
of the lot. For the purpose of this regulation in the case of a corner lot the
street with the greatest frontage shall be considered the front.
   (X)   Note 24: Mini-warehouse facilities shall meet the following
requirements:
      (1)   Facilities shall have access for ingress and egress to a major or
minor thoroughfare, as shown on the Liberty Thoroughfare Plan;
      (2)   Facilities shall be used only for dead storage of materials or
articles and shall not be used for assembly, fabrication, processing or repair;
      (3)   Open storage shall be limited to 10% of the area of the zoning lot;
      (4)   The storage of junk is prohibited; and
      (5)   The facility shall be enclosed within a perimeter fence or wall of
at least 8 feet in height. The wall or fence shall be coordinated with the
requirements for screening and buffering which shall, if required, govern
location and type.
   (Y)   Note 25: Recycling collection points may be located in residential
districts as an accessory use to public and quasi-public facilities. Those
areas shall meet the screening and buffering regulations for Group 2 uses.
   (Z)   Note 26: Nonconforming uses and structures are permitted to continue
subject to the regulations of §§
154.250 through
154.254 and specific situations which are to amortize or cease.
   (AA)   Note 27: Open storage yards as accessory uses are permitted in B2, I
and IP Districts, subject to screening and buffering requirements as per §§
154.080 through
154.097. Open storage yards shall be considered as a Group 3 use for buffering
and screening purposes.
   (BB)   Note 28: All radio & TV receiving antenna and dish installations
shall comply with all regulations of this chapter for setback, height and
buffer and screening.
   (CC)   Note 29: Rental of domestic vehicles may be an accessory use to an
established airport/heliport and similar transportation facilities.
   (DD)   Note 30: Accessory use to Planned Unit Developments.
   (EE)   Note 31: This use is to be included in the definition of day care
facilities and regulated as so.
   (FF)   Note 32: Schools that meet the compulsory educational requirements of
the State of North Carolina. Schools located within commercial districts shall
meet lot area, setback, height and buffering, and screening requirements as
established for the special use permit for schools, public, private, elementary
and high school.
   (GG)   Note 33:
      (1)   Accessory structures shall be permitted in all districts subject to
the floor area ratio (FAR) restrictions in those districts where FAR applies.
In no instance shall the FAR of all permitted structures exceed the maximum
permitted for that lot;
      (2)   In addition to those structures defined in §§
154.005 and
154.006 as accessory structures, accessory structures shall also include
portable accessory structures. Portable accessory structures used only for
storage and not habitation shall include tractor-trailer bodies and rolloffs;
      (3)   Mobile homes shall not be considered as portable accessory
structures. No utilities, except electrical service, may be connected to
portable accessory structures that are used as storage units. Portable
accessory structures shall be permitted for use as storage units pursuant to
the following conditions.
         (a)   R40 Zoning District. Mobile homes are not permitted as accessory
structures. Tractor-trailer bodies and rolloffs shall be permitted as accessory
structures provided they are screened from view from a public right-of-way in a
manner in compliance with §
154.082 and are located in the rear yard of the primary structure. Mobile
homes, tractor-trailer bodies and rolloffs existing at the time of the adoption
of this chapter shall be considered nonconforming and must remain in compliance
with the provisions of the §§
154.265 through
154.279 or be removed.
         (b)   RMF, R6, R12 and B1 Zoning Districts. No mobile homes, tractor-
trailer bodies and rolloffs shall be permitted as accessory structures. Mobile
homes, tractor-trailer bodies and rolloffs existing at the time of the adoption
of this chapter shall be considered a nonconforming use and must remain in
compliance with the provisions of §§
154.265 through
154.279 or be removed.
         (c)   B2 and I Zoning Districts. Mobile homes are not permitted as
accessory structures. Tractor-trailer bodies and rolloffs shall be permitted as
an accessory structure provided they are screened from view from public rights-
of-way in a manner in compliance with §
154.082. Mobile homes, tractor-trailer bodies and rolloffs existing at the time
of the adoption of this chapter shall be considered a nonconforming and must
remain in compliance with the provisions of §§
154.265 through
154.279 or be removed tractor-trailer bodies and rolloffs that are in the
process of being loaded or unloaded at an off-street location are not
considered accessory structures provided they are not located on the property
for more than 90 days.
         (d)   IP Zoning District. Mobile homes are not permitted as accessory
structures. Tractor-trailer bodies and rolloffs shall be permitted as accessory
structures provided they have had their road wheels removed, have a permanent
masonry foundation installed, and are screened from view from a public rights-
of-way in a manner in compliance with §
154.082. Mobile homes, tractor-trailer bodies, and rolloffs existing at the
time of the adoption of this chapter shall be considered nonconforming and must
remain in compliance with the provisions of §§
154.265 through
154.279 or be removed. Tractor-trailer bodies and rolloffs that are in the
process of being loaded or unloaded at an off-street location are not
considered accessory structures provided they are not located on the property
for more than 90 days.
      (4)   Accessory detached structures including, but not limited to storage
shed, storage tank, greenhouse, horse stall, gazebo or garage shall be
permitted in residential districts provided that all of the following are met:
         (a)   There shall be a primary structure located on the lot;
         (b)   In the R40 and R12 Districts, accessory structures shall be
located no closer than 10 feet to any lot line;
         (c)   In the R6 and RA/IF Districts, accessory structures shall be
located no closer than 5 feet to any rear lot line or no closer than 5 feet to
any side lot line; and
         (d)   If the accessory structure is to be used for an accessory
apartment, the same setback requirements in division (GG)(3) above shall be
met. However there can be no dwelling unit closer than 10 feet to the accessory
apartment as per the North Carolina Building Code.
      (5)   Accessory structures shall be limited to 25 feet in height except
television and radio receiving and transmitting antenna and their supporting
structures which shall be permitted to exceed this limit. No antenna shall be
permitted to exceed 75 feet in height in any residential district or 100 feet
in any other district except as permitted in §
154.018.
   (HH)   Note 34: Temporary buildings shall be removed within 15 days of
issuance of the certificate of occupancy to which the temporary building was an
accessory during the construction.
   (II)   Note 35: Not more than 2 sales shall be permitted per calendar year.
Each sale shall not continue for more than 7 consecutive days or 2 consecutive
weekends.
   (JJ)   Note 38: The use, therapeutic health massagist, is defined in the
town code.
   (KK)   Note 39: Places of assembly shall only be located on a major
thoroughfare as shown on the current Liberty Thoroughfare Plan.
   (LL)   Note 40: All recreation and amusement services, commercial, shall
only be located along a major or minor thoroughfare as shown on the current
Liberty Thoroughfare Plan.
   (MM)   Note 41: Storage of not more than 2,000 gallons of motor fuels for
use by agricultural-genuine or golf courses, where allowed, shall be permitted
as provided containment in an UL approved (or other approved testing agency)
tank/dispensing system or a tank/dispensing system constructed under NFPA
standards. Any installation for the storage of motor fuels shall meet NFPA
pamphlet # 30 requirements for the containment of spillage, and North Carolina
State Building Code/NFPA Standards. All installations shall be approved by the
Liberty Fire Department.
   (NN)   Note 42: Concerts are also permitted in all public school facilities
and all public parks without regard as to zoning district.
   (OO)   Note 43: Clubs and related activities operated for members only and
not available for public use. Related activities may include dining and other
food and beverage services.
   (PP)   Note 44: Childcare centers are permitted as an accessory use to a
church, synagogue or nonprofit organization use. The center may not exceed 25%
of any measurement of the principal use (square footage, land area, parking and
the like).
   (QQ)   Note 45: This type of development generally includes more than 1
principle structure and use with associated accessory structures and uses on 1
zoning lot which will not be subdivided into customary building lots. The
development as a whole (including all principal structures and accessory
structures) may not exceed the permitted FAR as specified in §
154.067. All yard, height, setback, parking, buffer and screening and the like
requirements of this chapter shall be met for the development as a whole.
   (RR)   Note 46:
      (1)   A special use permit shall not be required for public facilities
which are developed as part of a new residential subdivision. However, the
following standards shall be met:
         (a)   The uses shall be restricted to waste treatment plants, water
treatment plants, pumping stations, lift stations, telephone exchanges,
electrical transmission and distribution substation locations and similar uses
required to serve the needs of the immediate residential, office and commercial
districts. Specifically excluded are energy generation plants, freight and
marshaling yards, terminals and similar use;
         (b)   Buffers and screens shall be installed and maintained per §§
154.080 through
154.097;
         (c)   Signs will be regulated as per §§
154.160 through
154.178;
         (d)   Off-street parking shall be provided as per §§
154.135 through
154.147;
         (e)   All structures permitted under this section shall be planned and
constructed to be harmonious with the area in which they are located. In
addition to plans required, elevations shall be submitted indicating final
appearance in compliance with this subsection; and
         (f)   The parking areas and walkways shall be illuminated for public
safety at night. However, lighting shall be designed so as not to disturb
adjacent properties.
      (2)   Any lot created for a public facility which is to be in public
ownership shall not be required to meet lot area and width regulations as
established in §
154.066. All like lots shall abut a dedicated public street.
   (SS)   Note 47: A zoning compliance permit is required. This classification
is not for temporary sales.
   (TT)   Note 48: A zoning compliance permit is required. This classification
is not for temporary sales.
   (UU)   Note 49: A zoning compliance permit is required. Certain requirements
of this chapter do not apply, specifically §§
154.082,
154.084,
154.085,
154.086 and certain parking regulations as specified in §§
154.135 through
154.147. A zoning lot may be utilized for this use two times within any
calendar year. Each occurrence of this use on a zoning lot shall be limited to
60 days.
   (VV)   Note 50: A zoning compliance permit is required. Certain requirements
of this chapter do not apply, specifically §§
154.082,
154.084,
154.085,
154.086 and certain parking regulations as specified in §§
154.135 through
154.147. A zoning lot may be utilized for this use two times within any
calendar year. Each occurrence of this use on a zoning lot shall be limited to
60 days.
   (WW)   Note 51: This is an accessory activity to the principal use of the
zoning lot. Required parking spaces, maneuvering space or driveways shall not
be used for sales or display.
   (XX)   Note 52: See §
154.098 in supplemental regulations for solar farm(s) located in I and IP
Industrial Zoning District(s).
   (YY)   Note 53: See §
154.240 in special use regulations for solar farm(s) located in R40 Residential
Zoning Districts.
   (ZZ)   Note 54: See §
154.221.
(1981 Code, Article 400, Note File) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004; Am. Ord. passed 7-
6-2015; Am. Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. passed 8-8-2023)
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS
§ 154.080 HISTORIC OVERLAY DISTRICT (HD).
   The Use Districts established in §
154.060 above may also be zoned as an Historic Overlay District as designated
herein and as shown on the official zoning map. In that case the land is
subject to not only the requirements of the underlying use district but also
the additional requirements of the Historic Overlay District.
   (A)   Purpose. The Historic District establishes regulations, which will
help maintain the historic integrity of certain areas within the town.
   (B)   Designation procedure. Historic districts, as provided for in this
section, may be designated, amended or repealed through the following
procedure:
      (1)   In investigation and report describing the significance of the
buildings, structures, features, sites, or surroundings included in any like
proposed district, and a description of the boundaries of the district shall be
prepared by the Historic Preservation Commission and a recommendation thereon
made to the Planning and Zoning Board;
      (2)   The North Carolina Department of Cultural Resources, acting through
the State Preservation Officer or his or her designee, shall make an analysis
of and recommendations concerning the report and the description of proposed
boundaries. Failure of the Department of Cultural Resources to submit its
written analysis and recommendation to the town within 30 calendar days after a
written request for the analysis has been received shall relieve the town of
any responsibility for awaiting the analysis. The town may at any time
thereafter take any necessary action to adopt or amend this chapter with regard
to historic districts;
      (3)   The Town Council may also refer the report and proposed boundaries
to any local Preservation commission or other interested body for its
recommendations prior to taking action;
      (4)   Changes in the boundaries of a district subsequent to its initial
establishment, or the creation of additional districts within the town, shall
require the preparation of investigative studies by the Historic Preservation
Commission; and they shall be referred to the Department of Cultural Resources
for its review and comment according to the procedures set forth in this
subsection. Changes in the boundaries of a district or proposals for additional
districts shall also be submitted to the Department of Cultural Resources in
accordance with the provisions of this section; and
      (5)   The Planning and Zoning Board shall review the recommendations and
shall process the historic district overlay as a zoning map amendment in the
same manner set forth in §§
154.265 through
154.279.
   (C)   Dimensional regulations and exceptions. Structures within a historic
district shall comply with the regulations of the underlying zoning district,
except as follows:
      (1)   Residential structures erected in a historic district may use the
prevailing setback of structures on the same side of the street in accordance
with §
154.020;
      (2)   All street setback (except as provided in the division (C)(1)
above), interior setback, building coverage, and height requirements shall
comply with applicable zoning regulations unless a special exception is
approved by the Board of Adjustment. The special exception shall be granted
only if it complies with the intent of the architectural and historic
guidelines of the historic district and if first recommended by the Historic
Preservation Commission;
      (3)   Where the Historic Preservation Commission, in considering an
application for a certificate of appropriateness, shall find that the number of
off-street parking spaces and/or design standards for parking lots specified by
this chapter would render the site incompatible with the historic district
design guidelines and the historic aspects of the district, it may recommend to
the Board of Adjustment a special exception to the provisions of the off-street
parking requirements and/or design standards. The Board of Adjustment may
authorize as a special exception a reduced standard concerning off-street
parking provided it finds:
         (a)   That the lesser standard will not create problems due to
increased on-street parking; and
         (b)   That the lesser standard will not create a threat to the public
safety.
   (D)   Certain changes not prohibited: Nothing in this section shall be
construed to prevent the following:
      (1)   The ordinary maintenance or repair of any exterior architectural
feature in a historic district which does not involve a change in design,
material or outer appearance thereof;
      (2)   The construction, reconstruction, alteration, restoration, moving
or demolition of any like feature if the building inspector or Zoning
Administrator has certified in writing to the Historic Preservation Commission
that the action is required to protect the public safety because of unsafe or
dangerous conditions; or
      (3)   The ordinary maintenance or repair of streets, sidewalks, pavement
markings, utility service lines, street signs, traffic signs and/or replacement
of street light fixtures in the event of equipment failure, accidental damage,
or natural occurrences such as electrical storms, tornadoes, ice storms and the
like.
   (E)   Certificate of appropriateness required.
      (1)   A certificate of appropriateness shall be required for all
activities specified in this section whether a building permit is required or
not.
      (2)   After the designation of a historic district, no exterior portion
of any building or other structure (including but not limited to masonry walls,
fences, light fixtures, steps and pavement, or other appurtenant features), nor
above ground utility structure, nor any type of outdoor advertising sign shall
be erected, altered, restored, moved or demolished within the district until
after an application for a certificate of appropriateness as to exterior
features has been submitted and approved by the Historic Preservation
Commission.
      (3)   For the purposes of this section, EXTERIOR FEATURES shall include
the architectural style, general design and general arrangement of the exterior
of a building or other structure, including the kind and texture of the
building material; the size and scale of the building; and the type and style
of all windows, doors, light fixtures, signs and other appurtenant fixtures. In
the case of outdoor advertising signs, EXTERIOR FEATURES shall be construed to
mean the style, material, size and location of all like signs. EXTERIOR
FEATURES may include historic signs, color and significant landscape,
archaeological and natural features of the area.
      (4)   The Historic Preservation Commission may impose standards as may be
set forth elsewhere in this section or adopted by the Commission. Any building
permit not issued in conformity with this section shall be invalid.
      (5)   The discontinuance of work or the lack of progress toward achieving
compliance with the certificate of appropriateness for a period of 1 year shall
render the certificate null and void and of no effect and application shall be
made for a new certificate. However, in the event the issuance of a certificate
is appealed, the 1 year period shall not commence until a final decision is
reached regarding the matter.
      (6)   The Commission may, after adoption of architectural and historic
guidelines allow the Zoning Administrator or his or her designee to review and
approve minor work to review and approve minor work provided, however, that no
application for a certificate of appropriateness may be denied without formal
action by the Historic Preservation Commission.
      (7)   The town and all public utilities, except as provided under
division (D) above, shall be required to obtain a certificate of
appropriateness prior to initiating in a historic district any changes in the
character of street paving, street width, utility installations or removals,
lighting, street trees, walls, fences, sidewalks or exterior of buildings or
structures on property or streets in which they have a fee or other interest.
   (F)   Application procedures
      (1)   Application for a certificate of appropriateness shall be made to
the Zoning Administrator on forms provided. The application shall be filed no
later than 14 days prior to the next regularly scheduled meeting of the
Historic Preservation Commission. Each application shall be accompanied by
sketches, drawings, photographs, specifications, descriptions and/or other
information of sufficient detail to clearly show the proposed move, exterior
alterations, additions, changes, new construction or demolition.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator staff shall make a reasonable attempt to
identify and notify the owners of surrounding property likely to be affected by
the application for a certificate of appropriateness. The Zoning Administrator
shall transmit the application, together with the supporting information and
material, to the Historic Preservation Commission for consideration. The
Commission shall act upon the application within 60 days after the filing
thereof, otherwise failure to act upon the application shall be deemed to
constitute approval and a certificate of appropriateness shall prohibit an
extension of time where mutual agreement has been reached between the
Commission and the applicant.
      (3)   Prior to issuance or denial of a certificate of appropriateness,
the Historic Preservation Commission shall give the applicant and other
property owners likely to be affected by the application an opportunity to be
heard. In cases where the Commission deems necessary, it may hold a public
hearing concerning the application and seek the advice of the North Carolina
Department of Cultural Resources or other expert advice.
      (4)   The Commission shall not refuse to issue a certificate of
appropriateness except for the purpose of preventing the construction,
reconstruction, alteration, restoration, or moving of buildings, structures
appurtenant features, or signs in the historic district which would be
incompatible with the architectural and historic guidelines.
      (5)   An appeal may be taken to the Board of Adjustment from the Historic
Preservation Commission's action in granting or denying any certificate. The
appeal:
         (a)   May be taken by any aggrieved party;
         (b)   Shall be taken within 15 days after the decision of the
Commission; and
         (c)   Shall be in the nature of certiorari.
      (6)   Any appeal from the Board of Adjustment's decision in any like case
shall be heard by the Superior Court of the County.
   (G)   Review criteria.
      (1)   In granting a certificate of appropriateness, the Historic
Preservation Commission shall take into account the historic or architectural
significance of the property under consideration and the exterior form and
appearance of any proposed additions or modifications to a structure.
      (2)   The Commission shall not consider interior arrangement.
      (3)   The provisions of this section shall not become effective for a
historic district until after the Commission has adopted detailed architectural
and historic guidelines applicable to proposals within the historic district.
These criteria shall take into account the historic, architectural and visual
elements of the district and shall be reviewed a minimum of every 5 years. At a
minimum, the criteria shall contain guidelines addressing the following
factors:
         (a)   Historic significance or quality. The quality or significance in
history, architecture, archeology or culture present in districts, sites,
structures, buildings or objects that posses integrity of location, design,
setting, materials, workmanship and feeling and association:
            1.   That are associated with events that have made a significant
contribution to the broad patterns of local, state or national history; or that
are associated with the lives of persons significant in the past;
            2.   That embody the distinctive characteristics of a type, period
or method of construction;
            3.   That represent the work of a master or that possess high
artistic values; or
            4.   That represent a significant and distinguishable entity whose
components may lack individual distinction; or that have yielded, or may be
likely to yield, information important in prehistory or local, state or
national history.
         (b)   Exterior form and appearance. In considering exterior form and
appearance, the Commission may take into account, but is not limited to, the
following elements to ensure that they are consistent with the historic or
visual character or characteristics of the district:
            1.   Exterior features as described in division (E) above;
            2.   Height of the building or structure;
            3.   Setback and placement on lot of the building or structure,
including lot coverage and orientation;
            4.   Exterior construction materials, including textures, patterns
and colors;
            5.   Architectural detailing, such as lintels, cornices brick bond,
foundation materials and decorative wooden features;
            6.   Roof shapes, forms and materials;
            7.   Proportions, shapes, positionings and locations, patterns and
sizes of any elements of fenestration;
            8.   General form and proportions of buildings and structures;
            9.   Appurtenant fixtures and other features such as lighting;
            10.   Structural condition and soundness;
            11.   Use of local or regional architectural traditions; and
            12.   Effect of trees and other landscaping elements.
   (H)   Delay in demolition of landmarks and buildings.
      (1)   An application for a certificate of appropriateness authorizing the
relocation, demolition or destruction of a designated landmark or a building,
structure or site within the district may not be denied except as provided in
this section. However, the effective date of a certificate may be delayed for a
period of up to 365 days from the date of approval.
         (a)   The maximum period of delay authorized by this division (H)
shall be reduced by the Historic Preservation Commission where it finds that
the owner would suffer extreme hardship or be permanently deprived of all
beneficial use of or return from the property by virtue of the delay.
         (b)   During that period, the Commission shall negotiate with the
owner and with any other parties in an effort to find a means of preserving the
building or site.
         (c)   If the Commission finds that a building or site within a
district has no special significance or value toward maintaining the character
of the district, it shall waive all or part of the period and authorize earlier
demolition or removal.
      (2)   If the Historic Preservation Commission has voted to recommend
designation of a property as a landmark or designation of an area as a
district, final designation has not been made by the Town Council, the
demolition or destruction of any building, site or structure located on the
property of the proposed landmark or in the proposed district may be delayed by
the Commission for a period of up to 180 days or until the Town Council takes
final action on the designation, whichever occurs first.
      (3)   The Town Council may enact an ordinance to prevent the demolition
by neglect of any designated landmark or any building or structure within an
established historic district. The ordinance shall provide appropriate
safeguards to protect property owners from undue economic hardship.
      (4)   An application for a certificate of appropriateness authorizing the
demolition or destruction of a building, site or structure determined by the
State Historic Preservation Officer as having statewide significance as defined
in the criteria of the National Register of Historic Places may be denied
except where the Historic Preservation Commission finds that the owner would
suffer extreme hardship or be permanently deprived of all beneficial use or
return by virtue of the denial.
(1981 Code, § 501) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.081 PARKING OF DOMESTIC, COMMERCIAL AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   Domestic and recreational vehicles. An owner of domestic and
recreational vehicles may park or store such vehicles on his or her private
residential property, subject to the following limitations:
      (1)   At no time shall vehicles be occupied or used for living, sleeping
or housekeeping purposes. Visitors may occupy a vehicle in their care, custody
and control during periods of visitation not to exceed 7 days;
      (2)   Vehicles may be connected to utility services as required for
maintenance purposes; and
      (3)   Not more than 6 domestic vehicles may be parked or stored on any
single-family residential lot for any period exceeding 48 hours. Vehicles
stored within entirely enclosed structures which meet the regulatory
requirements for the applicable zoning district shall not be counted when
determination of the number of vehicles is made.
   (B)   Commercial vehicles.
      (1)   The parking of commercial vehicles over 7,500 GVW or 25 feet in
length in any residential district is prohibited except as stated below.
      (2)   Parking of these vehicles is permitted if they are of an emergency
service nature or school buses or located within entirely enclosed structures,
which meet the regulatory requirements for the applicable zoning district.
      (3)   This requirement shall not be interpreted to prohibit from loading
and unloading in any residential district.
(1981 Code, § 502) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.082 BUFFERS AND SCREENING.
   (A)   Purpose and intent.
      (1)   The Town of Liberty encourages high quality design in developments,
structures and the use of land. High quality design includes proper siting of
structures and uses and proper landscaping.
      (2)   The town desires to allow developers maximum flexibility in
achieving these high standards of development. However, minimum requirements
for buffering or screening between certain uses and/or districts are hereby
established to reduce the impact of a use of land on adjacent uses which are of
a significantly different character, density or intensity.
      (3)   Buffers and screens separate different uses from each other in
order to reduce adverse impacts such as dirt, litter, traffic, noise, odor,
glare of lights, signs, buildings and parking areas. These regulations benefit
both the developer and the adjoining landowner(s) because it allows options
from which to choose in developing the property, while insuring each neighbor
adequate protection regardless of the developer's choice, thereby protecting
the property values of all properties involved.
      (4)   Before the issuance of certificate of occupancy, buffers and/or
screening shall be installed or their installation guaranteed as per §
154.270. Buffers or screens shall be required in accord with the following.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BUFFER. A strip of land together with plantings required thereon. BUFFERS
consist of a horizontal distance from a lot line which may only be occupied by
the required landscaping materials, underground utilities, retention areas,
screening materials and driveway/sidewalk access.
      SCREEN. A strip of land together with plantings and or walls or fences
required thereon. Screens consist of a minimum of horizontal distance from a
lot line which may only be occupied by the required screening materials,
additional landscaping materials, underground utilities and driveway/sidewalk
access.
   (C)   Buffer or screen required.
      (1)   To provide maximum flexibility in achieving a high standard of
development both buffer and screen requirements are established.
      (2)   The developer may choose which protection method is appropriate for
the proposed development or he or she may mix methods within the development.
      (3)   The matrix below indicates when established uses will be required
to install a buffer or a screen. In addition the matrix establishes what
category of buffer or screen will be required.
      (4)   The required buffering or screening between the proposed land use
(s) and the existing adjacent land use(s) on adjoining zoning lots is set forth
in the matrix below.
      (5)   Buffers or screens are not required to separate uses located across
public streets, however front yard landscaping as required by §
154.086 below shall be installed adjacent to street rights-of-way.
      (6)   If the land next to the proposed development is vacant, the
category required shall be determined by the existing zoning on the adjacent
vacant parcel.
      (7)   If the adjacent parcel is vacant, but is zoned for a more intensive
zoning district, no buffer or screen shall be required of the less intensive
use.
      (8)   If the adjacent parcel(s) is located within the same zoning
district, and the use is classified as a nonconforming use in that district, no
buffer or screen shall be required of the proposed use.
      (9)   If the adjacent parcel is developed in a more intensive manner, no
buffer or screen is required of the lesser intensive use. The relative degree
of intensity shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   As used in this section, the grouping of uses and zoning uses
shall be as follows.
            1.   Single-family/2-family (as used in this section) shall be the
least intensive. If the zoning on any vacant parcel is R40, R12 or R6, the
single/2-family category shall be used for determination of the required
buffering.
            2.   Multiple-family, less than 12 units per acre, shall be the
next least intensive.
            3.   Multiple-family, more than or equal to 12 units per acre,
shall be the next least intensive. If the zoning on any vacant parcel is R6 the
Multi-family more than 12 units per acre category shall be used for
determination of the required buffering.
            4.   Group 1 shall be the next least intensive. If the zoning on
any vacant parcel is RA/IF, the Group 1 shall be used for determination of the
required buffering.
            5.   Group 2 shall be the next least intensive. If the zoning on
any vacant parcel is B1 or B2 the Group 2 shall be used for determination of
the required buffering.
         (b)   Group 3 shall be the most intensive. If the zoning on any vacant
parcel is IP or I the Group 3 shall be used for determination of the required
buffering.
         (c)   As used in this section, the grouping of the zoning districts
shall be as follows:
            1.   If the zoning on the vacant parcel is R40, or R12, the single-
family category shall be used for determination of the required buffering.
            2.   If the zoning on the vacant parcel is R6 the 2-family and
multiple-family less than 12 units per acre category shall be used for
determination of the required buffering.
            3.   If the zoning on the vacant parcel is RMF the 2-family and
multiple-family more than 12 units per acre category shall be used for
determination of the required buffering.
            4.   If the zoning on the vacant parcel is B1 or B2 the group 2
shall be used for determination of the required buffering.
            5.   If the zoning on the vacant parcel is I or IP the group 3
shall be used for determination of the required buffering.
Buffer and Screen Matrix
Abutting Use or Zoning Single/2-Family Multi-family Group 1 Group 2 Group 3
Buffer and Screen Matrix
Abutting Use or       Single/2-Family Multi-family      Group 1 Group 2 Group 3
Zoning                                < 12 u/a > 12 u/a
Proposes; use
Single/2-family       -
Multi-family < 12 u/a A               -
Multi-family > 12 u/a C               A        -
Group 1               B               B        B        -
Group 2               C               C        C        A       -
Group 3               D               D        D        C       A       -
* Group designation for specific uses are found in the “Table of Permitted
Uses” §
154.067.
 
   (D)   Requirements for buffers and screens. Once the required category of
buffer or screen is determined from the matrix the following requirements shall
be met.
      (1)   For the buffer method. The following descriptions list the
specifications of each permitted buffer width. The requirements are a minimum
standard, developers are encouraged to supplement these minimums to enhance the
landscaping of the development. Buffer requirements are stated as follows:
         (a)   Minimum width;
         (b)   Minimum planting per 100 Linear Feet; and
         (c)   Type and number of plant material.
      (2)   The number of plant materials required per 100 linear feet is
represented by a whole or decimal number. Both the type and number of plants is
specified. All mathematical rounding shall be upwards and shall be applied to
the total amount of plant material required in the buffer, not to each 100
linear feet.
      (3)   Buffer A. The requirements shall be met for Buffer A by the
following:
         (a)   Fifteen foot wide strip with two canopy trees, three understory
trees, and six shrubs per 100 linear feet; or
         (b)   Twenty foot or more wide strip with one canopy tree, two
understory trees, and four shrubs per 100 linear feet.
      (4)   Buffer B. The requirements shall be met for Buffer B by the
following:
         (a)   Twenty foot wide strip with two canopy trees, three understory
trees, and ten shrubs per 100 linear feet; or
         (b)   Twenty-five foot or more wide strip with two canopy trees, two
understory trees and eight shrubs per 100 linear feet.
      (5)   Buffer C. The requirements shall be met for Buffer C by the
following:
         (a)   Twenty foot wide strip with two canopy trees, four understory
trees and 12 shrubs per 100 linear feet; or
         (b)   Twenty-five foot or more wide strip with two canopy trees, three
understory trees and ten shrubs per 100 linear feet.
      (6)   Buffer D. 
         (a)   The requirements shall be met for Buffer D by the following:
         (b)   Twenty-five foot or more wide strip with two canopy trees, four
understory trees and a row of evergreen shrubs placed along the property
boundary not more than five feet apart on center which would grow to form a
continuous opaque hedge of at least six feet in height within two years of
planting.
      (7)   Plant materials should be selected which are appropriate to soil
and site conditions. It is recommended that species be selected which are
resistant to heat, drought, insects and diseases and which require little
maintenance. Refer to §
154.097 for listing of approved plant materials. Selected plant materials shall
meet the requirements and be installed according to ANLA (American Nursery and
Landscaping Association) standards. At least one ornamental flowering plant
variety shall be required in each buffer for each ten feet of buffer depth.
Trees and shrubs may be evergreen, deciduous or any combination thereof.
Existing plant materials meeting these minimum requirements for plant type may
be counted toward the total requirements of the specific plant type. The
placement of required plants shall be the decision of the developer and all
buffer areas shall be planted with grass, other ground cover or maintained with
natural mulch or pine straw. See below for table for minimum plant sizes.
Table for Minimum Plant Sizes
Plant Material Type Minimum Size Planting in Buffers All Other Plantings
                    Abutting Vacant Land*
Table for Minimum Plant Sizes
Plant Material Type Minimum Size Planting in Buffers All Other Plantings
                    Abutting Vacant Land*
Canopy Tree         1 inch caliper**                 1-1/2 inch caliper**
Multi-Stem Clump    5 feet height                    6 feet height
Understory Tree     3 feet height                    4 feet height
Evergreen Tree      2 feet height                    3 feet height
Shrub
Deciduous           12 inches height                 15 inches height
Evergreen           9 inches height                  12 inches height
Hedge               5 feet height                    6 feet height
*   Smaller plant sizes are permitted adjacent to vacant land because it
is assumed that the plants will have time to mature before the abutting
vacant land is developed. For this purpose agricultural land is
considered vacant.
**   Caliper is a measurement of the size of a tree equal to the diameter
of its trunk measured 4.5 feet above natural grade.
 
      (8)   Buffers shall be located on the outer perimeter of a lot or parcel,
extending along lot lines or private street or other existing or dedicated
public rights-of-way. Where rights-of-way are contiguous with property line any
required buffer shall be located on the inside of rights-of-way. No landscaping
shall be permitted which interferes with the sight distance required at any
roadway or driveway intersection.
      (9)   A buffer shall not be used for parking, accessory buildings or any
other use except where required and permitted for pedestrian or vehicular
access to adjoining property. Any such access shall cross the buffer area in a
direct manner, shall not run parallel with the buffer and be no more than
eleven feet in width for one way traffic or pedestrians or twenty two feet in
width for two way traffic.
      (10)   For the screen method. The following descriptions list the
specifications of each permitted screen width. The requirements are a minimum
standard, developers are encouraged to supplement these minimums to enhance the
landscaping of the development.
      (11)   Screen A. The requirements shall be met for Screen A by providing
a ten foot wide minimum screening yard and one of the following:
         (a)   A row of evergreen shrubs placed not more than five feet apart
on center which would grow to form a continuous opaque hedge a minimum of six
feet in height above finished grade; or a masonry (brick, rock, texture block)
wall. The wall shall be a minimum height of six feet (above finished grade); or
a solid wooden fence a minimum height of six feet (above finished grade)
constructed of pressure treated wood which bears the seal of the American Wood
Preservers Bureau appropriate to the use or is constructed of a wood of natural
resistance such as heartwood of redwood, bald cypress (tidewater red), black
walnut, black Locust or Cedar. Such evergreen plantings, walls, or fences shall
be located along the interior boundary of the required screen yard; and,
         (b)   Lawn and or low-growing evergreen shrubs, evergreen ground cover
or natural mulch covering the balance of the screening yard.
      (12)   Screen B. The requirements shall be met for Screen B by providing
a ten foot wide minimum screening yard and the following:
         (a)   A row of evergreen shrubs placed not more than five feet apart
on center which would grow to form a continuous opaque hedge a minimum of six
feet in height above finished grade; or a masonry (brick, rock, texture block)
wall a minimum height of six feet (above finished grade); or a solid wooden
fence a minimum height of six feet (above finished grade) constructed of
pressure treated wood which bears the seal of the American Wood Preservers
Bureau appropriate to the use or is constructed of a wood of natural resistance
such as heartwood of redwood, bald cypress (tidewater red), black walnut, black
Locust or Cedar. Such evergreen plantings, walls, or fences shall be located
along the interior boundary of the required screen yard; and,
         (b)   A staggered row of evergreen trees, located on the outside of
the above evergreen plantings, wall or fence, which are not less than six feet
in height at the time of planting and are spaced not more than 30 feet apart on
center which at maturity will form an intermittent visual barrier from above
the opaque screen to a minimum height of 15 feet.
      (13)   Screen C. Requirements shall be met for Screen C by providing a
ten-foot wide minimum screening yard and the following:
         (a)   A row of evergreen shrubs placed not more than five feet apart
on center which would grow to form a continuous opaque hedge a minimum of six
feet in height above finished grade; or a masonry (brick, rock, texture block)
wall a minimum height of six feet (above finished grade); or a solid wooden
fence a minimum height of six feet (above finished grade) constructed of
pressure treated wood which bears the seal of the American Wood Preservers
Bureau appropriate to the use or is constructed of a wood of natural resistance
such as heartwood of redwood, bald cypress (tidewater red), black walnut, black
Locust or Cedar. Such evergreen plantings, walls, or fences shall be located
along the interior boundary of the required screen yard; and
         (b)   A staggered row of evergreen trees, located on the outside of
the above evergreen plantings, wall or fence, which are not less than six feet
in height at the time of planting and are spaced not more than 20 feet apart on
center which at maturity will form an intermittent visual barrier from above
the opaque screen to a minimum height of 15 feet.
      (14)   Screen D. The requirements shall be met for Screen D by providing
a 15 foot wide minimum screening yard and one of the following:
         (a)   A row of evergreen shrubs placed not more than five feet apart
on center which would grow to form a continuous opaque hedge a minimum of six
feet in height above finished grade; or a masonry (brick, rock, texture block)
wall a minimum height of six feet (above finished grade); or a solid wooden
fence a minimum height of six feet (above finished grade) constructed of
pressure treated wood which bears the seal of the American Wood Preservers
Bureau appropriate to the use or is constructed of a wood of natural resistance
such as heartwood of redwood, bald cypress (tidewater red), black walnut, black
Locust or Cedar. Such evergreen plantings, walls, or fences shall be located
along the interior boundary of the required screen yard; and
         (b)   A staggered row of evergreen trees, located on the outside of
the above evergreen plantings, wall or fence, which are not less than six feet
in height at the time of planting and are spaced not more than 15 feet apart
which at maturity will form an intermittent visual barrier from above the
opaque screen to a minimum height of 20 feet.
      (15)   Plant materials should be selected which are appropriate to soil
and site conditions. It is recommended that species be selected which are
resistant to heat, draught, insects and diseases and which require little
maintenance. Refer to §
154.097 for listing of approved plant materials. Selected plant materials shall
meet the requirements and be installed according to ANLA (American Nursery and
Landscape Association) standards. Existing plant materials meeting these
requirements and locational requirements may be utilized towards screening
requirements.
      (16)   Screens shall be located on the outer perimeter of a lot or
parcel, extending along the lot or parcel boundary line and shall not be
located on any portion of an existing or dedicated public or private street or
other existing or dedicated public rights-of-way. Where rights-of-ways are
contiguous with property lines any required buffer shall be located on the
inside of the rights-of-way. No landscaping shall be permitted which interferes
with the sight distance required at any roadway or driveway intersection.
      (17)   A screen shall not be used for recreation, parking, accessory
buildings or any other use except where required and permitted for pedestrian
or vehicular access to adjoining property. Any such access shall cross the
buffer area in a direct manner, shall not run parallel with the buffer and be
no more than eleven feet in width for one way traffic or pedestrians or 22 feet
in width for two way traffic.
   (E)   Coordination of buffer yard or screen yard and required setback yard.
Buffer or screen yards as required may be included within or combined with the
required minimum setback yards as established §
154.066. When buffer or screen yards are required to be larger than setback
yards, the buffer or screen yard shall serve also as the minimum setback yard.
When the setback yard is larger than the required buffer or screen yard, no
additional setback is required.
   (F)   Alternative buffers and screening.
      (1)   In lieu of compliance with the above buffer or screening
requirements, an applicant may submit to the Planning Board for their review
and approval an alternative plan with detailed specifications for landscaping,
buffering and screening.
      (2)   The Planning Board may approve the alternative buffering and of
screening plan upon finding that the proposal will afford a degree of buffering
and or screening equivalent to or exceeding that provided by the above
requirements.
      (3)   An alternative plan proposing an increase in the depth of a buffer
yard may be approved and may utilize existing significant plants and trees if
no reduction in the total number of required plants and trees results and they
afford an equal degree of separation in terms of height and opacity.
      (4)   Otherwise, additional plantings, berms, walls or fences, or a
combination thereof shall be required. A reduction in buffer yards is not
permitted since the developer may choose the screen alternative which requires
less yard.
      (5)   A reduction in the required screen yard may be approved, if it can
demonstrated to the Planning Board that full compliance with the requirement is
unpractical and creates an undue restriction on the use of the property. If an
alternative screen plan is approved, it shall include screening measures which
will provide an increase in the height and opacity of the screening required.
   (G)   Existing vegetation. The retention of existing vegetation shall be
maximized, to the extent practicable, wherever the vegetation contributes to
required buffering and or screening or to the preservation of significant
trees.
   (H)   Maintenance of landscaping.
      (1)   All landscaping and screening which provides required buffering and
screening shall be maintained so as to continue their effectiveness.
      (2)   Periodic inspections may be made to determine continued
effectiveness of the required landscaping and screening.
      (3)   Any deficiencies shall be treated as a violation of this chapter
and subject to regulations in §§
154.278 and
154.999.
   (I)   Determination of unlisted uses.
      (1)   The Zoning Administration shall make a determination, in the cases
of uses not listed in the §
154.067 or which do not have a buffer group listed of the group appropriate for
those uses.
      (2)   In reading the determination, the Zoning Administrator shall be
guided by the requirements for similar uses having comparable external effects.
   (J)   Buffers and screening of existing uses. Uses already existing at the
time of the passage of this chapter, or subsequent amendments thereto, shall
comply with the following requirements:
      (1)   Existing uses shall not be considered nonconforming due to
noncompliance with the buffering and screening requirements. The uses will not
be required to implement buffering and screening unless physical alteration
resulting in an increase of floor area of existing structures or the erection
of new structures or the expansion of open uses of land occurs; and
      (2)   If physical alteration resulting in an increase of floor area of
existing structures or the erection of new structures or the expansion of open
uses of land occurs, buffering and screening shall be required as following.
         (a)   If the combined total of all expansions is 50% or less of the
existing building footprint or land available for open uses as of January
22,1996 a screen meeting screen Category A shall be required. A screen shall be
provided on a 1.5 to 1 ratio of the linear length of the building parallel to
lot line which requires buffering and screening. The location of the required
screening shall be determined by the Zoning Administrator. The location shall
be based on site evaluations to determine the best protection to adjoining
properties.
         (b)   If the combined total of all expansions is greater than 50% of
the existing building footprint or land available for open uses as of January
22, 1996 buffers or screening shall be provided according to the requirements
for new uses. In those cases, the use of provisions in Section (F) above may be
considered.
(1981 Code, § 503) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004; Am. Ord. passed - - )
§ 154.083 SCREENING OF OPEN STORAGE.
   All new open storage areas and expansions of existing open storage areas
shall be screened from view of any street, and from all residentially zoned
land as follows:
   (A)   Screening shall consist of solid masonry walls or solid wooden fences
at least 6 feet in height (constructed of materials and finishes as permitted
in §
154.082(D)(2)(a)), or an opaque chain link fence at least 6 feet in height.
Access from the street shall only be permitted through solid gates which shall
be closed except when in use. Screening shall run at least 100 feet back from
the street property line or to the rear property line if the property is less
than 100 feet deep.
   (B)   In lieu of compliance with the above screening methods, an applicant
may submit to the Planning Board for their review and approval a detailed plan
and specifications for landscaping and screening. The Planning Board may
approve the alternative screening, in writing, upon finding that the proposal
will afford a degree of screening, in terms of height, opacity and separation,
equivalent to or exceeding that provided by the above methods.
   (C)   Prior to the issuance of certificate of occupancy, screening of open
storage shall be installed or its installation guaranteed as per §
154.270 below.
(1981 Code, § 504) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.084 SCREENING OF MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   All new non-residential uses and expansions of existing structures
shall screen from view from public places and neighboring properties all
mechanical equipment, such as but not limited to, air conditioners, or pumps,
through the use of features such as berms, fences, false facades or dense
landscaping.
   (B)   Prior to the issuance of certificate of occupancy, screening of
mechanical equipment shall be installed or its installation guaranteed as per §
154.270.
   (C)   Notwithstanding front yard and perimeter buffering and screening
requirements prescribed for solar farm(s), §§
154.098 and
154.240, mechanical equipment that depends on unobstructed access of sources of
wind and solar power for alternative energy generation (i.e. solar collectors,
wind turbines) is exempt from mechanical equipment screening. Mechanical
equipment that is ancillary to such devices (such as pumps, storage tanks,
batteries, compressors, etc.) shall be screened as required by this section.
(1981 Code, § 505) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004; Am. Ord. passed 7-6-2015)
§ 154.085 CENTRAL SOLID WASTE STORAGE AREA.
   (A)   All new buildings and uses including mobile home parks, but excluding
single-family and 2-family dwellings, shall provide facilities for the central
storage of solid waste within the lot.
   (B)   Where these facilities are provided outside of a building, they shall
be screened from the view of public rights-of-way and adjacent property by an
enclosure constructed of materials compatible with the materials on the front
building wall of the main building.
   (C)   The screening shall begin at ground level with no open space between
the ground and the bottom of the screening material(s). Prior to the issuance
of certificate of occupancy, screening of solid waste storage areas shall be
installed or its installation guaranteed as per §
154.270.
   (D)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent the joint use of
central solid waste storage (dumpsters) for 2 or more structures.
   (E)   An agreement for a joint use, in the form of a reciprocal easement
acceptable to the office of the Town Manager shall be filed with the Zoning
Administrator and recorded with the Register of Deeds for Randolph County.
(1981 Code, § 506) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.086 PARKING RESTRICTED WITHIN REQUIRED FRONT YARDS.
   (A)   Except for single-family and duplex structures no parking shall be
permitted within the first 10 feet of required front yard of any zoning lot.
   (B)   The required yard shall be occupied only by underground utilities,
retention areas, landscaping materials, signs (where permitted) and driveway
access.
   (C)   There shall be planted and maintained 1 tree, which is not less than 6
feet in height at the time of planting, for each 20 linear feet of street
frontage or portion thereof.
   (D)   At least 1 tree shall be of a flowering type. The balance of the first
10 feet of the required front yard shall be covered with lawn, low-growing
evergreen shrubs not over 4 feet in height, evergreen ground cover, or mulch.
   (E)   All required plantings and any other landscaping shall be so arranged
that it does not impair visibility when exiting the lot into a public street.
   (F)   Plant materials should be selected which are appropriate to soil and
site conditions. It is recommended that species which are resistant to heat,
draught, insects and diseases and which require little maintenance.
   (G)   Refer to §
154.097 below for listing of approved plant materials. Prior to the issuance of
certificate of occupancy, screening of required front yards shall be installed
or its installation guaranteed as per §
154.270.
   (H)   Existing significant trees, over 6 feet in height, or planted trees,
which are not less than 6 feet in height at the time of planting, that are
located within the required front yard of any zoning lot shall be permitted to
count towards the total number of trees as required above on a 1 to 1 basis.
   (I)   Existing uses which on the date of adoption of this chapter are using
the first 10 feet of their lot for parking shall not be considered non
conforming for the purposes of this section and §§
154.250 through
154.254.
   (J)   In multifamily projects of less than 45,000 square feet lot area,
parking may not be permitted within any of the required front setback area as
indicated in§
154.066 above. The area shall be considered open space.
(1981 Code, § 507) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.087 VEHICLE TOWING OPERATIONS.
   (A)   Vehicle towing operations, where permitted, are allowed to park, store
and maintain a towed vehicle while awaiting proper disposition of the vehicle.
   (B)   Parking, storage and maintaining shall be located within a fenced and
screened area. The fenced area shall observe a setback of 25 feet from any
residential zoned property.
   (C)   Screening shall be in accordance with the requirements in §
154.083 above. At no time shall more than 20 vehicles be permitted within the
area and the areas shall not be used for dismantling of vehicles or the sale of
parts therefrom.
(1981 Code, § 508) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.088 CONSTRUCTION TRAILERS AND TEMPORARY OFFICES.
   (A)   (1)   A licensed contractor, engaged upon a construction project for
which a building permit has been issued, may temporarily use a construction
trailer for office facilities in the location where the work is being done;
provided the construction trailer shall not be placed upon the streets but upon
the property on which the building permit authorizes the construction.
      (2)   The construction trailer shall be removed within 30 days after
completion of the work for which the permit has been issued.
   (B)   (1)   A zoning compliance permit may be issued by the Zoning
Administrator for a 1-year period for the use of a modular office (of a type
approved by the Building Inspection Department), as a temporary office while
business properties are being remodeled, provided that it is placed upon the
property for which there is a building permit issued for the remodeling.
      (2)   The permit shall be for a period of 1 year or until the remodeling
is completed, whichever is the shorter period. The permit may not be renewed
after the expiration of the 1-year period.
(1981 Code, § 509) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.089 MODEL DWELLING UNITS.
   (A)   In any residential district, the developers, builders or their agents
may operate 3 model dwelling units as a sales office for the specific project
under construction, subject to the following restrictions:
      (1)   The model dwelling unit shall meet all district requirements for
lot and yard dimensions;
      (2)   Signs shall not be illuminated;
      (3)   The model dwelling unit shall not be used for any business
activity, other than showing, later than 9:00 p.m.;
      (4)   At least 2 off-street parking spaces shall be provided on the same
lot as the model dwelling unit or on a contiguous lot within the specific
project; and
      (5)   The model dwelling unit shall be discontinued when the specific
residential project is sold out and shall comply with regulations generally
applicable within the district.
   (B)   Model dwelling units may be erected or displayed in districts which
exclude residential uses, provided that the models shall not be used for
residential purposes, but only for display as a means to sell homes in
districts in which they are permitted and provided that all other requirements
of the district in which the model dwelling unit is erected shall be met.
(1981 Code, § 510) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.090 REPAIR OF PRIVATELY OWNED MOTOR VEHICLES IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   The repair of a privately owned automobile or a motor vehicle by its owner
at his or her residence in any residential zoning district is subject to the
following restrictions:
   (A)   Only minor repairs and maintenance may be performed which, for
purposes of this section, are defined as the changing and replenishment of
fluid levels, such as hydraulic fluid, windshield washer fluid, and lubricating
oil, the replacement of sparkplugs, ignition points, the rotation of tires and
the checking of adequate pressure; and the replacement of drive belts and
hydraulic lines; and
   (B)   Any other repairs on a motor vehicle or automobile shall be restricted
to totally enclosed spaces and only accomplished on privately registered
vehicles having current State of North Carolina license plates, or motor
vehicles designated by the State of North Carolina as qualifying for an
antique, or horseless carriage designation.
(1981 Code, § 511) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.091 GARAGE SALES, YARD SALES AND THE LIKE.
   Garage, yard, tag, patio and apartment sales are specifically permitted as
an accessory use in all residential districts. These sales shall be limited to
2 during each 12-month period.
(1981 Code, § 512) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.092 ANIMALS.
   (A)   Household animals shall be limited to:
      (1)   Not more than 5 dogs or 5 cats, more than 6 months of age, or a
combination thereof not to exceed 5; or
      (2)   Not more than 10 household animals other than dogs or cats.
   (B)   No animals shall be raised or kept in the residential district for
commercial sale, except when associated with an agricultural use or a stable
where permitted by this chapter.
   (C)   All other animals shall be regulated as per the Liberty town code of
ordinances, whether inside the town limits or not.
(1981 Code, § 513) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.093 STACKING OR WAITING LANES FOR DRIVE-IN WINDOWS.
   There shall be provided for every drive in window or station a queing lane
with a minimum capacity of 5 automobiles. All lanes shall be located outside of
public rights-of-way.
(1981 Code, § 514) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.094 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS; PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   General. Within the Industrial Districts, any structure or land may be
used and any structure may be hereafter erected, relocated, reconstructed or
structurally altered for any purpose which is not otherwise prohibited by law,
provided that no use which is noxious, toxic or offensive by reason of odor,
dust, vibration, smoke, gases or fumes shall be permitted and in addition, the
following uses shall not be permitted:
      (1)   Abattoirs;
      (2)   Chicken/turkey processing plants;
      (3)   Crematoriums;
      (4)   Distillation of bones;
      (5)   Dwellings, 2-family or multi-family;
      (6)   Fat rendering;
      (7)   Garbage, offal or dead animal reduction or dumping;
      (8)   Manufacturing processing and/or refining of the following products:
         (a)   Acetylene gas;
         (b)   Ammonia;
         (c)   Bleaching powder;
         (d)   Cement, lime, gypsum or plaster of paris;
         (e)   Chlorine;
         (f)   Dextrine, glucose or starch;
         (g)   Disinfectant;
         (h)   Explosives;
         (i)   Fertilizer;
         (j)   Fireworks;
         (k)   Fish curing, smoking or packing and fish oil manufacture;
         (l)   Gelatin, glue or size manufacture, where the process involves
the refining or recovery of products from fish, animal, refuse or offal;
         (m)   Gunpowder;
         (n)   Hair;
         (o)   Hides (raw);
         (p)   Matches;
         (q)   Petroleum or kerosene refining or distillation or derivation of
byproducts;
         (r)   Pulp and/or paper;
         (s)   Smelting of tin, copper, zinc or iron ore; and/or
         (t)   Sulphurous, sulphuric, nitric, picric or hydrochloric or other
corrosive or offensive acids, except as accessory to permitted industrial use.
      (9)   Stock yards; and
      (10)   Storage and/or processing of materials listed as hazardous waste.
   (B)   I and IP Districts. All uses permitted within I and IP, districts
shall meet the following performance standards:
      (1)   Light:
         (a)   Glare. The direct light of outdoor lighting fixtures which are a
reflective, directional or non-diffused type (glare) shall not be visible from
outside the zoning lot; and
         (b)   Footcandles. Diffused or nondirectional light and the
combination of all light shall not exceed 2.0 footcandles at the zoning lot
line if the adjoining property is residentially zoned.
      (2)   Noise:
         (a)   A decibel is a measure of a unit of sound pressure. Since sound
waves having the same decibel level sound louder or softer to the human ear
depending upon the frequency of the sound wave in cycles per second (i.e,
whether the pitch of the sound is high or low) an A-weighted filter constructed
in accordance with the specification of the American National Standards
Institute, which automatically takes account of the varying effect on the human
ear of different pitches, shall be used on any sound level meter taking
measurements required by this section.
         (b)   Accordingly, all measurements are expressed in dbA to reflect
the use of this A-weighted filter.
            1.   Construction projects shall be subject to the maximum
permissible noise levels specified for industrial zones for the period within
which a valid permit issued by proper authority is in effect. Issuance of a
certificate of zoning compliance is evidence that the construction project is
complete.
            2.   All railroad rights-of-way shall not be subject to the
requirements of this chapter.
            3.   Impact noises are sounds that occur intermittently rather than
continuously. Impact noises generated by sources that do not operate more than
1 minute in any 1-hour period are permissible up to a level of 10 dbA in excess
of the figure listed except that this higher level of permissible noise shall
not apply from 7:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. when the adjacent lot is zoned
residential. Impact noises generated by sources that operate at a frequency
greater than 1 minute in any 1-hour period are regulated as a continuous noise
and are subject to the sound levels given in division (B)(2)(b)4. below. All
impact noise shall be measured using the fast response of the sound level
meter.
            4.   Sound levels shall not exceed the following standards:
               a.   If the receiving use is in a residential district: between
7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m.: 70 dbA; between 7:00 p.m. and 10:00 p.m.: 65 dbA;
between 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.: 60 dbA;
               b.   If the receiving use is in a commercial district: between
7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m.: 75 dbA; between 7:00 p.m. and 10:00 p.m.: 70 dbA:
between 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.: 65 dbA; and
               c.   If the receiving use is in an industrial district: Anytime:
80 dBA.
            5.   Sound levels of noise radiating from a zoning lot line or
district boundary line (as specified in division 6. below in excess of the
above dbA levels shall constitute prima facia evidence the noise is a public
nuisance and a violation of this chapter.
            6.   In the case of uses in the IP district, all measurements to
determine compliance shall be made at the boundaries of the zoning lot
containing a manufacturing, processing and assembly operation. In the case of
uses in the I district, all measurements to determine compliance shall be made
at the nearest boundary of the district to the use being evaluated.
            7.   Yard and lawn maintenance equipment engaged in normal yard and
lawn maintenance operations are not subject to these regulations.
            8.   The requirements in division (B)(2) above shall apply to new
uses or additions to existing uses and shall not be considered to apply to any
existing use which is operating on the effective date of this section; nor
shall this section make any like existing use nonconforming. Existing uses
shall mean any use of property which is legally permitted and any operation,
equipment, process or system which is in operation prior to the above date.
Additions to a use includes any additional operations, equipment, processes or
systems which were not operational on the above date. Note: The requirements,
prohibitions and terms of this chapter shall not apply to warning signal
devices of any authorized emergency vehicle acting in time of emergency. Nor
shall these terms apply to activities of a temporary duration permitted by law
and for which a license or permit has been granted by the town, including, but
not limited to, parades and fireworks displays.
      (3)   Vibration:
         (a)   Vibration levels shall not exceed the following standards:
maximum peak particle velocity:
Steady state: 0.02 inches/second; impact: 0.04 inches/second. Note: The maximum
particle velocity shall be the maximum displacement vector sums of 3 mutually
perpendicular components, recorded simultaneously, multiplied by the frequency
in cycles per second. For purposes of this chapter, steady-state vibrations are
vibrations which are continuous, or vibrating in discrete impulses more
frequent than 60; and
         (b)   In the case of uses in the IP district, all measurements to
determine compliance shall be made at the boundaries of the zoning lot
containing a manufacturing, processing and assembly operation. In the case of
uses in the I District, all measurements to determine compliance shall be made
at the nearest boundary of the district to the use being evaluated.
   (C)   Design standards for all industrial districts.
      (1)   The purpose of this section is to establish standards for those
items that affect the physical aspect of Liberty's environment.
      (2)   These standards focus on design principals which can result in
creative solutions that will develop a satisfactory visual appearance within
the town, preserve values and promote the public health, safety and welfare.
      (3)   It has been determined that zoning regulations guide development
towards accomplishing the community's goals as stated within the Liberty Land
Development Plan, creating a quality community and improving the community's
livability.
      (4)   These goals protect and enhance individuals' welfare and markets
the community for quality development.
      (5)   The standards require a basic level of site and structure design.
The standards are not intended to limit creativity or create a community where
everything looks the same.
      (6)   Its intent is to serve as a tool for design in the context of
developing Liberty as a unique place. Consideration has been given to balancing
the interests of property owners with the community's aesthetic character.
      (7)   The balancing of the landowners right to use his or her land, with
the corresponding right of abutting and neighboring landowners to live without
nuisances such as noise, smoke, fumes, odors, glare of lights and visual
pollution.
      (8)   All new construction and expansions and/or additions, shall meet
the requirements of this chapter pertaining to design regulations and shall
also meet the following specific design criteria which is meant to facilitate
an orderly pattern of architecturally and aesthetically integrated development.
         (a)   Structures. Structures, except permitted residential structures,
located within Industrial Districts which are within 200 feet of the centerline
of any major or minor thoroughfare shall meet the requirements of §
154.095. All other structures, except permitted residential structures, shall
meet the following.
         (b)   All facades. Any code approved material including vinyl siding
and metal facade covering and other synthetic materials shall be allowed for
any wall. Where the walls are visible from adjoining residentially zoned
property, the walls shall be screened or buffered according the requirements of
this subchapter.
         (c)   Utilities. All utilities providing direct service to individual
buildings shall be placed underground unless existing development within 200
feet on either side of the proposed building currently utilizes overhead
utilities or are required to be placed above ground by the applicable utility
provider.
      (9)   (a)   Expansions including cumulative additions of nonconforming
situations which result in an increase of over 50% in the linear street
fronting footage of a structure shall comply in all respects to the development
standards of this chapter. This section shall apply to all expansions or
additions permitted after June 28, 2004.
         (b)   Interior remodeling, repairs or other forms of redevelopment
which do not create additional floor area or exterior repairs which do not
change required design features shall be exempt from the provisions of this
section.
         (c)   Routine maintenance or repairs of any structure or site feature
shall be exempt from the provisions of this section.
      (10)   All accessory structures, located within 400 feet of the
centerline of any major or minor thoroughfare as described in division (C)(8)
(a) above, and which are larger than 12 by 12 or 144 square feet shall comply
with the provisions of §
154.095(D)(3).
      (11)   In addition to site plan requirements as specified in §
154.254, elevation plans at a minimum scale of 1/8-inch equals 1 foot for all
exterior walls for the proposed construction shall be submitted. Plans shall be
on bond or vellum paper no less than 8-1/2 by 11 inches. Drawing(s) shall be
straight-line and building materials identified in accordance with accepted
architectural standards including Job title and location. Modifications to the
site plan or elevation plan shall be resubmitted for approval.
      (12)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         APPEARANCE. The outward aspect visible to the public.
         ELEVATION PLAN. Building profiles to scale showing the architectural
style, design and arrangement of the exterior of a building or other
structures, including the kind and texture of the building material, the size,
color and scale of the building, and the type, color, style of all windows,
doors, roofs and other appurtenant fixtures.
         FACADE. The exterior wall of a building exposed to public view.
         FACIA; (BOARD). A horizontal piece covering the joint between the top
of a wall and the projecting eaves. FACIA shall be considered as facade.
         PARAPET WALL. That portion of any building wall that rises above the
level of the roof line, and it is made of the same material and thickness as
the building wall.
(1981 Code, § 515) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.095 COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS; PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   All uses permitted within an B1 or B2 district shall meet the following
performance standards.
   (A)   Light.
      (1)   Glare. The direct light of outdoor lighting fixtures which are a
reflective, directional or nondiffused type (glare) shall not be visible from
outside the zoning lot.
      (2)   Footcandles. Diffused or nondirectional light and the combination
of all light shall not exceed 2.0 footcandles at the zoning lot line if the
adjoining property is residentially zoned.
   (B)   Noise.
      (1)   A decibel is a measure of a unit of sound pressure. Since sound
waves having the same decibel level sound louder or softer to the human ear
depending upon the frequency of the sound wave in cycles per second (i.e,
whether the pitch of the sound is high or low) an A-weighted filter constructed
in accordance with the specification of the American National Standards
Institute, which automatically takes account of the varying effect on the human
ear of different pitches, shall be used on any sound level meter taking
measurements required by this section. And accordingly, all measurements are
expressed in dbA to reflect the use of this A-weighted filter.
      (2)   Construction projects shall be subject to the maximum permissible
noise levels specified for industrial zones for the period within which a valid
permit issued by proper authority is in effect. Issuance of a certificate of
zoning compliance is evidence that the construction project is complete.
      (3)   All railroad rights-of-way shall not be subject to the requirements
of this chapter.
      (4)   Impact noises are sounds that occur intermittently rather than
continuously. Impact noises generated by sources that do not operate more than
1 minute in any 1-hour period are permissible up to a level of 10 dbA in excess
of the figure listed except that this higher level of permissible noise shall
not apply from 7:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. when the adjacent lot is zoned
residential. Impact noises generated by sources that operate at a frequency
greater than 1 minute in any 1-hour period are regulated as a continuous noise
and are subject to the sound levels given in division (B)(5) below. All impact
noise shall be measured using the fast response of the sound level meter.
      (5)   Sound levels shall not exceed the following standards.
         (a)   If the receiving use is in a residential district: between 7:00
a.m. and 7:00 p.m.: 65 dbA; between 7:00 p.m. and 10:00 p.m.: 60 dbA; between
10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.: 55 dbA.
         (b)   If the receiving use is in a commercial district: between 7:00
a.m. and 7:00 p.m.: 70 dbA; between 7:00 p.m. and 10:00 p.m.: 65 dbA; between
10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.: 60 dbA.
         (c)   If the receiving use is in an industrial district: anytime: 80
dBA.
      (6)   Sound levels of noise radiating from a zoning lot line in excess of
the above dBA levels shall constitute prima fascia evidence the noise is a
public nuisance and a violation of this section.
      (7)   Yard and lawn maintenance equipment engaged in normal yard and lawn
maintenance operations are not subject to these regulations.
      (8)   In the case of uses in the B1 and B2 districts, all measurements to
determine compliance shall be made at the boundaries of the zoning lot
containing the use generating the noise.
      (9)   The requirements in §
154.095(B) shall apply to new uses or additions to existing uses and shall not
be considered to apply to any existing use which is operating on the effective
date of this section; nor shall this section make any like existing use
nonconforming.
      (10)   Existing uses shall mean any use of property which is legally
permitted and any operation, equipment, process or system which is in operation
prior to the above date. Additions to a use includes any additional operations,
equipment, processes or systems which were not operational on the above date.
      (11)   Note: The requirements, prohibitions and terms of this chapter
shall not apply to warning signal devices of any authorized emergency vehicle
acting in time of emergency. Nor shall these terms apply to activities of a
temporary duration permitted by law and for which a license or permit has been
granted by the town, including, but not limited to, parades and fireworks
displays.
   (C)   Vibration.
      (1)   Vibration levels shall not exceed the following standards:
         (a)   Maximum peak particle velocity: steady state: 0.02 inches/
second; and
         (b)   Impact: 0.04 inches/second.
      (2)   Note: The maximum particle velocity shall be the maximum
displacement vector sums of 3 mutually perpendicular components, recorded
simultaneously, multiplied by the frequency in cycles per second For purposes
of this chapter, steady-state vibrations are vibrations which are continuous,
or vibrating in discrete impulses more frequent than 60.
      (3)   In the case of uses in the B1 and B2 districts, all measurements to
determine compliance shall be made at the boundaries of the zoning lot
containing the use generating the noise.
   (D)   Design standards for all Commercial Districts.
      (1)   The purpose of this section is to establish standards for those
items that affect the physical aspect of Liberty's environment. These standards
focus on design principals which can result in creative solutions that will
develop a satisfactory visual appearance within the town, preserve values and
promote the public health, safety and welfare.
      (2)   It has been determined that zoning regulations guide development
towards accomplishing the community's goals as stated within the Liberty Land
Development Plan, creating a quality community and improving the community's
livability. These goals protect and enhance individuals' welfare and markets
the community for quality development.
      (3)   The standards require a basic level of site and structure design.
The standards are not intended to limit creativity or create a community where
everything looks the same. Its intent is to serve as a tool for design in the
context of developing Liberty as a unique place. Consideration has been given
to balancing the interests of property owners with the community's aesthetic
character.
      (4)   The balancing of the landowners right to use his or her land, with
the corresponding right of abutting and neighboring landowners to live without
nuisances such as noise, smoke, fumes, odors, glare of lights and visual
pollution.
      (5)   All new construction and expansions and/or additions, shall meet
the requirements of this chapter pertaining to design regulations and shall
also meet the following specific design criteria which is meant to facilitate
an orderly pattern of architecturally and esthetically integrated development:
         (a)   Facades fronting streets and roads.
            1.   Sixty percent of the area of the front face of any non-
residential structure including doors and windows shall be finished with any
Building Code approved material except metal faced panels; metal faced painted
panels and any metal panel with "rib” or “u” configuration; and laminated,
composite or press board wood type materials. (Composed of layers offirmly
united wood materials; made by bonding or impregnating superposed layers with
resin and compressed under heat).
            2.   Metal faced panels with galvanized, aluminum or aluminum zinc
finishes shall not be permitted for any portion of the front face.
            3.   Permitted residential uses shall comply with §
154.096.
         (b)   Facades other than fronting streets and roads.
            1.   Any code approved material including vinyl siding and metal
facade covering and other synthetic materials except metal faced panels with
galvanized, aluminum or aluminum zinc finishes, shall be allowed for any wall
not fronting streets and roads.
            2.   Where the walls are visible from adjoining residentially zoned
property, the walls shall be screened or buffered according the requirements of
this chapter.
         (c)   Trim. Trim and similar architectural detailing may be composed
of any code-approved materials.
         (d)   Utilities. All utilities providing direct service to individual
buildings shall be placed underground unless existing development within 200
feet on either side of the proposed building currently utilizes overhead
utilities or are required to be placed above ground by the applicable utility
provider.
      (6)   (a)    Expansions including cumulative additions of nonconforming
uses which result in an increase of over 50% in the linear street fronting
footage of a structure shall comply in all respects to the development
standards of this subchapter. This section shall apply to all expansions or
additions permitted after June 28, 2004
         (b)   Interior remodeling, repairs or other forms of redevelopment
which do not create additional floor area or exterior repairs which do not
change required design features shall be exempt from the provisions of this
section.
         (c)   Routine maintenance or repairs of any structure or site feature
shall be exempt from the provisions of this section.
      (7)   All accessory structures larger than 12 by 12 or 144 square feet
shall comply with the provisions of §
154.095(D)(1).
      (8)   (a)   In addition to site plan requirements as specified in §
154.254 below, elevation plans at a minimum scale of 1/8-inch equals 1 foot for
all exterior walls for the proposed construction shall be submitted.
         (b)   Plans shall be on bond or vellum paper no less than 8-1/2 by 11
inches. Drawing(s) shall be straight-line and building materials identified in
accordance with accepted architectural standards including job title and
location.
         (c)   Modifications to the site plan or elevation plan shall be
resubmitted for approval.
      (9)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         APPEARANCE. The outward aspect visible to the public.
         ELEVATION PLAN. Building profiles to scale showing the architectural
style, design and arrangement of the exterior of a building or other
structures, including the kind and texture of the building material, the size,
color and scale of the building, and the type, color, style of all windows,
doors, roofs and other appurtenant fixtures.
         FACADE. The exterior wall of a building exposed to public view.
         FACIA; (BOARD). A horizontal piece covering the joint between the top
of a wall and the projecting eaves. Facia shall be considered as facade.
         PARAPET WALL. That portion of any building wall that rises above the
level of the roof line, and it is made of the same material and thickness as
the building wall.
(1981 Code, § 516) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.096 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS; PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   All non residential uses permitted within R40, R12, R6 and RMF districts
shall meet the following performance standards.
   (A)   Light.
      (1)   Glare. The direct light of outdoor lighting fixtures which are a
reflective, directional or nondiffused type (glare) shall not be visible from
outside the zoning lot.
      (2)   Footcandles. Diffused or nondirectional light and the combination
of all light shall not exceed 2.0 footcandles at the zoning lot line if the
adjoining property is residentially zoned.
   (B)   Noise.
      (1)   A decibel is a measure of a unit of sound pressure. Since sound
waves having the same decibel level sound louder or softer to the human ear
depending upon the frequency of the sound wave in cycles per second (i. e,
whether the pitch of the sound is high or law) an A-weighted filter constructed
in accordance with the specification of the American National Standards
Institute, which automatically takes account of the varying effect on the human
ear of different pitches, shall be used on any sound level meter taking
measurements required by this section. And accordingly, all measurements are
expressed in dbA to reflect the use of this A-weighted filter.
      (2)   Construction projects shall be subject to the maximum permissible
noise levels specified for industrial zones for the period within which a valid
permit issued by proper authority is in effect. Issuance of a certificate of
zoning compliance is evidence that the construction project is complete.
      (3)   All railroad rights-of-way shall not be subject to the requirements
of this chapter.
      (4)   Impact noises are sounds that occur intermittently rather than
continuously. Impact noises generated by sources that do not operate more than
1 minute in any 1-hour period are permissible up to a level of 10 dbA in excess
of the figure listed except that this higher level of permissible noise shall
not apply from 7:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. when the adjacent lot is zoned
residential. Impact noises generated by sources that operate at a frequency
greater than 1 minute in any 1-hour period are regulated as a continuous noise
and are subject to the sound levels given in division (B)(5) below. All impact
noise shall be measured using the fast response of the sound level meter.
      (5)   Sound levels shall not exceed the following standards:
         (a)   If the receiving use is in a residential district:
            1.   Between 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m.: 65 dbA;
            2.   Between 7:00 p.m. and 10:00 p.m.: 60 dbA; and
            3.   Between 10:00 p.m. and 7.-00 a.m.: 55 dbA.
         (b)   If the receiving use is in a commercial district:
            1.   Between 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m.: 70 dbA;
            2.   Between 7:00 p.m. and 10:00 p.m.: 65 dbA; and
            3.   Between 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.: 60 dbA.
         (c)   If the receiving use is in an industrial district: Anytime: 80
dBA.
      (6)   Sound levels of noise radiating from a zoning lot line in excess of
the above dbA levels shall constitute prima facia evidence the noise is a
public nuisance and a violation of this chapter.
      (7)   Yard and lawn maintenance equipment engaged in normal yard and lawn
maintenance operations are not subject to these regulations.
      (8)   In the case of uses in the R40, R12, R6 and RMF districts, all
measurements to determine compliance shall be made at the boundaries of the
zoning lot containing the use generating the noise.
      (9)   The requirements in §
154.096(B) shall apply to new uses or additions to existing uses and shall not
be considered to apply to any existing use which is operating on the effective
date of this section; nor shall this section make any like existing use
nonconforming.
      (10)   Existing uses shall mean any use of property which is legally
permitted and any operation, equipment, process or system which is in operation
prior to the above date. Additions to a use include any additional operations,
equipment, processes or systems which were not operational on the above date.
      (11)   Note: The requirements, prohibitions and terms of this chapter
shall not apply to warning signal devices of any authorized emergency vehicle
acting in time of emergency. Nor shall these terms apply to activities of a
temporary duration permitted by law and for which a license or permit has been
granted by the town, including, but not limited to, parades and fireworks
displays.
   (C)   Vibration.
      (1)   Vibration levels shall not exceed the following standards; maximum
peak particle velocity:
         (a)   Steady state: 0.02 inches/second; and
         (b)   Impact: 0.04 inches/second.
      (2)   Note:
         (a)   The maximum particle velocity shall be the maximum displacement
vector sums of 3 mutually perpendicular components, recorded simultaneously,
multiplied by the frequency in cycles per second; and
         (b)   For purposes of this chapter, steady-state vibrations are
vibrations which are continuous, or vibrating in discrete impulses more
frequent than 60.
      (3)   In the case of uses in the R40, R12, R6 and RMF districts, all
measurements to determine compliance shall be made at the boundaries of the
zoning lot containing he or she use generating the noise.
   (D)   Design standards for all Residential Districts.
      (1)   The purpose of this section is to establish standards for those
items that affect the physical aspect of Liberty's environment.
      (2)   These standards focus on design principals which can result in
creative solutions that will develop a satisfactory visual appearance within
the town, preserve values and promote the public health, safety and welfare.
      (3)   It has been determined that zoning regulations guide development
towards accomplishing the community's goals as stated within the Liberty Land
Development Plan, creating a quality community and improving the community's
livability.
      (4)   These goals protect and enhance individuals' welfare and markets
the community for quality development.
      (5)   The standards require a basic level of site and structure design.
The standards are not intended to limit creativity or create a community where
everything looks the same.
      (6)   Its intent is to serve as a tool for design in the context of
developing Liberty as an unique place. Consideration has been given to
balancing the interests of property owners with the community's aesthetic
character.
      (7)   The balancing of the landowners right to use his or her land, with
the corresponding right of abutting and neighboring landowners to live without
nuisances such as noise, smoke, fumes, odors, glare of lights and visual
pollution.
         (a)   Except single-family dwellings. Except single-family dwellings
and their permitted accessory structures, all new construction and expansions
and/or additions, shall meet the requirements of this chapter pertaining to
design regulations and shall also meet the following specific design criteria
which is meant to facilitate an orderly pattern of architecturally and
esthetically integrated development:
            1.   All facades: 100% of the area below the facia of any non-
single-family building including doors and windows shall be finished with any
Building Code approved material except:
               a.   Metal faced panels, metal faced painted panels and any
metal panelwith “rib” or “u” configuration;
               b.   Laminated, composite or press board wood type materials
(composed of layers of firmly united wood materials; made by bonding or
impregnating superposed layers with resin and compressed under heat); and
               c.   Horizontal vinyl siding with an apparent board width of
more than 6 inches.
            2.   Trim and similar architectural detailing may be composed of
any code-approved materials and
            3.   All multifamily structures less than 3 stories in height using
a sloped roof shall have a minimum slope of 5 in 12 on the principal roof. All
multifamily structures not using a sloped roof shall have a parapet wall above
the roof of at least 3 feet in height.
         (b)   Nonconforming uses and exemptions.
            1.   Expansions of nonconforming uses shall comply in all respects
to the development standards of this section.
            2.   Interior remodeling, repairs or other forms of redevelopment
which do not create additional floor area or exterior repairs which do not
change required design features shall be exempt from the provisions of this
section.
            3.   Routine maintenance or repairs of any structure or site
feature shall be exempt from the provisions of this section.
         (c)   Accessory buildings and structures. All accessory structures
larger than 12 by 12 or 144 square feet shall comply with the provisions of §
154.096(D)(1).
         (d)   Site plan requirements.
            1.   In addition to site plan requirements as specified in §
154.254, elevation plans at a minimum scale of 1/8-inch equals 1 foot for all
exterior walls for the proposed construction shall be submitted. Plans shall be
on bond or vellum paper no less than 8-1/2 by 11 inches.
            2.   Drawing(s) shall be straight-line and building materials
identified in accordance with accepted architectural standards including job
title and location. Modifications to the site plan or elevation plan shall be
resubmitted for approval.
         (e)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         APPEARANCE. The outward aspect visible to the public.
         ELEVATION PLAN. Building profiles to scale showing the architectural
style, design and arrangement of the exterior of a building or other
structures, including the kind and texture of the building material, the size,
color and scale of the building, and the type, color, style of all windows,
doors, roofs and other apputenances.
         FACADE.   The exterior wall of a building exposed to public view.
         FACIA; (BOARD). A horizontal piece covering the joint between the top
of a wall and the projecting eaves. Facia shall be considered as facade.
         PARAPET WALL. That portion of any building wall that rises above the
level of the roof line, and it is made of the same material and thickness as
the building wall.
(1981 Code, § 517) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.097 TREES; SHRUBS; SCREENING.
   (A)   Understory trees:
      (1)   American Hornbeam;
      (2)   Eastern Redbud;
      (3)   Flowering Dogwood;
      (4)   Washington Hawthorn;
      (5)   Russian Olive;
      (6)   Mountain Silverbell;
      (7)   American Holly;
      (8)   Golden Rain Tree;
      (9)   Grape Myrtle;
      (10)   Sourwood;
      (11)   Carolina Cherry-Laurel;
      (12)   Kousa Dogwood;
      (13)   Fringe Tree;
      (14)   Star Magnolia;
      (15)   Sweet Bay Magnolia;
      (16)   Stewartia;
      (17)   Amelandier; and
      (18)   Styrax.
   (B)   Evergreen trees:
      (1)   Deodar Cedar;
      (2)   Southern Magnolia;
      (3)   Carolina Hemlock;
      (4)   Cryptomeria;
      (5)   Red Cedar; and
      (6)   Leyland Cypress.
   (C)   Canopy trees:
      (1)   Sugar Maple;
      (2)   Norway Maple;
      (3)   Red Maple Variety;
      (4)   Ginko (male);
      (5)   Honeylocust;
      (6)   Chinese Elm;
      (7)   Eastern Red Oak;
      (8)   Willow Oak;
      (9)   Scarlet Oak;
      (10)   Laurel Oak;
      (11)   River Birch;
      (12)   Zelkova;
      (13)   Bradford Pear; and
      (14)   Clevland Pear.
   (D)   Scrubs for evergreen screening:
      (1)   Glossy Abelia;
      (2)   Wintergreen Barberry;
      (3)   Dwarf Horned Holly;
      (4)   Convexa Japanese Holly;
      (5)   India Hawthorn;
      (6)   Azaleas and Rhododendrons;
      (7)   Japanese Yew;
      (8)   Compacta Holly;
      (9)   Southern Wax Myrtle;
      (10)   Thorny Elaeagnus;
      (11)   Burford Holly;
      (12)   Yaupon Holly;
      (13)   Japanese Privet;
      (14)   Fortune Tea Olive;
      (15)   Red Photinia;
      (16)   Laurentinus Virburnum;
      (17)   Northern Bayberry;
      (18)   Gold Thread Cypress;
      (19)   Crippsii Cypress;
      (20)   Virburnum Chindo; and
      (21)   Mahonia Bealei.
   (E)   Buffer shrubs:
      (1)   Japanese Barberry;
      (2)   Border Forsythia;
      (3)   Vernal Witch Hazel;
      (4)   Common Witch Hazel;
      (5)   Pfitzer Juniper;
      (6)   Parsori Juniper;
      (7)   Cotoneaster;
      (8)   Drooping Leucothoe;
      (9)   Winter Honeysuckle;
      (10)   Juddi Viburnum;
      (11)   Doublefile Virburnum;
      (12)   Carlesi Virburnum;
      (13)   Helleri Holly;
      (14)   Butterfly Bush;
      (15)   Nandina Domestica; and
      (16)   Inkberry Holly.
(1981 Code, Article 500, Appendix A) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.098 SOLAR FARM(S) LOCATED IN I AND IP DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Intent. This section is intended to provide the opportunity for solar
energy to serve as a viable form of energy generation while protecting public
health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   General requirements. The following provisions shall apply to solar
farms in industrial zoning districts:
      (1)   All structures and equipment associated with solar farms shall
observe setbacks specified by §
154.066.
      (2)   Front yard landscaping that meets the requirements of §
154.086 is required.
      (3)   (a)   Buffering/screening shall be installed as prescribed by the
requirements of a Group 1 use in the Buffering and Screening Matrix of §
154.082.
         (b)   Exception. No buffering is required for portions of the zoning
lot in which structure(s), solar collectors/equipment, and parking associated
with the solar farm are 100 feet or more from the zoning lot boundary. On all
other portions of the zoning lot in which these features are less than 100 feet
from the zoning lot boundary, buffer/screen requirements shall apply.
   (C)   Electric solar energy components shall have a UL listing and be
designed with anti-reflective coating(s).
(Ord. passed 7-6-2015)
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS FOR WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITIES
§ 154.110 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The regulations in this chapter shall provide specific areas
throughout the town for the installation, construction, attachment and
alteration of facilities to accommodate wireless communication facilities;
provide the criteria for evaluating the proposed activities; and provide a
procedure for their approval.
   (B)   The town recognizes that the Town of Liberty desires to encourage the
orderly development of wireless communication technologies for the benefit of
the town and its citizens.
   (C)   As a matter of public policy the town aims to encourage the delivery
of new wireless technologies throughout the town while controlling the
proliferation of communication towers. Development activities will promote and
protect the health, safety, prosperity and general welfare of persons living in
the Town of Liberty.
   (D)   Specifically, the wireless communication facility development
standards are designated to achieve the following:
      (1)   Provide a range of locations for wireless communication facilities
throughout the jurisdiction of the town;
      (2)   Encourage the location of wireless communication facilities onto
existing structures to reduce the number of new communication towers needed
within the jurisdiction of the Town of Liberty;
      (3)   Encourage collocation and site sharing of new and existing wireless
communication facilities;
      (4)   Control the type of tower facility constructed when towers are
permitted;
      (5)   Establish adequate development and design criteria to enhance the
ability of providers of telecommunication services to provide service to the
community quickly, effectively and efficiently;
      (6)   Protect residential, historic preservation areas and scenic
corridors from the uncontrolled development of wireless communications
facilities by requiring reasonable siting conditions;
      (7)   Promote the use of suitable lands for the location of wireless
antennae, towers and/or wireless communication facilities;
      (8)   Ensure the harmonious, orderly and efficient growth and development
of wireless communication facilities within the jurisdiction of the town;
      (9)   Provide development standards for the development of wireless
communication facilities which are consistent with the requirements of the
Federal Telecommunications Act of 1996 and in the best interest of the Town of
Liberty;
      (10)   Provide clear performance standards addressing the siting of
wireless communication facilities; and
      (11)   Streamline and expedite the permitting procedures to effect
compliance with the Federal Telecommunications Act of 1996.
(1981 Code, § 501A) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.111 USES NOT COVERED BY THIS SUBCHAPTER.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter shall reduce any of the permitted uses within
the Town of Liberty. Nothing in the subchapter shall affect the right of a
property owner to use or develop their property.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall affect the right of a property owner to
continue any legal nonconforming use.
(1981 Code, § 502A) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.112 INTERPRETATION AND DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   To the extent this chapter conflicts with other subchapters of this
chapter or any other ordinance of the Town of Liberty, this chapter shall
control.
   (B)   For the purposes of this chapter certain words, phrases and terms used
herein shall be interpreted as stated. The Zoning Administrator shall define
any word, phase or term not defined herein. The interpretation shall be based
upon its common and ordinary usage in the region.
   (C)   For the purpose of this chapter, all definitions defined herein are in
addition to all definitions in the Town of Liberty Zoning Chapter.
      ANTENNA ARRAY.
         (a)   One or more rods, panels, disc or similar devices used for the
transmission or reception of radio frequency signals, which may include omni-
directional antenna (rod), directional antenna (panel) and parabolic antenna
(disk).
         (b)   The ANTENNA ARRAY does not include the support structure.
      ATTACHED WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITY. An antenna array that is
attached to an existing building or structure (attachment structure), which
structures shall include but not be limited to utility poles, signs, water
towers, rooftops, towers with any accompanying pole or devise (attachment
devise) which attaches the antenna array to the existing building or structure
and associated connection cables, and an equipment facility which may be
located either inside or outside of the attachment structure.
      COLLOCATION/SITE SHARING. Use of a common wireless communication facility
or common site by more that 1 wireless communication license holder or by 1
wireless license holder for more than 1 type of communications technology and/
or placement of an antenna array on a structure owned or operated by a utility
or other public entity.
      EQUIPMENT FACILITY. An equipment facility is any structure used to
contain ancillary equipment for a wireless communication facility, which
includes cabinets, shelters, a build out of an existing structure, pedestals
and other similar structures.
      FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION. FAA.
      FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION. FCC.
      FEDERAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1996. FTA.
      HEIGHT. When referring to a wireless communication facility, the vertical
distance measured from the base of the tower to the highest point on the
wireless communication facility, including the antenna array and other
attachments.
      SETBACK. The required distance from the property line of the parcel on
which the wireless communication facility is located to the bas of the support
structure and equipment shelter or cabinet where applicable, or, in the case of
guy-wire supports, the guy anchors.
      SUPPORT STRUCTURE.
         (a)   A structure designed and constructed specifically to support an
antenna array, and may include a monopole, self supporting (lattice) tower,
guy-wire support tower and other similar structures.
         (b)   Any device (attachment device) which is used to attach an
attached wireless communication facility to an existing building or structure
(attachment structure) shall be excluded from the definition of and regulations
applicable to support structures.
      TEMPORARY WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITY. A wireless communication
facility to be placed in use for 90 or fewer days.
      TOWER and ANTENNA USE APPLICATION (TAA). A form provided to the applicant
by the town for the applicant to specify the location, construction, use and
compliance with the development standards of a proposed wireless communications
facility.
      WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS. Any personal wireless services as defined in the
Federal Telecommunications Act of 1996, which includes FCC licensed commercial
wireless telecommunications services including, cellular, personal
communications services (PCS), specialized mobile radio (SMR), enhanced
specialized mobile radio (ESMR), paging and similar services that currently
exist.
      WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITY. Any un-staffed facility for the
transmission and/or reception of wireless telecommunications services, usually
consisting of an antenna array, connection cables, an equipment facility and a
support structure to achieve the necessary elevation.
(1981 Code, § 503A) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.113 PREFERRED LOCATIONS FOR WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITIES AND
APPLICABILITY.
   The following wireless communication facilities may be allowed within the
Town of Liberty as follows.
   (A)   Antenna attachments onto an existing support structure or onto an
attached wireless communication facility shall be permitted by administrative
approval subject to the development criteria of §
154.114 below.
   (B)   All lands identified in the following table, whether they be for
antenna attachments or new wireless communication facilities with support
structures, shall be permitted by administrative approval subject to the
development criteria of §
154.114 below, and the following table.
Site Number Field Site Name Site Size Recommended Wireless Communications
                                      Facility Use
Site Number Field Site Name         Site Size       Recommended Wireless
                                                    Communications Facility Use
NC-0393     Town Hall and library   1.0 acre        80-foot monopole/flag pole
NC-0395     New water tank          210 feet        Attachments
NC-0397     Well site #4            200 by 200 feet 150-foot monopole
NC-0399     Police station          4.0 acres       150-foot monopole (new 911)
NC-0400     Well site #8            200 by 200 feet 190-foot monopole
NC-0402     Water tank #1           199 feet        Attachments
NC-0409     Water tank (burlington) 200 feet        Attachments
NC-0410     Waste treatment plant   329 acres       300-foot guyed tower
NC-0411     Well site # 10          125 by 125 feet 190-foot monopole
NC-0412     Sewer lift station      100 by 100 feet 170-foot monopole
21          New sewer lift station  -               190 foot monopole
 
(1981 Code, § 610, Article 600, Table 600-2) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
   (C)   New wireless communication facilities with support structures shall
only be permitted on all other lands not identified in the table in division
(B) by means of approval of a special use permit. Prior to applying for a
special use permit, the applicant shall provide the town with adequate
information to establish that lands included in division (A) or (B) above can
be made suitable for wireless communications facility locations.
   (D)   No person, firm or corporation shall install or construct any wireless
communications facility unless and until a tower antenna use application (TAA)
has been issued pursuant to the requirements of this chapter.
   (E)   Wireless communications facilities for which a permit has been issued
prior to the effective date of this chapter shall be considered as a non-
conforming use.
   (F)   This chapter shall not govern the installation of any amateur radio
facility that is owned and operated by a federally licensed amateur radio
station operator or is used exclusively for receive only antennas.
Installations shall comply with any other applicable provisions of this
chapter.
   (G)   Any wireless communications facility located or proposed to be located
in airport area governed by the Federal Aviation Administration shall also
comply with the provisions of all applicable local, state and federal airport
regulations.
   (H)   Construction of all wireless communication facilities shall comply
with the requirements of the North Carolina State Building Codes and permitting
process in addition to the requirements of this chapter.
(1981 Code, § 504A) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
154.114 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   Development standards for wireless communication facilities will include the
underlying zoning district plus following development standards.
   (A)   Height standards. The following height standards shall apply to all
wireless communications facility installations.
      (1)   Attached wireless communication facilities shall not add more than
20 feet to the height of the existing building or structure to which it is
attached (attachment structure).
      (2)   However, antenna attachments to existing communication towers shall
not increase the height of tower above the maximum original permitted height of
that tower.
      (3)   Wireless communication facilities with support structures
identified in §
154.113(B) shall have a maximum height as set out in §
154.113(B) .
      (4)   Height for wireless communication facilities with support
structures on other lands not identified in division (A) or (B) above shall be
reviewed on a cases by case basis as part of the special use permit process.
      (5)   The height of the proposed wireless communications facility should
be consistent with the height standards indicated in §
154.113(B) for similar properties in similar locations; and considering ground
elevations, topographical conditions and other site development criteria within
this chapter.
   (B)   Setback standards. The following setback standards shall apply to all
communication facility installations.
      (1)   Attached wireless communication facilities. Attached wireless
communications facilities shall meet the setback provisions of the underlying
zoning district in which they are located. However, an attached wireless
communications facility antenna array may extend up to 30 inches horizontally
beyond the edge of the attachment structure so long as the antenna array does
not encroach upon an adjoining parcel.
      (2)   Wireless communications facilities with support structures.
Wireless communication facilities with support structures shall meet the
setback requirements for principal structures of the underlying zoning district
in which they are located.
   (C)   Landscaping. The following landscaping requirements shall be
maintained by the applicant and shall apply to all wireless communications
facility Installations.
      (1)   New wireless communications facilities with support structures and
attached wireless communication facilities with new building construction shall
comply with §
154.082 above.
      (2)   Existing mature tree growth and natural land form on the site shall
be preserved to the extent feasible: provided however, that vegetation that
caused interference with the antennas or inhibits access to the equipment
facility may be trimmed or removed.
   (D)   Aesthetics; placement, materials and colors. The following standards
shall apply to all new antenna arrays and new wireless communications
facilities.
      (1)   Antenna array attachments shall be designed so as to be compatible
with the wireless communications facility to which it is to be affixed;
including but not limited to matching the proposed array with existing
structural design, facade colors and camouflage technology.
      (2)   New wireless communication facilities shall be designed to be
compatible with existing structures and surroundings to the extent feasible.
The proposed wireless communication facility should be consistent with the
tower type and height standards indicated in §
154.113(B) for similar properties in similar locations; including but not
limited to considerations of scale and space of immediate vicinity of the new
facility, placement in a location which is consistent with proper functioning
of the wireless communications facility, the use of compatible or neutral
colors and camouflage technology.
   (E)   Lighting. The following lighting requirements shall apply to all
wireless communications facility installations.
      (1)   Artificial illumination. Wireless communications facilities shall
not be artificially illuminated, directly or indirectly, except for:
         (a)   Security and safety lighting of equipment buildings if the
lighting is appropriately down shielded to keep light within the boundaries of
the site;
         (b)   Illumination of the wireless communications facility as may be
required by the FAA or other applicable authority installed in a manner to
minimize impacts on adjacent residences; and
         (c)   Unless otherwise required by the FAA or other applicable
authority, the required light shall be red and a type of lens used to reduce
ground lighting when the site is within 100 feet of a residential dwelling.
      (2)   Signage. Wireless communications facilities shall not display any
signage, logos, decals, symbols or any messages of a commercial or
noncommercial nature, except for a small message containing provider
identification and emergency telephone numbers and other information as may be
required by local, state or federal regulations governing wireless
communication facilities.
   (F)   Fencing.
      (1)   Wireless communications facilities with support structures shall be
enclosed by an opaque fence (excluding slatted chain link) not less than 6 feet
in height.
      (2)   Security features may be incorporated into the buffer and
landscaping requirements for the site. Nothing herein shall prevent fencing
that is necessary to meet requirements of state or federal agencies.
   (G)   Radio frequency emissions/sound. The following radio frequency
emissions standards shall apply to all wireless communications facility
installations:
      (1)   Radio frequency impact. The FTA gives the FCC jurisdiction of the
regulation of radio frequency (RF) emissions, and wireless communications
facilities that do not exceed the FCC standards shall not be conditioned or
denied on the bases of RF impact.
      (2)   FCC compliance. In order to provide information to its citizens,
copies of ongoing FCC information concerning wireless communications facilities
and RF emissions standards may be requested from time to time. Applicants for
wireless communications facilities shall be required to provide information
with the application on the measurement of the effective radiated power of the
facility and how this meets the FCC requirements.
      (3)   Sound prohibited. No unusual sound emissions such as alarms, bells,
buzzers or the like are permitted.
   (H)   Structural integrity. Wireless communications facilities with support
structures shall be constructed to the Electronics Industries Association/
Telecommunications Industries Association (EIA/TIA) 222 Revision F Standard
entitled Structural Standards for Steel Antennas Towers and Antenna Support
Structures (or equivalent), as it may be updated and amended. Each support
structure shall be capable of supporting multiple antenna arrays.
   (I)   Collocation agreement.
      (1)   All applicants for wireless communications facilities are required
to submit a statement with the application agreeing to allow and reasonably
market collocation opportunities to other wireless communications facility
users.
      (2)   The statement shall include the applicant's policy regarding
collocation of other providers and the methodology to be used by the applicant
in determining reasonable rates to be charged other providers.
      (3)   The collocation agreement shall be considered a condition of
issuance of a tower antenna use application (TAA). A TAA shall not be issued
unless the applicant complies with the collocation policy outlined in §
154.117 below.
(1981 Code, § 505A) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
154.115 REVIEW PROCESS.
   (A)   Criteria. The applicable development criteria referred to herein are
those set forth in §
154.114 above.
   (B)   Permitting procedures.
      (1)   Attached wireless communications facilities with or without new
building construction that meet the development criteria may be permitted by
administrative review. All wireless communications facilities with support
structures that meet development criteria and that are located in §
154.113(B), or antenna array attachments onto existing structures may be
permitted by administrative review unless the proposed facility is located on
lands meeting criteria in division (B)(2) or (3) below. All other proposed
wireless communications facilities shall be subject to the special use permit
process.
      (2)   Any wireless communications facility (attached or with a support
structure), regardless of type, to be located within an established historic
area, or other designated Overlay District will be subject to review by the
appropriate Preservation Commission and the Town Council. Review by a
Preservation Commission shall be in accordance with that district article
administrative procedures for a certificate of appropriateness. All wireless
communications facility applicants that do not conform to the development
criteria or are otherwise not eligible for administrative review shall be
subject to the Town Council review process.
   (C)   Wireless communications facilities as a part of a coordinated
development approval. Wireless communications facilities as part of a proposed
residential or nonresidential subdivision, planned unit development, site plan,
conditional rezoning or other coordinated development approval shall be
reviewed and approved through those processes.
   (D)   Wireless communications facilities for temporary term.
      (1)   Temporary wireless communications facilities may be permitted by
administrative approval for a term not to exceed 90 days.
      (2)   Once granted, a temporary wireless communications facility permit
may be extended for an additional 90 days upon evidence of need by the
applicant.
      (3)   In case of emergency (e.g., storm damage to an existing tower or
other circumstances resulting in the interruption of existing service) the
administrative review shall be expedited to the extent feasible.
(1981 Code, § 506A) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
154.116 APPROVAL PROCESS.
   (A)   Application submission. All tower antenna use applications, regardless
of wireless communications facility type shall include all of the requirements
contained in this section.
      (1)   Application contents. Each applicant requesting a TAA under this
chapter shall submit a sealed complete set of drawings prepared by a licensed
architect or engineer that will include a site plan, elevation view and other
supporting drawings, calculations and other documentation showing the location
and dimensions of the wireless communications facility and all improvements
associated therewith, including information concerning specifications, antenna
locations, equipment facility and shelters, landscaping, parking, access,
fencing, and, if relevant as determined by staff; topography, adjacent uses and
existing vegetation. Applicants proposing to collocate on an existing wireless
communication facility shall include a radio frequency intermodulation study
with their application.
      (2)   Submission requirements.
         (a)   Application for a TAA shall be submitted to the town on forms
prescribed by the town. The application shall be accompanied by a site plan
containing the information described above and a copy of the appropriate FCC
license.
         (b)   If Town Council review is required, the application and site
plan shall be placed on the next available Town Council agenda in accordance
with the agenda deadlines established by the town.
      (3)   Application fees. A plan review fee of $500 and a radio frequency
intermodulation study review fee of $500 (collocation applicants only) shall
accompany each application. These fees may be used by the town to engage an
engineer(s) or other qualified consultant(s) to review the technical aspects of
the application and radio frequency intermodulation study (if required).
      (4)   Additional technical assistance.
         (a)   In the course of its consideration of an application, the town,
may deem it necessary, in complex situations, to employ an engineer(s) or other
consultant(s) qualified in the design and installation of wireless
communication facilities to assist the town in the technical aspects of the
application.
         (b)   In those cases, any additional reasonable costs incurred by the
town not to exceed $1,500 for the technical review and recommendation shall be
reimbursed by the applicant prior to the final town hearing on the TAA.
   (B)   Administrative review. The following administrative review process
shall apply to all wireless communications facility applicants eligible for
administrative review.
      (1)   Review authority. Review of the town and antenna use application
(TAA) under this section shall be conducted by the Zoning Administrator or the
designee upon filing a TAA.
      (2)   Review criteria. Each application shall be reviewed for compliance
with the development criteria specified in §
154.114.
      (3)   Timing of decision. The Zoning Administrator or designee shall
render a decision on the wireless communications facility application by
written response to the applicant within 20 business days after receipt of the
complete application, except than an extension may be agreed upon by the
applicant.
      (4)   Deferral. The Zoning Administrator may defer administrative
approval of wireless communication facilities for any reason. Deferral of
administrative approval shall require submission to the Town Council for
review.
      (5)   Application denial. If a TAA is denied by the Zoning Administrator
due to noncompliance with the development criteria, the applicant may appeal
the denial to the Board of Adjustment as provided for in §
154.047(K) above.
      (6)   Application approval. If the TAA application together with all
required addenda are in compliance with the development criteria and otherwise
meets the requirements of this section, the Zoning Administrator shall approve
the tower antenna use application and authorize issuance of the proper permits.
   (C)   Town Council review. The following shall apply to all tower and
antenna use applications requiring submission of the Town Council:
      (1)   The Town Council shall be the review authority for TAA applications
not eligible for administrative review or otherwise referred to the Council;
      (2)   Notice of the application, the public hearing and review process
shall be accomplished in the same manner as a special use permit as established
in §§
154.190 through
154.239 of this Zoning Chapter; and
      (3)   The Town Council shall consider in addition to the requirements set
forth in §§
154.190 through
154.239 the following in reaching a decision.
         (a)   Development criteria. The complete tower antenna use application
shall be reviewed for compliance with the development criteria set forth in §
154.114 above; provided that the applicable development criteria may be amended
or waved so long as the approval of the wireless communications facility meets
the goals and purposes of this chapter. The Town Council may recommend an
alternative form the development criteria by specific inclusion in a motion for
approval.
         (b)   Tower siting conditions. The Town Council may impose conditions
and restriction on the application or on the premises benefited by the TAA as
it deems necessary to reduce or minimize any adverse effects and to enhance the
compatibility of the wireless communications facility with the surrounding
property, in accordance with the purposes and intent of this chapter, provided
the alternative development criteria, conditions or restrictions are reasonable
and capable of being accomplished. The violation of any condition shall be
grounds for renovation of the TAA as set forth in §§
154.190 through
154.239 of this chapter.
      (4)   The Town Council shall render its decision within 60 days or less
from the date of the public hearing; however, this time may be increased due to
deferrals by either the applicant or the town.
      (5)   Appeals may be taken in the manner described in §§
154.190 through
154.239.
(1981 Code, § 507A) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
154.117 SHARED FACILITIES AND COLLOCATION POLICY.
   (A)   Collocation.
      (1)   All new wireless communication facilities shall be engineered,
designed and constructed to be capable of sharing the facility with other
applicants, to collocate with other existing wireless communication facilities
and to accommodate the future collocation of other wireless communication
facilities.
      (2)   A TAA shall not be issued until the applicant proposing a new
wireless communications facility shall demonstrate that it has made a
reasonable good faith attempt to locate its wireless communications facility
onto an existing structure. Competitive conflict and financial burden alone are
not deemed to be adequate reasons against collocation.
   (B)   Collocation support structure design.
      (1)   All wireless communication facilities with a support structure up
to a height of 150 feet shall be engineered and constructed to accommodate at
least 3 antenna array.
      (2)   All wireless communication facilities with a support structure up
to a height of 150 feet or greater shall be engineered and constructed to
accommodate at least 4 antenna array.
(1981 Code, § 508A) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
154.118 REMOVAL OF ABANDONED SUPPORT STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Any support structure that is not operated for a continuous period of
12 months shall be considered abandoned, and the town, at its election, may
require the support structure owner to remove the support structure within 90
days after notice from the town to remove the support structure.
   (B)   If there are 2 or more users of a single support structure, this
provision shall not become effective until all providers cease to use the
support structure.
   (C)   If the owner of an abandoned support structure cannot be located or is
no longer in business, the requirements of this section shall be the
responsibility of the landowner on whose property the support is located.
(1981 Code, § 509A) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
154.119 NONCONFORMING WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES.
   Wireless communication facilities in existence on the date of the adoption
of this chapter which do not comply with the requirements of this chapter
(nonconforming wireless communications facility) are subject to the following
provisions.
   (A)   Expansion. Nonconforming wireless communication facilities may
continue in use for the purpose now used, but may not be expanded without
complying with this chapter except as further provided in this section.
   (B)   Additions. Nonconforming wireless communications facilities may add
additional antennas (belonging to the same provider or other providers) subject
to administrative review under this chapter.
   (C)   Repairs or reconstruction.
      (1)   Nonconforming wireless communications facilities, which become
damaged due to any reason or cause, may be repaired and restored to its former
use, location and physical dimensions subject to the provisions of this
chapter.
      (2)   Provided, however, that if the damage to the wireless
communications facility exceeds 50% of replacement cost, the wireless
communication facility may only be reconstructed or repaired in compliance with
this chapter.
      (3)   Any wireless communications facility not in use for 6 months shall
be deemed abandoned and all rights as a nonconforming use shall cease.
(1981 Code, § 510A) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
154.120 ENFORCEMENT.
   Enforcement of the provisions of this chapter shall be per §
154.278 below.
(1981 Code, § 511A) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING
§ 154.135 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   It is the intent of these regulations to encourage the appropriate location
of off-street parking and off-street loading to provide the needed levels of
service to the citizens of and visitors to the Town of Liberty and its
environs, to avoid undue congestion on the streets, to protect the capacity of
the street system, to move traffic, to avoid unnecessary conflicts between
vehicles and pedestrians, to preserve and enhance the designated pedestrian
activity areas within the town and to facilitate access from streets to off-
street parking lots and structures and off-street loading spaces.
(1981 Code, § 601) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.136 OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIRED.
   (A)   In all districts, except the B1 district, in connection with every
industrial, commercial, institutional, residential or any other use, at the
time any new structure is erected or any existing structure enlarged or use of
land is increased in density or intensity, or uses of structures or land
change, off-street parking shall be provided for vehicles in accordance with
requirements contained in this chapter.
   (B)   Conformance with the parking requirements herein shall be for any new
use or portion of enlarged use or structures only and not the existing use or
structure.
(1981 Code, § 602) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.137 COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The requirements for off-street parking space and off-street loading
space shall be a continuing obligation of the owner of the real estate upon
which any like structure is located, so long as the structure is in existence
and its use requiring parking or loading, or both, continues.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for an owner of any structure affected by this
chapter to discontinue, change or dispense with, or cause the discontinuance or
change of the required vehicle parking or loading space apart from the
discontinuance of a structure, without establishing alternative parking and
loading space which meets the requirements of and is in compliance with this
chapter.
(1981 Code, § 603) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.138 METHODS OF PROVIDING REQUIRED PARKING.
   (A)   All required parking shall be located on the same zoning lot as the
principal use(s) it serves, except as provided below.
   (B)   In lieu of actual construction of required on-site parking spaces, all
or any portion of the off-street parking required in this chapter may be
provided as follows.
   (C)   Required parking for a use on a zoning lot may be located on another
zoning lot, either by itself or combined with parking for other uses, subject
to certification by the Zoning Administrator that the following requirements
have been met:
      (1)   The use being served by the off-site parking shall be a permitted
principal use as established in §§
154.060 through
154.068, in the zoning districts within which the zoning lot containing parking
is located;
      (2)   The off-site parking spaces shall be located within 500 feet
walking distance of a public entrance to the structure or land area containing
the use for which those spaces are required. A safe, direct, attractive,
lighted and convenient pedestrian route shall exist or be provided between the
off-site parking and the use being served;
      (3)   The continued availability of off-site parking spaces, necessary to
meet the requirements of this chapter, shall be ensured by an appropriate
reciprocal easement, satisfactory to the Office of the Town Attorney and
recorded with the Register of Deeds of Randolph County;
      (4)   For purposes of determining applicable minimum and maximum land use
intensities (in districts where FAR applies), the land area devoted to off-site
parking shall be added to the land area of the zoning lot containing the use
being served by parking and shall be subtracted from the area of the zoning lot
containing the off-site parking;
      (5)   The provision of off-site required off-street parking shall not
apply to any residential use; and
      (6)   Off-site required off-street parking shall not be separated from
the use it serves by major or minor thoroughfare, as shown on the current Town
of Liberty thoroughfare plan map, or other similar physical barriers to
convenient access between the parking and the use.
(1981 Code, § 604) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.139 JOINT USE FACILITIES AND SHARED PARKING.
   (A)   (1)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent the joint
use of off-street parking or off-street loading space for 2 or more structures
or uses, if the total of the spaces, when used together, will not be less than
the sum of the requirements of the various individual uses computed separately
in accordance with the requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   An agreement for a joint use, in the form of a reciprocal easement
acceptable to the office of the Town Attorney shall be filed with the Zoning
Administrator and recorded with the Register of Deeds for Randolph County.
   (B)   (1)   No part of an off-street parking area or off-street loading area
required for any structure or use for the purpose of complying with the
provisions of this chapter shall be included as a part of an off-street parking
area or off-street loading area similarly required for another structure or
use, unless the Zoning Administrator determines that the period(s) of demands
for off-street parking for the structures or uses will not be simultaneous with
or overlap each other.
      (2)   An agreement, with the Town of Liberty as one of the parties with a
right of enforcement, for a joint use, in the form of a reciprocal easement
acceptable to the Office of the Town Attorney shall be filed with the Zoning
Administrator and recorded with the Register of Deeds for Randolph County.
      (3)   The zoning compliance permit covering the approval shall include
the requirements that the permit is valid only so long as the conditions
described in the application for the permit exist.
(1981 Code, § 605) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.140 NUMBER OF REQUIRED OFF-STREET PARKING SPACES.
   (A)   Required off-street parking spaces. The number of required off-street
parking spaces for all districts except for the B-1 District shall be as set
forth in wireless communications facility.
   (B)   Calculation of certain parking requirements.
      (1)   Where parking requirements relate to number of seats, and seating
is in the form of undivided pews, benches or the like, 20 lineal inches shall
be construed to be equal to 1 seat.
      (2)   Where parking requirements relate to movable seating in auditoriums
and other assembly rooms, 10 square feet of net floor area shall be construed
to be equal to 1 seat, except where otherwise specified.
      (3)   Net floor area shall be the actual area occupied by seating and
related aisles, and shall not include accessory unoccupied areas or the
thickness of walls.
(1981 Code, § 606) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.141 DETERMINATIONS FOR UNLISTED USES.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator shall make a determination, in the cases of
uses not listed in wireless communications facility, of the minimum required
off-street parking spaces.
   (B)   In reaching the determination, the Zoning Administrator shall be
guided by the requirements for similar uses, the number and kind of vehicles
likely to be attracted to the proposed uses and studies of the parking
requirements of uses in other jurisdictions.
(1981 Code, § 607) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.142 OFF-STREET PARKING SPACE DESIGN STANDARDS.
   All required parking areas shall meet the following minimum design
requirements. All non-required parking and loading areas shall be designed,
built and maintained to prevent problems due to erosion, runoff and dust.
   (A)   The minimum dimensions for required off-street parking spaces and
aisles shall be in accordance with §
154.147(B).
   (B)   Parking for the handicapped shall be provided as per North Carolina
Building Code requirements.
   (C)   (1)   All off street parking facilities shall be designed with
permanent means of access to a street or alley and designed to provide all
necessary maneuvering lanes and areas.
      (2)   Access drives shall be designed to provide for 2-way traffic with a
minimum width of 22 feet. Drives of less than 50 feet where the view of
oncoming traffic is not blocked or impaired, may be single lane of not less
than 11 feet in width.
   (D)   Except for single-family dwellings, parking facilities shall observe a
minimum setback of 10 feet from any public street right-of-way. This
requirement shall be coordinated with §
154.086.
   (E)   (1)   Except for single and 2-family dwellings and parking facilities
designed for 10 vehicles or less (required spaces in stacking/waiting lanes
shall be counted as spaces for determination of total required spaces), all
required off-street parking areas shall be paved with concrete or asphalt.
      (2)   Prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy, required
paving must be installed or its installation guaranteed as per §
154.270.
   (F)   All off-street parking lots shall be graded and drained so as to
dispose of all surface water accumulated within the area. Curbed areas and
islands may be required where necessary for traffic control and or drainage as
necessary to comply with erosion control laws.
   (G)   (1)   Lighting shall be required if nighttime parking is necessary or
permitted.
      (2)   If a facility is lighted, lighting shall be directed away from and
or shielded from public streets and residential areas and shall not be a hazard
or distraction to motorists traveling on a street.
   (H)   Parking areas shall be used for parking of vehicles, only, with no
sales, displays, dead storage, repair work, dismantling or service of any kind
including the service of motor vehicles permitted.
   (I)   (1)   All off-street parking spaces, including all areas for
maneuvering, shall be located solely on private property, and shall not use
public property or public rights-of-way.
      (2)   Parked vehicles in off-street parking areas shall be prevented from
intruding on travel lanes, walkways, streets, buffer and screen yards, front
yard parking setbacks or adjacent properties by means of walls, curbs, wheel
stops or other appropriate means.
   (J)   All off-street-parking areas shall be designed to provide safe and
convenient circulation, in accordance with commonly accepted traffic
engineering practices and subject to the review and approval of the Zoning
Administrator in accordance with the engineering practices.
   (K)   All required paved spaces, access and maneuvering areas shall be
clearly marked and the markings shall be maintained.
   (L)   Except for single-family dwellings, ingress-egress openings in
concrete or asphalt or other curbing provisions, commonly referred to as curb
cuts shall be regulated by the following requirements and may require the
approval of the Liberty Public Works Department or the North Carolina
Department of Transportation, as applicable.
      (1)   The number of curb cuts and all other access points shall be
limited to 1 cut on each street where a lot has less than 120 feet of street
frontage or to 2 cuts on each street where a lot has 120 feet or more of street
frontage.
      (2)   No curb cut shall be less than 12 feet in width or more than 36
feet in width (unless approved by the Liberty Public Works Department or the
North Carolina Department of Transportation, as applicable, for up to 50 feet
in width to allow use by large trucks).
      (3)   Where 2 curb cuts are permitted for a single lot, a distance of no
less than 36 feet shall separate them.
      (4)   No curb cut or other access point shall be located closer than 36
feet to any street intersection. The intersection is determined by the
intersecting point of the 2 street right-of-way lines (or lines extended in the
case of a rounded corner).
(1981 Code, § 608) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.143 LANDSCAPING STANDARDS FOR OFF-STREET PARKING.
   (A)   It is the intent of this section to protect and promote the public
health, safety and general welfare by requiring the landscaping of parking
areas which will serve to reduce radiant heat from surfaces, wind and air
turbulence, noise, reduce the glare of automobile lights and ameliorate storm
water drainage problems and soil erosion; to reduce the level of carbon dioxide
and return pure oxygen to the atmosphere; to provide shade; and to protect and
preserve the appearance, character and value of adjacent properties.
   (B)   Except for single and 2-family dwellings, all required parking
facilities, unless located entirely underground, shall meet the following
minimum landscaping requirements:
      (1)   (a)   Parking facilities, unless located on or within a structure,
shall be separated from the exterior walls of any structure by providing a
grade separation of a minimum of 4 inches and a buffer strip at least 4 feet in
width which shall be landscaped and covered with a ground cover or paved to be
utilized as a pedestrian walkway.
         (b)   Paved grade separated pedestrian entrance ways or loading access
ways as necessary to provide access to the structure are excluded from the
landscape requirement; and
      (2)   (a)   In addition to the required landscaping within the front yard
setback (§
154.086 above) and as required in division (A) above, all parking facilities
designed for 20 or more vehicles (required spaces in stacking/waiting lanes
shall not be counted as spaces for determination of total required spaces)
shall provide a minimum of 8.1 square feet of landscaped area per parking
space.
         (b)   The landscaped areas shall contain at least 162 square feet with
no dimension less than 9 feet and shall be reasonably dispersed throughout the
parking facility.
         (c)   Each landscaped area shall contain a canopy tree, groundcover
and or mulch (see §
154.097 above for approved materials lists).
   (C)   In providing the vegetation required above, the retention of existing
significant vegetation shall be encouraged.
   (D)   All landscaped areas shall be maintained in healthy and growing
condition, dead or damaged materials shall be replaced, and areas shall be kept
free of trash, refuse and debris.
   (E)   Prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy, required
landscaping must be installed or its installation guaranteed as per §
154.270.
(1981 Code, § 609) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.144 REQUIRED OFF-STREET LOADING SPACE.
   (A)   (1)   Every use requiring the receipt or distribution, by vehicles, of
materials and merchandise shall have 1 or more loading spaces for standing,
loading and unloading on the same zoning lot.
      (2)   Loading space shall be sufficient to allow normal loading and
unloading operations of a kind and magnitude appropriate to the property
served.
      (3)   Required loading space shall be available for the loading and
unloading of vehicles and shall not be used for the storage of vehicles or
materials, or to meet off-street-parking requirements, or in conducting the
use.
   (B)   The requirements in the following table shall apply to new structures
or additions to structures, and shall not be considered to make any existing
structure nonconforming for lack of off-street loading.
Off-Street Loading Requirements
Land Use Classification                 Space Requirements
Office and hotel uses (larger than 1500 One loading space for every 10,000
square feet)                            square feet of floor area, up to a
                                        maximum of 5 spaces
Industrial and Commercial Uses as       Minimum Number of Loading Spaces
Follows                                 Required
Under 8,000 square feet                 1 space
8,000 to 25,000 square feet             2 spaces
25,000 to 50,000 square feet            3 spaces
50,000 to 100,000 square feet           4 spaces
100,000 to over square feet             5 spaces
 
(1981 Code, § 610, Article 600, Table 600-2) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.145 DETERMINATION OF UNLISTED USES.
   For any land use which is not listed in §
154.147, the Zoning Administrator, upon review of the proposed use, shall
specify the required number of loading spaces to be provided, using generally
accepted traffic engineering practices and standards.
(1981 Code, § 611) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.146 OFF-STREET LOADING SPACE STANDARDS.
   All off-street-loading spaces shall meet the following standards.
   (A)   (1)   Each required off-street loading space shall have a minimum
width of 12 feet and a minimum vertical clearance of 16 feet above the finished
grade of the space.
      (2)   The length shall be a minimum of 30 feet for local delivery and 60
feet for semitrailers.
      (3)   A maximum of 2/3 of the required loading spaces can be used for
local delivery vehicles.
   (B)   Off-street loading spaces shall be located and arranged so that a
semitrailer truck shall be able to gain access to and use those spaces.
   (C)   Loading space shall not be permitted within any required yard setback
or buffer or screening yard as established by this chapter.
   (D)   All required loading space and necessary maneuvering space shall be
paved and shall be maintained in a safe, sanitary and neat condition.
   (E)   No loading space shall be located so that a vehicle using the space
intrudes on or hinders the use of the public rights-of-way, or adjacent
properties.
(1981 Code, § 612) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.147 PARKING REQUIREMENTS TABLE AND DIAGRAM.
   (A)   Following is the table of parking requirements.
Parking Requirements
Use Number of Spaces
Parking Requirements
Use             Number of Spaces
Accessory
apartment; non-
commercial;     2.0 per dwelling unit
manufactured
homes not
permitted
Adult day care
facility (for   1.0 per employee plus 1.0 per facility vehicle plus 1.0 per 15 clients
less than 30)
Adult day care
facility (for   1.0 per employee plus 1.0 per facility vehicle plus 1.0 per 15 clients
more than 30)
Adult day care
home (for less  1.0 per employee plus 1.0 per facility vehicle plus 1.0 per client
than 6 persons)
Adult uses      3.0 per 500 square feet
Agricultural
roadside stand;
produce         3.0 per 1,000 square feet GFA
produced on
site
Airport and     1.0 per 4 seating accommodations for waiting passengers plus 1.0 for each
heliport        2 employees of largest shift
Amusement       1.0 per 3 persons in designated capacity plus 2.0 per 3 employees on the
parks;          largest shift
permanent
Animal hospital
and veterinary  5.0 per 1,000 square feet GFA
clinic; general
Automatic       2.0 per machine
teller
Bakery; on and
off premises
sale permitted  1.0 per 400 square feet of floor area plus 1.0 per facility vehicle
wholesale and
retail
Bakery; on
premises sale   1.0 per 350 square feet of floor area
only
                1.0 per 300 GFA plus a waiting lane for each drive-up window or station
Banks           with a capacity for 5 vehicles. All waiting lanes shall be located off
                the street right-of-way
Banquet         1 parking space per 4 occupants as established by NC State Building Code
facility        Section 1004 “Occupant Load”
Bed and         2.0 for owners plus 1.0 per facility vehicle plus 1.5 per quest room
breakfast
Boarding and
rooming houses;
owner occupied  2.0 for owners plus 2.0 per roomer
only (maximum 2
roomers)
Bus terminal    8.0 per 1,000 square feet GFA waiting area
Business
dealing
primarily in    3.0 per 500 square feet
sexually
explicit
materials
Business        3.5 per 1,000 square feet GFA
services
Child day care  1.0 per employee plus 1.0 per facility vehicle plus 2.0 per 15 children
center; large
Child day care  1.0 per employee plus 1.0 per facility vehicle plus 2.0 per 15 children
center; medium
Child day care  1.0 per employee plus 1.0 per facility vehicle plus 2.0 per 15 children
center; small
Child day care  1.0 per employee plus 1.0 per facility vehicle plus 2.0 additional
home
Child day care  1.0 per employee plus 1.0 per facility vehicle plus 4.0 additional
home; large
Church and      1.0 per employee plus 1.0 per facility vehicle plus a drop off and pick
synagogue child up area located outside of public rights-of-way
care center
Church and
synagogue (not  0.3 per seat
places of
assembly)
College and
university;     0.5 per student
seminary
Commercial
developments
with multi-use  5.0 per 1,000 square feet GFA
and/or
structures with
FAR up to .30
Commercial
developments
with multi-use
and/or          5.0 per 1,000 square feet GFA
structures with
FAR of .31 up
to .45
Communication
facilities;     1.0 per 1,000 square feet GFA
commercial
Community       1 parking space per 4 occupants as established by NC State Building Code
center          Section 1004 “Occupant Load”
Congregate
living facility
(does not       1.0 per employee of largest shift plus 1.0 per facility vehicle plus 0.2
include         per resident
structured
environment)
Congregate
living
facility; for 6 1.0 per employee of largest shift plus 1.0 per facility vehicle plus 0.2
or less persons per resident
(family care
home)
Contractors     1.0 per 400 square feet of floor area
office
Correctional    1.0 per employee plus 1.0 per 2.5 inmates
facilities
Country,        3.3 per 1,000 square feet GFA and 1.0 per 30% of the maximum capacity for
racquet, tennis open uses
and swim clubs
Crematorium     0.25 per seat of chapel capacity plus 0.33 per employee
Cultural        3.3 per 1,000 square feet GFA
facility
Dormitories     3.3 per 1,000 square feet GFA
Drinking
establishments;
bar, cocktail
lounge, tavern, 2.0 per 5 seats and/or bar stools
coffeehouse,
cabaret and the
like
Drive-up
window/station/
drive-throughs  A waiting lane for each drive-up window or station with a capacity for 5
where permitted vehicles. All waiting lanes shall be located off street right-of-way
as part of a
principal use
Drive-in        Car standing space for patrons awaiting admission shall be provided on
theater         the site in an amount equal to not less than 30% of the vehicular
                capacity of the theater
Dry cleaners;   1 per 350 square feet GFA
small
Dry cleaning    1.0 per employee on largest shift plus 1.0 per facility vehicle
plant
Dwelling for
caretaker/
security guard  1.0 per employee per shift
on premise
where employed
Dwelling
multiple-family 1.0 per dwelling unit
for elderly
Dwelling
multiple-family 2.0 per dwelling unit
units up to .19
FAR
Dwelling
multiple-family 2.0 per dwelling unit
units up to .33
FAR
Dwelling
multiple-family 2.0 per dwelling unit
units up to .45
FAR
Dwelling
single-family   2.0 per dwelling unit
units
Dwelling 2-     2.0 per dwelling unit
family units
Dwelling within
mixed use       2.0 per dwelling unit
structures
Eating
establishments; 2.0 per 5 seats
sit down
Eating          2.0 per 5 seats plus a waiting lane for each drive-up window or station
establishments; with a capacity for 5 vehicles. All waiting lanes shall be located off
walk-in/drive-  street right-of-way
in
Electronic and
electrical      4.0 per 1,000 square feet GFA plus 1.0 per facility vehicle
repair; large
Electronic and
electrical      4.0 per 1,000 square feet GFA
repair; small
Exterminator    4.0 per 1,000 square feet GFA
Extraction of   1.0 per each 2 employees of shift of average greatest employment plus 1.0
earth products  for each vehicle used directly in the conduct of the use
Farmers market  1 per each 350 square feet of display area
Flea markets
and open air    3.0 per 1,000 square feet GFA or outdoor area devoted to sales
sales
Flea markets    3.0 per 1,000 square feet GFA or outdoor area devoted to sales. The
and open air    following sections do not apply: §§ 153.142(E), 153.142(F), 153.143 and
sales;          154.086
temporary
Fraternity and  3.3 per 1,000 square feet GFA
sorority houses
Funeral parlor  .25 per seat of chapel capacity space
Furniture       1.0 per each 2 employees on shift of average greatest employment plus 1.0
refinishing and for each vehicle used directly in the conduct of the use
repair
Game rooms      1.0 per 150 square feet of GFA
Gas station     1.0 per 4 pumps
Golf course not
including Par 3 3.3 per 1,000 square feet GFA and 1.0 per 30% of the maximum capacity for
or miniature    open uses
courses
Health
practitioners   5.0 per 1,000 square feet GFA
offices
Health services 1.0 per employee of largest shift plus 1.0 per facility vehicle plus 2.0
                per bed
Helistop        Individual review
Home occupation 2.0 per residence plus 2.0
Hotels and      1.0 per lodging unit plus 1.0 per each 2 employees
motels
Industrial
developments    5.0 per 1,000 square feet GFA except designated warehouse and/or
with multi use  manufacturing, processing and assembly square feet plus 1.0 per 1,000
and/or          square feet GFA of designated warehouse space and/or 0.6 per employee of
structures with largest shift plus 1 space per vehicle used directly in conduct of
a FAR up to .27 manufacturing, processing and assembly
or .35
Interior        1.0 per each 2 employees on shift of average greatest employment plus 1.0
cleaning        for each vehicle used directly in the conduct of the use
services
Junkyards       .05 per employee plus 1.0 per 5,000 square feet of lot area
Kennel          5.0 per 1,000 square feet GFA
Landfills;      1.0 per employee of largest shift
clean material
Landfills;      1.0 per employee of largest shift
sanitary
Limited
duration;
circus,         0.3 per seat for activities where seating is provided to 1.0 per 3
carnival and    persons expected as average attendance. Previous attendance records shall
fair tent       be provided as required for documentation, plus 2.0 spaces per 3
revivals        employees
(exempt from
paving
requirement)
Lumber and
building        2.0 per 1,000 square feet GFA
materials sales
Lumberyard      2.0 per 1,000 square feet GFA
Mail order
distribution    0.6 per employee of largest shift
center
Manufactured
home/mobile     2.0 per dwelling unit
home park
Manufactured
home/mobile     3.0 per 1,000 square feet GFA
home sales
Manufactured
home/mobile     2.0 per dwelling unit
homes; Class A
double wide
Manufactured
home/mobile     2.0 per dwelling unit
homes; Class A
single wide
Manufacturing,  0.6 per employee of largest shift plus 1.0 space per vehicle used
processing and  directly in conduct of the use
assembly; heavy
Manufacturing,  0.6 per employee of largest shift plus 1.0 space per vehicle used
processing and  directly in conduct of the use
assembly; light
Massagists      3.0 per 500 square feet GFA
Massagists;
therapeutic     5.0 per 1,000 square feet GFA
health
Meat packing
and             1.0 per 1,000 square feet GFA
slaughterhouse
Medical and     4.0 per 1,000 square feet GFA
dental labs
Membership
organization;   3.3 per 1,000 square feet GFA
not in
commercial gain
Mental
institutions    2.0 per bed
and sanitariums
Mini-warehouse  1.0 per 10 storage units plus 1.0 per employee
Mobile home     3.0 per 1,000 square feet GFA
sales lot
Motor vehicle   1.0 per 300 square feet GFA of enclosed repair area plus 1.0 per each 2
repair; major   employees plus 1.0 for each vehicle used directly in the conduct of the
                use
Motor vehicle   1.0 per 300 square feet GFA of enclosed repair area plus 1.0 per each 2
repair; minor   employees plus 1.0 for each vehicle used directly in the conduct of the
                use
Nursing,
convalescent    1.0 per employee of largest shift plus 1.0 per facility vehicle plus 0.35
and extended    per bed
care facilities
Personal        1.0 per 350 square feet GFA
services
Photographic    4.0 per 1,000 square feet GFA plus 1.0 for each vehicle used directly in
lab facilities; the conduct of the use
commercial
Photographic
mini-lab        4.0 per 1,000 square feet GFA plus 1.0 for each vehicle used directly in
facility (1-    the conduct of the use
hour type)
Photography
studio; with    4.0 per 1,000 square feet GFA plus 1.0 for each vehicle used directly in
lab for in-     the conduct of the use
house use only
Place of
assembly (not   0.3 per seat
churches or
synagogues)
Printing and    1.0 per 1,000 square feet GFA
publishing
Produce sales;  3.0 per 1,000 square feet GFA or outdoor area devoted to sales. The
temporary       following sections do not apply: §§ 153.142(E), 153.142(F), 153.143 and
                154.086
Professional    1.0 per employee of largest shift plus 1.0 per facility vehicle plus 0.2
residential     per resident
facility
Professional    1.0 per 400 square feet GFA
services
Public facility 1.0 per employee
Public use      3.3 per 1,000 square feet GFA
facility
Railroad
classification  1.0 per employee
yard
Recreation and
amusement
services;
commercial/     1.0 per 150 square feet GFA devoted to the use
indoor (does
not include
game rooms)
Recreation and
amusement       1.0 per tee, green, court, cage and/or other method of participation
services;       however styled plus 1.0 per employee
commercial/
outdoor
Recreational    2.0 per site plus 1.0 per employee of largest shift plus 1.0 per facility
vehicle/travel  vehicle
park/camp
Recycling       1.0 per employee plus 1.0 per facility vehicles used in conduct of the
center          use
Recycling plant 1.0 per employee of largest shift
Rehabilitation  4.0 per 1,000 square feet GFA
center
Rental/sales of
commercial      3.0 per 1,000 square feet GFA
vehicles and
heavy equipment
Rental/sales of
domestic        3.0 per 1,000 square feet GFA
vehicles
Repair services 4.0 per 1,000 square feet GFA
Research        1.4 per employee
activities
Retail
convenience     4.0 per 1,000 square feet GFA
goods
Retail shoppers 4.0 per 1,000 square feet GFA
goods
School;         1.6 per classroom, 0.33 per student plus 1.0 per staff member
business
School;
technical/      1.6 per classroom, 0.33 per student plus 1.0 per staff member
vocational
Schools;
nursery/pre-    1.0 per employee plus 1.0 per facility vehicle, plus 1.0 per 15 children
school and the
like
Schools;
public,
private,        1.6 per classroom, 0.33 per student plus 1.0 per staff member
elementary and
high schools
Seasonal sales; 3.0 per 1,000 square feet GFA or outdoor area devoted to sales. The
temporary       following sections do not apply: §§ 153.142(E), 153.142(F), 153.143 and
                154.086
Service station 1.0 per 4 pumps plus 3.0 per repair bay
Sign painting   4.0 per 1,000 GFA
Solar farm      0.6 per employee of largest shift plus 1 space per vehicle used directly
                in conduct of such use
Stable;         1.0 per 5 stalls
commercial
Taxi stand      1.0 per employee
Transfer        1.0 per employee plus 1.0 per facility vehicle used in conduct of the use
station
Truck terminal  1.0 per employee
Vehicle towing  1.0 per employee plus 1.0 per facility vehicle used in conduct of the use
operation       plus 2.0
Warehouse       0.6 per employee of largest shift
Wholesale       0.6 per employee of largest shift
distribution
 
   (B)   Following is the diagram of parking requirements.
 
Minimum Dimensions
A   B        C         D*        E         F         G
45°9.0 feet 17.5 feet 12.0 feet 12.7 feet 47.2 feet 2.0 feet
60°9.0 feet 19.0 feet 16.0 feet 10.4 feet 54.0 feet 2.5 feet
75°9.0 feet 19.5 feet 23.0 feet 9.3 feet  62.0 feet 2.5 feet
90°9.0 feet 18.0 feet 22.0 feet 9.0 feet  62.0 feet 3.0 feet
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/9c69637d794a56a84a5b0bc879c1b5550c19a150/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1603.bmp]
 
   Additional width shall be required where the aisle serves as a principal
vehicular access to on-site uses or structures or serves 2-way traffic. Two-way
traffic requires an additional 12 feet of width.
(1981 Code, Article 600, Table 600-1, Diagram 600-1) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004;
Am. Ord. passed 11-23-2009; Am. Ord. passed 7-6-2015; Am. Ord. passed 3-23-
2020)
SIGNS
§ 154.160 INTENT.
   (A)   It is the general intent of this chapter to prohibit signs of a
commercial nature in districts in which commerce is barred; to limit signs in
the commercial districts in relation to the intensity of the use of the
district and its surroundings; and to control the number, area and location of
signs in other districts.
   (B)   These regulations are designed, among other purposes, to stabilize and
protect property values, maintain the visual attractiveness of the Town of
Liberty and its environs and promote public safety.
(1981 Code, § 701) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.161 SIGNS SUBJECT TO CONTROL.
   (A)   All signs visible from the public rights-of-way shall be erected,
maintained and operated in accordance with this chapter and other relevant
controls, unless specifically excepted.
   (B)   Signs not subject to the provisions of this chapter are listed in §
154.162 below.
(1981 Code, § 702) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.162 SIGNS NOT SUBJECT TO CONTROL.
   The following signs are not subject to the control of this chapter:
   (A)   Non-illuminated signs not exceeding 2 square feet in area, not of a
commercial nature and bearing only property identification numbers and names,
post office box numbers and name(s) of occupant(s) of the premises;
   (B)   Insignia of any government and historic markers erected by a
governmental body;
   (C)   Legal notices, identification and informational signs and traffic
directional signs erected by or on behalf of a governmental body;
   (D)   Integral decorative or architectural features of buildings, except
letters, trademarks, moving parts or moving lights;
   (E)   Signs directing and guiding traffic on private property, but which
bear no advertising matter and do not exceed 2 square feet in area. These signs
are limited to on site only; and
   (F)   Incidental signs used in conjunction with equipment or other
functional elements of a use or operation. These shall include, but not be
limited to drive through window menu boards, signs on automatic teller
machines, gas pumps, express mail drop boxes, vending machines or newspaper
delivery boxes or signs painted or permanently attached to currently licensed
motor vehicles that are not parked or located so as to function as a sign.
(1981 Code, § 703) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.163 TRAFFIC SAFETY PRECAUTIONS.
   The following practices in relation to signs are prohibited, notwithstanding
any other provisions in this chapter, in order to preserve the safety of
pedestrian and vehicular movement:
   (A)   No sign shall be erected so that any part of it intrudes into a sight
preservation triangle established;
   (B)   No sign shall use words such as “stop,” “slow,” “caution,” “danger” or
similar admonitions which may be confused with traffic directional signs
erected by governmental agencies;
   (C)   No sign shall be erected so as, by its location, color, nature or
message, to permit it to be confused with or obstruct the view of traffic
signals or signs or so it would tend to be confused with the warning lights of
an emergency or public safety vehicle; and
   (D)   No sign shall contain pulsating, rotating, occulting or flashing
lights. Signs showing time and temperature information and electronic
changeable copy are permitted.
(1981 Code, § 704) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.164 PROHIBITED LOCATIONS FOR SIGNS.
   (A)   Except where specifically exempted by this chapter, all signs shall be
located outside of required setback yards and public rights-of-way.
   (B)   No sign shall be attached to any utility pole, tree, rock or other
natural object.
(1981 Code, § 705) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.165 MAXIMUM SIZE FOR SIGNS.
   The maximum permitted sign size shall be as permitted in §
154.177. No sign permitted by this section shall exceed 200 square feet in area
per face where more than 1 face is permitted.
(1981 Code, § 706) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.166 MAXIMUM HEIGHT FOR SIGNS.
   No sign permitted by this chapter may exceed 20 feet in height.
(1981 Code, § 707) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.167 RESTRICTION ON DIRECT ILLUMINATION.
   (A)   No source of illumination on a sign, such as floodlights, spotlights,
unshielded bulbs and the like, shall be directly visible from any public
rights-of-way, from any residential district or from adjacent premises.
   (B)   No sign permitted in any Residential District may be illuminated
except as permitted in §
154.177.
(1981 Code, § 708) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.168 ELECTRICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   All electric signs with internal wiring or lighting equipment, and all
external lighting equipment used to direct light on signs, shall bear the seal
of approval of an electrical testing laboratory that is nationally recognized
as having the facilities for testing and requires proper installation in
accordance with the National Electrical Code. All electrical connections shall
be in accordance with the National Electrical Code.
(1981 Code, § 709) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.169 ZONING COMPLIANCE PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Before any sign, except those specifically exempted from a like requirement,
shall be erected or structurally altered a sign zoning compliance permit shall
be obtained.
(1981 Code, § 710) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.170 RESPONSIBLE PARTY IDENTIFIED.
   Every sign for which a permit is required shall be plainly marked with the
name of the person, firm or corporation responsible for the sign.
(1981 Code, § 711) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.171 TEMPORARY SIGNS.
   (A)   Not requiring permit. The following temporary, unlighted signs may be
erected in the manner prescribed without the issuance of a zoning compliance
permit.
      (1)   Real estate signs. A sign located on the premises and offering the
premises for sale, rent, lease or development, shall not exceed the following
area per sign face.
 
Residential Districts
Distance from All Street Right-of-way Lines Maximum Sign Area Per Face 2/Sided
0 to 49 feet                                12 square feet
50 to 99 feet                               32 square feet
100 or more                                 64 square feet
 
 
Commercial/Industrial Districts
Distance from All Street Right-of-Way Lines Maximum Sign Area Per Face 2/Sided
0 to 49 feet                                32 square feet
50 to 99 feet                               64 square feet
100 or more feet                            96 square feet
 
      (2)   Real estate signs, off premises directional.
         (a)   Two temporary off-premise signs directing traffic to a property
offered for sale, rent, lease or development may be permitted in any district.
         (b)   Signs may not exceed 3 square feet in area or 3 feet in height,
shall not be located within the public rights-of-way, shall be limited to 1
sign per zoning lot, where located, with the permission of the property owner,
may be located in required yards and must be removed upon sale or leasing of
the property.
      (3)   Construction sign.
         (a)   A single construction site identification sign shall be
permitted.
         (b)   It shall not exceed 32 square feet in area, shall be located at
least 10 feet from the front property line and may contain in its message
identification of the project, its owner and/or developer, architect, engineer,
land planner, landscape architect, contractor and subcontractors.
   (B)   Signs requiring permits. The following temporary signs require a
zoning compliance permit:
      (1)   On premises temporary signs or banners announcing openings,
closings, management changes or special events.
         (a)   A permit may be issued for one temporary sign or banner per
street on which any establishment is located;
         (b)   The permit may be issued for up to 30 consecutive days;
         (c)   The permit shall establish the dates for which the sigh will be
erected;
         (d)   A permit may be issued two times for any zoning lot within a
calendar year;
         (e)   Signs or banners may be 12 square feet in size if located within
ten feet from the rights-of-way; and up to 32 square feet if located over ten
feet from the rights-of-way;
         (f)   Any sign or banner erected across any vehicle travel lane,
parking area or emergency lane shall have a vertical height of at least 14 feet
above the area. No such sign or banner shall be erected within any public
street right-of-way.
      (2)   On premises temporary signs or banners announcing non-commercial
civic or philanthropic events.
         (a)   A permit may be issued for one temporary sign or banner per
street on which any establishments is located;
         (b)   The permit may be issued for up to 30 consecutive days;
         (c)   The permit shall establish the dates for which the sigh will be
erected;
         (d)   A permit may be issued two times for any zoning lot within a
calendar year;
         (e)   Signs or banners may be up to 32 square feet;
         (f)   Any sign or banner erected across any vehicle travel lane,
parking area or emergency lane shall have a vertical height of at least 14 feet
above the area. No such sign or banner shall be erected within any public
street right-of- way;
         (g)   Signs described in this section shall be removed within 48 hours
from the end of the event;
         (h)   Signs described in this section which will be displayed for a
period of less than 14 days shall not require a zoning compliance permit.
However, the following regulations shall apply: Only one temporary sign or
banner may be erected per street on which any establishments is located; Signs
or banners may be up to 32 square feet; any sign or banner erected across any
vehicle travel lane, parking area or emergency lane shall have a vertical
height of at least 14 feet above the area. No such sign or banner shall be
erected within any public street right-of-way. Signs described in this section
shall be removed within 14 days from erection or 48 hours from the end of the
event, whichever is the least amount of time.
      (3)   On premises temporary signs or banners for a zoning lot where a
permit has been issued for any of the following: flea markets; open air sales;
temporary, produce sales; temporary, or seasonal sales; temporary:
         (a)   A permit may be issued for one temporary sign or banner per
street on which any temporary establishments is located;
         (b)   The permit may be issued for up to 60 consecutive days;
         (c)   The permit shall establish the dates for which the sigh will be
erected;
         (d)   A permit may be issues two times for any temporary use, per
zoning lot, within a calendar year;
         (e)   Signs or banners may be up to 32 square feet;
         (f)   Any sign or banner erected across any vehicle travel lane,
parking area or emergency lane shall have a vertical height of at least 14 feet
above the area. No such sign or banner shall be erected within any public
street right-of- way.
      (4)   Off premises temporary signs announcing a temporary use as
described in division (B)(2) above or a special event.
         (a)   A permit may be issued for up to two temporary signs or banners
per use described in division (B)(2) above;
         (b)   The permit shall specify that one sign shall be permitted on
each of two zoning lots, each of which shall be identified;
         (c)   The permit shall be issued only for zoning lots located within
commercial or industrial zoning districts;
         (d)   The permit may be issued for up to 30 consecutive days;
         (e)   The permit shall establish the dates for which the sign or
banner will be erected;
         (f)   No more than three signs for different events, as described in
division (B)(2) above, shall be active for any zoning lot at one time;
         (g)   Signs or banners may be up to 32 square feet;
         (h)   Any sign or banner erected across any vehicle travel lane,
parking area or emergency lane shall have a vertical height of at least 14 feet
above the area. No such sign or banner shall be erected within any public
street right-of- way;
         (i)   Signs described in this section shall be removed within 48 hours
from the end of the event;
         (j)   Signs described in this section which will be displayed for a
period of less than 14 days shall not require a zoning compliance permit.
However, the following regulations shall apply: only two such signs or banners
may be erected per event. No more than three signs for different events, as
described in division (B)(2) above, shall be active for any zoning lot at one
time; signs or banners may be up to 32 square feet; any sign or banner erected
across any vehicle travel lane, parking area or emergency lane shall have a
vertical height of at least 14 feet above the area. No such sign or banner
shall be erected within any public street right-of- way. Signs described in
this section shall be removed within 14 days from erection or 48 hours from the
end of the event, whichever is the least amount of time.
      (5)   Off premises temporary signs directing traffic to a temporary use
as described in division (B)(2) above or a special event.
         (a)   No permit is required for temporary directional signs to direct
traffic to the permitted use or special event;
         (b)   Such signs may be up to three square feet in area and three feet
in height;
         (c)   Such signs may be displayed for up to seven days prior to the
use or special event and shall be removed within 48 hours of the termination of
the use or special event;
         (d)   Such temporary directional signs may be located within any
zoning district;
         (e)   Such temporary directional signs may be located within the
required front yard;
         (f)   Such temporary directional signs shall be limited to one sign
per zoning lot, where located, with the permission of the property owner;
         (g)   Such temporary directional signs shall not be located within any
public rights-of-way;
      (6)   No permit is required for the following additional temporary signs
erected for a special event.
         (a)   Two four foot by five foot “A” frame signs directing traffic to
a special event; and
         (b)   Two four foot by five foot “A” frame signs providing information
about the special event;
         (c)   The signs directing traffic may be displayed for up to seven
days prior to the special event and shall be removed within 48 hours of the
termination of the special event;
         (d)   The signs for signs providing information may be displayed for
up to 14 days prior to the special event and shall be removed within 48 hours
of the termination of the special event;
         (e)   Such temporary signs may be located within any zoning district;
         (f)   Such temporary signs may be located within the required front
yard;
         (g)   Such temporary signs shall be limited to one sign per zoning
lot, where located, with the written permission of the property owner;
         (h)   Such temporary directional signs shall not be located within any
public rights-of-way.
      (7)   Off premise temporary signs directing construction traffic during
the time of construction for a project where a zoning compliance permit has
been issued.
         (a)   A permit may be issued for temporary directional signs to direct
traffic to the construction site;
         (b)   The permit shall limit such signs to three square feet in area
and three feet in height;
         (c)   The permit may be issued for the time period from the issuance
of the zoning compliance permit to seven days after the issuance of a
certification of zoning compliance;
         (d)   Such temporary directional signs may be located within any
nonresidential zoning district;
         (e)   Such temporary directional signs may be located within the
required front yard;
         (f)   Such temporary directional signs shall be limited to one sign
per zoning lot, where located, with the written permission of the property
owner;
         (g)   Such temporary directional signs shall not be located within any
public rights-of-way.
      (8)   “A” and “T” frame portable signs may be permitted to be used as
temporary signs as described in divisions (B) above. All “A” and “T” frame
signs shall have an approved type of tie-down provision to prevent them from
becoming a hazard during high winds. Tie-down provisions will not change a
sign's status from a portable sign to a ground sign.
(1981 Code, § 712) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004; Am. Ord. passed - - ) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.172 TRAILER, MOBILE, A-FRAME AND T-FRAME PORTABLE SIGNS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Trailer and mobile, portable signs are prohibited from location or use
within the Town of Liberty and its extraterritorial planning jurisdiction.
   (B)   A frame and T frame portable signs are prohibited from location or use
within the Town of Liberty and its extraterritorial planning jurisdiction,
except as permitted in §
154.171(B)(8) above.
(1981 Code, § 713) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004; Am. Ord. passed - - ) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.173 BILLBOARDS (OFF-PREMISES BUSINESS SIGNS) PROHIBITED.
   Billboards or off-premises business signs are not permitted within the
jurisdiction of the Town of Liberty 
(1981 Code, § 714) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.174 MAINTENANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   All signs, together with braces, guys and supports shall at all times
be kept in good repair.
   (B)   If at any time a sign should become unsafe or poorly maintained, the
Zoning Administrator shall notify the owner of the condition, and upon failure
of the owner to correct the condition, the Zoning Administrator shall take
appropriate legal action to have the signs repaired or removed.
(1981 Code, § 715) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.175 REMOVAL OF OBSOLETE SIGNS.
   Signs identifying business establishments no longer in existence, products
no longer being sold and services no longer being rendered shall be removed
from the premises within 60 days from the termination of the activities. Upon
failure of the owner to remove the signs within the prescribed time period, the
Zoning Administrator shall take appropriate legal action to have the signs
removed.
(1981 Code, § 716) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.176 ALL OTHER SIGN TYPES.
   The above and all other sign types shall be regulated as per §
154.177.
(1981 Code, § 717) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.177 SCHEDULE OF PERMITTED AND PERMISSIBLE SIGNS.
   The following is a table of permitted and permissible signs.
Permitted and Permissible Signs
Sign Type R40 R12 R6 RMF B2 B1 I IP Note
Permitted and Permissible Signs
Sign Type            R40 R12 R6  RMF      B2       B1       I        IP       Note
Auction signs (on    T   T   T   T        T        T        T        T        7
and off premises)
                     P   P   P   P        P        P        P        P
Awning type signs;   2   2   2   2        30%      15%      30%      30%      6
advertising          1   1   1   2        2        2        2        2
                     No  No  No  No       Yes      Yes      Yes      Yes
Billboard /off
premise -
advertising
Changeable
electronic copy
signs (see specific                       P        P        P        P        20
type of signs,
i.e.,wall, pole,
ground and the like)
Church directional;  P   P   P   P        P        P        P        P        11
off premises
                     P   P   P
                     25  25  25  P        P        P        P        P
Church sign          to  to  to  Per      Per      Per      Per      Per
directory or         40  40  40  District District District District District 21
identification       1   1   1   regs     regs     regs     regs     regs
                     S/  S/  S/  Yes      Yes      Yes      Yes      Yes
                     F   F   F
                     Yes Yes Yes
Directional sign;    P                    P        P        P        P        12
off premises
Entrance and exit    P   P   P   P        P        P        P        P
(no advertising)     2   2   2   2        2        2        2        2        3
                     No  No  No  No       Yes      Yes      Yes      Yes
                                          P        P        P        P
Free standing (pole)                      150      75       150      150      8
                                          Yes      Yes      Yes      Yes
                                          P        P        P        P
Ground sign                               150      75       150      150      9
                                          Yes      Yes      Yes      Yes
Incidental sign (§  P   P   P   P        P        P        P        P        10
154.162 Sign types)
                     P   P   P   P        P        P        P        P
Marquee sign (same   2   2   2   2        30%      15%      30%      30%
as awning sign)      1   1   1   1        2        2        2        2
                     No  No  No  No       Yes      Yes      Yes      Yes
Non-commercial civic
or philanthropic     T   T   T   T        T        T        T        T        15
events signs
Nonconforming signs  P   P   P   P        P        P        P        P        4
Off premise
advertising /                                                                 2
billboard
Political sign       T   T   T   T        T        T        T        T        14
                                          P        P        P        P
Projection sign                           15       15       15       15       5
                                          1        1        1        1
                                          Yes      Yes      Yes      Yes
Real estate
directional; off     P   P   P   P        P        P        P        P        13
premises
Real estate sign; on P   P   P   P        P        P        P        P        15
site
Roof sign; attached                                                           16
Special event signs  T   T   T   T        T        T        T        T        22
Special event sign                        T        T        T        T        22
(off premises)
Subdivision sign     P   P   P   P        P        P        P        P        17
                                          P        P        P        P
Suspended sign                            15       15       15       15
                                          1        1        1        1
                                          Yes      Yes      Yes      Yes
Temporary civic sign                      T        T        T        T        15
                                          P        P        P        P
Wall                                      30% Yes  20% Yes  30% Yes  30%      18
                                                                     Yes
Window                                    P        P        P        P        19
P=permitted.
S=Permitted by special use permit only.
T=Permitted as a temporary sign.
First numeric figure=square footage permitted or percentage of coverage if wall
sign.
Second numeric figure=number of signs permitted (SF=street frontage).
Yes or No=Illumination permitted (Applies to Residential Districts only).
 
(1981 Code, Article 700, Table 700-1) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004; Am. Ord. passed -
- )
§ 154.178 NOTE FILE FOR § 154.177.
   (A)   Note 2: Billboard/off-premises advertising and off-premises
advertising/billboard signs are not permitted in any zoning district within the
zoning jurisdiction of the Town of Liberty.
   (B)   Note 3: Signs directing and guiding traffic, but which bear no
advertising matter and do not exceed 4 square feet in area. Presented signs
shall be subject to §
154.163. Signs located in Commercial and Industrial Districts may be
illuminated subject to §
154.167. Signs are limited to 2 per drive. Signs may be permitted within public
rights-of-way after review on an individual basis and approved by the Town
Manager and, when located on a state maintained road/street, by the NCDOT. No
sign located within public rights-of-way shall be over 2 feet in height.
   (C)   Note 4: Nonconforming signs legally established prior to the effective
date of this chapter or subsequent amendment, which is not in full compliance
with the regulations of this chapter subject to §§
154.250 through
154.254.
   (D)   Note 5: Projecting and suspended signs are permitted within the B1, B2
and IP Districts subject to the following:
      (1)   Only 1 projecting or suspended sign shall be permitted per
principal structure;
      (2)   All projecting and suspended signs shall be set back at least 2
feet from the back face of the curb or outer edge of the pavement where there
is no curb. Set back distances for projecting signs which front on state roads
or streets shall be approved by NCDOT, approval shall be presented when
applying for a sign permit. Subject to the above, no projecting or suspended
sign shall project horizontally more than 6 feet;
      (3)   All projecting and suspended signs shall be erected at a height of
not less than 9 feet above the sidewalk, walkway or any pedestrian passageway;
      (4)   No projecting or suspended sign shall exceed 15 square feet in area
per feet; and
      (5)   Projecting and suspended signs may be 2-sided.
   (E)   Note 6:
      (1)   Area is calculated based on the area of the awning that appears as
a vertical surface and may be viewed from 1 vantage point. Not more than 100
square feet in the B1 District and not more that 200 square feet in the B2, I
and IP Districts;
      (2)   An awning or marquee sign shall be located at least 9 feet above
the sidewalk, walkway or pedestrian passageway over which it projects; and
      (3)   Those signs shall not extend above the roofline of the building on
which it is attached.
   (F)   Note 7: Auction signs:
      (1)   On-premise shall be regulated by §
154.171(A)(1); and
      (2)   Off-premise shall be regulated by §
154.171(B)(4).
   (G)   Note 8: Freestanding signs may be allowed as follows:
      (1)   One freestanding sign may be permitted for each street frontage of
the zoning lot, provided no ground sign is located on the same street frontage;
      (2)   A consolidated sign of unified design and construction shall be
used where more than 1 use is located on a single lot;
      (3)   A maximum height of 20 feet;
      (4)   All freestanding signs shall observe a maximum sign area of:
         (a)   Signs in B1 shall not display more than 75 square feet of sign
area;
         (b)   Signs in B2 shall not display more that 150 square feet of sign
area; and
         (c)   Signs in I and IP shall not display more that 150 square feet of
sign area.
      (5)   A freestanding sign may have 2 faces. In the case of a double-faced
sign, which is constructed in the form of a “V” when viewed from above, the
angle of the “V” measured at the apex shall not exceed 45 degrees. Each face
may contain up to the maximum are indicated above;
      (6)   Not counted as freestanding signs are entrance and exit signs and
signs not subject to control (§
154.162); and
      (7)   Any freestanding sign shall be setback 5 feet from any property
line.
   (H)   Note 9: Ground signs may be allowed as follows:
      (1)   One ground sign may be permitted for each street frontage of the
zoning lot, provided no freestanding ground sign is located on the same street
frontage;
      (2)   A consolidated sign of unified design and construction shall be
used where more than 1 use is located on a single lot. Consolidated signs may
not exceed district maximum;
      (3)   A maximum height of 20 feet;
      (4)   All ground signs shall observe a maximum sign area of:
         (a)   Signs in B1 shall not display more than 75 square feet of sign
area;
         (b)   Signs in B2 shall not display more than 150 square feet of sign
area; and
         (c)   Signs in I and IP shall not display more than 150 square feet of
sign area.
      (5)   A ground sign may have 2 faces. In the case of a double-faced sign,
which is constructed in the form of a “V” when viewed from above, the angle of
the “V” measured at the apex shall not exceed 45 degrees. Each face may contain
up to the maximum are indicated above;
      (6)   Not counted as ground signs are entrance and exit signs and signs
not subject to control (§
154.162); and
      (7)   Any ground sign shall be setback 5 feet from any property line.
   (I)   Note 10: Signs described in §
154.162 which are not subject to control by this chapter.
   (J)   Note 11: Off premises directional signs for churches or non-profit
civic organizations are permitted in any district. If located outside of the
public right-of-way, the written permission of the property owner shall be
required. Signs may be permitted within public right-of-way after review on an
individual basis and approval by the Town Manager and when located on a state
maintained road/street, by the NCDOT. Signs are limited to 2 square feet in
area.
   (K)   Note 12: The Zoning Administrator may issue to a qualifying use a
zoning compliance permit for a single off premise directional sign provided the
following standards are met:
      (1)   The principal use for which sign is erected is located in a Bl, B2,
I or IP District;
      (2)   Any sign located in BI, B2, I or IP District shall not exceed 8
square feet per establishment nor 32 square feet for 3 or more establishments
utilizing a single sign. Signs providing directions to multiple establishments
shall be of unified design. Signs shall be limited to 6 feet in height;
      (3)   Signs located within the R40 district shall be limited to 2 square
feet in area and 3 feet in height;
      (4)   Signs shall not be located within any residential district, except
the R40 District;
      (5)   No off-premises directional signs shall be permitted within the
defined sight triangle;
      (6)   Off premises directional signs shall be limited to 1 per zoning lot
where the signs are permitted to be erected. Signs are permitted on any lot
within R40, Bl, B2, IP Districts, and I provided the lot is located at a street
intersection;
      (7)   Written permission of the property owner shall be submitted at the
time of application for a sign zoning compliance permit;
      (8)   All signs permitted shall be of a permanent construction and no
portable signs shall be permitted; and
      (9)   For the purpose of determining zoning lots; railroad rights-of-way
shall be considered 1 lot per street block.
   (L)   Note 13: Subject to §
154.171(A)(2).
   (M)   Note 14: Non-illuminated political signs, not exceeding 16 square feet
in area, are permitted in required front yards. Signs shall be removed within 2
days subsequent to the election or campaign to which they pertain. No political
sign shall be posted on any utility pole. Political signs of up to 32 square
feet may be permitted within commercial and/or industrial districts as long as
they are located outside of any public rights-of-way.
   (N)   Note 15: Subject to §
154.171.
   (O)   Note 16: Roof signs are not permitted in any Zoning District within
the zoning jurisdiction of the Town of Liberty.
   (P)   Note 17:
      (1)   Name markers for subdivisions may be located within the street
rights-of-way on NCDOT secondary roads or town maintained streets (after review
on an individual basis and approved by NCDOT where applicable), or within the
required front yard at the beginning of a subdivision road upon issuance of a
zoning compliance permit, provided the location of the marker is outside the
intersection sight triangle and the normal maintenance limits; and
      (2)   In non-residential districts markers may include a listing of the
occupants of the subdivision. Issuance of a zoning compliance permit shall be
subject to the following conditions:
         (a)   Property sight distances shall be maintained at all
intersections of streets. There shall be a clear sight distance in the
triangular area formed by the intersecting street rights-of-way lines and a
straight line connecting points on the street rights-of-way lines in accordance
with the current edition of the NCDOT Division of Highways Minimum Construction
Standards for Subdivision Roads. The sight distance shall be surveyed and
platted as street rights-of-way, and no obstruction shall be permitted in this
area;
         (b)   All costs will be the responsibility of the applicant;
         (c)   Neither the town nor the North Carolina Division of Highways
shall maintain the marker or the area around the marker;
         (d)   The markers shall be removed, if not properly maintained or if
required for street improvement purposes, at no expense to the public;
         (e)   One marker shall be permitted for each intersection and a
maximum of 2 markers shall be permitted for each subdivision;
         (f)   If the sign is to be located within the rights-of-way of any
North Carolina state system road, approval of the Division of Highways shall be
required;
         (g)   The applicant shall assume liability for the marker;
         (h)   Size is limited to 40 square feet and height is limited to 6
feet;
         (i)   Markers in non-residential districts which list the occupants of
the subdivision shall also be subject to the following requirements:
            1.   A rendering indicating color, size, shape and lighting
mechanisms for the marker shall be submitted; and
            2.   All marker panels shall be of unified design (color, size,
shape) and shall not include company logos.
         (j)   The light source for the marker shall not be directly visible
from adjoining properties or rights-of-way; and
         (k)   The applicant shall agree in writing to these conditions.
   (Q)   Note 18: Wall signs shall be allowed as follows:
      (1)   No wall sign shall extend above the roofline of the structure to
which it is attached;
      (2)   Wall signs may be permitted to exceed the district height limit.
However, any wall sign shall be limited to identification purposes only;
      (3)   Wall signs in B1:
         (a)   No wall sign shall encompass, cover or delineate more than 20%
of the exterior building wall upon which it is mounted or painted, provided
that no exterior building wall shall display more than 200 square feet of sign
area; and
         (b)   No part of the sign shall extend more than 18 inches from the
wall.
      (4)   Wall signs in B2:
         (a)   No wall sign shall encompass, cover or delineate more than 30%
of the exterior building wall upon which it is mounted or painted provided that
no exterior building wall shall display more that 200 square feet of sign area;
and
         (b)   No wall sign shall exceed more than 18 inches from the wall on
which it is mounted;
      (5)   Wall signs in I and IP: no wall sign shall encompass, cover or
delineate more than 30% of the exterior building wall upon which it is mounted
or painted and no wall sign shall exceed a total of 200 square feet. No wall
sign shall extend more than 18 inches from the wall on which it is mounted; and
      (6)   One or more wall signs are permitted per wall, subject to the total
display are per wall listed above.
   (R)   Note 19: Window signs shall be considered as wall signs and shall be
added to the sign area for any wall sign area designated. See Note 18 in
division (Q) above.
   (S)   Note 20: Changeable electronic copy signs are allowed at maximum size
up to 80% of the amount of sign face area of the type sign utilized (i.e.,
freestanding, ground, wall) for the district in which the sign is located.
   (T)   Note 21: In residential districts, 25 square feet maximum if sign is
located less than 40 feet from street rights-of-way. If sign is located more
than 40 feet from street rights-of-way, then a maximum of up to 40 square feet
may be permitted. In Commercial and Industrial Districts all signs shall meet
district regulations.
   (U)   Note 22: Subject to §
154.171.
(1981 Code, Article 700, Note File) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004; Am. Ord. passed 3-
24-2003; Am. Ord. passed - - )
SPECIAL USE REGULATIONS
§ 154.190 INTENT.
   (A)   It is the intention of the Town Council to create, and from time to
time amend, a list of special uses within §§
154.060 through
154.068, which, because of their inherent nature, extent and external effects,
require special care in the control of their location and methods of operation.
   (B)   The Town Council is aware of its responsibility to protect the public
health, safety and general welfare and believes that certain uses which, now or
in the future, may be included on this list are appropriately handled as
special uses, subject to review in relation to general and specific
requirements, rather than as uses permitted by right.
   (C)   In addition to the listing of uses, the Town Council intends that the
general standards, established in §§
154.060 through
154.068, and the more specific requirements established below shall be used by
the Town Council to direct deliberations upon applications for the approval of
special uses.
   (D)   It is the express intent of the Town Council to delineate the areas of
concern connected with each special use and to provide standards by which
applications for special use shall be evaluated.
(1981 Code, § 801) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.191 GENERAL STANDARDS.
      (A)   The Town Council shall find that the following general standards
shall be met by all applicants for approval of special uses:
      (1)   That the use will not materially endanger the public health or
safety if located where proposed and developed according to the plan as
submitted and approved;
      (2)   That the use meets all required conditions and specifications;
      (3)   That the use will not substantially injure the value of adjoining
or abutting property, or that the use is a public necessity; and
      (4)   That the location and character of the use if developed according
to the plan as submitted and approved will be in harmony with the area in which
it is to be located and in general conformity with the plan of development of
Liberty and its environs.
   (B)   The Town Council shall make these general findings based upon
substantial evidence contained in its proceedings.
   (C)   It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to present evidence in
the form of testimony, exhibits, documents, models, plans and the like to
support the application for approval of a special use.
(1981 Code, § 802) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.192 PROCEDURE FOR SUBMISSION AND CONSIDERATION OF APPLICATIONS FOR
APPROVAL OF SPECIAL USES.
   (A)   Application submitted to Zoning Administrator.
      (1)   Application for a special use shall be filed with the Zoning
Administrator, who shall, before accepting any application, ensure that it
contains all required information, as specified in §
154.195 below.
      (2)   The deadline for filing of applications for a special use will
normally be 5:00 p.m. on the day, which is 30 days prior to the date of the
Town Council meeting for which the public hearing is to be set.
      (3)   The Town Manager, acting as agent for the Town Council, shall
schedule each complete application for a public hearing.
      (4)   Hearings dates may be established for a regular or special meeting
of the Town Council; however, the Manager shall not schedule a combined total
of more than 5 hearings on amendments to this chapter, special use permits and
conditional use permits at any meeting of the Town Council.
      (5)   Applications which are not complete, or otherwise do not comply
with the provisions of this chapter, shall not be accepted by the Zoning
Administrator, but shall be returned forthwith to the applicant, with a
notation by the Zoning Administrator of the deficiencies in the application.
   (B)   Planning Director prepares analysis.
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator shall cause an analysis to be made of the
application for consideration by the Town Council.
      (2)   The analysis shall be a written report which shall be submitted to
the Town Council prior to the meeting at which the public hearing described in
division (E) below is to be held.
   (C)   Public hearing required; notice specified. Prior to consideration of
the application for approval of a special use, a public hearing thereon shall
be held by the Town Council to receive evidence in the form of testimony,
exhibits, documents, models, plans and the like to support the application for
approval of a special use.
   (D)   Notice. The Zoning Administrator shall give public notice of the date,
time and place of the public hearing. The notice shall be as required by the
G.S. Ch. 160A.
   (E)   Action on the application. After completion of the public hearing, the
Town Council shall take action upon the application. This action shall be 1 of
the following:
      (1)   Approval;
      (2)   Approval with conditions attached; or
      (3)   Denial. In every case, the action of the Town Council shall include
a summary of the evidence supporting the action taken by it on the application.
   (F)   Action subsequent to the decision.
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator shall cause notice of the disposition of
the application to be sent by certified mail to the applicant and a copy of the
decision to be filed in the office of the Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator, in the case of approval or approval with
conditions, shall issue the necessary permit in accord with the Council’s
action.
      (3)   The permit shall include and be based upon plans as approved by the
Town Council.
(1981 Code, § 803) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.193 IMPOSED CONDITIONS.
   (A)   In granting a special use permit, the Town Council may impose
additional reasonable and appropriate special requirements upon a permit as it
may deem necessary in order that the purpose and intent of this chapter is
served, public welfare secured and substantial justice done.
   (B)   If all requirements and conditions are accepted by the applicant, the
Town Council shall authorize the issuance of the special use permit, otherwise
the permit shall be denied.
   (C)   The conditions of a valid special use permit shall run with the land
and shall be binding on the original applicant(s) as well as all successors,
assigns and heirs.
(1981 Code, § 804) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.194 DISCONTINUANCE OF PERMITTED ACTIVITY.
   (A)   If any special use is discontinued for a period of 180 days or
replaced by a use otherwise permitted in the zoning district, it shall be
deemed abandoned and the special use permit shall be null and void and of no
effect.
   (B)   The owner shall demonstrate that the special use has not been
discontinued for a period exceeding 180 days or has not been replaced by a use
otherwise permitted to maintain a valid special use permit.
(1981 Code, § 805) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.195 CONTENTS OF APPLICATION FOR A SPECIAL USE.
   (A)   The application for a special use shall be submitted on forms provided
by the Zoning Administrator. The forms shall be prepared so that, when
completed, a full and accurate description of the proposed use, including its
location, appearance and operational characteristics shall be disclosed.
   (B)   A site plan shall be included with the application which details how
requirements of §
154.269 will be met along with the information needed to indicate compliance
with the specific special use requested.
   (C)   Additionally, the forms shall, when completed by the applicant,
disclose the name(s) and address(es) of the owner(s) of the property involved,
the name(s) and address(es) of the applicant, if different from the owner(s)
and all relevant information needed to show compliance with the general and
specific standards governing the special use which is the subject of the
application.
(1981 Code, § 806) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.196 MINOR CHANGES TO BE APPROVED BY ZONING ADMINISTRATOR; MODIFICATIONS
REQUIRE ACTION BY TOWN COUNCIL.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator is authorized to approve minor changes in the
approved plans of special uses, as long as they are in harmony with action of
the approving body, but shall not have the power to approve changes that
constitute a modification of the approval.
   (B)   A modification shall require approval of the Town Council and shall be
handled as a new application.
   (C)   The Zoning Administrator shall use the following criteria in
determining whether a proposed action is a minor change or a modification:
      (1)   Any change in location or any increase in the size or number of
signs shall constitute a modification;
      (2)   Any increase in intensity of use shall constitute a modification.
An increase in intensity of use shall be considered to be an increase in usable
floor area, an increase in number of dwelling or lodging units, and/or an
increase in outside land area devoted to sales, displays or demonstrations;
      (3)   Any change in parking areas resulting in an increase or reduction
of 5% or more in the number of spaces approved by the Town Council shall
constitute a modification. In no case shall the number of spaces be reduced
below the minimum required by the ordinance;
      (4)   Structural alterations significantly affecting the basic size,
form, style, ornamentation and the like of the building as shown on the
approved plan shall be considered a modification;
      (5)   Substantial change in the amount and/or location of open space,
recreation facilities or landscape screens shall constitute a modification;
      (6)   A change in use shall constitute a modification; and
      (7)   Substantial changes in pedestrian or vehicular access or
circulation shall constitute a modification.
   (D)   The Zoning Administrator shall, before making a determination as to
whether a proposed action is a minor change or a modification, review the
record of the proceedings on the original application for the approval of the
special use.
   (E)   The Zoning Administrator shall, if he or she determines that the
proposed action is a modification, require the applicant to file a request for
approval of the modification, which shall be submitted to the Town Council. The
Council may approve or disapprove the application for approval of a
modification.
(1981 Code, § 807) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.197 GENERAL COMPLIANCE WITH THIS CHAPTER.
   In addition to the specific conditions imposed by the regulations in this
chapter and whatever additional conditions the Town Council deems reasonable
and appropriate, special uses shall comply with all regulations set forth in
this chapter.
(1981 Code, § 808) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.198 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH PLANS AND CONDITIONS OF THE PERMIT.
   (A)   In the event of failure to comply with the plans approved by the Town
Council or with any conditions imposed upon the special use permit, the permit
shall thereupon immediately become void and of no effect.
   (B)   No building permits for further construction or certificate of
occupancy under this special use permit shall be issued, and all completed
structures shall be regarded as non-conforming uses subject to the provisions
of §§
154.190 through
154.239 of this chapter; provided however, that the Town Council shall not be
prevented from thereafter rezoning the property for its most appropriate use.
(1981 Code, § 809) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.199 WITHDRAWAL OF APPLICATION.
   An applicant may withdraw his or her or her application at any time by
written notice to the Town Manager.
(1981 Code, § 810) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.200 EFFECT OF DENIAL ON SUBSEQUENT PETITIONS.
   When the Town Council shall have denied an application the Town Council
shall not receive another application for the same special use, affecting the
same property or a portion of it until the expiration of a 1-year period,
extending from the date of denial.
(1981 Code, § 811) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.201 APPEALS.
   (A)   No appeal may be taken to the Board of Adjustment from the action of
the Town Council in granting or denying a special use permit.
   (B)   Every final decision of the Town Council shall be subject to review by
the Superior Court of Randolph County by proceedings in the nature of
certioraris.
(1981 Code, § 812) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.202 FEES.
    Fees for filing applications for special uses shall be set by the Town
Council.
(1981 Code, § 813) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.203 STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO INDIVIDUAL SPECIAL USES.
    In addition to the general standards contained in §
154.191 above, the following specific standards for individual special uses
shall be used in deciding upon applications for special uses.
(1981 Code, § 814) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.204 ADULT DAY CARE FACILITIES FOR MORE THAN THIRTY CLIENTS.
   Adult day care facilities for more than 30 clients may be permitted in B1
and B2 districts provided that the following requirements are met:
   (A)   Adult day care facilities must meet the standards provided by the
Division of Social Services. Evidence that standards are met shall be presented
to the town prior to any certificate of zoning compliance being issued;
   (B)   Facilities permitted in any B1 and B2 Districts or that are contiguous
to any residential district shall provide screening around parking areas to
avoid any nuisance to adjoining residentially zoned property;
   (C)   Facilities permitted in any residential district shall maintain the
character and appearance of a residential use;
   (D)   All facilities shall meet the standards of the North Carolina Building
Code;
   (E)   Off-street parking shall be provided in accordance with §§
154.135 through
154.147; and
   (F)   Applications for permits under this section shall be accompanied by a
site plan or plat which includes the location of all structures; parking areas
including ingress, egress and maneuvering space; required screening; permitted
signs and additional information as may be necessary to indicate compliance
with these regulations.
(1981 Code, § 815) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.205 AIRPORT; HELIPORT.
   An airport/heliport may be permitted in I and IP districts subject to the
following requirements:
   (A)   Airport/heliport developments shall meet the requirements of the FAA;
   (B)   In addition to site plans required, a full master plan including plans
or information detailing flight approach patterns and noise cones shall be
presented. All plans shall be drawn by a registered professional authorized to
design airports;
   (C)   Airports/heliports shall be so located and designed as to minimize
disturbance of residential areas located outside of approved noise cone
contours;
   (D)   No structures, runways, taxiways, tiedown areas, parking lots, towers,
beacons and the like, shall be located within 50 feet of any property line;
   (E)   No petroleum storage tanks or refueling facilities shall be located
within 100 feet of any property line;
   (F)   All outdoor lighting except navigational, safety and other lighting
related to aircraft operations, shall be so designed as to not disturb
adjoining properties;
   (G)   Signs shall be regulated as per §§
154.160 through
154.178; and
   (H)   Off-street parking shall be as per §§
154.135 through
154.147.
(1981 Code, § 816) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.206 CHILD DAY CARE FACILITIES IN DISTRICTS WHERE THOSE FACILITIES REQUIRE
A SPECIAL USE PERMIT.
   Child day care facilities may be permitted provided that the following
requirements are met:
   (A)   Child day care facilities must meet the standards provided by the
Child Day Care Commission. Evidence that Commission requirements are met shall
be presented to the town prior to any certificate of zoning compliance being
issued;
   (B)   Child day care facilities may be permitted in Industrial Districts
provided they are operated as an accessory use to a legal permitted use;
   (C)   Facilities permitted in any Residential, R6 RMF and B1 and B2
Districts or that are contiguous to any residential district shall provide
screening around play areas and parking areas to avoid any nuisance to
adjoining residentially zoned property;
   (D)   Facilities permitted in any residential district shall maintain the
character and appearance of a residential use;
   (E)   All facilities shall meet the standards of the North Carolina Building
Code;
   (F)   Off-street parking shall be provided in accordance with §§
154.135 through
154.147; and
   (G)   Applications for permits under this section shall be accompanied by a
site plan or plat which includes the location of all structures; parking areas
including ingress, egress and maneuvering space; play areas; required
screening; permitted signs and additional information as may be necessary to
indicate compliance with these regulations.
(1981 Code, § 817) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.207 COLLEGES; UNIVERSITIES.
   A parochial or private college or seminary shall be permitted in R40, R12,
R6 and RMF districts subject to the following standards. Customary accessory
uses to colleges shall also be permitted. This does not include sorority or
fraternity houses.
   (A)   The site for any parochial or private college or seminary shall have
an area of at least 10 acres, plus 5 acres for each 100 pupils, or major
portion thereof, in excess of 400 pupils. A site shall have a frontage on a
major or minor thoroughfare as shown on the Liberty Thoroughfare Plan.
   (B)   (1)   All buildings shall be located at least 100 feet from street
lines and at least 50 feet from all other property lines.
      (2)   Grandstands, gymnasiums, central heating plants and similar
buildings shall be set back at least 100 feet from all property lines.
      (3)   The distance between buildings shall be at least the height of the
taller building. Total coverage of the site by all buildings shall be limited
to 30%.
      (4)   Dormitories and single-family dwellings shall be permitted as
accessory buildings, provided that the minimum area of the site shall be
increased by at least 1,000 square feet for each dormitory bed and by at least
the minimum lot area of the applicable zoning district for each single-family
dwelling.
      (5)   Use of dormitories or dwellings shall be limited exclusively to
students, teachers or other members of the staff of the school or college, and
a dormitory or dwelling shall not subsequently be sold or rented as a private
residence, or for any other legal use, unless the building and any required lot
surrounding it shall meet all regulations of the district in which it is
located.
   (C)   Any playgrounds or playfields shall be located not closer than 50 feet
to any property line.
   (D)   Buffering and screening shall be installed and maintained as set forth
in §§
154.080 through
154.097.
   (E)   Off-street parking and loading shall be provided in accordance with §§
154.135 through
154.147.
(1981 Code, § 818) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.208 COMBUSTIBLE LIQUID STORAGE IN QUANTITIES GREATER THAN TWO THOUSAND
BUT LESS THAN ONE-HUNDRED THOUSAND-GALLONS’ AGGREGATE.
   Combustible liquid storage, above ground, for wholesale or retail
distribution of more than 2,000 but less than 100,000 gallons aggregate storage
capacity, may be permitted in I1 and IP Industrial Districts subject to the
following requirements:
   (A)   The requirements of the NFPA Standards shall be met;
   (B)   All storage tanks and loading facilities shall be located at least 25
feet from any exterior property line;
   (C)   All storage tanks and loading facilities shall be located at least 100
feet from any exterior property line bordering a residential district;
   (D)   As a prerequisite to the approval of a special use permit, the Town
Council shall find that the use of the proposed site for petroleum storage will
not endanger the safety of residential or other properties in the area, and
that vehicular access to the storage facility will be provided from major
thoroughfares and will not require the use of residential streets for access to
the site;
   (E)   Off-street parking and loading shall be provided in accordance with §§
154.135 through
154.147; and
   (F)   Buffers and screening shall be installed as required by §§
154.080 through
154.097.
(1981 Code, § 819) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.209 COMBUSTIBLE LIQUID STORAGE IN QUANTITIES GREATER THAN ONE-HUNDRED
THOUSAND-GALLONS’ AGGREGATE.
   Combustible liquid storage, above ground, for wholesale or retail
distribution of more than 100,000-gallons’ aggregate storage capacity, may be
permitted in I Industrial Districts subject to the following requirements:
   (A)   The requirements of the NFPA Standards shall be met;
   (B)   All storage tanks and loading facilities shall be located at least 50
feet from any exterior property line;
   (C)   All storage tanks and loading facilities shall be located at least 150
feet from any exterior property line bordering a residential district;
   (D)   As a prerequisite to the approval of a special use permit, the Town
Council shall find that the use of the proposed site for petroleum storage will
not endanger the safety of residential or other properties in the area, and
that vehicular access to the storage facility will be provided from major
thoroughfares and will not require the use of residential streets for access to
the site;
   (E)   Off-street parking and loading shall be provided in accordance with §§
154.135 through
154.147; and
   (F)   Buffers and screening shall be installed as required by §§
154.080 through
154.097.
(1981 Code, § 820) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.210 CONGREGATE LIVING FACILITIES; NURSING HOME; GROUP HOME.
   Congregate living facilities shall be permitted in R40, R12, R6 and RMF
subject to the following requirements:
   (A)   No like use shall be established within 1,200 feet of another a use or
a professional residential facility;
   (B)   Evidence shall be submitted that the requirements and standards of the
North Carolina Department of Social Services have been and shall continue to be
met;
   (C)   No external evidence of a use, distinguishing the living facility from
a regular dwelling, shall be visible from adjacent property, public or private;
and
   (D)   Each facility shall be designed and built to appear as similar to a
residential structure as possible.
(1981 Code, § 821) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.211 CULTURAL FACILITY.
   Cultural facilities may be permitted in R40, R12, R6 and RMF districts
subject to the following requirements:
   (A)   Facilities shall have a minimum of 2 acres within the zoning lot;
   (B)   No structures or parking areas may be located within 50 feet of any
zoning lot line;
   (C)   Buffers and screens shall be installed and maintained as per §§
154.080 through
154.097;
   (D)   Signs shall be regulated as per §§
154.160 through
154.178;
   (E)   Off-street parking shall be regulated as per §§
154.135 through
154.147; and
   (F)   The parking areas and walkways shall be illuminated for public safety
at night. However, lighting shall be designed so as not to disturb adjacent
properties.
(1981 Code, § 822) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.212 DWELLING MULTI-FAMILY UP TO .35 FAR.
   Multi-family dwelling units may be permitted in RMF districts with a FAR of
up to .35 subject to the following requirements:
   (A)   Developments shall have a minimum of 1 acre of land;
   (B)   The yard regulations and height regulations set forth in §
154.066 may be modified for multifamily dwelling units, provided that for the
development as a whole, the maximum permitted FAR shall not be exceeded;
   (C)   Points of access and egress shall consist of a driveway or roadway at
least 20 feet in width and shall be located a sufficient distance from highway
intersections to minimize traffic hazards, inconvenience and congestion;
   (D)   Required parking and parking areas shall be designed according to §§
154.135 through
154.147. All parking areas shall have a paved surface;
   (E)   Adequate water service and sanitary and storm sewerage shall be
provided. Plans for a publicly maintained systems shall be designed by a
registered engineer and submitted as part of the application for SUP;
   (F)   Buffers and screening shall be installed and maintained as required by
§§
154.080 through
154.097;
   (G)   General landscaping, including parking lot landscaping, shall be
installed and maintained. Plans indicating landscaping shall be submitted as
part of the application;
   (H)   A soil erosion and sediment control plan shall be submitted to and
approved by the appropriate agency prior to the issuance of a zoning compliance
permit;
   (I)   (1)   The parking areas and walkways shall be illuminated for public
safety at night.
      (2)   However, lighting shall be designed so as not to disturb adjacent
properties; and
   (J)   Signs shall be regulated as per §§
154.160 through
154.178.
(1981 Code, § 823) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.213 EXTRACTION OF EARTH PRODUCTS.
   Extraction of earth products may be permitted in all districts subject to
the following requirements.
   (A)   Required submissions. In addition to the information required for all
applications for approval of special uses, the following shall be submitted as
part of the application:
      (1)   Three copies of site plan, prepared by a North Carolina registered
land surveyor or engineer, which shall contain the following:
         (a)   North point, scale and date;
         (b)   Extent of area to be excavated or mined;
         (c)   Locations, width and elevation of all easements and rights-of-
way within or adjacent to the extraction site;
         (d)   Location of all existing or proposed structures on site;
         (e)   Location of all areas on the site subject to flood hazard or
inundation as shown on flood maps or soils map;
         (f)   Location of all water courses on the site, including direction
of flow and normal fluctuation of flow;
         (g)   Actual field topography survey at a contour interval of 5 feet
based on mean sea level datum;
         (h)   Proposed handling and storage areas for overburden, byproducts
and excavated materials;
         (i)   Proposed fencing, screening and gates; parking, service and
other areas;
         (j)   Any areas proposed for ponding; and
         (k)   Access roads to the site, as well as on-site roads, with
indication of surface treatment to limit dust. Sight distances on all roads
used for access to the site shall be shown.
      (2)   An operations plan, which shall include:
         (a)   The date proposed to commence operations and their expected
duration;
         (b)   Proposed hours and days of operations;
         (c)   Estimated type and volume of extraction;
         (d)   Description of method of operation, including the disposition of
topsoil, overburden and byproducts;
         (e)   Description of equipment to be used in the extraction process;
         (f)   Any phasing of the operation and the relationship among the
various phases; and
         (g)   Operating practices which will be followed to comply with the
performance standards applicable to the operation.
      (3)   A rehabilitation plan, which shall include:
         (a)   A statement of planned rehabilitation of the excavated land,
including detailed methods of accomplishment and planned future use of the
rehabilitated land;
         (b)   A map showing the final topography, after rehabilitation, to the
same scale as the site plan, it shall also depict any water areas and methods
for preventing stagnation and pollution thereof, landscaping and ground cover
proposed to be installed and the amount and type of backfill to be employed, if
any;
         (c)   A phasing and timing plan, related to the phasing and timing
portion of the operations plan, showing the progression of the rehabilitation
and the date when it will be complete;
         (d)   The method of disposing of all equipment, structures, dikes and
spoil piles associated with the operations;
         (e)   The name, address and signatures of land owners and applicants;
         (f)   A written legal description of survey of the property, prepared
by a North Carolina registered land surveyor or engineer; and
         (g)   A fee, as set by the Town Council.
   (B)   Standards for evaluation. The following standards shall be used in
evaluating an application for a permit to conduct extraction of earth products:
      (1)   All operations associated with extraction shall conform to the
following performance standards.
         (a)   Direct illumination resulting from the operation shall not fall
upon any land not covered by the application.
         (b)   Equivalent sound levels at the boundaries of the extraction site
shall not exceed the following standards:
            1.   Between 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m.: 68 dBA; and
            2.   Between 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.: 58 dBA.
         (c)   Vibration levels at the boundaries of the extraction site shall
not exceed the following standards: maximum peak particle velocity: steady
state=1.0 inches/second; and impact=2.0 inches/second.
         (d)   Note: The maximum particle velocity shall be the product of 2
times the frequency in cycles per second times the sum of 3 mutually
perpendicular displacement components recorded simultaneously. For purposes of
this chapter, steady state vibrations are vibrations which are continuous, or
vibrations in discrete impulses more frequent than 60 per minute. Discrete
impulses which do not exceed 60 per minute, shall be considered impact
vibrations. Maximum air blast vibration, measured at the lot lines of the
zoning lot containing the extractive use, shall be 125 decibels on the linear
scale.
      (2)   The Rehabilitation Plan shall be referred to the Randolph County
Soil and Water Conservation District for review and recommendation, which shall
not be binding upon the Town Council, in particular regarding the landscape
material specified, the planting and maintenance proposed to insure continuous
growth and development, and the acceptability of the proposals for the handling
of lakes, pondsand the like;
      (3)   The permanent roads, defined as those to be used in excess of 1
year, within the excavation site shall be surfaced with a dust-free material
such as soil cement, bituminous concrete or portland cement concrete from the
nearest public road to the yard area. Also, all permanent roads located within
300 feet of residentially zoned and shall be treated the same;
      (4)   Roads other than permanent roads shall be treated with dust
inhibitors, to be specified in the Operations Plan, which will reduce to a
minimum the generation of dust from the road surfaces as a result of wind or
vehicular action. Properly operated water wagons shall be an acceptable method
of dust inhibition;
      (5)   Where the proposed extraction shall take place within 300 feet of a
dwelling, school, church, hospital, commercial or industrial building, public
building or public land, a security fence at least 6 feet high shall be
installed;
      (6)   Spoil piles and other accumulations of byproducts shall not be
created to a height more than 40 feet above the original contour and shall be
so graded that the vertical slope shall not exceed the material's natural angle
of repose;
      (7)   The Operations Plan and the Rehabilitation Plan shall be
coordinated so that the amount of disturbed land is kept to the absolute
minimum consonant with good practices and so that rehabilitation proceeds in
concert with extraction; and
      (8)   (a)   The Town Council shall require, for all extractive uses, a
performance guarantee to ensure that the provisions of the Rehabilitation Plan
are met.
         (b)   Performance guarantees shall be in a form approved by the town.
         (c)   The amount of the guarantee shall cover the cost of
rehabilitation.
         (d)   The applicant's engineer shall certify the costs of
rehabilitation on a per acre basis, if the cost does not exceed the amount
posted with the State of North Carolina.
         (e)   If the rehabilitation costs exceed the amount required by the
state, then the difference shall be made up in a bond to the Town of Liberty.
(1981 Code, § 824) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.214 GOLF COURSE.
   Golf courses shall be permitted in R40, and R12 Districts subject to the
following regulations:
   (A)   If the proposed development includes development lots or housing, the
requirements of the Liberty Subdivision Chapter shall be met;
   (B)   No building other than residential structures shall be located within
100 feet of any property line;
   (C)   No green shall be located within 150 feet of any property line;
   (D)   Lighting shall be so shielded as to cast no direct light upon adjacent
property;
   (E)   Signage shall be per §§
154.160 through
154.178;
   (F)   Off-street parking shall be as per §§
154.135 through
154.147; and
   (G)   Buffers and screening shall be as per §§
154.080 through
154.097.
(1981 Code, § 825) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.215 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   Home occupations requiring a SUP hearing shall be permitted subject to the
following regulations:
   (A)   The approval of a home occupation shall be for a specific use as
requested in the application;
   (B)   The outside appearance of the dwelling unit shall not change due to
the home occupation;
   (C)   The home occupation shall not generate traffic, parking, sewage or
water use in excess of that which is normal in a residential district;
   (D)   The home occupation shall not create a hazard to persons or property
or as a nuisance per se or per accident;
   (E)   The home occupation shall not utilize any accessory structure;
   (F)   The home occupation shall not be permitted any outdoor storage or
display of anything;
   (G)   No advertising signs shall be permitted;
   (H)   Parking for home occupations shall be located in the rear or interior
side yard of the property but not in the front or in the street side yards.
Parking within the street right-of-ways is prohibited. All other requirements
of §§
154.135 through
154.147 shall be met; and
   (I)   In addition to site plan required by this subchapter, information or
plans indicating compliance with the above regulations shall be submitted with
the SUP application.
(1981 Code, § 826) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.216 JUNKYARDS.
   Junkyards shall be permitted in I District subject to the following
requirements:
   (A)   The site shall have direct access to a major or minor thoroughfare as
shown on the Liberty Thoroughfare Plan;
   (B)   No activities shall be permitted within 200 feet of any residential
district;
   (C)   Buffers and screens ball be provided as per §§
154.080 through
154.097;
   (D)   No materials shall be stored closer than 30 feet from the zoning lot
lines;
   (E)   Plans for handling hazardous materials shall be submitted along with
the application for a special use permit which indicates compliance with all
applicable regulations;
   (F)   Signage shall be regulated as per §§
154.160 through
154.178;
   (G)   No materials shall be permitted to accumulate outside of screened
areas or within any public rights-of-way; and
   (H)   Storage of combustible materials shall be in accordance with NFPA
standards. The Fire Department with jurisdiction over this proposed site shall
review plans for storage of combustible materials. A statement of compliance
with NFPA standards shall be submitted along with the application for SUP. In
no case, shall combustible materials be permitted within 30 feet of a zoning
lot line.
(1981 Code, § 827) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.217 LANDFILLS; SANITARY.
   Sanitary landfills may be permitted in Il District subject to the following
requirements:
   (A)   The site shall have direct access to a major/minor thoroughfare or a
state secondary road as shown on the Liberty Thoroughfare Plan, or a road
designed for commercial vehicles, which connects directly to the street. No
access shall be through local residential streets;
   (B)   The site shall be fenced by a 6-foot high fence or masonry wall;
   (C)   The landfill shall not be located:
      (1)   Within 100 feet of any right-of-way line of a publicly-owned road,
street or highway;
      (2)   Within 100 feet of the boundary line of a publicly-owned drainage
or utility easement;
      (3)   Within 500 feet of any interior lot line; or
      (4)   Within 1,000 feet of a school, measured along the shortest distance
between the perimeter of the landfill and the boundary of the property upon
which the school is situated;
   (D)   The developer shall provide the following information, in addition to
the general information required in §
154.191 above:
      (1)   The haul routes and points of access to the property;
      (2)   The proposed date that the land alteration will commence and the
projected date of completion;
      (3)   Evidence that all requirements of the State of North Carolina and
the United States have been and shall continue to be met;
      (4)   An explanation of the volume of waste to be received, expressed in
cubic yards per day or tons per day;
      (5)   An explanation of the type of landfill requested and type of wastes
to be received; and
      (6)   A statement specifying the hours of operation.
(1981 Code, § 828) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.218 MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING AND ASSEMBLY; LIGHT.
   Light manufacturing activities may be permitted in the B2 district subject
to the following standards:
   (A)   Off-street parking and loading spaces provided in accordance with §§
154.135 through
154.147;
   (B)   The applicant shall have adequate utilities (water, sewerage and the
like) so that the proposed operation shall meet the requirements of the Town
Fire, Building Inspection and Engineering Departments;
   (C)   The activity shall not endanger, damage or have any other undesirable
effects upon nearby non-industrial development by reason of its existence and
operation;
   (D)   Buffering and screening shall be required as set forth in §§
154.080 through
154.097;
   (E)   Approvals granted under this section shall be for 1 specific use, to
be identified by the applicant at the time of application, and shall not be
transferable to other light industrial uses. Requests for changes in use shall
be covered by the submission of a separate special use permit application; and
   (F)   LIGHT MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING AND ASSEMBLY as permitted by this SUP
shall mean activities which are conducted within a fully enclosed structure,
require no outdoor storage, utilizes no boilers or other equipment in excess of
25 HP individually, and employ a total of 10 or fewer employees.
(1981 Code, § 829) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.219 MOBILE AND MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS.
   Mobile home parks may be permitted in an R40 District, subject to the
following regulations. These regulations shall not apply to sales lots on which
unoccupied mobile homes are parked:
   (A)   The minimum site area for a mobile home park shall be 1 zoning lot or
parcel of land containing not less than 3 acres;
   (B)   A mobile home lot shall be a least 60 feet in width, and shall contain
at least 6,000 square feet of area;
   (C)   Off-street parking spaces shall be provided within each mobile home
park on the ratio of at least 2 spaces per mobile home lot;
   (D)   There shall be a front yard of at least 20 feet between any mobile
home and the internal roadway. Where exterior property lines of the mobile home
park are coincident with public street rights-of-way, all mobile homes and
structures within the park along the rights-of-way shall observe the front yard
setback from the right-of-way as required by this chapter;
   (E)   There shall be a side yard along each side of every mobile home lot.
Each side yard shall be at least 10 feet wide. The distance between mobile
homes, including any enclosed extension thereof, shall not be less than 20
feet. No mobile home shall be located closer than 15 feet to any exterior
property line of the mobile home park or to any other structure on the
premises;
   (F)   There shall be a rear yard of at least 20 feet between any mobile home
and the rear of the lot on which it is located;
   (G)   All mobile home lots shall abut a roadway of not less than 25 feet in
width, which shall provide unobstructed access to a public street or highway.
These roadways shall be illuminated to ensure the safe movement of pedestrians
and vehicles at night;
   (H)   Buffering and screening shall be installed and maintained as required
by §§
154.080 through
154.097;
   (I)   Adequate water service and sanitary and storm sewerage shall be
provided for each lot. Plans for publicly maintained systems shall be designed
by a registered engineer and submitted as part of the application for SUP;
   (J)   The collection of trash and garbage and their disposal shall be
provided for in a manner so as to maintain a clean and orderly appearance at
all times. Plans to meet this requirement shall be submitted as part of the
application for SUP;
   (K)   Each mobile home park shall have a minimum of 5% of the total area set
aside and developed for recreational purposes. If a swimming pool is provided,
it shall be separated from other uses by a fence having a gate which is capable
of remaining closed;
   (L)   The required plans shall show the topography of the site at contour
intervals no greater than 5 feet; location and approximate size of all existing
and proposed buildings and structures within the site; proposed points of
ingress and egress together with the proposed pattern of internal circulation;
location and dimensions of individual mobile home lots; location and types of
screening to be provided; and the location and size of open play space and all
other accessory features customarily incident to the operation of a mobile home
park;
   (M)   Mobile home parks shall be subject to the regulations within the Flood
Damage Prevention Chapter;
   (N)   Signs shall be regulated by §§
154.160 through
154.178 for the district in which the park is located;
   (O)   Mobile homes offered for sale within the park shall not exceed 10% of
the total approved spaces at any given time. Every mobile home offered for sale
shall be located only on an approved mobile home space and shall be subject to
the same locational requirements as any home within the park. No advertising
signs for mobile home sales shall be permitted except 1 sign posted outside
each mobile home offered for sale. Signs shall conform with the regulations in
§§
154.160 through
154.178; and
   (P)   Accessory structures may be permitted for uses such as laundries,
offices, recreation, storage and the like. However, the total gross square foot
of all building area shall not exceed 5% of the total approved park area.
(1981 Code, § 830) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.220 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT.
   Planned Unit Developments may be permitted in all districts subject to the
following requirements:
   (A)   Planned Unit Developments may be permitted in any zoning district.
However, only those uses ordinarily permitted by right, by SUP, or as an
accessory within the district the development is to be located may be included
in the development. Uses requiring a SUP must satisfy requirements for the
permit;
   (B)   Review of an application for a PUD SUP shall occur simultaneously with
a review of plats submitted in compliance with the Liberty Subdivision Chapter;
   (C)   PUDs shall be located so that they have direct access to major or
minor thoroughfares as shown on the Liberty Thoroughfare Plan;
   (D)   Streets within a PUD may be public or private according to the
regulations of the Liberty Subdivision Chapter;
   (E)   The yard and height regulations set forth in §
154.066 may be modified for a PUD, provided that, for the development as a
whole, excluding driveways and streets but including parks and other permanent
open spaces, there shall not be less than the required area per dwelling unit
for the district in which the development is located;
   (F)   Utilities shall be planned and installed according to the Liberty
Subdivision Chapter;
   (G)   Provisions and plans for garbage and waste collection shall be
included with the application;
   (H)   Buffers and screening shall be installed and maintained based on the
types of individual uses contained within the development as per §§
154.080 through
154.097;
   (I)   Signs will be regulated as per §§
154.160 through
154.178;
   (J)   Off-street parking shall be provided as per §§
154.135 through
154.147;
   (K)   General landscaping shall be installed and maintained. Plans
indicating all required and nonrequired landscaping shall be submitted as part
of the application; and
   (L)   Developments located within RMF, B1 and B2 districts may increase the
permissible FAR to .35.
(1981 Code, § 831) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.221 PUBLIC USE FACILITIES.
   Public use facilities shall be reviewed by utilizing one of the following
options.
   (A)   Town Council grants the authority to staff to issue all necessary
permits for public use facilities that meet all regulatory requirements of this
chapter.
   (B)   In cases where there is a deficiency in the ability of a public use
facility to meet all regulatory requirements of this chapter, Town Council
shall review the application for a public use facility and evaluate whether or
not a special use permit shall be issued for the proposed public use facility
solely on the basis of the general standards prescribed by §
154.191 of this chapter. For the limited purpose of evaluating public use
facilities under §
154.191(A)(2), a public use facility shall be deemed to have satisfied this
standard if a site plan has been submitted in accordance with this chapter.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of §
154.221 of this chapter, a special use permit shall not be required for public
facilities which are developed as part of a new residential subdivision.
However, the following standards shall be met:
      (1)   The uses shall be restricted to waste treatment plants, water
treatment, pumping stations, lift stations, telephone exchanges, electrical and
distribution substation locations and similar uses required to serve the needs
of the immediate residential, office and commercial districts. Specifically
excluded are energy generation plants, freight and marshaling yards, terminals
and similar uses.
      (2)   Buffers and screens shall be installed and maintained per §
154.082.
      (3)   Signs will be regulated as per §§
154.082 through
154.178.
      (4)   Off street parking shall be provided as per §§
154.135 through
154.147.
      (5)   All structures permitted under this section shall be planned and
constructed to be harmonious with the area in which they are located. In
addition to plans required, elevations shall be submitted indicating final
appearance in compliance with this section.
      (6)   The parking areas and walkways shall be illuminated for public
safety at night. However, such lighting shall be designed so as not to disturb
adjacent properties.
      (7)   Any lot created for a public facility that is to be in public
ownership shall not be required to meet lot area and width regulations as
established in Table 154.066 Area, Height, Bulk and Placement Regulations. Such
lots shall meet the regulations established in §
154.033.
(Ord. passed 8-8-2023)
§ 154.222 RESERVED.
§ 154.223 RECREATIONAL VEHICLE; TRAVEL PARKS AND CAMPS.
   Recreational vehicle/travel parks and camps shall be permitted in R40 and B2
districts subject to the following regulations:
   (A)   Parks/camps shall have a minimum area of 2 acres;
   (B)   The minimum area occupied by any recreational vehicle or other camping
structure shall be 1,500 square feet with a minimum width of 30 feet;
   (C)   A clearance of at least 20 feet shall be maintained between each
recreational vehicle, camping structure and/or building within the park;
   (D)   Buffers and screening shall be provided as per §§
154.080 through
154.097;
   (E)   All campsites shall abut a driveway which shall be paved and
maintained in a serviceable condition to a continuous width of 25 feet. All
interior drives shall have unobstructed access to a public street;
   (F)   The park/camp shall meet the standards for adequate fire protection as
established by the latest edition of the National Fire Protection Association
Bulletin No. 501-A;
   (G)   No recreational vehicle or other camping structure shall stay within
any camp for a period of more than 30 days within a 6-month period;
   (H)   Parks/camps shall provide a service building containing toilet
facilities provided as set forth below:
      (1)   For each 8 spaces or fraction thereof, there shall be provided the
following:
         (a)   Male toilets to include 1 commode, 1 urinal, 1 lavatory and 1
shower;
         (b)   Female toilets to include 2 commodes, 1 lavatory and 1 shower;
and
         (c)   Both toilets shall provide an adequate supply of hot and cold
running water.
      (2)   All garbage and refuse in every park/camp shall be stored in a
suitable watertight and fly-tight standard garbage receptacle and shall be kept
covered with tight fitting covers. At least 1 like receptacle shall be provided
and conveniently located for every campsite except where a dumpster or
dumpsters are conveniently located and used in the same manner as separate
receptacles. It shall be the duty of the park/camp operator to see that all
garbage and refuse is disposed of regularly. It shall also be the duty of the
park/camp operator to see that no materials which attract insects or rodents is
stored or allowed to remain on the premises. All areas of the premises shall be
kept clean and free from weeds or undergrowth.
   (I)   Signage shall be limited to 1 ground sign per establishment. The sign
shall not exceed 16 square feet, may be illuminated and shall be an
identification sign only. Location of sign shall be governed by sign
regulations for the R40 district. No advertising signs of any nature shall be
permitted.
(1981 Code, § 834) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.224 PUBLIC, PRIVATE ELEMENTARY AND HIGH SCHOOLS.
   A public or private elementary or high school shall be permitted in any
district except the I1 and IP districts, subject to the following standards,
provided that it is a school in compliance with the North Carolina Compulsory
Attendance Law. Customary accessory uses to schools shall also be permitted.
   (A)   The site for any private or public K to 5 school shall have an area of
at least 3 acres, plus 1/2 acre for each 100 pupils, or major portion thereof,
in excess of 300 pupils. A site shall have frontage on a suitable improved
public street.
   (B)   The site for any public or private 6 to 12 school shall have an area
of at least 5 acres, plus 1 acre for each 100 pupils, or major portion thereof,
in excess of 250 pupils. The site shall have frontage on a suitable improved
public street.
   (C)   (1)   All buildings shall be located at least 100 feet from street
lines and at least 50 feet from all other property lines.
      (2)   Grandstands, gymnasiums, central heating plants and similar
buildings shall be set back at least 100 feet from all property lines.
      (3)   The distance between buildings shall be at least the height of the
taller building. Total coverage of the site by all buildings shall be limited
to 30%.
   (D)   A school site shall contain suitable designed and improved outdoor
playground or playfield areas.
   (E)   Playgrounds or playfields shall be located not closer than 50 feet to
any property line.
   (F)   Buffering and screening shall be installed and maintained as set forth
in §§
154.080 through
154.097.
   (G)   Off-street parking and loading shall be provided in accordance with §§
154.135 through
154.147.
   (H)   The parking areas and walkways shall be illuminated for public safety
at night. However, the lighting shall be designed so as not to disturb adjacent
properties.
(1981 Code, § 835) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.225 ADULT ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   Business dealing in any activity which exhibits specified sexual
activities or specific anatomical areas.
   (B)   The display of specific of sexual activities or specific anatomical
areas are not the primary function of the establishment, such as, but not
limited to:
      (1)   Adult cabaret, adult lounge, adult bar, adult nightclub, adult
carwash;
      (2)   Business dealing primarily in sexually explicit materials or
activities; business dealing primarily in sexually explicit materials or
activities including, but not limited to, adult book stores and adult motion
picture theaters; or
      (3)   Massagist as permitted under the Liberty code of ordinances (The
business, trade or profession of massagist and the carrying on of the business,
trade or profession commonly known as massage parlors, health salons, physical
culture studios or similar establishments wherein massage or physical
manipulation is carried on or practiced, may be permitted subject to the
following requirements):
         (a)   Minimum lot area as per§
154.066;
         (b)   No use permitted under §
154.225 shall be located within 1,000 feet of another like use, as measured
from the property line;
         (c)   No use permitted under §
154.225 shall be located with 1,000 feet of residentially zoned property, as
measured from the property line;
         (d)   No use permitted under §
154.225 shall be located within 1,000 feet of a church or synagogue, as
measured from the property line;
         (e)   No use permitted under §
154.225 shall be located within 1,000 feet of any school (public or private) as
measured from the property line; and
         (f)   Plans shall be submitted:
            1.   Which meet the requirements of §
154.254; and
            2.   Plan shall include the following information:
               a.   Land owner;
               b.   Lessee; and
               c.   Hours of operation.
   (C)   Signs shall be limited to 1 ground sign and not more than 3 wall
signs. No portable signs shall be permitted.
   (D)   Activities taking place on the premises shall be confined to the area
inside the structure and not be visible from the street rights-of-way.
   (E)   Off-street parking (§§
154.135 through
154.147) shall apply as required by the type of business. (Only applies to uses
in B1 district).
(1981 Code, § 836) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.226 NONCONFORMING SITUATIONS.
   (A)   Non-conforming lots. If a non-conforming lot of record cannot be used
in conformance with all regulations other than those pertaining to minimum area
or width, a special use permit may be issued if the following findings are
made:
      (1)   The proposed use of the lot is one permitted by the regulations
applicable to the district in which the property is located; and
      (2)   (a)   The property can be developed as proposed without any
significant negative effect on the surrounding property or the public health,
safety or welfare.
         (b)   The Town Council may allow deviations from applicable
dimensional requirements (such as setback lines and minimum yard sizes) if it
finds that no reasonable use of the property can be made without the
deviations.
   (B)   Non-conforming situations; repairs to property. Maintenance and repair
of property are encouraged. If proposed repairs to a nonconforming property are
estimated to exceed 50% or more of the appraised value of the property to be
renovated, a special use permit may be issued subject to the following:
      (1)   The Town Council must find that the proposed repairs or renovation
will not result in a violation of §§
154.250 through
154.254 below, dealing with extension or enlargement of nonconforming
situations;
      (2)   The renovation will not make the property more incompatible with
the surrounding neighborhood;
      (3)   If reconstruction is done in accordance with the repair of a
partially or totally destroyed structure, all work shall proceed in accordance
with §§
154.250 through
154.254 below; and
      (4)   A building permit for the repair or renovation must be obtained
from the Building Inspector.
   (C)   Non-conforming use; change to another non-conforming use. The Town
Council may issue a special use permit to allow property used for a
nonconforming use to be changed for use to a different nonconforming use, if
the following findings are made:
      (1)   The proposed new nonconforming use will be more compatible with the
surrounding neighborhood than the old nonconforming use in operation at the
time the permit is applied for;
      (2)   If a nonconforming use is changed to any use other than a
conforming use without obtaining a special use permit pursuant to §§
154.250 through
154.254 below, that change will constitute a discontinuance of the
nonconforming use with consequences as stated in §§
154.250 through
154.254 below; and
      (3)   The above divisions (C)(1) and (2) shall apply equally to
situations including any combination of nonconforming uses, or of conforming
and nonconforming uses existing on any 1 lot or parcel of land.
   (D)   Reinstatement of a discontinued nonconforming use. If a nonconforming
use has been discontinued for a period of 180 days or more, the Town Council
may issue a special use permit to allow a reinstatement of that nonconforming
use, subject to the following:
      (1)   The nonconforming use has been discontinued for a period of less
than 2 years; and/or
      (2)   The discontinuance resulted from factors that, for all practical
purposes, were beyond the control of the person or persons maintaining the
nonconforming use.
   (E)   Allowing property to be used for a conforming use without correcting
an existing nonconforming situation. The Town Council may issue a special use
permit to allow property to be used for a conforming use without requiring
correction of an existing nonconforming situation, if the following findings
are made:
      (1)   The nonconforming situation cannot be corrected without undue
hardship or expense; and
      (2)   The nonconforming situation is of a minor nature that does not
adversely affect the surrounding property, or the general public, to any
significant extent.
(1981 Code, § 837) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.227 MENTAL INSTITUTION; SANITARIUM.
   (A)   All mental institutions/sanitariums shall have direct frontage onto a
collector or arterial street, as shown on the Thoroughfare Plan.
   (B)   The minimum lot size shall be 5 acres with a minimum frontage of 200
feet.
   (C)   The structures shall be located a minimum of 200 feet from any zoning
lot boundary.
   (D)   Signs shall be limited to 1 non-illuminated sign with a maximum area
of 6 square feet. No other external evidence of the mental institution/
sanitarium for identification or advertising purposes shall be permitted.
   (E)   At the time of the special use request, the operator of a facility
shall provide information on, and if approved, shall utilize adequate measures
to prevent the unauthorized exit of the patients. The more dangerous the
patients are to the public, the more elaborate and certain the security
measures shall be.
   (F)   Buffering and screening shall be as required by §§
154.080 through
154.097.
   (G)   Parking shall be provided as required by §§
154.135 through
154.147.
   (H)   The facility shall comply with all applicable federal, state and local
requirements.
(1981 Code, § 838) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.228 PROFESSIONAL RESIDENTIAL FACILITY (STRUCTURED ENVIRONMENT).
   (A)   All professional residential facilities shall have direct frontage
onto a collector or arterial street, as shown on the Thoroughfare Plan.
   (B)   No use shall be established with 1/2 mile of another like use.
   (C)   No sign identifying the facility shall be permitted beyond the name of
the facility on the mailbox.
   (D)   At the time of the special use request, the operator of the facility
shall provide information on, and if approved, shall utilize adequate measures
to prevent the unauthorized exit of the patients. The more dangerous the
patients are to the public, the more elaborate and certain the security
measures shall be.
   (E)   Buffering and screening shall be as required by §§
154.080 through
154.097.
   (F)   Parking shall be provided as required by §§
154.135 through
154.147.
   (G)   The facility shall comply with all applicable federal, state and local
requirements.
(1981 Code, § 839) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.229 GAME ROOMS.
    Game rooms may be permitted in B2 Districts subject to the following
requirements:
   (A)   The site shall have direct access to a major or minor thoroughfare as
shown on the Thoroughfare Plan;
   (B)   Off-street parking shall be provided as required in §§
154.135 through
154.147;
   (C)   A site plan showing compliance with the requirements for a zoning
compliance permit, as required by §
154.269, shall be submitted;
   (D)   Signage shall be limited to 1 ground sign and not more than 2 wall
signs. No portable signs or banners shall be permitted. No printed material,
slide, video, photograph, written text, live show or other visual presentation
format shall be visible from outside the walls of the establishment;
   (E)   The requirements of §§
154.080 through
154.097 shall be met and maintained;
   (F)   No game room shall be located within 350 feet of residentially zoned
property nor shall a game room be located within 1,000 feet of any other game
room. Measurements shall be from the nearest property line to nearest property
line;
   (G)   Activities taking place on the premises shall be confined to the area
inside the structure and shall not be visible from the street rights-of-way;
   (H)   Failure to comply with the plans approved by the Town Council or with
any conditions imposed upon this special use permit shall cause the permit to
immediately become void and of no effect as set forth in §
154.198; and
   (I)   Game Rooms approved under this special use permit shall be supervised
and operated by a person over 21 years of age who:
      (1)   Has not been convicted or plead guilty or no contest to any
criminal offense involving moral turpitude, gambling or the unlawful
possession, sale, distribution or use of any alcoholic beverage or controlled
substance within the 5 years next preceding the date of the application for a
special use permit; and
      (2)   Is a resident of North Carolina or does have a registered agent in
North Carolina who is authorized to accept service of process.
(1981 Code, § 840) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004; Am. Ord. passed 3-23-2020)
§ 154.230 STORAGE OF HAZARDOUS MATERIAL WITHIN BALANCE OF WATERSHED.
   No activity, situation, structure or land use shall be allowed within the
watershed which poses a threat to water quality and the public health, safety
and welfare. Conditions may arise from the absence or improper implementation
of a spill containment plan for hazardous materials or any other situation
found to pose a threat to water quality.
   (A)   Application of this SUP shall demonstrate that the proposed hazardous
materials which are to be stored cannot pose a threat of contamination to the
water supply.
   (B)   All spill containment structures and plans shall be designed by a
North Carolina registered professional engineer or architect.
   (C)   (1)   All spill containment structures shall be conditioned on the
posting of adequate financial assurance for the purpose of maintenance, repairs
or reconstruction necessary for adequate performance.
      (2)   Financial assurance shall be in the form of a security performance
bond.
      (3)   The bond shall be in an amount equal to 1.25 times the total cost
of the spill containment structure. (The total cost shall include the value of
all materials; design and engineering; and grading, excavation, fill and the
like. The costs shall not be prorated as part of a larger project, but rather
under the assumption of an independent mobilization).
   (D)   The applicant shall enter into a binding operation and maintenance
agreement between the Watershed Review Board and all interests in the
development. The agreement shall require the owning entity to maintain, repair,
and if necessary, reconstruct the spill containment structure in accordance
with the operation and management plan or manual provided by the developer. The
operation and maintenance agreement shall be filed with the Randolph County
Register of Deeds by the Watershed Review Board.
   (E)   The spill containment structure shall be inspected by the Watershed
Administrator, or his or her designated representative, after the owning entity
notifies the Watershed Administrator that all work has been completed. At this
inspection, the owning entity shall provide:
      (1)   A certification sealed by an engineer or architect stating that the
spill containment structure is complete and consistent with the approved plans
and specifications; and
      (2)   The Watershed Administrator shall approve the materials submitted
by the developer and the inspection report.
         (a)   A watershed protection occupancy permit shall not be issued for
any building within the permitted development until the spill containment
structure and/or plan is approved.
         (b)   All spill containment structures shall be inspected at least on
an annual basis to determine whether the controls are performing as designed
and intended.
         (c)   In the event the Watershed Administrator discovers the need for
corrective action or improvements, the Watershed Administrator shall notify the
owning entity of the needed improvements and the date by which the corrective
action is to be completed.
         (d)   All improvements shall be made consistent with the plans and
specifications and the operation and maintenance plan or manual.
         (e)   After notification by the owning entity, the Watershed
Administrator shall inspect and approve the completed improvements.
(1981 Code, § 841) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.231 TRANSFER STATIONS.
   Transfer stations may be permitted in I and IP districts subject to the
following requirements.
   (A)   A site plan meeting the requirements of §
154.254 below shall be submitted as part of the application for this permit.
The plans shall also incorporate additional information as required to indicate
compliance with other requirements of this section.
   (B)   The use shall be located on a major or minor thoroughfare or within an
industrial development with direct access to the thoroughfare (direct access
shall mean without having to travel residential streets).
   (C)   Actual transfer activities shall be conducted within an enclosed
structure.
   (D)   All access and maneuvering areas shall have a paved surface meeting
the requirements of §§
154.135 through
154.147.
   (E)   Storm water control meeting all local, state and federal requirements
shall be submitted as part of the required plans.
   (F)   If the property adjoins residential districts, in addition to the
required buffering and screening, a setback of 100 feet for all activities
shall be observed.
   (G)   At the close of each business day, the facility shall be left in a
clean and sanitary manner. Written plans indicating compliance with this
requirement shall be submitted as part of the application.
   (H)   Evidence of compliance with all applicable requirements of the Zoning
Chapter shall be submitted as part of the application.
(1981 Code, § 842) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.232 DWELLINGS IN I AND IP DISTRICTS.
   Single-family dwellings may be permitted in I and IP districts subject to
the following findings:
   (A)   The dwelling is to be built and occupied by the property owner or
other family member; and
   (B)   The dwelling will not place anyone in danger due to proximity to any
industrial use.
(1981 Code, § 843) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.233 STRUCTURES MAY EXCEED THE HEIGHT LIMITS ESTABLISHED IN § 154.066(A).
   (A)   Where structures are permitted by §
154.018 to exceed the height limits set forth the following shall apply.
   (B)   For each foot of height over the permitted height in§
154.066(A) any permitted structure shall be set back from any property line as
follows:
      (1)   If the adjoining property line is a residential line, an additional
foot of setback shall be provided for each foot of height over the established
height limit;
      (2)   If the adjoining property line is a commercial or industrial line,
an additional 1/2 foot of setback shall be provided for each foot of height
over the established height limit; and
      (3)   A site plan meeting the requirements of §
154.269 below shall be submitted as part of the application for this SUP.
(1981 Code, § 844) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.234 TELECOMMUNICATIONS TOWERS.
   All applications for a special use permit for a telecommunication tower must
include the following:
   (A)   Identification of the intended provider(s);
   (B)   Documentation by a registered engineer that the tower has sufficient
structural integrity to accommodate more than 1 user;
   (C)   A statement from the owner indicating intent to allow shared use of
the owner and how others will be accommodated;
   (D)   Evidence that the property owners of residentially zoned property
within 300 feet of the site have been notified by the applicant of the proposed
tower height and design;
   (E)   Documentation that the telecommunication tower complies with the
federal radio frequency emission standards;
   (F)   Documentation that towers over 199.9 feet are necessary for a minimal
level of service, if applicable;
   (G)   Screening must be shown on the site plan detailing the type, amount of
plants and location; and
   (H)   Documentation of crumple zones.
(1981 Code, § 845) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
Cross-reference:
   Development standards for wireless communication facilities, see §§
154.110 through
154.120
§ 154.235 COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENTS WITH MULTI USE AND/OR STRUCTURES AND FAR
BETWEEN .27 AND .35.
   All requirements of the Zoning Chapter shall be met.
(1981 Code, § 846) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.236 COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENTS WITH MULTI-USE AND/OR STRUCTURES AND FAR UP
TO .35.
   All requirements of the Zoning Chapter shall be met.
(1981 Code, § 847) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.237 COUNTRY, RACQUET, TENNIS AND SWIM CLUBS.
   (A)   (1)   Country, tennis, racquet and swim club and related activities
are for members only and their registered guests and not available to public
use.
      (2)   Related activities may include dining and other food and beverage
services.
   (B)   The site for any country, tennis, racquet and swim club and related
activities shall have an area of at least 3 acres.
   (C)   All facilities permitted under this section shall be planned and
constructed to be harmonious with the area in which they are located.
(1981 Code, § 848) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.238 FRATERNITY AND SORORITY HOUSES.
   (A)   All facilities permitted under this section shall be planned and
constructed to be harmonious with the area in which they are located.
   (B)   No parking shall be permitted within the front yard between the
structure and the street right-of-way.
   (C)   (1)   Only 1 identification sign shall be permitted.
      (2)   Size shall be as per §§
154.160 through
154.178.
(1981 Code, § 849) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.239 WATERSHED 10/70 OPTION DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Projects must comply with
Chapter 153, Watershed Protection.
   (B)   Projects must minimize build upon surface area.
   (C)   Projects must direct storm water away from surface waters.
   (D)   Projects must incorporate best management practices to minimize
quality impacts.
   (E)   Projects must be connected to the town’s water and sewer.
   (F)   Projects must provide a positive economic benefit to the community.
(1981 Code, § 850) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004; Am. Ord. passed 8-8-2023)
§ 154.240 SOLAR FARM IN R40 DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. This section is intended to provide the opportunity for solar
energy to serve as a viable form of energy generation while protecting public
health, safety and general welfare. These regulations are particularly intended
to ensure the compatibility of these facilities with the low intensity
residential character of the R40 Residential Zoning District.
   (B)   General requirements. A solar farm located in a R40 district shall be
subject to the following requirements:
      (1)   All structures, parking, storage, solar collectors, inverters,
transformers and any other accessory or related equipment associated with solar
farms shall observe a minimum of a 50 foot wide setback, as measured from lot,
parcel or lease boundary lines. The setback shall not be used for any other use
except for pedestrian or vehicular access to the property or adjoining property
and screening as required below.
      (2)   The landscaping requirements in §
154.086 of this chapter are replaced by the screening requirements in division
(3) below.
      (3)   The buffer and screen requirements in §
154.082 of this chapter are replaced by the screening requirements in division
(4) below.
      (4)   The setback as described in division (1) above shall serve as the
required area to screen the solar farm. The screening shall consist of and be
regulated as:
         (a)   A row of evergreen shrubs placed not more than five feet apart
on center which will grow to form a continuous opaque hedge a minimum of six
feet in height above finished grade within two years from planting. A berm with
an minimum height of three feet above finished grade, as measured from the
exterior side of the berm, may be utilized to assist in achieving the minimum
planting height of six feet;
         (b)   A staggered row of evergreen trees, which are not less than six
feet in height at the time of planting and are spaced not more than 15 feet
apart which at maturity will form an intermittent visual barrier from above the
opaque hedge to a minimum height of 20 feet; and
         (c)   Lawn and or low-growing evergreen shrubs, evergreen ground cover
or mulch covering the balance of the screening yard.
         (d)   All plant materials shall be selected which are appropriate to
soil and site conditions. It is recommended that species be selected which are
resistant to heat, draught, insects and diseases and which require little
maintenance. Selected plant materials shall meet the requirements and be
installed according to ANLA (American Nursery and Landscape Association)
standards.
         (e)   The required screen shall be located on the outer perimeter of a
lot or parcel, extending along the lot, parcel or lease boundary lines and
shall not be located on any portion of an existing or dedicated public or
private street or other existing or dedicated public rights-of-way. No
landscaping shall be permitted which interferes with the sight distance
required at any roadway or driveway intersection.
         (f)   In lieu of this screen an applicant may propose a 50 foot wide
buffer consisting of existing mature vegetation. The applicant shall provide
documentation that the existing vegetation proposed to serve as an alternative
buffer provides a degree of opacity, compatibility, and protection to adjoining
properties that is equal to or greater than the requirements set forth above.
Additional evergreen plantings shall be incorporated into this alternative
buffer as necessary to achieve this intent. The required site plan shall
indicate any areas proposed for an alternative buffer.
      (5)   Electric solar energy components shall have a UL listing and be
designed with anti-reflective coating(s).
      (6)   Solar collection devices shall be designed and located to avoid
glare or reflection onto adjacent properties and adjacent roadways and shall
not interfere with traffic or create a safety hazard to aircraft.
      (7)   Solar devices within a solar farm must be enclosed by a fence at
least six feet in height and must have clearly visible warning signage
concerning voltage.
      (8)   An emergency shut-off mechanism is required and notice of its
location shall be submitted to Randolph County Emergency Management and the
Town of Liberty. The mechanism shall be clearly identified and unobstructed and
shall be noted clearly on the site plan.
      (9)   No business signs, billboards, or other advertising shall be
installed on the property, any fence or a solar device.
      (10)   The property owner shall have six months to complete
decommissioning of the solar facility if no electricity is generated for a
continuous period of 12 months. A project is properly decommissioned when all
structures and equipment are removed and the site is re-vegetated. Applicant
must submit decommissioning plans that describe the anticipated life of the
solar project, the party responsible for decommissioning, the estimated
decommissioning costs in current dollars, and the method for ensuring that
funds will be available for decommissioning and restoration.
      (11)   The applicant shall be required to provide written documentation
stating that the facility is in compliance with all applicable Federal and
state regulations.
      (12)   No burning shall be utilized in the clearing or development of the
site.
(Ord. passed 7-6-2015; Am. Ord. passed - - )
NONCONFORMING SITUATIONS
§ 154.250 CONTINUATION OF NONCONFORMING SITUATIONS.
   Nonconforming situations that were otherwise lawful on the effective date of
this chapter may be continued, subject to the restrictions and qualifications
set forth in §§
154.251 through
154.254 below.
(1981 Code, § 1001) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.251 NONCONFORMING LOTS.
   (A)   When a nonconforming lot can be used in conformity with all of the
regulations (other than the area or width requirements) applicable to the
district in which the lot is located, a use may be made as of right. Otherwise,
the nonconforming lot may be used only in accordance with a special use permit
issued by the Town Council (see §
154.226).
   (B)   (1)   If an undeveloped (a lot that has no principal structures upon
it) nonconforming lot adjoins and has continuous frontage with one or more
other undeveloped lots under the same ownership, then neither the owner of the
nonconforming lot nor his or her successors in interest may take advantage of
the provisions of this section.
      (2)   This section shall not apply to a nonconforming lot if a majority
of the developed lots located on either side of the street where the lot is
located and within 500 feet of the lot are also nonconforming.
      (3)   The intent of this division (B) is to require nonconforming lots to
be combined with other undeveloped lots to create conforming lots under the
circumstances specified herein, but not to require the combination when that
would be out of character with the way the neighborhood has previously been
developed.
      (4)   Exception: where the nonconforming lots were created by the
exercise of the power of eminent domain or threat thereof or as a result of a
court order, recombination of the lots shall not be required.
(1981 Code, § 1002) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.252 EXTENSION OR ENLARGEMENT OF NONCONFORMING SITUATIONS.
   (A)   Except as specifically provided in this subsection, it shall be
unlawful for any person to engage in any activity that causes an increase in
the extent of nonconformity of a nonconforming situation.
   (B)   Subject to division (D) below, a nonconforming use may be extended
throughout any portion of a completed building that, when the use was made
nonconforming by this chapter, was manifestly designed or arranged to
accommodate the use. A nonconforming use may not be extended to additional
buildings or to land outside the original building.
   (C)   A nonconforming use of open land may not be extended to cover more
land than was occupied by that use when it became nonconforming, except that a
use that involves the removal of natural materials from the lot (e.g., a
quarry) may be expanded to the boundaries of the lot where the use was
established at the time it became nonconforming, if 10% or more of the earth
products had already been removed at the effective date of this chapter.
   (D)   The volume, intensity or frequency of use of property where a
nonconforming situation exists may be increased and the equipment or processes
used at a location where a nonconforming situation exists may be changed if
these or similar changes amount only to changes in the degree of activity
rather than changes in kind and no violations of other paragraphs of this
subsection occur.
   (E)   Physical alteration of structures or the placement of new structures
on open land are unlawful if they result in:
      (1)   An increase in the total amount of space devoted to a nonconforming
use;
      (2)   Greater nonconformity with respect to dimensional restrictions such
as yard requirements, height limitations or density requirements; or
      (3)   The enclosure of previously unenclosed areas, even though those
areas were previously used in connection with the nonconforming activity. An
area is unenclosed unless at least 75% of the perimeter of the area is marked
by a permanently constructed wall or fence.
   (F)   Minor repairs to and routine maintenance of property, not required by
the partial or total destruction of a structure (see division (H) below), where
non-conforming situations exist are permitted and encouraged. Except for
single-family residential structures (including mobile homes), if the estimated
costs of the renovation work exceeds 50% of the appraised value of the
structure, the work may be done only after issuance of a special use permit by
the Town Council (see §
154.226).
   (G)   (1)   Notwithstanding any part of division (E) below, any structure
used for single-family residential purposes and maintained as a nonconforming
use may be replaced with a similar structure of a larger size, so long as the
replacement does not create new nonconformities or increase the extent of
existing nonconformities with respect to yard size and setback requirements.
      (2)   In particular, a mobile home may be replaced with a larger mobile
home, and a single-wide mobile home may be replaced with a double-wide. The
replacement mobile home must meet the criteria for manufactured/mobile homes as
listed in Note 23 of §§
154.060 through
154.068. This division is subject to the limitations stated in §
154.254 on abandonment and discontinuance of nonconforming situations.
   (H)   A structure that is nonconforming in any respect or a structure that
is used in a nonconforming manner may be reconstructed or replaced if partially
or totally destroyed, subject to the following restrictions:
      (1)   The total amount of space devoted to a nonconforming use may not be
increased, except that a larger, single-family residential structure may be
constructed in place of a smaller one and a larger mobile home intended for
residential use may replace a smaller one;
      (2)   The reconstructed building may not be more nonconforming with
respect to dimensional restrictions such as yard requirements, height
limitations or density requirements, and the dimensional nonconformities must
be eliminated if that can reasonably be accomplished without unduly burdening
the reconstruction process or limiting the right to continue the nonconforming
use of a building;
      (3)   The reconstructed building may not enclose areas that were
previously unenclosed, even though those areas were used in connection with the
nonconforming activity. An area is unenclosed unless at least 75% or more of
the perimeter of the area is marked by a permanently constructed wall or fence;
and
      (4)   Except for single-family residential structures (including mobile
homes), if the estimated costs of the reconstruction work exceeds 50% of the
appraised value of the structure, the work may be done only after issuance of a
special use permit by the Town Council (see §
154.226).
(1981 Code, § 1003) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.253 CHANGE IN KIND OF NONCONFORMING USE.
   (A)   A nonconforming use may be changed to a conforming use. Thereafter,
the property may not revert to a nonconforming use.
   (B)   (1)   A nonconforming use may be changed to another nonconforming use
only in accordance with a special use permit issued by the Town Council (see §
154.226).
      (2)   If a nonconforming use is changed to any use other than a
conforming use without obtaining a special use permit pursuant to this
division, that changes shall constitute a discontinuance of the nonconforming
use, with consequences as stated in §
154.254.
   (C)   If a nonconforming use and a conforming use, or any combination of
conforming and nonconforming uses, or any combination of nonconforming uses
exist on 1 lot, the use made of the property shall not be changed except to a
conforming use or uses, unless a special use permit is issued by the Town
Council (see §
154.226).
   (D)   (1)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, a legally
nonconforming mobile home may be relocated on the same lot provided that
relocation does not further encroach upon the side, front or rear yard required
for a single-family dwelling on the lot.
      (2)   Any legally nonconforming mobile home may be replaced by another
mobile home provided that:
         (a)   It is owner-occupied;
         (b)   The total number of nonconforming mobile homes is not increased;
and
         (c)   All side, rear and lot area requirements for a single-family
dwelling are met.
      (3)   Any person or persons desiring to relocate or replace a legally
non-conforming mobile home shall first make or have made an application for and
have been issued a zoning compliance permit.
(1981 Code, § 1004) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.254 ABANDONMENT AND DISCONTINUANCE OF NONCONFORMING SITUATIONS.
   (A)   When a nonconforming use is discontinued for a consecutive period of
180 days, or discontinued for any period of time without a present intention to
reinstate the nonconforming use, the property involved may thereafter be used
only for conforming purposes, except as provided in division (B) below.
   (B)   The Town Council may issue a special use permit to allow a
nonconforming use that has been discontinued for more than 180 consecutive days
to be reinstated (see §
154.266).
   (C)   If the principal activity on property where a nonconforming situation
other than a nonconforming use exists is discontinued for a consecutive period
of 180 days, or discontinued for any period of time without a present intention
of resuming that activity, then that property may thereafter be use only in
conformity with all of the regulations applicable to the district in which the
property is located, unless the Town Council issues a special use permit to
allow the property to be used (for a conforming purpose) without correcting the
nonconforming situation (see §
154.266).
   (D)   (1)   For purposes of determining whether a right to continue a non-
conforming situation is lost pursuant to this section, all of the buildings,
activities and operations maintained on a lot are generally to be considered as
a whole.
      (2)   For example, the failure to rent 1 apartment in a nonconforming
apartment building, or 1 space in a nonconforming mobile home park for 180
days, shall not result in a loss of the right to rent that apartment or space
thereafter, so long as the apartment building or mobile home park as a whole is
continuously maintained.
      (3)   But if a nonconforming use is maintained in conjunction with a
conforming use, discontinuance of a nonconforming use for the required period
shall terminate the right to maintain it thereafter.
      (4)   And so, if a mobile home is used as a nonconforming use on a
residential lot where a conforming residential structure is also located,
removal of that mobile home for 180 days terminates the right to replace it.
   (E)   When a structure or operation made nonconforming by this chapter is
vacant or discontinued at the effective date of this chapter, the 180-day
period for purposes of this subsection begins to run at the effective date of
this chapter.
(1981 Code, § 1005) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
ADMINISTRATION AND LEGAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.265 ESTABLISHMENT OF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be administered by the Zoning
Administrator, who shall be designated by the Town Manager.
(1981 Code, § 1101) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.266 DUTIES OF THE ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator shall have the power to grant zoning
compliance permits and certificates of zoning compliance and to make or cause
to be made inspections of buildings or premises necessary to carry out the
enforcement of this chapter.
   (B)   In connection with the enforcement of this chapter, the Zoning
Administrator shall make all necessary determinations and interpretations as
required by this chapter. Persons aggrieved by a decision or a determination
made by the Zoning Administrator may appeal that action to the Board of
Adjustment.
(1981 Code, § 1102) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.267 POWERS AND LIMITATIONS OF THE ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   If any proposed excavation, construction, moving, alteration or use of land
as set forth in an application for a zoning compliance permit is in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter, the Zoning Administrator shall issue a
zoning compliance permit; however:
   (A)   Issuance of a zoning compliance permit shall in no case be construed
as waiving any provisions of this chapter;
   (B)   Under no circumstance is the Zoning Administrator permitted to grant
exceptions to the actual meaning of any clause, standards or regulation
contained in this chapter to any person making application to excavate,
construct, move, alter or use either building, structures or land;
   (C)   Under no circumstance is the Zoning Administrator permitted to make
changes to this chapter or to vary the terms of this chapter in carrying out
his or her duties;
   (D)   The Zoning Administrator shall issue a permit when the imposed
conditions of this chapter are complied with by the applicant regardless of
whether the use of the permit would violate contractual or other arrangements
(including, but not by way of limitation, restrictive covenants) among private
parties; and
   (E)   If an application for a permit is disapproved, the Zoning
Administrator shall state in writing the cause of the disapproval.
(1981 Code, § 1103) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.268 ZONING COMPLIANCE PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to begin the excavation for the construction, the
moving, alteration or repair, except ordinary repairs, of any building or other
structure, including an accessory structure, costing more than $100 or
exceeding 100 square feet in area, until the Zoning Administrator has issued
for the work a zoning compliance permit which includes a determination that
plans, specifications and the intended use of a structure do, in all respects,
conform to the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Prior to the issuance of a zoning compliance permit, the Zoning
Administrator shall consult with all applicable departments including, but not
limited to, the Department of Public Works, the Building Inspection Department
and the Fire Department.
   (C)   A zoning compliance permit shall be valid for a period of 6 months
from date of issuance. A zoning compliance permit does not constitute a vested
right.
   (D)   Also, it shall be unlawful to change the type of use of land, or to
change the type of use or type of occupancy of any building, or to extend any
use or any lot on which there is a nonconforming use, until the Zoning
Administrator has issued for the intended use a zoning compliance permit,
including a determination that the proposed use does, in all respects, conform
to the provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   In all cases where a building permit is required, application for a
zoning compliance permit shall be made prior to or coincidentally with the
application for a building permit; in all other cases, it shall be made prior
to that date when a new or enlarged use of a building or premise or part
thereof is intended to begin.
   (F)   All zoning compliance permit applications shall be made in writing to
the Zoning Administrator on forms provided for that purpose. A record of all
applications shall be kept on file by the Zoning Administrator.
(1981 Code, § 1104) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.269 CONTENTS OF APPLICATION FOR ZONING COMPLIANCE PERMIT.
   Every application for a zoning compliance permit for site clearance,
excavation, grading, filling, construction, moving, alteration or change in
type of use or type of occupancy, shall be accompanied by a written statement
and plans or plats, drawn to scale, showing the following in sufficient detail
to enable the Zoning Administrator to ascertain whether the proposed work or
use is in conformance with the provisions of this chapter:
   (A)   The actual shape, location and dimensions of the lot; if the lot is
not a lot of record, sufficient data to locate the lot on the ground;
   (B)   The shape, size and location of all buildings, or other structures, to
be erected, altered or moved, and of any other buildings, or other structures
already on the lot;
   (C)   The existing and intended use of the lot and of all structures upon
it;
   (D)   Location and size of any buffers as required by §§
154.080 through
154.097 (show on site plan);
   (E)   Location and type of any screening as required by §§
154.080 through
154.097 (show on site plan);
   (F)   Location and type of screening used to screen mechanical equipment as
required by §
154.084 (show on site plan);
   (G)   Location, access to and screening of central solid waste area as
required by §
154.085 (show on site plan);
   (H)   Location and dimensions of off street parking and loading spaces as
required by §§
154.135 through
154.147 (no parking shall be located within the first 10 feet of any required
front yard §
154.142(D));
   (I)   Grade separation of building and parking areas as required by §
154.143(B)(1);
   (J)   Paving material for parking lots designed for more than 10 spaces as
required by §
154.142(E);
   (K)   Interior landscaping of parking lots designed for more than 10 spaces
as required by §
154.143(B)(2) (show on site plan);
   (L)   Curb cuts as required by §
154.142(L);
   (M)   Landscaping within the first 10 feet of any front yard as required by
§
154.086 (show on site plan);
   (N)   Location, size and height of any signs as permitted by §§
154.160 through
154.178;
   (O)   Compliance with performance standards for Industrial or Commercial
Districts (§§
154.094 and
154.095);
   (P)   Compliance with Chapter
153; and
   (Q)   Other information concerning the lot, adjoining lots or other matters
as may be essential for determining whether the provisions of this chapter are
being observed.
(1981 Code, § 1105) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.270 CERTIFICATE OF ZONING COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   No building, structure or zoning lot for which a zoning compliance
permit has been issued shall be used or occupied until the Zoning Administrator
has, after final inspection, issued a certificate of zoning compliance
indicating compliance has been made with all the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Guarantees in the form of certified checks, bonds, cash or unrevocable
letter of credit may be accepted to ensure the actual installation of certain
landscaping, buffers and screens, and paving requirements.
   (C)   The guarantee shall be in an amount not less than 100% nor more than
110%of the estimated costs of the requirements as estimated by the Zoning
Administrator.
   (D)   The guarantee shall not be for more than a period of 6 months from the
date of issuance of certificate of zoning compliance. However, the issuance of
a certificate of zoning compliance shall in no case be construed as waiving the
provisions of this chapter.
(1981 Code, § 1106) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.271 SITE SPECIFIC DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   The purpose of this section is to implement the provisions of G.S. § 160A-
385.1 pursuant to which a statutory zoning vested right is established upon the
approval of a site specific development plan.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The Town Council by this chapter is being authorized
to grant the specific zoning or land use permit or approval that constitutes a
site specific development plan.
      SITE SPECIFIC DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
         (a)   A plan of land development submitted to the Town of Liberty for
purposes of obtaining 1 of the following zoning or land use permits or
approvals:
            1.   Zoning compliance permit; as per §
154.268 above;
            2.   Conditional use permit; as per §
154.277 below;
            3.   Special use permit; as per §§
154.190 through
154.239; or
            4.   Subdivision preliminary plat approval; as per the Subdivision
Chapter.
         (b)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, neither a variance, a sketch plan
nor any other document that fails to described with reasonable certainty the
type and intensity of use for a specified parcel or parcels of property shall
constitute a SITE SPECIFIC DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
      ZONING VESTED RIGHT. A right pursuant to G.S. § 160A-385.1 to undertake
and complete the development and use of property under the terms and conditions
of an approved site specific development plan.
   (B)   Establishment of a zoning vested right.
      (1)   A zoning vested right shall be deemed established upon the valid
approval, or conditional approval, by the Town Council of a site specific
development plan, following notice and public hearing.
      (2)   The Town Council may approve a site specific development plan upon
terms and conditions as may reasonably be necessary to protect the public
health, safety and welfare.
      (3)   Notwithstanding divisions (B)(1) and (2) above, approval of a site
specific development plan with the condition that a variance be obtained shall
not confer a zoning vested right unless and until the necessary variance is
obtained.
      (4)   A site specific development plan shall be deemed approved upon the
effective date of the approval authority's action or ordinance relating
thereto.
      (5)   (a)   The establishment of a zoning vested right shall not preclude
the application of overlay zoning that imposes additional requirements but does
not affect the allowable type or intensity of use, or ordinances or regulations
that are general in nature and are applicable to all property subject to land
use regulations by the Town of Liberty, including, but not limited to,
building, fire, plumbing, electrical and mechanical codes.
         (b)   Otherwise applicable new or amended regulations shall become
effective with respect to property that is subject to a site specific
development plan upon the expiration or termination of the vested right in
accordance with this subchapter.
      (6)   A zoning vested right is not a personal right, but shall attach to
and run with the applicable property. After approval of a site specific
development plan, all successors to the original landowner shall be entitled to
exercise that right while applicable.
   (C)   Approval procedures and approval authority.
      (1)   An application for a site specific development plan in conjunction
with a request for a zoning compliance permit, special use permit or
subdivision preliminary plat approval shall be processed in accordance with the
procedures established by this chapter for a special use permit application. An
application for a site specific development plan in conjunction with a
conditional use permit request application shall be processed in accordance
with the procedure established by this chapter for a conditional use permit
application. The Town Council in reviewing and approving a site-specific
development plan application shall be governed by the requirements for the
accompanying permit or approval for which application is made.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (C)(1) above, if the
authority to issue a particular zoning or land use permit or approval has been
delegated by ordinance to a board, committee or administrative official other
than the Town Council, in order to obtain a zoning vested right, the applicant
must request in writing at the time of application that the application be
considered and acted on by the Town Council following notice and a public
hearing as provided in G.S. § 160A-364.
      (3)   In order for a zoning vested right to be established upon approval
of a site specific development plan, the applicant must indicate at the time of
application, on a form to be provided by the Town of Liberty, that a zoning
vested right is being sought.
      (4)   Each map, plat, site plan or other document evidencing a site
specific development plan shall contain the following notation: “Approval of
this plan establishes a zoning vested right under G.S. § 160A-385.1. Unless
terminated at an earlier date, the zoning vested right shall be valid until
(date).”
      (5)   Following approval or conditional approval of a site specific
development plan, nothing in this chapter shall exempt a like plan from
subsequent reviews and approvals to ensure compliance with the terms and
conditions of the original approval, provided that the reviews and approvals
are not inconsistent with the original approval.
      (6)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the revocation of the
original approval or other remedies for failure to comply with applicable terms
and conditions of the approval or this chapter.
   (D)   Duration.
      (1)   A zoning right that has been vested as provided in this chapter
shall remain vested for a period of 2 years unless specifically and
unambiguously provided otherwise pursuant to division (D)(2) below.
      (2)   (a)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (D)(1) above, the
Town Council may provide that rights shall be vested for a period exceeding 2
years but not exceeding 5 years where warranted in light of all relevant
circumstances, including, but not limited to, the size of the development, the
level of investment, the need for or desirability of the development, economic
cycles and market conditions.
         (b)   These determinations shall be in the sound discretion of the
Town Council at the time the site specific development plan is approved.
      (3)   Upon issuance of a building permit, the expiration provisions of
G.S. § 160A-418 and the revocation provisions of G.S. § 160A-422 shall apply,
except that a building permit shall not expire or be revoked because of the
running of time while a zoning vested right under this section is outstanding.
   (E)   Termination. A zoning right that has been vested as provided in this
chapter shall terminate:
      (1)   At the end of the applicable vesting period with respect to
buildings and uses for which no valid building permit applications have been
filed;
      (2)   With the written consent of the affected landowner;
      (3)   Upon findings by the Town Council, by ordinance after notice and a
public hearing, that natural or human-made hazards on or in the immediate
vicinity of the property, if uncorrected, would pose a serious threat to the
public health, safety and welfare if the project were to proceed as
contemplated in the site specific development plan;
      (4)   (a)   Upon payment to the affected landowner of compensation for
all costs, expenses and other losses incurred by the landowner, including, but
not limited to, all fees paid in consideration of financing, and all
architectural, planning, marketing, legal and other consultant's fees incurred
after approval by the town, together with interest thereon at the legal rate
until paid.
         (b)   Compensation shall not include any diminution in the value of
the property which is caused by that action;
      (5)   Upon findings by the Town Council, by ordinance after notice and a
hearing, that the landowner or his or her representative intentionally supplied
inaccurate information or made material misrepresentations which made a
difference in the approval by the approval authority of the site specific
development plan; or
      (6)   Upon the enactment or promulgation of a state for federal law or
regulation that precludes development as contemplated in the site specific
development plan, in which case the approval authority may modify the affected
provisions, upon a finding that the change in state or federal law has a
fundamental effect on the plan, by ordinance after notice and a hearing.
   (F)   Voluntary annexation.
      (1)   A petition for annexation filed with the town under G.S. §§ 160A-31
or 160A-58.1 shall contain a signed statement declaring whether or not any
zoning vested right with respect to the properties subject to the petition has
been established under G.S. §§ 160A-385.1 or 153A-344.1.
      (2)   A statement that declares that no zoning vested right has been
established under G.S. §§ 160A-385.1 or 153A-344.1, or the failure to sign a
statement declaring whether or not a zoning vested right has been established,
shall be binding on the landowner and any zoning vested right shall be
terminated.
   (G)   Limitation. Nothing in this chapter is intended or shall be deemed to
create any vested right other than those established pursuant to G.S. § 160A-
385.1.
   (H)   Repealed. In the event that G.S. § 160A-385.1 is repealed, this
chapter shall be deemed repealed and the provisions hereof no longer effective.
(1981 Code, § 1107) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.272 FEES.
   Before any zoning compliance permit or certificate of zoning compliance
shall be issued covering building or other operations regulated by this
chapter, a fee in an amount fixed by the Town Council shall be paid.
(1981 Code, § 1108) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.273 DETERMINATION OF EXACT LOCATION OF ZONING DISTRICT BOUNDARY LINES.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator shall decide the exact location of zoning
district boundary lines when a question arises concerning boundary lines shown
on zoning maps, subject to administrative review by the Board of Adjustment
provided for in §§
154.045 through
154.048.
   (B)   The determination of the exact location of a zoning district's
boundary line shall be guided by the provisions of §
154.062.
(1981 Code, § 1109) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.274 BUILDING PERMITS ISSUED PRIOR TO ADOPTION OF THIS CHAPTER.
    Nothing herein contained shall require any change in the plans,
construction, size or designated use of any building, structure or part thereof
for which a building permit had been granted by the Building Inspector before
the time of passage of this chapter; provided, however, that where construction
is not begun under an outstanding permit within a period of 60 days subsequent
to passage of this chapter or where it has not been prosecuted to completion
within 18 months subsequent to passage of this chapter, any further
construction or use shall be in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
(1981 Code, § 1110) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.275 CHANGES AND AMENDMENTS.
   For the purpose of establishing and maintaining sound, stable and desirable
development within Liberty and its extraterritorial planning jurisdiction, this
chapter shall not be amended except to correct a manifest error in the chapter,
or because of changed or changing conditions in a particular area or in the
jurisdiction of the Town of Liberty generally, to rezone an area, extend the
boundary of an existing zoning district, or to change the regulations and
restrictions thereof, and then, only as reasonably necessary to the promotion
of the public health, safety or general welfare, and to achieve the purposes of
the adopted Land Development Plan.
   (A)   Amendment initiation. Subject to the limitations of the foregoing
statement of intent, an amendment to this chapter may be initiated by:
      (1)   The Town Council on its own motion;
      (2)   The Planning Board; or
      (3)   Application by any property owner or his or her or her agent, a
citizen or his or her or her agent.
   (B)   Filing and contents of amendment application.
      (1)   Filing of applications. All applications for amendments to this
chapter shall be in writing, signed and filed, 1 copy with the Town Manager for
presentation to the Town Council and 1 copy with the Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   Contents of application. All applications for amendments to this
chapter, without limiting the right to file additional material, shall contain
at least the following:
         (a)   If the proposed amendment would require a change in the zoning
atlas, a fully dimensioned map, at a scale of not more than 200 feet to the
inch, showing the land which would be covered by the proposed amendment;
         (b)   A legal description of the land, if applicable;
         (c)   Any alleged error in this chapter which would be corrected by
the proposed amendment with a detailed explanation of the error in the chapter
and detailed reasons how the proposed amendment will correct same;
         (d)   The changed or changing conditions, if any, in the jurisdiction
of the Town of Liberty generally, which make the proposed amendment reasonably
necessary to the promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare;
         (e)   The manner in which the proposed amendment will carry out the
intent and purpose of the adopted Land Development Plan; and
         (f)   All other circumstances, factors and reasons which applicant
offers in support of the proposed amendment.
   (C)   Referral of application to Planning Board and Zoning Administrator.
      (1)   The Town Manager, acting as agent for the Town Council, shall upon
receipt of an application to amend this chapter, examine and approve as to form
the application and shall refer the same to the Planning Board for study and
report.
      (2)   The Town Manager, concurrently with the referral to the Planning
Board, shall require the Zoning Administrator to prepare a report on the
application.
      (3)   The Zoning Administrator shall prepare and submit a written report
to the Planning Board.
      (4)   The report shall be submitted prior to the meeting at which the
Board will consider the application.
      (5)   The Administrator shall also submit a copy of the report to the
Town Council prior to the public hearing described in division (D) below.
   (D)   Public hearing and notice thereof.
      (1)   A public hearing shall be held by the Town Council before adoption
of any proposed amendment to this chapter.
      (2)   Notice of the public hearing shall be given as required by G.S. Ch.
160D. Amendments to G.S. Ch. 160D shall be incorporated within this section
without any further action by the Town Council.
   (E)   Receipt of applications and public hearings thereon.
      (1)   The Town Manager, acting as agent for the Town Council, shall
receive applications for amendments to this chapter and shall refer them for
recommendation as stated in division (C) above.
      (2)   The deadline for filing of applications for changes and amendments
and special use permits and conditional use permits will normally be 5:00 p.m.
on the day which is 35 days prior to the date of the Town Council meeting for
which the public hearing is to be set.
      (3)   The Town Manager, acting as agent for the Town Council, shall
schedule each complete application for a public hearing.
      (4)   Hearing dates may be established for a regular or special meeting
of the Town Council.
   (F)   Action of Town Council. The Town Council, after the public hearing on
the application and the receipt of the recommendation of the Planning Board and
the Zoning Administrator, shall then take 1 of the following actions:
      (1)   Approval of the application;
      (2)   Approval of a modified version of the application; or
      (3)   Denial of the application.
   (G)   Citizen comments. Subject to the limitations of this chapter, zoning
regulations may from time to time be amended, supplemented, changed, modified,
or repealed. If any resident or property owner in the local government submits
a written statement regarding a proposed amendment, modification, or repeal to
a zoning regulation, including a text or map amendment that has been properly
initiated as provided in G.S. § 160D-601, to the Clerk to the Board at least 2
business days prior to the proposed vote on such change, the Clerk to the Board
shall deliver such written statement to the Governing Board. If the proposed
change is the subject of a quasi-judicial proceeding under G.S. § 160D-705 or
any other statute, the Clerk shall provide only the names and addresses of the
individuals providing written comment, and the provision of such names and
addresses to all members of the Board shall not disqualify any member of the
Board from voting.
   (H)   Withdrawal of application. An applicant may withdraw his or her or her
application at any time by written notice to the Town Manager.
   (I)   Effect of denial on subsequent petitions.
      (1)   When the Town Council shall have denied an application the Town
Council shall not receive another application for the same or similar
amendment, affecting the same property or a portion of it until the expiration
of a 1-year period, extending from the date of denial.
      (2)   Not more than 2 applications may be filed for rezoning all or part
of the same property within any 12-month period.
   (J)   Fees. Fees for filing application for amendments shall be set by the
Town Council.
(1981 Code, § 1111) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004; Am. Ord. passed 8-8-2023)
§ 154.276 PROHIBITION OF CERTAIN TESTIMONY.
   It is the intent of this section that the applicant for rezoning shall be
prohibited from offering any testimony or evidence concerning the specific
manner in which he or she intends to use or develop the property.
(1981 Code, § 1112) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004; Am. Ord. passed 8-8-2023)
§ 154.277 RESERVED.
§ 154.278 ENFORCEMENT AND REVIEW.
   (A)   Complaints regarding violations.
      (1)   Whenever the Zoning Administrator receives a written, signed
complaint alleging a violation of this chapter, he or she shall investigate the
complaint, take whatever action is warranted, and inform the complainant in
writing what actions have been or will be taken.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit the Zoning
Administrator from initiating an investigation and taking any enforcement
action authorized by this chapter when the Zoning Administrator, regardless of
whether or not a signed complaint has been received, has any reason to believe
that any provision of this chapter is being violated.
   (B)   Persons liable. The owner, tenant or occupant of any building or land
or part thereof and any architect, builder, contractor, agent or other person
who participates in, assists, directs, creates or maintains any situation that
is contrary to the requirements of this chapter may be held responsible for the
violation and suffer the penalties and be subject to the remedies herein
provided.
   (C)   Procedures upon discovery of violations.
      (1)   If the Administrator finds that any provision of this chapter is
being violated, he or she shall send a written notice to the person responsible
for the violation, indicating the nature of the violation and ordering the
action necessary to correct it. Additional written notices may be sent at the
Administrator's discretion.
      (2)   The final written notice (and the initial written notice may be the
final notice) shall state what action the Administrator intends to take if the
violation is not corrected and shall advise that the Administrator's decision
or order may be appealed to the Board of Adjustment as provided in §
154.047.
      (3)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, in cases when delay would seriously
threaten the effective enforcement of this chapter or pose a danger to the
public health, safety or welfare, the Administrator may seek enforcement
without prior written notice by invoking any of the penalties or remedies
authorized in this section.
   (D)   Permit revocation.
      (1)   A zoning, building, sign, special use or conditional use permit may
be revoked by the permit issuing authority (in accordance with the provisions
of this section) if the permit recipient fails to develop or maintain the
property in accordance with the plans submitted, the requirements of this
chapter, or any additional requirements lawfully imposed by the permit issuing
board.
      (2)   Before a conditional use or special use permit may be revoked, all
requirements of §§
154.265 through
154.279 shall be complied with. The notice of violation shall inform the permit
recipient of the alleged grounds for the revocation.
      (3)   Before a zoning or sign permit may be revoked, the Administrator
shall give the permit recipient 10 days notice of the intent to revoke the
permit and shall inform the recipient of the alleged reasons for the revocation
and of his or her right to obtain an informal hearing on the allegations. If
the permit is revoked, the Administrator shall provide to the permittee a
written statement of the decision and the reasons therefore.
      (4)   No person may continue to make use of land or buildings in the
manner authorized by any zoning, sign, special use or conditional use permit
after the permit has been revoked in accordance with this section.
   (E)   Judicial review. Every decision of the Town Council granting or
denying any rezoning, special use permit, or conditional use permit and every
final decision of the Board of Adjustment shall be subject to review by the
Superior Court of Randolph County by proceedings in the nature of certioraris.
(1981 Code, § 1114) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.279 INTERPRETATION; CONFLICT; PURPOSE.
   (A)   In interpreting and applying the provisions of this chapter they shall
be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public safety,
health, convenience, prosperity and general welfare.
   (B)   It is not intended by this chapter to interfere with or abrogates or
annuls any easements, covenants or other agreements between parties; provided,
however, that where this chapter imposes a higher standard or greater
restriction than is imposed or required by other ordinances, rules, regulations
and statutes or by easements, covenants or agreements, the provisions of this
ordinance shall govern.
   (C)   When the provisions of any other ordinances, rules, regulations or
statutes impose higher standards than are required by the provisions of this
chapter, the provisions of that ordinance, rule, regulation or statute shall
govern.
(1981 Code, § 1116) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
§ 154.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violations of the provisions of the chapter or failure to comply with
any of its requirements, including violations of any conditions and safeguards
established in connection with grants of variances or special use or
conditional use permits, shall constitute a misdemeanor, punishable as provided
in G.S. § 160A-175.
   (B)   Any act constituting a violation of the provisions of this chapter or
a failure to comply with any of its requirements, including violations of any
conditions and safeguards established in connection with the grants of
variances or special use or conditional use permits, shall also subject the
offender to a civil penalty of not more than $500. If the offender fails to pay
this penalty within 10 days after being cited for a violation, the penalty may
be recovered by the town in a civil action in the nature of a debt. A civil
penalty may not be appealed to the Board of Adjustment if the offender was sent
a final notice of violation in accordance with §
154.278(C) above and did not take an appeal to the Board of Adjustment within
the prescribed time.
   (C)   This section may also be enforced by any appropriate equitable action.
Each day that any violation continues after notification by the Administrator
that the violation exists shall be considered a separate offense for purposes
of the penalties and remedies specified in this section. Any one, all or any
combination of the foregoing penalties and remedies may be used to enforce this
chapter.
(1981 Code, § 1114) (Ord. passed 6-28-2004)
CHAPTER 155: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
155.01   Statutory authorization
   
155.02   Findings of fact
   
155.03   Statement of purpose
   
155.04   Objectives
   
155.05   Definitions
   
155.06   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
155.07   Basis for establishing the areas of special flood hazard
   
155.08   Establishment of floodplain development permit
   
155.09   Effect upon outstanding floodplain development permits
   
155.10   Compliance
   
155.11   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
155.12   Interpretation
   
155.13   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Administration and Enforcement
   
155.20   Designation of Floodplain Administrator
   
155.21   Floodplain development application, permit and certification
requirements
   
155.22   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
   
155.23   Corrective procedures
   
155.24   Variance procedures
Flood Hazard Reduction
   
155.35   General standards
   
155.36   Specific standards
   
155.37   Reserved
   
155.38   Standards for floodplains without established base flood elevations
   
155.39   Standards for riverine floodplains with BFE but without established
floodways or non-encroachment areas
   
155.40   Floodways and non-encroachment areas
   
155.41   Standards for areas of shallow flooding (Zone AO)
 
   
155.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   Municipal. The Legislature of the State of North Carolina has in Part 6,
Article 21 of Ch. 143; Parts 3, 5, and 8 of Article 19 of Ch. 160A; and Article
8 of Ch. 160A of the North Carolina General Statutes, delegated to local
governmental units the responsibility to adopt regulations designed to promote
the public health, safety, and general welfare.
(Ord. passed 12-17-2007)
§ 155.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood prone areas within the jurisdiction of the Town of Liberty
are subject to periodic inundation which results in loss of life, property,
health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services,
extraordinary public expenditures of flood protection and relief, and
impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the public health,
safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities and by the
occupancy in flood prone areas of uses vulnerable to floods or other hazards.
(Ord. passed 12-17-2007)
§ 155.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions within flood prone areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water or erosion hazards or that result in damaging increases
in erosion, flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities that
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and all other development that may
increase erosion or flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers that will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(Ord. passed 12-17-2007)
§ 155.04 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are to:
   (A)   Protect human life, safety, and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business losses and interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities (such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone, cable and sewer lines, streets, and bridges)
that are located in flood prone areas;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas; and
   (G)   Ensure that potential buyers are aware that property is in a special
flood hazard area.
(Ord. passed 12-17-2007)
§ 155.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure located on the same
parcel of property as the principal structure and the use of which is
incidental to the use of the principal structure. Garages, carports and storage
sheds are common urban accessory structures. Pole barns, hay sheds and the like
qualify as accessory structures on farms, and may or may not be located on the
same parcel as the farm dwelling or shop building.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING BUILDING). An extension or increase in the floor
area or height of a building or structure.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator's
interpretation of any provision of this chapter.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated Zone AO on a community's flood
insurance rate map (FIRM) with base flood depths determined to be from 1 to 3
feet. These areas are located where a clearly defined channel does not exist,
where the path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate, and where
velocity flow may be evident.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. See SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA).
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). A determination of the water surface elevations
of the base flood as published in the Flood Insurance Study. When the BFE has
not been provided in a special flood hazard area, it may be obtained from
engineering studies available from a federal, state, or other source using FEMA
approved engineering methodologies. This elevation, when combined with the
freeboard, establishes the regulatory flood protection elevation.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   CHEMICAL STORAGE FACILITY. A building, portion of a building, or exterior
area adjacent to a building used for the storage of any chemical or chemically
reactive products.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
   DISPOSAL. As defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(6), the discharge, deposit,
injection, dumping, spilling, leaking, or placing of any solid waste into or on
any land or water so that the solid waste or any constituent part of the solid
waste may enter the environment or be emitted into the air or discharged into
any waters, including groundwaters.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. A non-basement building which has its lowest elevated
floor raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear walls, posts, piers,
pilings, or columns.
   ENCROACHMENT. The advance or infringement of uses, fill, excavation,
buildings, structures or development into a floodplain, which may impede or
alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION. A
manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities
for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) was
completed before the initial effective date of the floodplain management
regulations adopted by the community.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). An official map of a community,
issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, on which the special flood
hazard areas and the floodways are delineated. This official map is a
supplement to and shall be used in conjunction with the flood insurance rate
map (FIRM).
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). An official map of a community, issued by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency, where the boundaries of the special
flood hazard areas have been defined as Zone A.
   FLOOD INSURANCE. The insurance coverage provided under the National Flood
Insurance Program.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, issued by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency, on which both the special flood hazard
areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community are delineated.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). An examination, evaluation, and determination
of flood hazards, corresponding water surface elevations (if appropriate),
flood hazard risk zones, and other flood data in a community issued by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency. The Flood Insurance Study report includes
flood insurance rate maps (FIRMs) and flood boundary and floodway maps (FBFMs),
if published.
   FLOOD PRONE AREA. See FLOODPLAIN.
   FLOODPLAIN. Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any
source.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. The individual appointed to administer and enforce
the floodplain management regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. Any type of permit that is required in
conformance with the provisions of this chapter, prior to the commencement of
any development activity.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including, but not limited
to, emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations, and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances, and other applications of police power. This term describes
federal, state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide
standards for preventing and reducing flood loss and damage.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitation facilities,
structures, and their contents.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than 1 foot.
   FLOOD ZONE A geographical area shown on a flood hazard boundary map or flood
insurance rate map that reflects the severity or type of flooding in the area.
   FREEBOARD. The height added to the base flood elevation (BFE) to account for
the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than
the height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway  conditions, such
as wave action, blockage of bridge openings, and the hydrological effect of
urbanization of the watershed. The base flood elevation plus the freeboard
establishes the regulatory flood protection elevation.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT FACILITY. A facility which cannot be used for its
intended purpose unless it is located in close proximity to water, limited to a
docking or port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or
passengers, shipbuilding, or ship repair. The term does not include long-term
storage, manufacture, sales, or service facilities.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT FACILITY. As defined in G.S. Ch. 130A, Article 9,
a facility for the collection, storage, processing, treatment, recycling,
recovery, or disposal of hazardous waste.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE (HAG). The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface, prior to construction, immediately next to the proposed walls of the
structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE.
      (1)   Any structure that is:
         (a)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places
(a listing maintained by the U.S. Department of Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
         (b)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
         (c)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic landmarks
in communities with a Certified Local Government (CLG) Program; or
         (d)   Certified as contributing to the historical significance of a
historic district designated by a community with a Certified Local Government
(CLG) Program.
      (2)   Certified Local Government (CLG) Programs are approved by the U.S.
Department of the Interior in cooperation with the North Carolina Department of
Cultural Resources through the State Historic Preservation Officer as having
met the requirements of the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, as
amended in 1980.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE (LAG). The elevation of the ground, sidewalk or patio
slab immediately next to the building, or deck support, after completion of the
building.
   LOWEST FLOOR. Lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including basement).
An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking of
vehicles, building access, or limited storage in an area other than a basement
area is not considered a building's lowest floor, provided that such an
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in 1 or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a recreational vehicle.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into 2 or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MARKET VALUE. Tthe building value, not including the land value and that of
any accessory structures or other improvements on the lot. MARKET VALUE may be
established by independent certified appraisal; replacement cost depreciated
for age of building and quality of construction (Actual Cash Value); or
adjusted tax assessed values.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. For purposes of this chapter, the National Geodetic Vertical
Datum (NGVD) as corrected in 1929, the North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) as
corrected in 1988, or other vertical control datum used as a reference for
establishing varying elevations within the floodplain, to which base flood
elevations (BFEs) shown on a FIRM are referenced. Refer to each FIRM panel to
determine datum used.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of the initial floodplain management regulations
and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NON-ENCROACHMENT AREA. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than 1 foot as
designated in the Flood Insurance Study report.
   POST-FIRM. Construction or other development for which the start of
construction occurred on or after the effective date of the initial flood
insurance rate map.
   PRE-FIRM. Construction or other development for which the start of
construction occurred before the effective date of the initial flood insurance
rate map.
   PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND. That at least 51% of the actual cash value of the
structure is above ground.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AND/OR NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to the safety or
health of an entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of
persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV). A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light-
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REFERENCE LEVEL. The top of the lowest floor for structures within special
flood hazard areas designated as Zone Al -A30, AE, A, A99 or AO.
   REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION. The base flood elevation plus the
freeboard. In special flood hazard areas where base blood elevations (BFEs)
have been determined, this elevation shall be the BFE plus 2 feet of freeboard.
In special flood hazard areas where no BFE has been established, this elevation
shall be at least 2feet above the highest adjacent grade.
   REMEDY A VIOLATION. To bring the structure or other development into
compliance with state and community floodplain management regulations, or, if
this is not possible, to reduce the impacts of its noncompliance. Ways that
impacts may be reduced include protecting the structure or other affected
development from flood damages, implementing the enforcement provisions of the
chapter or otherwise deterring future similar violations, or reducing Federal
financial exposure with regard to the structure or other development.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, and the like.
   SALVAGE YARD. Any non-residential property used for the storage, collection,
and/or recycling of any type of equipment, and including but not limited to
vehicles, appliances and related machinery.
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITY. Any facility involved in the disposal of
solid waste, as defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(35).
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL SITE. As defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(36), any place
at which solid wastes are disposed of by incineration, sanitary landfill, or
any other method.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). The land in the floodplain subject to a 1%
or greater chance of being flooded in any given year, as determined in §
155.07 of this chapter.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and the date the
building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair,
reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement, or other improvement was
within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start means either the first
placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the
pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading, and filling; nor does it include the
installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a
basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of temporary forms;
nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings,
such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start of construction
means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural
part of the building, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, a manufactured home, or a gas,
liquid, or liquefied gas storage tank that is principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure during any
1-year period whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged
condition would equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before
the damage occurred. See definition of SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. SUBSTANTIAL
DAMAGE also means flood-related damage sustained by a structure on 2 separate
occasions during a 10-year period for which the cost of repairs at the time of
each such flood event, on the average, equals or exceeds 25% of the market
value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any combination of repairs, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, or other improvement of a structure, taking place
during any 1-year period for which the cost equals or exceeds 50% of the market
value of the structure before the start of construction of the improvement.
This term includes structures which have incurred substantial damage,
regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not, however,
include either:
      (1)   Any correction of existing violations of state or community health,
sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been identified by the
community code enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
historic structure.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in §§
155.20 through
155.24 and §§
155.35 through
155.41 is presumed to be in violation until such time as that documentation is
provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION (WSE). The height, in relation to mean sea level, of
floods of various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of riverine
areas.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
(Ord. passed 12-17-2007)
§ 155.06 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all special flood hazard areas within the
jurisdiction, including extra-territorial jurisdictions (ETJs) if applicable,
of the Town of Liberty and within the jurisdiction of any other community whose
governing body agrees, by resolution, to such applicability.
(Ord. passed 12-17-2007)
§ 155.07 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   The special flood hazard areas are those identified under the Cooperating
Technical State (CTS) agreement between the State of North Carolina and FEMA in
its Flood Insurance Study (FIS) and its accompanying flood insurance rate maps
(FIRM), for Randolph County dated January 2, 2008, which are adopted by
reference and declared to be a part of this chapter. The initial flood
insurance rate maps for Randolph County unincorporated Area is July 16, 1981
and for the Town of Liberty is January 2, 2008.
(Ord. passed 12-17-2007)
§ 155.08 ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities within special flood hazard areas determined in accordance with the
provisions of §
155.07 of this chapter.
§ 155.09 EFFECT UPON OUTSTANDING FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMITS.
   Nothing herein contained shall require any change in the plans,
construction, size, or designated use of any development or any part thereof
for which a floodplain development permit has been granted by the Floodplain
Administrator or his or her authorized agents before the time of passage of
this chapter; provided, however, that when construction is not begun under such
outstanding permit within a period of 6 months subsequent to the date of
issuance of the outstanding permit, construction or use shall be in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 12-17-2007)
§ 155.10 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted,
altered, or developed in any way without full compliance with the terms of this
chapter and other applicable regulations.
(Ord. passed 12-17-2007)
Penalty, see § 155.99
§ 155.11 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions
shall prevail.
(Ord. passed 12-17-2007)
§ 155.12 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. passed 12-17-2007)
§ 155.13 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
consideration. Larger floods can and will occur. Actual flood heights may be
increased by man-made or natural causes. This chapter does not imply that land
outside the special flood hazard areas or uses permitted within such areas will
be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not create liability
on the part of the Town of Liberty or by any officer or employee thereof for
any flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any
administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. passed 12-17-2007)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 155.20 DESIGNATION OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Town Manager or designee, hereinafter referred to as the Floodplain
Administrator, is hereby appointed to administer and implement the provisions
of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 12-17-2007)
§ 155.21 FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT APPLICATION, PERMIT AND CERTIFICATION
REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Application requirements. Application for a floodplain development
permit shall be made to the Floodplain Administrator prior to any development
activities located within special flood hazard areas. The following items shall
be presented to the Floodplain Administrator to apply for a floodplain
development permit:
      (1)   A plot plan drawn to scale which shall include, but shall not be
limited to, the following specific details of the proposed floodplain
development:
         (a)   The nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the area of
development/disturbance; existing and proposed structures, utility systems,
grading/pavement areas, fill materials, storage areas, drainage facilities, and
other development;
         (b)   The boundary of the special flood hazard area as delineated on
the FIRM or other flood map as determined in §
155.07, or a statement that the entire lot is within the special flood hazard
area;
         (c)   Flood zone(s) designation of the proposed development area as
determined on the FIRM or other flood map as determined in §
155.07;
         (d)   The boundary of the floodway(s) or non-encroachment area(s) as
determined in §
155.07;
         (e)   The base flood elevation (BFE) where provided as set forth in §
155.07, §
155.22, or §
155.38;
         (f)   The old and new location of any watercourse that will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development;
         (g)   The certification of the plot plan by a registered land surveyor
or professional engineer.
      (2)   Proposed elevation, and method thereof, of all development within a
special flood hazard area including but not limited to:
         (a)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the proposed
reference level (including basement) of all structures;
         (b)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any non-
residential structure in Zone AE, A or AO will be flood-proofed; and
         (c)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any proposed
utility systems will be elevated or floodproofed;
      (3)   If floodproofing, a floodproofing certificate (FEMA Form 81-65)
with supporting data and an operational plan that includes, but is not limited
to, installation, exercise, and maintenance of floodproofing measures.
      (4)   A foundation plan, drawn to scalel, which shall include details of
the proposed foundation system to ensure all provisions of this subchapter are
met. These details include but are not limited to:
         (a)   The proposed method of elevation, if applicable (such as fill,
solid foundation perimeter wall, solid backfilled foundation, open foundation
on columns/posts/piers/piles/shear walls);
         (b)   Openings to facilitate automatic equalization of hydrostatic
flood forces on walls in accordance with §
155.36(D)(3) when solid foundation perimeter walls are used in Zones A, AO, AE,
and A1-30.
      (5)   Usage details of any enclosed areas below the lowest floor.
      (6)   Plans and/or details for the protection of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems to be located and
constructed to minimize flood damage.
      (7)   Certification that all other local, state and federal permits
required prior to floodplain development permit issuance have been received.
      (8)   Documentation for placement of recreational vehicles and/or
temporary structures, when applicable, to ensure that the provisions of §
155.36, divisions (F) and (G) of this chapter are met.
      (9)   A description of proposed watercourse alteration or relocation,
when applicable, including an engineering report on the effects of the proposed
project on the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse and the effects to
properties located both upstream and downstream; and a map (if not shown on
plot plan) showing the location of the proposed watercourse alteration or
relocation.
   (B)   Permit requirements. The floodplain development permit shall include,
but not be limited to:
      (1)   A description of the development to be permitted under the
floodplain development permit.
      (2)   The special flood hazard area determination for the proposed
development in accordance with available data specified in §
155.07.
      (3)   The regulatory flood protection elevation required for the
reference level and all attendant utilities.
      (4)   The regulatory flood protection elevation required for the
protection of all public utilities.
      (5)   All certification submittal requirements with timelines.
      (6)   A statement that no fill material or other development shall
encroach into the floodway or non-encroachment area of any watercourse, as
applicable.
      (7)   The flood openings requirements, if in Zones A, AO, AE or A1-30.
      (8)   Limitations of below BFE enclosure uses (if applicable). (such as
parking, building access and limited storage only).
   (C)   Certification requirements.
      (1)   Elevation certificates.
         (a)   An elevation certificate (FEMA Form 81-31) is required prior to
the actual start of any new construction. It shall be the duty of the permit
holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the
elevation of the reference level, in relation to mean sea level. The Floodplain
Administrator shall review the certificate data submitted. Deficiencies
detected by such review shall be corrected by the permit holder prior to the
beginning of construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure to
make required corrections shall be cause to deny a floodplain development
permit.
         (b)   A final as-built elevation certificate (FEMA Form 81-31) is
required after construction is completed and prior to certificate of
compliance/occupancy issuance. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of final as-built
construction of the elevation of the reference level and all attendant
utilities. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data
submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the
permit holder immediately and prior to certificate of compliance/occupancy
issuance. In some instances, another certification may be required to certify
corrected as-built construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure
to make required corrections shall be cause to withhold the issuance of a
certificate of compliance/occupancy.
      (2)   Floodproofing certificate. If non-residential floodproofing is used
to meet the regulatory flood protection elevation requirements, a floodproofing
certificate (FEMA Form 81-65), with supporting data, an operational plan, and
an inspection and maintenance plan are required prior to the actual start of
any new construction. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to
the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the floodproofed design
elevation of the reference level and all attendant utilities, in relation to
mean sea level. Floodproofing certification shall be prepared by or under the
direct supervision of a professional engineer or architect and certified by
same. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data, the
operational plan, and the inspection and maintenance plan. Deficiencies
detected by such review shall be corrected by the applicant prior to permit
approval. Failure to submit the certification or failure to make required
corrections shall be cause to deny a floodplain development permit. Failure to
construct in accordance with the certified design shall be cause to withhold
the issuance of a certificate of compliance/occupancy.
      (3)   If a manufactured home is placed within Zone A, AO, AE, or Al-30
and the elevation of the chassis is more than 36 inches in height above grade,
an engineered foundation certification is required in accordance with the
provisions of §
155.36(C)(2).
      (4)   If a watercourse is to be altered or relocated, a description of
the extent of watercourse alteration or relocation; a professional engineer's
certified report on the effects of the proposed project on the flood-carrying
capacity of the watercourse and the effects to properties located both upstream
and downstream; and a map showing the location of the proposed watercourse
alteration or relocation shall all be submitted by the permit applicant prior
to issuance of a floodplain development permit.
      (5)   Certification exemptions. The following structures, if located
within Zone A, AO, AE or A1-30, are exempt from the elevation/floodproofing
certification requirements specified in items (1) and (2) of this division:
         (a)   Recreational vehicles meeting requirements of §
155.36(F)(1);
         (b)   Temporary structures meeting requirements of §
155.36(G); and
         (c)   Accessory structures less than 150 square feet meeting
requirements of §
155.36(H).
(Ord. passed 12-17-2007)
Penalty, see § 155.99
§ 155.22 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Floodplain Administrator shall perform, but not be limited to, the
following duties:
   (A)   Review all floodplain development applications and issue permits for
all proposed development within special flood hazard areas to assure that the
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied.
   (B)   Review all proposed development within special flood hazard areas to
assure that all necessary local, state and federal permits have been received.
   (C)   Notify adjacent communities and the North Carolina Department of Crime
Control and Public Safety, Division of Emergency Management, State Coordinator
for the National Flood Insurance Program prior to any alteration or relocation
of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification to the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA).
   (D)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is maintained.
   (E)   Prevent encroachments into floodways and non-encroachment areas unless
the certification and flood hazard reduction provisions of §
155.40 are met.
   (F)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the
reference level (including basement) and all attendant utilities of all new and
substantially improved structures, in accordance with §
155.21(C).
   (G)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which all
new and substantially improved structures and utilities have been floodproofed,
in accordance with the provisions of §
155.21(C).
   (H)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of all public
utilities in accordance with the provisions of §
155.21(C).
   (I)   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, obtain
certifications from a registered professional engineer or architect in
accordance with the provisions of §
155.21(C) and §
155.36(B).
   (J)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of boundaries
of the special flood hazard areas, floodways, or non-encroachment areas (for
example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and
actual field conditions), make the necessary interpretation. The person
contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity
to appeal the interpretation as provided in this subchapter.
   (K)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data has not been provided in
accordance with §
155.07, obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any base flood elevation (BFE)
data, along with floodway data or non-encroachment area data available from a
federal, state, or other source, including data developed pursuant to §
155.38(B)(2), in order to administer the provisions of this chapter.
   (L)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is provided but no floodway or
non-encroachment area data has been provided in accordance with §
155.07, obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any floodway data or non-
encroachment area data available from a federal, state, or other source in
order to administer the provisions of this chapter.
   (M)   When the lowest floor and the lowest adjacent grade of a structure or
the lowest ground elevation of a parcel in a special flood hazard area is above
the base flood elevation, advise the property owner of the option to apply for
a letter of map amendment (LOMA) from FEMA. Maintain a copy of the letter of
map amendment (LOMA) issued by FEMA in the floodplain development permit file.
   (N)   Permanently maintain all records that pertain to the administration of
this chapter and make these records available for public inspection,
recognizing that such information may be subject to the Privacy Act of 1974, as
amended.
   (O)   Make on-site inspections of work in progress. As the work pursuant to
a floodplain development permit progresses, the Floodplain Administrator shall
make as many inspections of the work as may be necessary to ensure that the
work is being done according to the provisions of the local ordinance and the
terms of the permit. In exercising this power, the Floodplain Administrator has
a right, upon presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises
within the jurisdiction of the community at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action.
   (P)   Issue stop-work orders as required. Whenever a building or part
thereof is being constructed, reconstructed, altered, or repaired in violation
of this ordinance, the Floodplain Administrator may order the work to be
immediately stopped. The stop-work order shall be in writing and directed to
the person doing or in charge of the work. The stop-work order shall state the
specific work to be stopped, the specific reason(s) for the stoppage, and the
condition(s) under which the work may be resumed. Violation of a stop-work
order constitutes a misdemeanor.
   (Q)   Revoke floodplain development permits as required. The Floodplain
Administrator may revoke and require the return of the floodplain development
permit by notifying the permit holder in writing stating the reason(s) for the
revocation. Permits shall be revoked for any substantial departure from the
approved application, plans, and specifications; for refusal or failure to
comply with the requirements of state or local laws; or for false statements or
misrepresentations made in securing the permit. Any floodplain development
permit mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable state or local law may
also be revoked.
   (R)   Make periodic inspections throughout the special flood hazard areas
within the jurisdiction of the community. The Floodplain Administrator and each
member of his or her inspections department shall have a right, upon
presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises within the
territorial jurisdiction of the department at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action.
   (S)   Follow through with corrective procedures of §
155.23.
   (T)   Review, provide input, and make recommendations for variance requests.
   (U)   Maintain a current map repository to include, but not limited to, the
FIS Report, FIRM and other official flood maps and studies adopted in
accordance with §
155.07 of this chapter, including any revisions thereto including letters of
map change, issued by FEMA. Notify state and FEMA of mapping needs.
   (V)   Coordinate revisions to FIS reports and FIRMs, including letters of
map revision based on fill (LOMR-F) and letters of map revision (LOMR).
(Ord. passed 12-17-2007)
§ 155.23 CORRECTIVE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Violations to be corrected. When the Floodplain Administrator finds
violations of applicable State and local laws, it shall be his or her duty to
notify the owner or occupant of the building of the violation. The owner or
occupant shall immediately remedy each of the violations of law cited in such
notification.
   (B)   Actions in event of failure to take corrective action. If the owner of
a building or property shall fail to take prompt corrective action, the
Floodplain Administrator shall give the owner written notice, by certified or
registered mail to the owner's last known address or by personal service,
stating:
      (1)   That the building or property is in violation of the floodplain
management regulations;
      (2)   That a hearing will be held before the Floodplain Administrator at
a designated place and time, not later than 10 days after the date of the
notice, at which time the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or by
counsel and to present arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter; and
      (3)   That following the hearing, the Floodplain Administrator may issue
an order to alter, vacate, or demolish the building; or to remove fill as
applicable.
   (C)   Order to take corrective action. If, upon a hearing held pursuant to
the notice prescribed above, the Floodplain Administrator shall find that the
building or development is in violation of this chapter , they shall issue an
order in writing to the owner, requiring the owner to remedy the violation
within a specified time period, not less than 60 calendar days, nor more than
180 calendar days. Where the Floodplain Administrator finds that there is
imminent danger to life or other property, they may order that corrective
action be taken in such lesser period as may be feasible.
   (D)   Appeal. Any owner who has received an order to take corrective action
may appeal the order to the local elected governing body by giving notice of
appeal in writing to the Floodplain Administrator and the Clerk within 10 days
following issuance of the final order. In the absence of an appeal, the order
of the Floodplain Administrator shall be final. The local governing body shall
hear an appeal within a reasonable time and may affirm, modify and affirm, or
revoke the order.
   (E)   Failure to comply with order. If the owner of a building or property
fails to comply with an order to take corrective action for which no appeal has
been made or fails to comply with an order of the governing body following an
appeal, the owner shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished at the
discretion of the court.
(Ord. passed 12-17-2007)
Penalty, see § 155.99
§ 155.24 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Zoning Board of Adjustment as established by the Town of Liberty,
hereinafter referred to as the Appeal Board, shall hear and decide requests for
variances from the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board may appeal
such decision to the Court, as provided in G.S. Ch. 7A.
   (C)   Variances may be issued for:
      (1)   The repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon the
determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the
structure's continued designation as a historic structure and that the variance
is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the
structure.
      (2)   Functionally dependent facilities if determined to meet the
definition as stated in §
155.05 of this chapter, provided provisions of division (I)(2), (3), and (5)
below have been satisfied, and such facilities are protected by methods that
minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats
to public safety.
      (3)   Any other type of development, provided it meets the requirements
of this section.
   (D)   In passing upon variances, the Appeal Board shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other
sections of this chapter, and:
      (1)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (2)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location as defined
under §
155.05 of this chapter as a functionally dependent facility, where applicable;
      (6)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
      (7)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (10)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
      (11)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
   (E)   A written report addressing each of the above factors shall be
submitted with the application for a variance.
   (F)   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of
this chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes and objectives of this
chapter.
   (G)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation (BFE) and the
elevation to which the structure is to be built and that such construction
below the base flood elevation increases risks to life and property, and that
the issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the base flood
elevation will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to $25
per $100 of insurance coverage. Such notification shall be maintained with a
record of all variance actions, including justification for their issuance.
   (H)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency and
the State of North Carolina upon request.
   (I)   Conditions for variances.
      (1)   Variances shall not be issued when the variance will make the
structure in violation of other federal, state, or local laws, regulations, or
ordinances.
      (2)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway or
non-encroachment area if the variance would result in any increase in flood
levels during the base flood discharge.
      (3)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (4)   Variances shall only be issued prior to development permit
approval.
      (5)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, or
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
   (J)   A variance may be issued for solid waste disposal facilities or sites,
hazardous waste management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage
facilities that are located in special flood hazard areas provided that all of
the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The use serves a critical need in the community.
      (2)   No feasible location exists for the use outside the special flood
hazard area.
      (3)   The reference level of any structure is elevated or floodproofed to
at least the regulatory flood protection elevation.
      (4)   The use complies with all other applicable federal, state and local
laws.
      (5)   The Town of Liberty has notified the Secretary of the North
Carolina Department of Crime Control and Public Safety of its intention to
grant a variance at least 30 calendar days prior to granting the variance.
(Ord. passed 12-17-2007)
FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 155.35 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas the following provisions are required:
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be designed
(or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, and
lateral movement of the structure.
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
   (C)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damages.
   (D)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as
to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components during
conditions of flooding to the regulatory flood protection elevation. These
include, but are not limited to, HVAC equipment, water softener units, bath/
kitchen fixtures, duct work, electric/gas meter panels/boxes, utility/cable
boxes, hot water heaters, and electric outlets/switches.
   (E)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
   (F)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into flood waters.
   (G)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (H)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a
structure, which is in compliance with the provisions of this subchapter, shall
meet the requirements of new construction as contained in this chapter.
   (I)   Nothing in this subchapter shall prevent the repair, reconstruction,
or replacement of a building or structure existing on the effective date of
this chapter and located totally or partially within the floodway, non-
encroachment area, or stream setback, provided there is no additional
encroachment below the regulatory flood protection elevation in the floodway,
non-encroachment area, or stream setback, and provided that such repair,
reconstruction, or replacement meets all of the other requirements of this
chapter.
   (J)   New solid waste disposal facilities and sites, hazardous waste
management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage facilities shall not
be permitted, except by variance as specified in §
155.24(J). A structure or tank for chemical or fuel storage incidental to an
allowed use or to the operation of a water treatment plant or wastewater
treatment facility may be located in a special flood hazard area only if the
structure or tank is either elevated or floodproofed to at least the regulatory
flood protection elevation and certified in accordance with the provisions of §
155.21(C).
   (K)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall be
consistent with the need to minimize flood damage.
   (L)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water
systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage.
   (M)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (N)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
received all necessary permits from those governmental agencies for which
approval is required by federal or state law, including Section 404 of the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. 1334.
   (O)   When a structure is partially located in a special flood hazard area,
the entire structure shall meet the requirements for new construction and
substantial improvements.
   (P)   When a structure is located in multiple flood hazard zones or in a
flood hazard risk zone with multiple base flood elevations, the provisions for
the more restrictive flood hazard risk zone and the highest base flood
elevation shall apply.
(Ord. passed 12-17-2007)
Penalty, see § 155.99
§ 155.36 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas where base flood elevation (BFE) data has
been provided, as set forth in §
155.07 or §
155.38, the following provisions, in addition to the provisions of §
155.35, are required:
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure (including manufactured homes) shall have the
reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the regulatory
flood protection elevation, as defined in §
155.05 of this chapter.
   (B)   Non-residential construction. New construction and substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or other non-residential structure
shall have the reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the
regulatory flood protection elevation, as defined in §
155.07 of this chapter. Structures located in A, AE, AO, and Al-30 Zones may be
floodproofed to the regulatory flood protection elevation in lieu of elevation
provided that all areas of the structure, together with attendant utility and
sanitary facilities, below the regulatory flood protection elevation are
watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water, using
structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and the effect of buoyancy. For AO Zones, the floodproofing
elevation shall be in accordance with §
155.41(B). A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the standards of this division are satisfied. Such certification shall be
provided to the Floodplain Administrator as set forth in §
155.21(C), along with the operational and maintenance plans.
   (C)   Manufactured homes.
      (1)   New and replacement manufactured homes shall be elevated so that
the reference level of the manufactured home is no lower than the regulatory
flood protection elevation, as defined in §
155.05 of this chapter.
      (2)   Manufactured homes shall be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement, either
by certified engineered foundation system, or in accordance with the most
current edition of the State of North Carolina Regulations for Manufactured
Homes adopted by the Commissioner of Insurance pursuant to G.S. § 143-143.15.
Additionally, when the elevation would be met by an elevation of the chassis 36
inches or less above the grade at the site, the chassis shall be supported by
reinforced piers or engineered foundation. When the elevation of the chassis is
above 36 inches in height, an engineering certification is required.
      (3)   All enclosures or skirting below the lowest floor shall meet the
requirements of division (D) of this section.
      (4)   An evacuation plan must be developed for evacuation of all
residents of all new, substantially improved or substantially damaged
manufactured home parks or subdivisions located within flood prone areas. This
plan shall be filed with and approved by the Floodplain Administrator and the
local Emergency Management Coordinator.
   (D)   Elevated buildings. Fully enclosed area, of new construction and
substantially improved structures, which is below the lowest floor:
      (1)   Shall not be designed or used for human habitation, but shall only
be used for parking of vehicles, building access, or limited storage of
maintenance equipment used in connection with the premises. Access to the
enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow for parking of vehicles
(garage door) or limited storage of maintenance equipment (standard exterior
door), or entry to the living area (stairway or elevator). The interior portion
of such enclosed area shall not be finished or partitioned into separate rooms,
except to enclose storage areas;
      (2)   Shall be constructed entirely of flood resistant materials at least
to the regulatory flood protection elevation;
      (3)   Shall include, in Zones A, AO, AE, and Al-30, flood openings to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on walls by allowing for the
entry and exit of floodwaters. To meet this requirement, the openings must
either be certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed
the following minimum design criteria:
         (a)   A minimum of 2 flood openings on different sides of each
enclosed area subject to flooding;
         (b)   The total net area of all flood openings must be at least 1
square inch for each square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding;
         (c)   If a building has more than 1 enclosed area, each enclosed area
must have flood openings to allow floodwaters to automatically enter and exit;
         (d)   The bottom of all required flood openings shall be no higher
than 1 foot above the adjacent grade;
         (e)   Flood openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other
coverings or devices, provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions; and
         (f)   Enclosures made of flexible skirting are not considered
enclosures for regulatory purposes, and, therefore, do not require flood
openings. Masonry or wood underpinning, regardless of structural status, is
considered an enclosure and requires flood openings as outlined above.
   (E)   Additions/improvements.
      (1)   Additions and/or improvements to pre-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
         (a)   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or improvements
must be designed to minimize flood damages and must not be any more non-
conforming than the existing structure.
         (b)   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and the
addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
      (2)   Additions to post-FIRM structures with no modifications to the
existing structure other than a standard door in the common waIl shall require
only the addition to comply with the standards for new construction.
      (3)   Additions and/or improvements to post-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
         (a)   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or improvements
only must comply with the standards for new construction.
         (b)   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and the
addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
   (F)   Recreational vehicles. Recreational vehicles shall either:
      (1)   Be on site for fewer than 180 consecutive days and be fully
licensed and ready for highway use (a recreational vehicle is ready for highway
use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by
quick disconnect type utilities, and has no permanently attached additions); or
      (2)   Meet all the requirements for new construction.
   (G)   Temporary non-residential structures. Prior to the issuance of a
floodplain development permit for a temporary structure, the applicant must
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a plan for the removal of such structure
(s) in the event of a hurricane, flash flood or other type of flood warning
notification. The following information shall be submitted in writing to the
Floodplain Administrator for review and written approval:
      (1)   A specified time period for which the temporary use will be
permitted. Time specified may not exceed 3 months, renewable up to 1 year;
      (2)   The name, address, and phone number of the individual responsible
for the removal of the temporary structure;
      (3)   The time frame prior to the event at which a structure will be
removed (minimum of 72 hours before landfall of a hurricane or immediately upon
flood warning notification);
      (4)   A copy of the contract or other suitable instrument with the entity
responsible for physical removal of the structure; and
      (5)   Designation, accompanied by documentation, of a location outside
the special flood hazard area, to which the temporary structure will be moved.
   (H)   Accessory structures.
      (1)   When accessory structures (sheds, detached garages, and the like)
are to be placed within a special flood hazard area, the following criteria
shall be met:
         (a)   Accessory structures shall not be used for human habitation
(including working, sleeping, living, cooking or restroom areas);
         (b)   Accessory structures shall not be temperature-controlled;
         (c)   Accessory structures shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential;
         (d)   Accessory structures shall be constructed and placed on the
building site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
         (e)   Accessory structures shall be firmly anchored in accordance with
the provisions of §
155.35(A);
         (f)   All service facilities such as electrical shall be installed in
accordance with the provisions of §
155.35(D); and
         (g)   Flood openings to facilitate automatic equalization of
hydrostatic flood forces shall be provided below regulatory flood protection
elevation in conformance with the provisions of §
155.36(D)(3).
      (2)   An accessory structure with a footprint less than 150 square feet
that satisfies the criteria outlined above does not require an elevation or
floodproofing certificate. Elevation or floodproofing certifications are
required for all other accessory structures in accordance with §
155.21(C).
(Ord. passed 12-17-2007)
Penalty, see § 155.99
§ 155.37 RESERVED.
§ 155.38 STANDARDS FOR FLOODPLAINS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS.
   Within the special flood hazard areas designated as Approximate Zone A and
established in §
155.07, where no base flood elevation (BFE) data has been provided by FEMA, the
following provisions, in addition to the provisions of §
155.35, shall apply:
   (A)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements or new development shall be permitted within a distance of 20 feet
each side from top of bank or 5 times the width of the stream, whichever is
greater, unless certification with supporting technical data by a registered
professional engineer is provided demonstrating that such encroachments shall
not result in any increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the base
flood discharge.
   (B)   The BFE used in determining the regulatory flood protection elevation
shall be determined based on the following criteria:
      (1)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is available from other
sources, all new construction and substantial improvements within such areas
shall also comply with all applicable provisions of this subchapter and shall
be elevated or floodproofed in accordance with standards in §§
155.35 and
155.36.
      (2)   When floodway data is available from a federal, state, or other
source, all new construction and substantial improvements within floodway areas
shall also comply with the requirements of §§
155.36 and
155.40.
      (3)   All subdivision, manufactured home park and other development
proposals shall provide base flood elevation (BFE) data if development is
greater than 5 acres or has more than 50 lots/manufactured home sites. Such
base flood elevation (BFE) data shall be adopted by reference in accordance
with §
155.07 and utilized in implementing this chapter.
      (4)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is not available from a
federal, state, or other source as outlined above, the reference level shall be
elevated or floodproofed (non-residential) to or above the regulatory flood
protection elevation, as defined in §
155.05. All other applicable provisions of §
155.36 shall also apply.
(Ord. passed 12-17-2007)
Penalty, see § 155.99
§ 155.39 STANDARDS FOR RIVERINE FLOODPLAINS WITH BFE BUT WITHOUT ESTABLISHED
FLOODWAYS OR NON-ENCROACHMENT AREAS.
   Along rivers and streams where BFE data is provided by FEMA or is available
from another source but neither floodway nor non-encroachment areas are
identified for a special flood hazard area on the FIRM or in the FIS report,
the following requirements shall apply to all development within such areas:
   (A)   Standards of §§
155.35 and
155.36; and
   (B)   Until a regulatory floodway or non-encroachment area is designated, no
encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial improvements, or
other development, shall be permitted unless certification with supporting
technical data by a registered professional engineer is provided demonstrating
that the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined with all
other existing and anticipated development, will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood more than 1 foot at any point within the community.
(Ord. passed 12-17-2007)
Penalty, see § 155.99
§ 155.40 FLOODWAYS AND NON-ENCROACHMENT AREAS.
   Areas designated as floodways or non-encroachment areas are located within
the special flood hazard areas established in §
155.07. The floodways and non-encroachment areas are extremely hazardous areas
due to the velocity of floodwaters that have erosion potential and carry debris
and potential projectiles. The following provisions, in addition to standards
outlined in §§
155.35 and
155.36, shall apply to all development within such areas:
   (A)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements and other developments shall be permitted unless:
      (1)   It is demonstrated that the proposed encroachment would not result
in any increase in the flood levels during the occurrence of the base flood,
based on hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with
standard engineering practice and presented to the Floodplain Administrator
prior to issuance of floodplain development permit; or
      (2)   A conditional letter of map revision (CLOMR) has been approved by
FEMA. A letter of map revision (LOMR) must also be obtained upon completion of
the proposed encroachment.
   (B)   If §
155.40(A) is satisfied, all development shall comply with all applicable flood
hazard reduction provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   No manufactured homes shall be permitted, except replacement
manufactured homes in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision,
provided the following provisions are met:
      (1)   The anchoring and the elevation standards of §
155.36(C); and
      (2)   The no encroachment standard of §
155.40(A).
(Ord. passed 12-17-2007)
Penalty, see § 155.99
§ 155.41 STANDARDS FOR AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING (ZONE AO).
   Located within the special flood hazard areas established in §
155.07, are areas designated as shallow flooding areas. These areas have
special flood hazards associated with base flood depths of 1 to 3 feet where a
clearly defined channel does not exist and where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate. In addition to §§
155.35 and
155.36, all new construction and substantial improvements shall meet the
following requirements:
   (A)   The reference level shall be elevated at least as high as the depth
number specified on the flood insurance rate map (FIRM), in feet, plus a
freeboard of 2 feet, above the highest adjacent grade; or at least 4 feet above
the highest adjacent grade if no depth number is specified.
   (B)   Non-residential structures may, in lieu of elevation, be floodproofed
to the same level as required in §
155.41(A) so that the structure, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, below that level shall be watertight with walls substantially
impermeable to the passage of water and with structural components having the
capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of
buoyancy. Certification is required in accordance with §
155.21(C) and §
155.36(B).
   (C)   Adequate drainage paths shall be provided around structures on slopes,
to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed structures.
(Ord. passed 12-17-2007)
Penalty, see § 155.99
§ 155.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
its requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with grants of variance or special exceptions, shall constitute a
misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any
of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than $50
or imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both. Each day such violation
continues shall be considered a separate offense. Nothing herein contained
shall prevent the Town of Liberty from taking such other lawful action as is
necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. passed 12-17-2007)
CHAPTER 156: NONRESIDENTIAL MAINTENANCE CODE
Sections
General Provisions
   
156.01   Definitions
   
156.02   Purpose
   
156.03   Scope
   
156.04   Applicability
   
156.05   Conflicting provisions
   
156.06   Compliance
   
156.07   Demolition of nonresidential buildings
   
156.08   Buildings and premises damaged
Duties and Responsibilities of Owner
   
156.20   Relationship of duties and responsibilities to occupancy
   
156.21   Nuisances and hazards
   
156.22   Condition of exterior of premises and structures
   
156.23   Soundness of floors, interior walls and ceilings
   
156.24   Structurally deficient building in rear
   
156.25   Removal of miscellaneous elements on building walls, roofs and
surrounding premises
   
156.26   Walls
   
156.27   Windows
   
156.28   Painting
   
156.29   Signs
   
156.30   Washrooms
   
156.31   Garbage
   
156.32   Appurtenances
Duties and Responsibilities of Operator
   
156.45   Ensuring compliance
   
156.46   Safe and sanitary condition of premises
   
156.47   Elimination of infestation
   
156.48   Maintenance of plumbing fixtures
   
156.49   Garbage containers
   
156.50   Repair of damage to public right-of-way
   
156.51   Notifying owner of defects
Administration and Enforcement
   
156.65   Duties of the Administrator
   
156.66   Powers of the Administrator
   
156.67   Inspections
   
156.68   Procedure for enforcement
   
156.69   Costs are a lien on premises
   
156.70   Filing of ordinances
   
156.71   Alternative remedies
   
156.72   Board of Adjustment
   
156.73   Appeals
   
156.74   Amendments
 
   
156.99   Violations; penalties
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 156.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
Amendments to these definitions shall apply only when all procedural
requirements are met, as described in § 152.68.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The Town of Liberty officer or other designated authority
charged with administration and enforcement of this chapter, or his or her duly
authorized representative or agent. Also designated as the code enforcement
officer.
   BUILDING. Any structure built for the support, shelter or enclosure of
persons, animals, chattels or property of any kind which has enclosing walls
for 50% of its perimeter.
   BUILDING, ACCESSORY. A subordinate building detached from, but located on,
the same lot as the principal building, the use of which is incidental and
accessory to that of the principal building.
   BUILDING CODE. The State Building Code.
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A building or, where the context so indicates, a group
of buildings in which is conducted the principal use of the lot on which the
building is located.
   COMMERCIAL BUSINESS. Any business or enterprise which offers for sale foods
or services or which, in any manner, conducts commerce within the town limits.
   DETERIORATION. The condition of a building or part thereof, characterized by
holes, breaks, rot, crumbling, rusting, peeling paint or other evidence of
physical decay.
   DISTRICT. The primary zoning district containing a certain land area and
shall not be construed to include an overlay district.
   FIRE HAZARD. Anything or act which increases, or may cause an increase, of
the hazard or menace of fire to a greater degree than reasonable for the
conduct of the commercial business on the premises, or which may unreasonably
obstruct, delay or hinder, or may unreasonably become the cause of an
obstruction, a delay, a hazard or an unreasonable hindrance to the prevention,
suppression or extinguishment of fire.
   LOT. Land bounded by lines legally established for the purpose of property
division. As used in this chapter, unless the context indicates otherwise, the
term refers to a ZONING LOT.
   MIXED USE STRUCTURE. A structure, where permitted, that houses multiple
uses.
   NONRESIDENTIAL. Any building or portion of a building occupied or intended
to be occupied, in whole or in part, for a use other than a dwelling, home,
residing place, living space, or sleeping space for one or more human beings,
either permanently or transiently.
   NUISANCE.
      (1)   Any public nuisance known at common law or in equity jurisprudence,
or as provided by the State General Statutes or the ordinances of the town.
      (2)   Any condition including an attractive nuisance which may prove
detrimental to human health or safety, whether in a building, on the premises
of a building or part of a building, or upon an occupied lot.
      (3)   A physical condition dangerous to human life or detrimental to
health of persons in, on or near the premises where the condition exists.
      (4)   An unsanitary condition or condition that is dangerous to public
health, well-being or the general welfare.
      (5)   Fire hazard.
   OCCUPANT. Any person who is a tenant or has actual possession of a
nonresidential building or part thereof.
   OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care or control of premises or a part
thereof, whether with or without the knowledge and consent of the owner, or any
person, individually or jointly, entitled to possession regardless of whether
the premises is actually occupied.
   PLUMBING. Any of the following supplies, facilities and equipment: gas
pipes, gas burning equipment, water pipes, water heaters, garbage disposal
units, waste pipes, water closets, sinks, installed dishwashers, lavatories,
bathtubs, shower bath, installed clothes washing machines, catch basins, vents,
and other similar fixtures, together with all connections to water, sewer and
gas lines, and water pipes and lines utilized in conjunction with air
conditioning equipment.
   PREMISES. A lot, plot or parcel of land including the buildings or
structures thereon, under control by the same owner or operator and devoted to
or zoned for commercial use, together with all adjacent land.
   SEWAGE. Waste from a flush toilet, bathtub, sink, lavatory, dishwashing or
laundry machine, or water-carried waste from any other fixture of equipment or
machine.
   STORY. The portion of a building included between the upper surface of a
floor and the upper surface of the floor or roof next above.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected which requires location on the
ground or attachment to something having a fixed location on the ground,
including but not limited to principal accessory buildings, signs, fences,
walls, bridges, monuments, flagpoles, antennas, transmission poles, towers and
cables.
   USE. The specific activity or function for which land, a building or a
structure is designated, arranged, occupied or maintained.
   WASHROOM. An enclosed space containing one or more bathtubs, showers or
both, and which also shall include any toilet, lavatory or fixture serving
similar purposes.
   WATER CLOSET COMPARTMENT. Enclosed space containing one or more toilets
which may also contain one or more lavatories, urinals and other plumbing
fixtures.
   ZONING LOT. A lot or combination of lots shown on an application for a
zoning compliance permit.
   ZONING MAP. The official zoning map of the town and its extraterritorial
jurisdiction.
(Ord. passed 7-27-2020)
§ 156.02 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of the provisions of this chapter to provide a just,
equitable and practicable method, whereby commercial buildings or structures
which from any cause, endanger the life, limb, health, morals, property, safety
or welfare of the general public or their occupants, diminish property values,
exhibit characteristics of abandonment or neglect, or detract excessively from
the appropriate appearance of the commercial area, may be required to be
repaired, vacated or demolished. The provisions of this code are cumulative
with and in addition to any other remedy provided by law, including the current
editions of standard codes adopted by the town.
(Ord. passed 7-27-2020)
§ 156.03 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this code shall apply to all nonresidential buildings and
structures which are now in existence or which may be built within the town
limits or annexed therein, and to all lands zoned commercial within the town
limits.
(Ord. passed 7-27-2020)
§ 156.04 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Every nonresidential building or structure and the premises on which
it is situated, used or intended to be used for nonresidential occupancy shall
comply with the provisions of this chapter, whether or not the building shall
have been constructed, altered or repaired before or after the enactment of
this chapter, and irrespective of any permits or licenses which shall have been
issued for the use or occupancy of the building, or for the installment or
repair of equipment or facilities prior to the effective date of this chapter.
   (B)   This chapter establishes minimum standards for the initial and
continual occupancy and use of all nonresidential buildings and does not
replace or modify standards otherwise established for the construction, repair,
alteration or use of the building equipment or facilities contained therein
except as provided in §
156.05.
   (C)   Where there is mixed occupancy, any commercial business use therein
shall be nevertheless regulated by and subject to the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-27-2020)
§ 156.05 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   In any case where the provisions of this chapter impose a higher or lower
standard than that set forth in any other ordinance of the town or under the
laws of the state, the higher standard shall prevail. Interpretation shall be
the authority of the Nonresidential Maintenance Code Administrator.
(Ord. passed 7-27-2020)
§ 156.06 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of each owner and each operator of a
nonresidential building or premises within the town to comply with the
regulations and requirements set forth in this chapter. No license, permit or
certification of occupancy shall be issued unless and until all applicable
sections of this chapter have been complied with.
   (B)   No land or building or combination thereof shall be used in a manner
inconsistent with or in conflict with the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-27-2020) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.07 DEMOLITION OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS.
   Where a building is under the jurisdiction of the code, the building may be
demolished by the owner provided that the following requirements are met:
   (A)   The owner obtains a demolition permit from the County Building
Department.
   (B)   All sewer, gas, water and similar taps or connections are properly
closed and disconnected.
   (C)   All debris from the building is removed from the site. This
requirement is for the removal of all debris that is above the street level of
the building.
   (D)   The lot is graded to a smooth, even, finished grade, and free from
building material, debris, holes and/or depressions. Where building debris
remains on the site below street level, the owner must backfill the lot with 12
inches of clean fill which shall be graded to a smooth, even finished grade.
   (E)   Where walls of adjacent buildings become exposed as a result of the
demolition, the walls must have all doors, windows, vents or other similar
openings closed with material of the type comprising the wall. No protrusions
or loose material shall be in the wall. The exposed wall shall be painted,
stucco or bricked so as not to detract from the aesthetics and value of the
adjacent property and weather proofed to prevent deterioration of the wall.
(Ord. passed 7-27-2020)
§ 156.08 BUILDINGS AND PREMISES DAMAGED.
   (A)   Any building or premises damaged by fire, storm, collapse or an act of
nature to such an extent that the cost of repair and reconstruction does not
exceed 50% of the physical valuation of the entire structure at the time the
damage occurred, the damaged portions of the building or premises may be razed
or shall be secured to prevent unauthorized entry, and repaired in a manner
that complies in all respects with all ordinances of the town related to new
buildings.
   (B)   The razing or repair work shall begin within 120 days of the damage.
Extensions of this time requirement may be issued by the Board of Adjustment
upon showing of cause by the property owner.
(Ord. passed 7-27-2020)
DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNER
§ 156.20 RELATIONSHIP OF DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES TO OCCUPANCY.
   The provisions of this chapter that apply to the exterior or exterior
components of a structure or building shall be complied with whether the
structure or building is occupied or vacant. All unoccupied or vacant
structures or buildings shall be secured by the owners to prevent the entry of
unauthorized persons or the formation of nuisance conditions such as
infestation, including roosting birds.
(Ord. passed 7-27-2020)
§ 156.21 NUISANCES AND HAZARDS.
   It shall be the duty and responsibility of the owner of nonresidential
premises to see that the nonresidential premises under the control of the owner
are maintained to ensure that there is compliance with the following provisions
of this section:
   (A)   The premises are free of all nuisances and any hazards to the safety
of the occupants, customers or other persons utilizing the premises or to
pedestrians passing thereby.
   (B)   The premises are free of loose and overhanging objects which, by
reason of location above ground level, constitute a danger of falling on
persons in the vicinity thereof.
   (C)   The premises are free of holes, excavations, breaks, projections, or
obstructions on walks, driveways, parking lots and parking areas, and other
parts of the premises which are accessible to and used by persons on the
premises. All the holes and excavations shall be filled and repaired, walks and
steps replaced, and other conditions removed where necessary to eliminate
hazards or unsafe conditions with reasonable dispatch by the owner upon their
discovery.
(Ord. passed 7-27-2020)
§ 156.22 CONDITION OF EXTERIOR OF PREMISES AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   The exterior of the premises and structure shall be maintained in good
repair and free from deterioration so as not to constitute a nuisance.
   (B)   All surfaces shall be maintained free of cracked or broken glass,
loose shingles, loose wood, crumbling stone or brick, loose or broken plastic
or other similar hazardous conditions.
   (C)   All structures and decorative elements of building exteriors shall be
repaired or replaced in a workmanlike manner to match as closely as possible
the original materials and construction techniques.
(Ord. passed 7-27-2020)
§ 156.23 SOUNDNESS OF FLOORS, INTERIOR WALLS AND CEILINGS.
   All floors, interior walls and ceilings of every structure shall be
structurally sound and shall be maintained in a good condition compatible with
its business use, and where open to the public shall be maintained in a
condition so as not to constitute a hazard to the public.
(Ord. passed 7-27-2020)
§ 156.24 STRUCTURALLY DEFICIENT BUILDING IN REAR.
   Structures at the rear of buildings attached or unattached to the principal
nonresidential structure, which are found by the Maintenance Code Administrator
to be structurally deficient, shall be properly repaired or demolished.
(Ord. passed 7-27-2020)
§ 156.25 REMOVAL OF MISCELLANEOUS ELEMENTS ON BUILDING WALLS, ROOFS AND
SURROUNDING PREMISES.
   All existing miscellaneous elements on building walls and roofs and
surrounding premises, such as empty electrical or other conduits, unused sign
brackets and the like shall be removed.
(Ord. passed 7-27-2020)
§ 156.26 WALLS.
   (A)   All foundation walls shall be kept structurally sound, and capable of
bearing imposed loads safely.
   (B)   All material used to maintain or reconstruct a wall or part thereof,
including the application of sidings or other surfacing material, shall be of
standard quality.
   (C)   Where a wall of a building has become exposed as a result of
demolition of adjacent buildings the wall must have all doors, windows, vents
or other similar openings closed with material of the type comprising the wall.
No protrusions or loose material shall be in the wall. The exposed wall shall
be painted, stucco or bricked so as not to detract from the aesthetics and
value of adjacent property and weather proofed, if necessary, with construction
material to prevent deterioration of the wall.
(Ord. passed 7-27-2020)
§ 156.27 WINDOWS.
   (A)   All windows must be tight fitting and have sashes of proper size and
design. Sashes with rotten wood, broken joints, or broken or loose mullions or
muntins shall be replaced. All broken and missing windows shall be replaced
with glass or plexiglass. All exposed wood shall be repaired and painted.
   (B)   All windows shall be maintained free of broken glass. Where a window
glass larger than four square feet becomes cracked to an extent that the
largest single portion of the window free of a crack is less than 80% of the
total surface area of the window glass, the window glass shall be replaced by a
pane free of cracks.
   (C)   All openings originally designed as windows shall be maintained as
windows, complete with sills, lintels, frame and glass, unless specifically
approved by the Fire Chief for enclosure. Where the Fire Chief approves the
enclosure of a window, it must be so enclosed by either bricking the opening,
blocking the opening with concrete blocks and stuccoing the exterior, or by
boarding up the opening. When boarding is used, it shall be of trim fit, sealed
to prevent water intrusion and painted or stained to properly conform with the
other exterior portions of the building.
(Ord. passed 7-27-2020)
§ 156.28 PAINTING.
   (A)   All exterior surfaces which require paint or sealing in order to
protect the underlying surface from deterioration shall be so painted or
sealed.
   (B)   All exterior surfaces which have been painted shall be maintained free
of peeling and flaking. Where 15% or more of the aggregate of any painted wall
shall have peeling or flaking or previous paint worn away, the entire wall
shall be repainted.
(Ord. passed 7-27-2020)
§ 156.29 SIGNS.
   All advertising structures and awnings and their accompanying supporting
members shall be maintained in good repair and shall not constitute a nuisance
or safety hazard. All non-operative signs shall be repaired or shall, with
their supporting members, be removed forthwith. In the event the signs,
billboard, marquees or awnings are not properly maintained in accordance with
the foregoing, they shall, together with their supporting members, be removed
forthwith. In the event the awnings or marquees are made of cloth, plastic or
of a similar material, the awnings or marquees shall be maintained so as not to
show evidence of excessive tearing, ripping, or other holes which diminish
their function and cause unsightly conditions. Nothing herein shall be
construed to authorize any encroachments on streets, sidewalks or other parts
of the public domain.
(Ord. passed 7-27-2020)
§ 156.30 WASHROOMS.
   (A)   All washrooms and water closet compartment floors shall be surfaced
with water-resistant material and shall be kept in a dry and sanitary condition
at all times.
   (B)   All washrooms shall be provided with permanently installed artificial
lighting fixtures with a switch and wall plate so located and maintained that
there is no danger of short circuiting from water, from other bathroom
facilities or from splashing water.
(Ord. passed 7-27-2020)
§ 156.31 GARBAGE.
   (A)   There shall not be stored or allowed to accumulate flammable or
combustible liquids or other materials on the premises unless they are of a
type approved for storage by the regulations of the National Fire Protection
Association, and then only in quantities as may be prescribed by the
regulations.
   (B)   No garbage or solid waste shall be stored or allowed to accumulate on
the premises unless contained in trash receptacles in accordance with town
ordinance.
(Ord. passed 7-27-2020) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.32 APPURTENANCES.
   (A)   All chimneys, flues and vent attachments thereto shall be maintained
structurally sound. Chimneys, flues, gas vents or other draft-producing
equipment which are in use shall provide sufficient draft to develop the rated
output of the connected equipment, shall be structurally safe, durable, smoke-
tight and capable of withstanding the action of flue gases. (State Building
Code reference, Chimneys, fireplace stoves, fireplaces and venting systems.)
   (B)   All exterior porches, landings, balconies, stairs and fire escapes
shall be provided with banisters or railings properly designed and maintained
to minimize the hazard of falling, and the same shall be kept structurally
sound, in good repair, and free of defects.
   (C)   All cornices shall be made structurally sound, and rotten or weakened
portions shall be removed and/or replaced to match as closely as possible the
original patterns. All exposed wood shall be painted.
   (D)   Gutters and downspouts shall be replaced or repaired as necessary and
shall be neatly located and securely installed.
   (E)   Where a parking lot is constructed as part of a nonresidential
business or as a business itself, the parking lot and all curbing, surfacing,
sidewalks, and other parts thereof shall be maintained free of broken surfaces,
holes or other similar conditions. All nonresidential parking lots so described
herein shall be repaired or replaced with like material.
   (F)   Where landscaping has been incorporated in the development plan of a
nonresidential business or where landscaping has been required by the town as
part of a development plan, including parking plan, the landscaped areas shall
be maintained in a manner to equal and reflect the original landscaping
approved for the development plan.
   (G)   Where curb cuts are abandoned due to new construction, change of
access or general discontinuous use, the curb cut shall be closed and replaced
with a standard sidewalk and curb and gutter arrangement.
   (H)   Damage to public sidewalks or curbs and gutters located in the public
right-of-way shall be repaired or replaced at no expense to the town when the
damage is caused by vehicles making deliveries to the nonresidential premises
under the control of the owner.
(Ord. passed 7-27-2020)
DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF OPERATOR
§ 156.45 ENSURING COMPLIANCE.
   It shall be the duty and responsibility of the operator to ensure compliance
with this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 7-27-2020)
§ 156.46 SAFE AND SANITARY CONDITION OF PREMISES.
   All parts of the premises under the control of the operator shall be kept in
a safe and sanitary condition consistent with the business use, and the
occupant shall refrain from performing any acts which would render other parts
of the premises unsafe or unsanitary, or which would obstruct any adjacent
owner or operator from performing any duty required, or from maintaining the
premises in a safe and sanitary condition.
(Ord. passed 7-27-2020)
§ 156.47 ELIMINATION OF INFESTATION.
   Every operator shall be responsible for the elimination of infestation in
and on the premises, subject to the operator's control.
(Ord. passed 7-27-2020)
§ 156.48 MAINTENANCE OF PLUMBING FIXTURES.
   Every operator shall maintain all plumbing fixtures in a safe and sanitary
condition.
(Ord. passed 7-27-2020)
§ 156.49 GARBAGE CONTAINERS.
   No garbage or other solid waste shall be stored or allowed to accumulate on
the premises unless contained in receptacles which are in accordance with town
ordinance.
(Ord. passed 7-27-2020) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.50 REPAIR OF DAMAGE TO PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   Damage to public sidewalks or curb and gutter located in the public right-
of-way shall be repaired or replaced at no expense to the town when the damage
is caused by vehicles making deliveries to the business under the control of
the operator.
(Ord. passed 7-27-2020)
§ 156.51 NOTIFYING OWNER OF DEFECTS.
   Where the owner would not otherwise know of a defect of any facility,
utility or equipment required to be furnished hereunder and the same is found
to be defective or inoperable, the operator affected thereby shall, upon
learning of the defect, provide notice to the owner.
(Ord. passed 7-27-2020)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 156.65 DUTIES OF THE ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Administrator is hereby designated as the public officer to
enforce the provisions of this chapter and to exercise the duties and powers
herein prescribed.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Administrator:
      (1)   To carry out the objectives of this chapter by inspecting and
investigating the conditions of nonresidential buildings located in the town in
order to determine which nonresidential buildings reflect a lack of adequate
maintenance that, in turn, jeopardizes the health and safety of the building's
occupants or members of the general public;
      (2)   To take such action, together with other appropriate departments,
agencies, and public or private entities, as may be necessary to effect the
repair or demolition of nonresidential buildings that have not been properly
maintained in compliance with the minimum standards established by this
chapter;
      (3)   To keep a record of the results of inspections made under this
chapter and an inventory of those nonresidential buildings that have not been
properly maintained in compliance with the minimum standards established by
this chapter; and
      (4)   To perform such other duties as may be herein prescribed.
(Ord. passed 7-27-2020)
§ 156.66 POWERS OF THE ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Administrator is authorized to exercise such powers as may be necessary
or convenient to carry out and effectuate the purpose and provisions of this
chapter, including the following powers in addition to others herein granted:
   (A)   To investigate nonresidential buildings located within the town to
determine whether they have been properly maintained in compliance with the
minimum standards established by this chapter so that the safety and health of
the occupants and members of the general public are not jeopardized;
   (B)   To administer oaths and affirmations, examine witnesses, and receive
evidence;
   (C)   To enter upon premises for the purpose of making examinations and
inspections, provided that the entries shall be made in accordance with all
applicable constitutional protections, statutes, ordinances, and regulations
and in such a manner as to cause the least possible inconvenience to the
persons in possession; and
   (D)   To appoint and designate the duties of such officers, agents, and
employees as the Administrator deems necessary to carry out the purposes of
this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-27-2020)
§ 156.67 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of making inspections, the Administrator is hereby
authorized to enter, examine, and survey, at all reasonable times,
nonresidential buildings.
   (B)   If entry upon the premises for purposes of investigation is necessary,
the entry shall be made pursuant to a duly issued administrative search warrant
that is obtained and served in accordance with G.S. § 15-27.2 or with the
permission of the owner, the owner's agent, a tenant, or other person legally
in possession of the premises.
(Ord. passed 7-27-2020)
§ 156.68 PROCEDURE FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Preliminary investigation. Whenever it appears to the Administrator
that a nonresidential building has not been properly maintained and that the
safety or health of the building's occupants or members of the general public
is jeopardized due to the failure of the property to meet the minimum standards
established by this chapter, the Administrator shall undertake a preliminary
investigation.
   (B)   Complaint and hearing. If the preliminary investigation of a
nonresidential building discloses evidence of a violation of the minimum
standards established by this chapter, the Administrator shall issue and cause
a complaint to be served upon the owner and the parties in interest identified
during the investigation of the nonresidential building. The complaint shall
state the charges and contain a notice that a hearing will be held before the
Administrator at a place and time on a date specified within the notice, the
said hearing date shall not be less than ten days nor more than 30 days after
the serving of the complaint; that the owner and parties in interest shall be
given the right to answer the complaint and to appear in person, or otherwise,
and to give testimony at the place and time specified in the complaint; and
that the rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law or equity shall not be
controlling in hearings before the Administrator.
   (C)   Procedure after hearing.
      (1)   If, after notice and hearing, the Administrator determines that the
nonresidential building has been maintained so as to meet the minimum standards
established by this chapter, the Administrator shall state in writing findings
of fact in support of that determination and shall issue and cause to be served
upon the owner thereof a copy of the determination.
      (2)   If, after notice and hearing, the Administrator determines that the
nonresidential building has not been properly maintained and, consequently, the
safety or health of the building's occupants or members of the general public
is jeopardized by the failure of the property to meet the minimum standards
established by this chapter, the Administrator shall state in writing findings
of fact in support of that determination and shall issue and cause to be served
upon the owner thereof an order in accordance with the provisions of divisions
(C)(3) and (C)(4) of this section.
      (3)   If the Administrator determines that the cost of repair,
alteration, or improvement of the building would not exceed 50% of the
building's then current value, then the Administrator shall state in writing
the findings of fact in support of the determination and issue an order that
requires the owner, within a reasonable time period that shall be no less than
60 days and that shall be clearly stated in the order, to either: repair,
alter, or improve the nonresidential building in order to bring the building
into compliance with the minimum standards established by this chapter; or
vacate and close the nonresidential building for any use.
      (4)   If the Administrator determines that the cost of repair,
alteration, or improvement of the building would exceed 50% of the building's
then current value, then the Administrator shall state in writing the findings
of fact in support of the determination and issue an order that requires the
owner, within a reasonable time period that shall be no less than 60 days and
that shall be clearly stated in the order, to either: repair, alter, or improve
the nonresidential building in order to bring the building into compliance with
the minimum standards established by this chapter; or to remove or demolish the
nonresidential building.
   (D)   Failure to comply with order and subsequent action to be taken.
      (1)   If the owner fails to comply with an order to repair, alter, or
improve the nonresidential building or, alternatively, vacate and close the
nonresidential building, the Administrator shall submit to the Town Council an
ordinance ordering the Administrator to either cause the nonresidential
building to be repaired, altered, or improved in order to bring the building
into compliance with the minimum standards established by this chapter or to
cause the building to be vacated and closed for any use. The property shall be
described in the ordinance. If the Town Council adopts the ordinance, the
Administrator shall cause the building to be repaired, altered, or improved or
to be vacated and closed for any use.
      (2)   If the owner fails to comply with an order to repair, alter, or
improve the nonresidential building or, alternatively, to remove or demolish
the building, the Administrator shall submit to the Town Council an ordinance
ordering the Administrator to cause the nonresidential building to be removed
or demolished. No ordinance shall be adopted to require removal or demolition
of a nonresidential building until the owner has first been given a reasonable
opportunity to bring the building into conformity with the minimum standards
established by this chapter. The property shall be described in the ordinance.
If the Town Council adopts the ordinance, the Administrator shall cause the
building to be removed or demolished.
(Ord. passed 7-27-2020)
§ 156.69 COSTS ARE A LIEN ON PREMISES.
   (A)   As provided by G.S. § 160A-439(i), the amount of the cost of any
repairs, alterations, or improvements, vacating and closing, or removal or
demolition caused to be made or done by the Administrator pursuant to § 156.68
(D) shall be a lien against the real property upon which the costs were
incurred. The lien shall be filed, have the same priority, be enforced, and the
costs collected as provided by G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 10. The amount of the costs
shall also be a lien on any other real property of the owner located within the
city limits except for the owner's primary residence. The additional lien
provided in this subdivision is inferior to all prior liens and shall be
collected as a money judgment.
   (B)   If the nonresidential building is removed or demolished by the
Administrator, such officer shall offer for sale the recoverable materials of
the building and any personal property, fixtures, or appurtenances found in or
attached to the building and shall credit the proceeds of the sale, if any,
against the cost of the removal or demolition. Any balance remaining shall be
deposited in the Superior Court by the Administrator, shall be secured in a
manner directed by the court, and shall be disbursed by the court to the
persons found to be entitled thereto by final order or decree of the court.
Nothing in this section shall be construed to impair or limit in any way the
power of the governing body to define and declare nuisances and to cause their
removal or abatement by summary proceedings or otherwise.
(Ord. passed 7-27-2020)
§ 156.70 FILING OF ORDINANCES.
   An ordinance adopted by City Council pursuant to § 156.68(D) shall be
recorded in the office of the Register of Deeds of Randolph County and shall be
indexed in the name of the property owner in the grantor index, as provided by
G.S. § 160A-439(f) and (g).
(Ord. passed 7-27-2020)
§ 156.71 ALTERNATIVE REMEDIES.
   Neither this chapter nor any of its provisions shall be construed to impair
or limit in any way the power of the city to define and declare nuisances and
to cause their abatement by summary action or otherwise, to enforce this
chapter by criminal process as authorized by G.S. § 14-4 and § 156.99, and to
utilize any remedy provided herein or in other ordinances or laws.
(Ord. passed 7-27-2020)
§ 156.72 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustment shall be that authorized, established and
appointed body responsible for hearing appeals and requests for variance.
   (B)   Normal procedures, rules and processes established for the Board of
Adjustment shall apply.
   (C)   The duties of the Board of Adjustment shall be to:
      (1)   Consider and determine appeals whenever it is claimed that the true
intent and meaning of this chapter or any of the regulations hereunder have
been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted or applied by the Code Administrator
or the Administrator's representative.
      (2)   Grant, in cases where the application of the requirement of this
code in the allowance of the stated time for the performance of any action
required hereunder would appear to cause undue hardship on an owner, reasonable
extensions of time not to exceed six months from date of the notice. No
subsequent appeal shall be considered where an appeal has been previously
decided involving the same building or premises and the same citation, unless
the appellant can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Board a change in
circumstances sufficient to justify reopening the appeal.
   (D)   All decisions of the Board of Adjustment which vary the application of
any provision of this chapter or modify an order of the Administrator shall
specify in what manner the variance or modification is to be made, the
conditions under which it may be made and the reasons therefor. Every decision
shall be in writing, and a copy of all decisions shall be promptly filed in the
office of the Code Administrator, and it shall be open to public inspection.
(Ord. passed 7-27-2020)
§ 156.73 APPEALS.
   (A)   Within 30 days following receipt of a notice of violation, any person
receiving the notice, believing that the literal application of this chapter
will cause undue hardship or has been misconstrued, wrongly interpreted or
applied, may appeal in writing to the Board of Adjustment for the relief as may
be granted, after investigation of the grounds thereof, by way of a reasonable
extension of time or a variation from strict compliance with the provisions of
this chapter. The circumstances justifying the findings related to hardship
are:
      (1)   Inability to immediately comply due to severe financial distress;
      (2)   The unavailability of services or equipment with which to comply,
without fault of the applicant; and/or
      (3)   Other extenuating circumstances showing a good faith intention on
the part of the applicant or another to comply when able to do so.
   (B)   The appeal shall be on a form provided by, and shall be addressed to
the Office of the Code Administrator, where proper forms will be prepared and
forwarded to the Town Manager who will set the date and time of hearing and so
notify the applicant. This section shall not be construed to apply to any
situation regarded by the enforcement authority as a real and immediate threat
to public safety and health. Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Board
may petition any court of competent jurisdiction within the county. Any appeal
of this sort must be filed with the court within 15 days from the date of the
Board's decision or it shall be considered abandoned.
   (C)   To defray the cost of processing an appeal fee to be set by the Board
in the annual budget ordinance shall be required. All fees are payable to the
town and must be paid prior to processing the appeal.
(Ord. passed 7-27-2020)
§ 156.74 AMENDMENTS.
   The Town Council may from time to time amend, supplement, or change the
provisions and requirements of this code. Any amendment shall be by ordinance
of the Council. Initiation of any amendment may be by the Town Council,
Planning Board, staff, Board of Adjustment or by a private citizen.
(Ord. passed 7-27-2020)
§ 156.99 VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any nonresidential building to
fail, neglect, or refuse to repair, alter, or improve the same, to vacate and
close, or to remove or demolish the same upon order of the Administrator duly
made and served in accordance with the provisions of this chapter within the
time specified in the order, and each day that any such failure, neglect, or
refusal to comply with the order continues shall constitute a separate and
distinct offense. It shall be unlawful for the owner of any nonresidential
building, with respect to which an order has been issued pursuant to section §
156.68(C), to occupy or permit the occupancy of the same after the time
prescribed in the order for its repair, alteration, improvement, or its
vacation and closing, and each day that the occupancy continues after the
prescribed time shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
   (B)   The violation of any provision of this chapter shall constitute a
misdemeanor, as provided by §
10.99.
   (C)   In addition to or in lieu of the other remedies provided by this
chapter, any owner of a nonresidential building that fails to comply with an
order of the Administrator within the time specified therein, shall be subject
to a civil penalty in the amount of $50 for the first offense, $100 for the
second offense in the calendar year, and $250 for the third and subsequent
offenses in the calendar year. Each subsequent offense after the third will be
subject to a civil penalty of $250. Each 30-day period or part thereof in which
a violation is allowed to persist will constitute a separate and distinct
offense.
(Ord. passed 7-27-2020; Am. Ord. passed 11-22-2021)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
      Table
         
I.   FRANCHISES
TABLE I: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
--       -           Grants franchises for the operation and maintenanc of
                     community antenna television systems
 
(1981 Code, Appendix)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to North Carolina General Statutes
References to 1981 Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUTES
G.S. Cite Code Section
G.S. Cite                    Code Section
1-593                        10.05
1-597                        52.04
7A                           155.24
11-7.1                       33.01
14, Art. 54B                 130.08
                             50.999;
                             55.99;
                             90.99;
                             91.99;
                             92.99;
                             93.99;
                             96.99;
                             110.99;
14-4                         112.99;
                             113.99;
                             130.99;
                             150.32;
                             150.99;
                             151.10;
                             152.04;
                             153.99;
                             156.71
14-4(a)                      10.99
14-148                       93.05;
                             93.06
                             114.23;
14-177 et seq.               114.43;
                             114.47;
                             114.50
                             114.23;
14-203 et seq.               114.43;
                             114.47;
                             114.50
14-269                       130.09
14-269.2                     130.09
14-284.1                     130.09
14-286                       92.01;
                             132.99
14-288(e)                    34.99
14-288.8                     130.09
14-360                       96.28;
                             96.31
14-361.1                     96.30
14-399                       91.03
14-415.10(2a)                130.08
14-415.10(3a)                130.08
14-415.11(a)                 130.08
14-415.24                    130.08
15-27.2                      95.01;
                             156.67
18B-1001                     90.01
18B-1001, Subdivision (15)   90.01
19A-24                       96.30
20-97                        113.02
20-141(b)(1)                 70.12
20-150(e)                    70.08
                             70.02-
20-158                       70.04;
                             70.06
20-160(b)                    70.09
20-162                       71.01
20-165.1                     70.05
                             70.02-
20-172                       70.04;
                             70.06
20-173                       70.09
20-174                       70.09
20-280                       113.02
44A, Art. I                  95.11
47-30                        152.08
58-79-20                     92.04
58-82-1                      92.01
65, Art. 9                   93.03
67-2                         96.07
67-12                        96.07
90, Art. 5                   130.09
93B                          111.02
105-41                       110.04
105-83                       110.04
105-109                      112.07
105-113.80                   111.15
105-113.82                   111.15
105-113.85                   111.15
105-228.10                   110.04
105-319                      30.07
105-320                      30.07
105-349                      Charter, Sec. 6
105-349(c)                   30.07
105-373                      30.07
106-381                      96.10
110-86                       154.068
110-88                       154.006
121-5                        111.13;
                             112.06
122-58.2(1)b                 154.006
122C, Art. 2                 154.006
122C-3                       154.006
130A, Art. 9                 153.07;
                             155.05
130A-184–130A-199          96.25
130A-186                     96.27
130A-197                     96.27
130A-200                     96.10
130A-290–130A-310.58       153.07
130A-290(a)(6)               155.05
130A-290(a)(35)              155.05
130A-290(a)(36)              155.05
136-102.6                    152.05;
                             152.09
136-143                      95.14
136-143 et seq.              95.14
143, Art. 21, Part 6         155.01
                             33.27;
143, Art. 33C                36.02;
                             36.09
143-143.15                   155.36
143-213(18)                  53.02
143-214.5                    153.02
143-215.1                    53.02;
                             53.30
143-215.1(b)                 53.30
143-215.3(a)(14)             53.02
143-215.6A                   51.02;
                             153.99
143-215.6B                   51.02;
                             53.59
143-215.6B(f)                53.59
143-215.6B(h)                53.59
143-215.6B(i)                53.59
153A-268                     32.01
153A-269                     32.01
153A-275                     53.01
159                          33.26
159-7–159-42               30.06
                             Charter, Sec. 6;
160A                         154.047;
                             154.192
160A, Art. 7, Part 2         Charter, Sec. 5
160A, Art. 8                 155.01
160A, Art. 10                150.31;
                             156.69
160A, Art. 12                30.02
160A, Art. 13                31.01
160A, Art. 16                54.01
160A, Art. 19                152.02;
                             153.02
160A, Art. 19, Part 1, § 361152.07
160A, Art. 19, Part 2        152.02
160A, Art. 19, Part 3        154.001;
                             155.01
160A, Art. 19, Part 3C       36.01;
                             36.03
160A, Art. 19, Part 5        155.01
160A, Art. 19, Part 8        155.01
160A-1                       Charter, Sec. 3
160A-31                      154.271
160A-58.1                    154.271
                             10.99;
160A-175                     132.99;
                             154.999
160A-207                     112.07
160A-211 et seq.             114.41
160A-224                     Charter, Sec. 9
160A-225                     Charter, Sec. 9
160A-227                     Charter, Sec. 9
160A-228                     Charter, Sec. 9
160A-229–160A-238          Charter, Sec. 9
160A-233                     Charter, Sec. 9
160A-266(c)                  30.02
160A-282(a)                  31.02
160A-282(b)                  31.02
160A-303                     95.02
160A-303.2                   95.02
160A-311                     130.04
160A-312                     53.01
160A-344.1                   154.271
160A-360–160A-459          31.04
160A-364                     154.271
160A-372                     152.06
160A-376                     152.05
160A-385.1                   154.271
160A-413                     31.04
160A-418                     154.271
160A-422                     154.271
160A-433(5)                  150.30
160A-436                     92.07
160A-439(f) and (g)          156.70
160A-439(i)                  156.69
160A-441                     150.01
160A-443                     150.28
160A-443(5)                  150.30
160A-446(f)                  150.28
160A-446(g)                  150.28
160A-446(6)                  150.31
160D                         154.275
160D-601                     154.275
160D-705                     154.275
163                          Charter, Sec. 4
163, Art. 23                 Charter, Sec. 4
163, Art. 24                 Charter, Sec. 4
164-7                        10.14
166A                         34.05
168, Art. 3                  154.068
 
REFERENCES TO 1981 CODE
1981 Code 2007 Code
1981 Code             2007 Code
2-1                   33.15
2-2                   33.16
2-3                   33.17
2-4                   33.18
2-6                   33.19
2-7                   33.20
2-8                   33.21
2-9                   33.22
2-10                  33.23
2-11                  33.24
2-12                  33.25
2-13                  33.26
2-14                  33.27
2-15                  33.28
2-16                  33.29
2-21                  33.40
2-22                  33.41
2-23                  33.42
2-24                  33.43
2-25                  33.44
2-26                  33.45
2-27                  33.46
2-31                  33.02
2-32                  33.03
2-33                  33.04
3-1                   30.01
3-2                   30.03
3-3                   30.04
3-4                   30.05
3-5                   30.06
3-6                   30.07
3-10                  30.08
3-11                  30.09
3-12                  30.10
3-15                  31.01
3-16                  31.03
3-20                  31.04
3-26                  31.05
3-31                  31.06
3-36                  32.01
3-37                  32.02
3-38                  32.03
3-43                  33.01
5-1                   130.01
5-2                   130.02
5-3                   130.03
5-4                   130.04
5-5                   130.05
5-6                   130.06
5-9                   130.99
6-1                   70.01
6-2                   70.02
6-3                   70.03
6-4                   70.04
6-5                   70.05
6-6                   70.06
6-7                   70.07
6-8                   70.08
6-9                   70.09
6-10                  70.10
6-11                  70.11
6-19                  70.12
6-20                  70.13
6-23                  71.01
6-24                  71.02
6-25                  71.03
6-26                  71.04
6-27                  71.05
6-30                  71.06
6-31                  71.07
6-32                  71.08
6-33                  71.09
6-36                  70.14
6-37                  70.15
6-39                  72.01
6-40                  72.02
6-41                  72.03
                      70.99;
6-43                  71.99;
                      72.99
6A-1                  Ch. 73, Sch. I
6A-2                  Ch. 73, Sch. II
6A-3                  Ch. 73, Sch. X
6A-4(a)               Ch. 73, Sch. III
6A-4(b)               Ch. 73, Sch. IV
6A-5                  Ch. 73, Sch. XI
6A-6                  Ch. 73, Sch. V
6A-7                  Ch. 73, Sch. XII
6A-8                  Ch. 73, Sch. XIII
6A-9                  Ch. 73, Sch. VI
6A-10                 Ch. 73, Sch. VII
6A-11–6A-19         Ch. 73, Sch. XIV
6A-20                 Ch. 73, Sch. VIII
6A-21–6A-22         Ch. 73, Sch. XIV
6A-23                 Ch. 74, Sch. I
6A-24                 Ch. 74, Sch. II
6A-25–6A-26         Ch. 73, Sch. XIV
6A-27                 Ch. 74, Sch. III
6A-28–6A-31         Ch. 73, Sch. XIV
6A-32                 Ch. 74, Sch. IV
7-2                   90.02
7-3                   90.03
7-4                   90.04
7-5                   90.05
7-6                   90.06
7-11                  90.08
7-12                  90.09
7-13                  90.10
7-16                  90.25
7-17                  90.26
7-18                  90.27
7-20                  90.28
7-22                  90.29
7-23                  90.30
7-24                  90.31
7-25                  90.32
7-31                  90.33
7-32                  90.34
7-33                  90.35
7-34                  90.99
8-1                   110.01
8-2                   110.02
8-4                   110.04
8-8                   111.01
8-9                   111.02
8-10                  111.03
8-11                  111.04
8-12                  111.05
8-13                  111.06
8-14                  111.07
8-15                  111.08
8-16                  111.09
8-17                  111.10
8-18                  111.11
8-19                  111.12
8-20                  111.13
8-21                  111.14
8-22                  111.15
8-26                  112.01
8-27                  112.02
8-28                  112.03
8-29                  112.04
8-30                  112.05
8-31                  112.06
8-32                  112.07
8-33                  112.08
8-34                  112.99
8-34                  110.99
8-40                  113.01
8-41                  113.02
8-42                  113.03
8-43                  113.04
8-44                  113.99
9-1                   34.01
9-2                   34.02
9-3                   34.03
9-4                   34.04
9-5                   34.05
9-6                   34.06
9-7                   34.99
10-1                  96.01
10-4                  96.04
10-5                  96.05
10-6                  96.06
10-7                  96.07
10-8                  96.08
10-9                  96.09
10-10                 96.10
10-16                 96.25
10-17                 96.26
10-18                 96.27
10-21                 96.28
10-22                 96.29
10-27                 96.30
10-28                 96.31
10-29                 96.32
10-30                 96.33
10-32                 96.34
10-33                 96.35
10-36                 96.36
10-37                 96.99
11-1                  91.01
11-2                  91.02
11-3                  91.03
11-4                  91.04
11-5                  91.05
11-6                  91.06
11-7                  91.07
11-8                  91.08
11-16                 91.09
11-17                 91.10
11-18                 91.11
11-19                 91.12
11-20                 91.13
11-21                 91.14
11-36                 91.99
11-37–11-41         91.15
12-1                  92.01
12-2                  92.02
12-3                  92.03
12-9                  92.04
12-12                 92.06
12-16                 92.07
12-17                 92.08
12-18                 92.99
13-1                  93.01
13-2                  93.02
13-3                  93.03
13-4                  93.04
13-5                  93.05
13-6                  93.06
13-7                  93.07
13-8                  93.08
13-11                 93.09
13-12                 93.10
13-13                 93.11
13-14                 93.12
13-17                 93.13
13-18                 93.14
13-19                 93.15
13-21                 93.16
13-22                 93.17
13-23                 93.18
13-26                 93.99
14-1                  50.001
14-2                  50.999
14-6                  50.003
14-7                  50.004
14-9                  50.005
14-10                 50.006
14-11                 50.007
14-12                 50.008
14-13                 50.009
14-14                 50.010
14-15                 50.011
14-16                 50.012
14-17                 50.013
14-21                 50.016
14-22                 50.017
14-26                 50.030
14-30                 50.031
14-31                 50.032
14-32                 50.033
14-36                 50.050
14-37                 50.051
14-38                 50.052
14-39                 50.053
14-40                 50.054
14-41                 50.055
14-42                 50.056
14-43                 50.057
14-44                 50.058
14-45                 50.059
14-51                 50.070
14-52                 50.071
14-53                 50.072
14-54                 50.073
14-55                 50.074
14-56                 50.075
14-57                 50.076
14-58                 50.077
14-65                 50.090
14-66                 50.091
14-67                 50.092
14-76                 50.105
14-77                 50.106
14-78                 50.107
14-79                 50.108
14-80                 50.109
14-81                 50.110
14-82                 50.111
14-83                 50.112
14-84                 50.113
14-85                 50.114
14-86                 50.115
15-36                 151.01
15-37                 151.02
15-38                 151.03
15-39                 151.04
15-40                 151.05
15-41                 151.06
15-42                 151.07
15-43                 151.08
15-44                 151.09
15-45                 151.10
16-1                  95.01
16-2                  95.02
16-4                  96.04
16-5                  96.05
16-6                  96.06
16-7                  96.07
16-8                  96.08
16-9                  96.09
16-10                 96.10
16-11                 95.11
16-12                 95.12
16-13                 95.13
16-14                 95.14
16-15                 95.15
101                   154.001
102                   154.002
103                   154.003
104                   154.004
201                   154.015
202                   154.016
203                   154.017
204                   154.018
205                   154.019
206                   154.020
207                   154.021
208                   154.022
209                   154.023
210                   154.024
211                   154.025
212                   154.026
213                   154.027
214                   154.028
215                   154.029
216                   154.030
217                   154.031
218                   154.032
301                   154.045
302                   154.046
303                   154.047
304                   154.048
Art. 400, Note File   154.068
Art. 400, Table 400-1 154.066
Art. 400, Table 400-2 154.067
400-1                 154.066
400-1                 154.067
401                   154.060
402                   154.061
403                   154.062
404                   154.063
405                   154.064
406                   154.065
Art. 500, App. A      154.097
501                   154.080
501A                  154.110
502                   154.081
502A                  154.111
503                   154.082
503A                  154.112
504                   154.083
504A                  154.113
505                   154.084
505A                  154.114
506                   154.085
506A                  154.115
507                   154.086
507A                  154.116
508                   154.087
508A                  154.117
509                   154.088
509A                  154.118
510                   154.089
510A                  154.119
511                   154.090
511A                  154.120
512                   154.091
513                   154.092
514                   154.093
515                   154.094
516                   154.095
517                   154.096
Art. 600, Diag. 600-1 154.147
Art. 600, Table 600-1 154.147
Art. 600, Table 600-2 154.144
601                   154.135
602                   154.136
603                   154.137
604                   154.138
605                   154.139
606                   154.140
607                   154.141
608                   154.142
609                   154.143
611                   154.145
612                   154.146
Art. 700, Table 700-1 154.177
Art. 700, Note File   154.178
701                   154.160
702                   154.161
703                   154.162
704                   154.163
705                   154.164
706                   154.165
707                   154.166
708                   154.167
709                   154.168
710                   154.169
711                   154.170
712                   154.171
713                   154.172
714                   154.173
715                   154.174
716                   154.175
717                   154.176
801                   154.190
802                   154.191
803                   154.192
804                   154.193
805                   154.194
806                   154.195
807                   154.196
808                   154.197
809                   154.198
810                   154.199
811                   154.200
812                   154.201
813                   154.202
814                   154.203
815                   154.204
816                   154.205
817                   154.206
818                   154.207
819                   154.208
820                   154.209
821                   154.210
822                   154.211
823                   154.212
824                   154.213
825                   154.214
826                   154.215
827                   154.216
828                   154.217
829                   154.218
830                   154.219
831                   154.220
834                   154.223
835                   154.224
836                   154.225
837                   154.226
838                   154.227
839                   154.228
840                   154.229
841                   154.230
842                   154.231
843                   154.232
844                   154.233
845                   154.234
846                   154.235
847                   154.236
848                   154.237
849                   154.238
850                   154.239
1001                  154.250
1002                  154.251
1003                  154.252
1004                  154.253
1005                  154.254
1101                  154.265
1102                  154.266
1103                  154.267
1104                  154.268
1105                  154.269
1106                  154.270
1107                  154.271
1108                  154.272
1109                  154.273
1110                  154.274
1111                  154.275
1112                  154.276
1114                  154.278;
                      154.999
1115                  154.279
1201                  154.005
1202                  154.006
Appendix              TSO I
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.     Date Passed Code Section
–          - -         50.014
                         153.01-
                         153.08;
                         153.20-
–          - -         153.29;
                         153.40-
                         153.48;
                         153.99
                         55.01;
                         55.02;
                         55.10–
–          5-24-1982   55.12;
                         55.20–
                         55.24;
                         55.99
–          4-25-1988   151.01-
                         151.10
–          4-24-1989   37.01-
                         37.07
–          4-5-1990    110.04
–          3-26-1990   95.01-
                         95.15
–          4-5-1990    110.04
–          7-23-1990   Ch. 74, Sch. II
– § 1     8-27-1990   150.01
– § 2     8-27-1990   150.02
– § 3     8-27-1990   150.03
– § 4     8-27-1990   150.04
– § 5     8-27-1990   150.05
– § 6     8-27-1990   150.06
– § 7     8-27-1990   150.07
– § 8     8-27-1990   150.08
– § 9     8-27-1990   150.09
– § 10    8-27-1990   150.10
– § 11    8-27-1990   150.25
– § 12    8-27-1990   150.26
– § 13    8-27-1990   150.27
– § 14    8-27-1990   150.28
– § 15    8-27-1990   150.29
– § 16    8-27-1990   150.30
– § 17    8-27-1990   150.31
– § 18    8-27-1990   150.32
– § 19    8-27-1990   150.33
– § 20    8-27-1990   150.34
– § 21    8-27-1990   150.98;
                         150.99
–          4-22-1991   94.10-
                         94.18
–          7-22-1991   Ch. 73, Sch. VIII
–          3-22-1993   130.07
                         114.01-
                         114.06;
–          4-26-1993   114.20-
                         114.26;
                         114.40-
                         114.50
–          6-22-1993   Ch. 73, Sch. VIII
–          8-23-1993   Ch. 74, Sch. I
–          10-25-1993  38.01-
                         38.07
–          8-28-1995   Ch. 73, Sch. VIII
–          11-27-1995  130.99
–          7-22-1996   Ch. 73, Sch. IX
–          9-23-1996   Ch. 73, Sch. VIII
–          4-28-1997   Ch. 74, Sch. II
–          5-26-1997   152.01-
                         152.10
–          10-27-1997  50.015
–          1-26-1998   Ch. 73, Sch. IV
                         54.01-
–          2-23-1998   54.05;
                         Ch. 73, Sch. VIII
–          3-27-1998   36.01-
                         36.16
–          4-27-1998   91.13
–          6-22-1998   93.18
–          7-27-1998   130.02
–          8-24-1998   91.08
–          2-22-1999   30.02
                         52.01-
–          4-26-1999   52.10;
                         52.99
–          10-25-1999  Ch. 73, Sch. III
–          11-22-1999  Ch. 73, Sch. VIII
–          2-28-2000   50.002;
                         Ch. 73, Sch. VIII
–          3-27-2000   50.018
–          11-27-2000  Ch. 73, Sch. VII;
                         130.10
–          1-22-2001   94.01
                         96.01;
                         96.04-
–          2-26-2001   96.10;
                         96.25-
                         96.36;
                         96.99
–          3-26-2001   93.08
–          4-23-2001   96.01;
                         96.05
–          6-25-2001   Ch. 73, Sch. VIII
                         131.01-
–          2-25-2002   131.06;
                         131.99
                         95.01;
–          3-24-2003   95.06;
                         95.09
                         90.07;
–          2-2-2004    130.11;
                         130.12;
                         130.99
                         Ch. 73, Sch. III;
                         154.001–
                         154.006;
                         154.015-
                         154.032;
                         154.045-
                         154.048;
                         154.060-
                         154.068;
                         154.080-
                         154.097;
                         154.110-
                         154.120;
–          6-28-2004   154.135-
                         154.147;
                         154.160-
                         154.178;
                         154.190-
                         154.220;
                         154.223–
                         154.239;
                         154.250–
                         154.254;
                         154.265-
                         154.276;
                         154.278;
                         154.279;
                         154.999
–          9-27-2004   Ch. 73, Sch. VIII
–          11-22-2004  31.02
–          3-28-2005   Ch. 73, Sch. III
                         35.01-
–          9-26-2005   35.06;
                         35.99
–          9-26-2005   51.01-
                         51.05
– § 1.1   9-26-2005   53.01
– § 1.2   9-26-2005   53.02
– § 2.1   9-26-2005   53.03
– § 2.2   9-26-2005   53.04
– § 2.3   9-26-2005   53.05
– § 2.4   9-26-2005   53.06
– § 2.5   9-26-2005   53.07
– § 2.6   9-26-2005   53.08
– § 2.7   9-26-2005   53.09
– § 2.8   9-26-2005   53.10
– § 2.9   9-26-2005   53.11
– § 3.1   9-26-2005   53.25
– § 3.2   9-26-2005   53.26
– § 3.3   9-26-2005   53.27
– § 3.4   9-26-2005   53.28
– § 4.1   9-26-2005   53.29
– § 4.2   9-26-2005   53.30
– § 5.1   9-26-2005   53.31
– § 5.2   9-26-2005   53.32
– § 5.3   9-26-2005   53.33
– § 5.4   9-26-2005   53.34
– § 5.5   9-26-2005   53.35
– § 5.6   9-26-2005   53.36
– § 5.7   9-26-2005   53.37
– § 5.8   9-26-2005   53.38
– § 5.9   9-26-2005   53.39
– § 5.10  9-26-2005   53.40
– § 5.11  9-26-2005   53.41
– § 5.12  9-26-2005   53.42
– § 5.13  9-26-2005   53.43
– § 6.1   9-26-2005   53.55
– § 6.2   9-26-2005   53.56
– § 6.3   9-26-2005   53.57
– § 7     9-26-2005   53.58
– §§ 8.19-26-2005   53.59
– § 8.2   9-26-2005   53.99
– § 9     9-26-2005   53.60
– § 10    9-26-2005   53.61
–          9-26-2005   153.26
                         132.01-
–          10-24-2005  132.06;
                         132.99
                         71.01;
–          5-22-2006   71.99;
                         72.99
–          8-28-2006   130.04
                         155.01–
                         155.13;
                         155.20–
                         155.24;
–          12-17-2007  155.35;
                         155.36;
                         155.38–
                         155.41;
                         155.99
–          3-24-2008   50.014
–          8-25-2008   91.10
–          8-25-2008   91.13
–          8-25-2008   94.01
–          8-25-2008   153.21
–          8-25-2008   153.42
–          2-23-2009   53.75–
                         53.82
–          3-23-2009   153.21
–          5-26-2009   130.03
                         154.006;
–          11-23-2009  154.067;
                         154.147
–          12-28-2009  70.16,
                         70.99
                         52.03–
–          3-22-2010   52.07;
                         52.11–
                         52.15
–          8-23-2010   Ch. 73, Sch. VIII
–          6-27-2011   130.02
–          5-28-2013   90.01
–          5-28-2013   130.06
–          10-28-2013  Ch. 73, Sch. VIII
–          5-27-2014   Ch. 74, Sch. I
–          5-27-2014   33.15
–          4-27-2015   Ch. 73, Sch. VIII
                         154.006;
                         154.033;
                         154.067;
–          7-6-2015    154.068,
                         154.084;
                         154.098;
                         154.147;
                         154.240
–          9-28-2015   50.030–
                         50.033
–          9-28-2015   91.12
–          9-28-2015   130.08;
                         130.09
–          1-25-2016   33.15
–          3-28-2016   110.03
–          7-11-2016   154.067
–          8-22-2016   Ch. 73, Sch. III
–          9-29-2016   Ch. 73, Sch. I
–          3-26-2018   33.15
                         90.25;
–          10-22-2018  90.28;
                         90.30
–          10-22-2018  90.27;
                         90.29
–          10-22-2018  93.16
–          10-22-2018  94.16
–          10-22-2018  50.015
–          - -         154.006;
                         154.032
–          - -         154.082
                         154.006;
                         154.068;
–          - -         154.171;
                         154.172;
                         154.177;
                         154.178
–          - -         154.240
–          - -         154.098
–          2-25-2019   130.01;
                         130.99
–          3-25-2019   154.006
–          2-25-2019   130.01;
                         130.99
–          3-25-2019   154.006
                         154.006;
–          3-23-2020   154.067;
                         154.147;
                         154.229
–          7-27-2020   92.05
–          7-27-2020   92.09
                         156.01–
                         156.08;
                         156.20–
                         156.32;
–          7-27-2020   156.45–
                         156.51;
                         156.65–
                         156.74;
                         156.99
–          - -2021     Ch. 73, Sch. VIII
                         96.01;
                         96.03–
                         96.05;
                         96.07–
–          -           96.10;
                         96.26;
                         96.28–
                         96.32;
                         96.34;
                         96.99
                         70.99;
                         90.99;
–          11-22-2021  96.99;
                         130.99;
                         132.99;
                         156.99
–          1-9-2023    154.006
–          8-8-2023    153.21
                         154.006;
                         154.034;
                         154.060;
                         154.064;
                         154.065;
–          8-8-2023    154.067;
                         154.068;
                         154.221;
                         154.239;
                         154.275;
                         154.276
                        
 
 
