LITTLETON, NORTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Current through Ord. 21-016, passed 11-22-2021
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING CORPORATION
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
CHARTER OF THE TOWN OF LITTLETON
ARTICLE I.   INCORPORATION, CORPORATE POWERS AND BOUNDARIES
ARTICLE II.   GOVERNING BODY
ARTICLE III.   ELECTIONS
ARTICLE IV.   ORGANIZATION AND ADMINISTRATION
Section
Article I. Incorporation, Corporate Powers and Boundaries
   
1.1   Incorporation
   
1.2   Powers
   
1.3   Corporate limits
Article II. Governing Body
   
2.1   Town governing body; composition
   
2.2   Town Board of Commissioners; composition; terms of office
   
2.3   Mayor; term of office; duties
   
2.4   Mayor Pro Tempore
   
2.5   Meetings
   
2.6   Quorum; voting
   
2.7   Compensation; qualifications for office; vacancies
Article III. Elections
   
3.1   Regular municipal elections
   
3.2   Election of Mayor
   
3.3   Election of Commissioners
   
3.4   Special elections and referenda
Article IV. Organization and Administration
   
4.1   Form of government
   
4.2   Town Attorney
   
4.3   Town Clerk
   
4.4   Tax Collector
   
4.5   Other administrative officers and employees
ARTICLE I. INCORPORATION, CORPORATE POWERS AND BOUNDARIES
Section 1.1. Incorporation.
   The Town of Littleton, North Carolina in Halifax County and the inhabitants
thereof shall continue to be a municipal body politic and corporate, under the
name of the “Town of Littleton,” hereinafter at times referred to as the
“Town.”
Section 1.2. Powers.
   The Town shall have and may exercise all of the powers, duties, rights,
privileges and immunities conferred upon the Town of Littleton specifically by
this Charter or upon municipal corporations by general law. The term “general
law” is employed herein as defined in G.S. 160A-1.
Section 1.3. Corporate Limits.
   The corporate limits shall be those existing at the time of ratification of
this Charter, as set forth on the official map of the Town and as they may be
altered from time to time in accordance with law. An official map of the Town,
showing the current municipal boundaries, shall be maintained permanently in
the office of the Town Clerk and shall be available for public inspection. Upon
alteration of the corporate limits pursuant to law, the appropriate changes to
the official map shall be made and copies shall be filed in the office of the
Secretary of State, the Halifax County Register of Deeds and the appropriate
board of elections.
ARTICLE II. GOVERNING BODY
Section 2.1. Town Governing Body; Composition.
   The Board of Commissioners, hereinafter referred to as the “Board,” and the
Mayor shall be the governing body of the Town.
Section 2.2. Town Board of Commissioners; Composition; Terms of Office.
   The Board shall be composed of five members, to be elected by all the
qualified voters of the Town, for staggered terms of four years or until their
successors are elected and qualified.
Section 2.3. Mayor; Term of Office; Duties.
   The Mayor shall be elected by all the qualified voters of the Town for a
term of four years or until his or her successor is elected and qualified. The
Mayor shall be the official head of the Town government and preside at meetings
of the Board, shall have the right to vote only when there is an equal division
on any question or matter before the Board, and shall exercise the powers and
duties conferred by law or as directed by the Board.
Section 2.4. Mayor Pro Tempore.
   The Board shall elect one of its members as Mayor Pro Tempore to perform the
duties of the Mayor during his or her absence or disability, in accordance with
general law. The Mayor Pro Tempore shall serve in such capacity at the pleasure
of the Board.
Section 2.5. Meetings.
   In accordance with general law, the Board shall establish a suitable time
and place for its regular meetings. Special and emergency meetings may be held
as provided by general law.
Section 2.6. Quorum; Voting.
   Official actions of the Board and all votes shall be taken in accordance
with the applicable provisions of general law, particularly G.S. 160A-75. The
quorum provisions of G.S. 160A-74 shall apply.
Section 2.7. Compensation; Qualifications for Office; Vacancies.
   The compensation and qualifications of the Mayor and Commissioners shall be
in accordance with general law. Vacancies that occur in any elective office of
the Town shall be filled by majority vote of the remaining members of the Board
and shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired term, despite the
contrary provisions of G.S. 160A-63.
ARTICLE III. ELECTIONS
Section 3.1. Regular Municipal Elections.
   Regular municipal elections shall be held in each odd-numbered year in
accordance with the uniform municipal election laws of North Carolina.
Elections shall be conducted on a nonpartisan basis and the results determined
using the nonpartisan plurality method as provided in G.S. 163-292.
Section 3.2. Election of Mayor.
   A Mayor shall be elected in the regular municipal election in 2001 and each
four years thereafter.
Section 3.3. Election of Commissioners.
   In the regular municipal election in 1999, the three candidates for
Commissioner who receive the highest number of votes shall be elected for four-
year terms, while the two candidates who receive the next highest number of
votes shall be elected for two-year terms. In the regular municipal election in
2001, and quadrennially thereafter, two Commissioners shall be elected to four-
year terms in those positions whose terms are then expiring. In the regular
municipal election in 2003, and quadrennially thereafter, three Commissioners
shall be elected to four-year terms in those positions whose terms are then
expiring.
Section 3.4. Special Elections and Referenda.
   Special elections and referenda may be held only as provided by general law
or applicable local acts of the General Assembly.
ARTICLE IV. ORGANIZATION AND ADMINISTRATION
Section 4.1. Form of Government.
   The Town shall operate under the mayor-council form of government, in
accordance with G.S. Chapter 160A, Article 7, Part 3.
Section 4.2. Town Attorney.
   The Board shall appoint a Town Attorney licensed to practice law in North
Carolina. It shall be the duty of the Town Attorney to represent the Town,
advise Town officials and perform other duties required by law or as the Board
may direct.
Section 4.3. Town Clerk.
   The Board shall appoint a Town Clerk to keep a journal of the proceedings of
the Board, to maintain official records and documents, to give notice of
meetings, and to perform such other duties required by law or as the Board may
direct.
Section 4.4. Tax Collector.
   The Town shall have a Tax Collector to collect all taxes owed to the Town
and perform those duties specified in G.S. 105-350 and such other duties as
prescribed by law or assigned by the Board.
Section 4.5. Other Administrative Officers and Employees.
   The Board may authorize other positions to be filled by appointment and may
organize the Town government as deemed appropriate, subject to the requirements
of general law.
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time; computing time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinances
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the Town of Littleton shall be
designated as the “Code of Littleton, North Carolina” and may be so cited.
(Prior Code, § 10.01)
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
(Prior Code, § 10.02)
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
(Prior Code, § 10.03)
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
(Prior Code, § 10.04)
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS. The legislative body of the Town of Littleton,
North Carolina.
      CHARTER. The Charter of the Town of Littleton, North Carolina.
      CODE, THIS CODE, or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or
sections.
      COUNTY. Halifax County, North Carolina.
      GOVERNOR. The Governor of North Carolina.
      JOINT AUTHORITY. All words giving a joint authority to three or more
persons or officers shall be construed as giving that authority to a majority
of those persons or officers.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an OATH, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this municipality unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
      OWNER. Applied to any property, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant, or tenant by the entirety, of the whole
or a part of that property.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Every species of property except real property.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      PROPERTY. Includes real and personal property.
      REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIDEWALK. Any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of North Carolina.
      STREET. Any public way, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard,
parkway, dedicated alley, lane, viaduct, bridge, and the approaches thereto
within the town, and shall mean the entire width of the right-of-way between
abutting property lines.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      TENANT or OCCUPANT. When applied to a building or land, shall include any
person who occupies the whole or a part of that building or land, whether alone
or with others.
      TOWN. The Town of Littleton, North Carolina.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
(Prior Code, § 10.05)
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this town shall be by the following
rules, unless such a construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   And or or. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, such
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of that act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
(Prior Code, § 10.06)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
(Prior Code, § 10.07)
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered, unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
(Prior Code, § 10.08)
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this town exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
(Prior Code, § 10.09)
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, that spelling shall be corrected and the word
or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
such an error.
(Prior Code, § 10.10)
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this town for the transaction of all
municipal business.
(Prior Code, § 10.11)
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME; COMPUTING TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of that act or the giving of that notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
(Prior Code, § 10.12)
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
(Prior Code, § 10.13)
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
(Prior Code, § 10.14)
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from
their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(Prior Code, § 10.15)
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force,
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
(Prior Code, § 10.16)
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal, or
in any way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering
system hereof and printed for inclusion herein. When subsequent ordinances
repeal any chapter, section, or division, or any portion thereof, such repealed
portions may be excluded from this code by omission from reprinted pages. The
subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted in the case of
repeal, shall be prima facie evidence that the subsequent ordinances numbered
or omitted are readopted as a new code by the town.
   (B)   Amendments to any of the provisions of the code shall be made by
amending those provisions by specific reference to the section number of this
code in language substantially similar to the following: “Section
               of the Code of Ordinances, Town of Littleton, North Carolina, is
hereby amended as follows....” The new provisions shall then be set out in full
as desired.
   (C)   If a new section not heretofore existing in the code is to be added,
language substantially similar to the following shall be used: “The Code of
Ordinances, Town of Littleton, North Carolina, is hereby amended by adding a
section, to be numbered               , which section shall read as
follows:....” The new section shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (D)   All sections, subchapters, chapters, or provisions desired to be
repealed must be specifically repealed by section, subchapter, or chapter
number, as the case may be.
(Prior Code, § 10.17)
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, if any, are listed following the text of the
code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970;
Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-85)
   (B)   (1)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text
of the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example: (G.S. §
160A-11) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1985)
      (2)   A statutory cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
         § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection
or copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
            Inspection of public records, see G.S. §§ 132-1 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 10.18)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of any
section or division of this code of ordinances for which no other penalty is
provided, or failing, or neglecting or refusing to comply with same, shall be
subject to a civil fine only, not to exceed $100, and each day that any of the
provisions of this code of ordinances are violated shall constitute a separate
violation.
   (B)   Any provision of this code of ordinances or any other town ordinance
may be enforced by an appropriate equitable remedy issuing from a court of
competent jurisdiction. In that case, the general court of justice shall have
jurisdiction to issue orders as may be appropriate, and it shall not be a
defense to the application of the town for equitable relief that there is an
adequate remedy at law.
   (C)   (1)   Any provision of this code or any other town ordinance that
makes unlawful a condition existing upon or use made of real property may be
enforced by injunction and order of abatement, and the general court of justice
shall have jurisdiction to issue orders. When a violation of a provision
occurs, the town may apply to the appropriate division of the general court of
justice for a mandatory or prohibitory injunction and order of abatement
commanding the defendant to correct the unlawful condition upon or cease the
unlawful use of the property. The action shall be governed in all respects by
the laws and rules governing civil proceedings, including the Rules of Civil
Procedure in general and Rule 65 in particular.
      (2)   In addition to an injunction, the court may enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the cause. An order of abatement may
direct that buildings or other structures on the property be closed, demolished
or removed; that fixtures, furniture or other movable property be removed from
buildings on the property; that grass and weeds be cut; that improvements or
repairs be made; or that any other action be taken that is necessary to bring
the property into compliance with this code of ordinances.
      (3)   If the defendant fails or refuses to comply with an injunction or
with an order of abatement within the time allowed by the court, he or she may
be cited for contempt, and the town may execute the order of abatement. The
town shall have a lien on the property for the cost of executing an order of
abatement in the nature of a mechanic’s lien and materialperson’s lien.
      (4)   The defendant may secure cancellation of an order of abatement by
paying all costs of the proceedings and posting a bond for compliance with the
order. The bond shall be given with sureties approved by the Clerk of Superior
Court in an amount approved by the judge before whom the matter is heard and
shall be conditioned on the defendant’s full compliance with the terms of the
order of abatement within a time fixed by the judge. Cancellation of an order
of abatement shall not suspend or cancel an injunction issued in conjunction
therewith.
(Prior Code, § 10.99) (Ord. 21-007, passed 5-24-2021; Ord. 19- , passed 2-21-
2019)
Statutory reference:
   Enforcement of ordinances, see G.S. § 160A-175
   Penalty provisions, see G.S. § 14-4(a)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
      
31.   TOWN OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
      
32.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   FINANCE
CHAPTER 30: BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
Section
Board Meetings
   
30.01   Time and location
   
30.02   Rules of procedure
   
30.03   Committees
Ordinances
   
30.15   Confined to one subject
   
30.16   Official copy
   
30.17   Appropriations
BOARD MEETINGS
§ 30.01 TIME AND LOCATION.
   (A)   Regular meetings. The Board of Commissioners shall adopt a schedule of
regular meetings at least seven days before the first designated meeting. The
schedule of regular meetings shall be posted in the office of the Town Clerk
and posted on the town’s website.
   (B)   Special meetings. Special meetings of the Board may be held, after 48
hours’ notice, upon the call of the Mayor or upon the request in writing of any
two members of the Board of Commissioners. Notice of the time and purposes of
special meetings shall be posted at the Town Hall, and due notice shall be
given to the Mayor and Board of Commissioners of the time and purposes of
special meetings.
(Prior Code, § 30.01) (Ord. 18- , passed - -2018; Ord. 21- , passed 1-25-2021)
§ 30.02 RULES OF PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Quorum. A majority of the members of the Board of Commissioners shall
constitute a quorum and no official business of the town shall be transacted by
the Board unless a quorum is present.
   (B)   Minutes. It shall be the duty of the Clerk to be present at all
meetings of the Board, to keep in a book provided for that purpose a record of
all the proceedings of the Board.
   (C)   Mayor to preside. The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the Board
and, in his or her absence, the Mayor Pro Tempore shall preside.
   (D)   Mayor not to vote. The Mayor shall not vote on any question before the
Board except in the case of a tie vote deadlocking a decision of the Board of
Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 30.02)
§ 30.03 COMMITTEES.
   The Mayor and Commissioners may create committees of the Board for special
purposes as they deem best.
(Prior Code, § 30.03)
ORDINANCES
§ 30.15 CONFINED TO ONE SUBJECT.
   All ordinances shall be confined to one subject except appropriation
ordinances, which shall be confined to the subject of appropriations only.
(Prior Code, § 30.15)
§ 30.16 OFFICIAL COPY.
   A true copy of an ordinance, which has been duly enacted by the Board,
signed by the Mayor and attested to by the Clerk, shall be known as an official
copy of any ordinance for the town. All ordinances or a true copy thereof shall
be inserted in this code in the proper chapter.
(Prior Code, § 30.16)
§ 30.17 APPROPRIATIONS.
   No appropriation ordinance or ordinance to alter or repeal an appropriation
ordinance shall be enacted at any meeting other than a regular meeting, except
by a unanimous vote of the entire Board.
(Prior Code, § 30.17)
CHAPTER 31: TOWN OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
   
31.01   Mayor
   
31.02   Town Clerk
   
31.03   Other officers and employees
   
31.04   Bond
§ 31.01 MAYOR.
   It shall be the duty of the Mayor to cause all ordinances of the town to be
enforced, and to attend and preside over all meetings of the Board of
Commissioners. It shall further be the duty of the Mayor, within 30 days after
the close of each year, to require a report to the Board from the various
departments of the town government for the previous year and recommend
adjustments as he or she may see fit. The Mayor shall perform other duties as
the Board may from time to time require. The Mayor shall be the chief executive
officer of the town.
(Prior Code, § 31.01)
§ 31.02 TOWN CLERK.
   (A)   The Clerk and Finance Officer shall be appointed by the Board at the
organizational meeting following the Board’s staggered term elections.
   (B)   The Clerk and Finance Officer, hereinafter called the Clerk, shall
have the following duties and powers.
      (1)   The Clerk shall attend all meetings of the Board of Commissioners
and shall regularly and fairly record all of its proceedings in a book to be
kept by him or her for that purpose. He or she shall also keep a well-bound
book to be styled the Code of Ordinances, in which he or she shall fairly and
correctly transcribe all ordinances which are enacted by the Board of
Commissioners.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the Clerk to keep true, accurate and just
books of accounts of the dealings and transactions of the town, which books
shall show at all times the true condition of the town, its resources and
liabilities and the disposition and use of the monies coming under the control
of the town.
      (3)   The Clerk shall keep or cause to be kept in a safe place all
monies, records and accounts.
      (4)   The Clerk shall disburse funds for the various purposes of the town
only when an appropriation for such a purpose has been made in the annual
budget and the disbursement is authorized by the Board of Commissioners.
      (5)   The Clerk shall perform other duties as the Board may from time to
time require.
(Prior Code, § 31.02)
§ 31.03 OTHER OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   Other officers and employees that are deemed necessary shall be appointed by
the Board of Commissioners at the organizational meeting following the Board’s
staggered meeting term elections. All officers and employees shall serve at the
pleasure of the Board and receive such compensation as from time to time may be
prescribed by the Board.
(Prior Code, § 31.03)
§ 31.04 BOND.
   The Clerk and other officers or employees required by the Board shall,
before entering upon their duties, post bond in amounts specified by the Board.
All bond premiums shall be paid from town funds. Provided, that when two
offices are combined, such as Clerk and Finance Officer, only one bond shall be
required.
(Prior Code, § 31.04)
CHAPTER 32: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Police Department
   
32.01   Organization
   
32.02   Board to control
   
32.03   Uniforms
   
32.04   Duties
   
32.05   Chief of Police
Planning Board
   
32.20   Established
   
32.21   Membership; terms; vacancies
   
32.22   Organization; rules; meetings; records
   
32.23   Compensation
   
32.24   Powers and duties
   
32.25   Annual report; budget
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.01 ORGANIZATION.
   The Police Department of the town shall consist of a Chief and as many
police officers as the Board of Commissioners shall from time to time determine
and elect, and as many special police officers as the Mayor and Board may deem
necessary to appoint for special purposes.
(Prior Code, § 32.01)
§ 32.02 BOARD TO CONTROL.
   The Board of Commissioners shall have general supervision over the Police
Department. The Board may suspend, for cause, any member of the Police
Department until the next regular meeting, at which time final disposition
shall be made.
(Prior Code, § 32.02)
§ 32.03 UNIFORMS.
   All police officers shall wear uniforms as shall be provided by the town and
shall keep their uniforms in a neat and clean condition, and shall surrender
all uniforms and equipment upon leaving the police service of the town if those
uniforms and equipment were furnished by the town.
(Prior Code, § 32.03)
§ 32.04 DUTIES.
   The Police Department shall carry out all orders of the Board, enforce all
laws and ordinances of the town and the state, and shall at all times preserve
the peace, and protect the property and the safety of the citizens of the town.
(Prior Code, § 32.04)
§ 32.05 CHIEF OF POLICE.
   The Chief shall have control over the Police Department under the
supervision of the Board of Commissioners. The Chief shall keep the Board
informed of the Department’s activities and make reports that the Board may
from time to time require, and he or she shall perform other duties as may be
required of him or her by the Board.
(Prior Code, § 32.05)
PLANNING BOARD
§ 32.20 ESTABLISHED.
   There shall be a Planning Board for the town and it’s extraterritorial
jurisdiction, when a jurisdiction is adopted, established under the authority
of the General Statutes of the state.
(Prior Code, § 32.15) (Ord. O-80-003, passed 9-8-1980; Ord. 21, passed - -;
Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
Statutory reference:
   Establishment and operation of municipal planning boards, see G.S. § 160D-
301
§ 32.21 MEMBERSHIP; TERMS; VACANCIES.
   (A)   The Planning Board shall consist of seven members, which shall consist
of a residents of the town and the extraterritorial jurisdiction proportionate
to their populations, as provided in G.S. § 160D-307. The in-town members shall
be appointed by the Board of Commissioners. The extraterritorial members shall
be appointed by the Board of Commissioners in accordance with G.S. § 160D-307.
   (B)   Members shall be appointed to staggered two-year terms. Terms shall
expire on June 30. Members shall serve until the expiration of their terms or
until their successors have been appointed.
   (C)   Vacancies occurring for reasons other than expiration of terms shall
be filled for the period of the unexpired term by the Board of Commissioners
for the in-town members, and by the County Board of Commissioners for
extraterritorial members.
   (D)   Faithful attendance at the meetings of the Planning Board is
considered a prerequisite for the maintenance of membership on the Board.
Unexcused absence from three consecutive meetings shall be deemed adequate
reason for termination of membership on the Planning Board of in-town members
by the Board of Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 32.16) (Ord. O-80-003, passed 9-8-1980; Ord. 21, passed - -;
Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 32.22 ORGANIZATION; RULES; MEETINGS; RECORDS.
   The Planning Board shall elect a chairperson and may create and fill other
offices as it may deem necessary. The term of officers shall be one year or
until successors shall have been elected and installed, with eligibility for
reelection. Vacancies in officers’ positions prior to expiration of terms shall
be filled for the period of the unexpired term by the Planning Board. The
Planning Board shall adopt rules for its business and shall keep a record of
meeting minutes, its members’ attendance and of its resolutions, discussions,
findings and recommendations, which record shall be a public record. The
Planning Board shall hold at least one meeting monthly unless there is no
business to be discussed or acted upon, and all of its meetings shall be in
accordance with G.S. §§ 143-318.9 et seq. A quorum shall consist of four
members for the purpose of taking any official action required by this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 32.17) (Ord. O-80-003, passed 9-8-1980; Ord. 21, passed - -;
Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 32.23 COMPENSATION.
   All members of the Planning Board shall serve as such without compensation.
Members or employees of the Planning Board, when duly authorized by the
Planning Board, may attend planning conferences or meetings of planning
institutes or hearings upon pending planning legislation; and the Planning
Board may, by formal and affirmative vote, pay the reasonable traveling
expenses incidental to such attendance within the Planning Board’s budget and
with concurrence of the Board of Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 32.18) (Ord. O-80-003, passed 9-8-1980; Ord. 21, passed - -;
Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 32.24 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   It shall be the function and duty of the Planning Board to make
comprehensive surveys and studies of existing conditions and probable future
developments and prepare plans for physical, social and economic development as
will best promote the public health, safety, morals, conveniences or the
general welfare, as well as efficiency and economy in the development of the
town. The Planning Board shall have the powers and duties given it by the
General Statutes of the state and the Board of Commissioners of the town,
including the power to:
      (1)   Take studies of the area within its jurisdiction and surrounding
areas;
      (2)   Determine objectives to be sought in the development of the study
area;
      (3)   Prepare and recommend for adoption plans for achieving objectives;
      (4)   Develop and recommend policies, ordinances, administrative
procedures and other means for carrying out plans in a coordinated and
efficient manner;
      (5)   Advise the legislative body concerning the use and amendment of
means for carrying out plans;
      (6)   Exercise any function in the administration and enforcement of
various means for carrying out plans that the Board of Commissioners may
direct;
      (7)   Perform any other related duties that the Board of Commissioners
may direct;
      (8)   Accept, receive and disburse in furtherance of its functions any
funds, grants and services made available by the federal, state or local
government or agency, and any private and civic sources, with concurrence of
the Board of Commissioners;
      (9)   With the concurrence of the Board of Commissioners enter into and
carry out contracts to further administer the purposes of this chapter;
      (10)   Conduct public hearings as may be required to gather information
necessary for the drafting, establishment and maintenance of a development plan
for the town; and
      (11)   Promote public interest in and an understanding of its
recommendations, and to that end it may publish and distribute copies of its
recommendations and may employ other means of publicity and education as it may
deem necessary.
   (B)   The Planning Board shall have no power to incur any debt or obligation
of the town, nor shall it have any power to make any expenditure of funds of
the town unless those funds are specifically provided for in the budget of the
town and appropriation made for those purposes by the Board of Commissioners,
or unless the incurring of such other obligation is otherwise approved by the
Board of Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 32.19) (Ord. O-80-003, passed 9-8-1980; Ord. 21, passed - -;
Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 32.25 ANNUAL REPORT; BUDGET.
   The Planning Board shall, annually, submit to the Board of Commissioners of
the town a written report of its activities and analysis of the expenditures to
date for the current fiscal year, and its requested budget of funds needed for
operation during the ensuing fiscal year. The Planning Board is authorized to
appoint committees and to authorize expenditures within its approved budget as
it may see fit, subject to limitations of funds provided for the Planning Board
by the Board of Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 32.20) (Ord. O-80-003, passed 9-8-1980; Ord. 21, passed - -;
Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE
Section
Purchasing
   
33.01   Authority of Clerk
   
33.02   Report
   
33.03   Application
   
33.04   Other authority not limited
   
33.05   Appropriation required
   
33.06   General Statutes apply
   
33.07   Statutory authority
Disposal of Surplus Property
   
33.20   Authority of Clerk
   
33.21   Methods; greatest value
   
33.22   Records
   
33.23   Statutory authority
PURCHASING
§ 33.01 AUTHORITY OF CLERK.
   Subject to the restrictions and conditions hereinafter provided, when
purchasing apparatus, supplies, materials or equipment for use by the town, in
addition to such authority as may be provided by law or otherwise delegated by
the Board of Commissioners, the Clerk shall have the authority to:
   (A)   Prepare, or cause to be prepared, plans and/or specifications setting
forth a complete description of the item(s) to be purchased and the
characteristics, features and requirements therefor;
   (B)   Include, where appropriate, in specifications for the item(s) to be
purchased an opportunity for bidders to purchase as trade-in specified personal
property owned by the town;
   (C)   Advertise, or otherwise secure bids, for the item(s), if required
under applicable law;
   (D)   Award contracts for the purchase of the item(s) and, where applicable,
award contracts for the purchase of the item(s) and the sale of trade-in
property;
   (E)   Reject bids;
   (F)   Re-advertise to receive bids;
   (G)   Waive bid bond or deposit requirements;
   (H)   Waive performance and payment bond requirements; and
   (I)   Execute and deliver the purchase contract(s).
(Prior Code, § 33.01) (Ord. O-98-004, passed 2-23-1998)
§ 33.02 REPORT.
   At the first meeting of the Board of Commissioners following the award of
any contract(s) pursuant to this subchapter, the Clerk shall submit a report to
the Board of Commissioners summarizing the bids received and the contract(s)
awarded. This report shall be included in the minutes of the meeting at which
it is received.
(Prior Code, § 33.02) (Ord. O-98-004, passed 2-23-1998)
§ 33.03 APPLICATION.
   Except in cases of sole source purchases pursuant to G.S. § 143-129(e) and
cases of purchases from established contracts pursuant to G.S. § 143-129(g),
unless otherwise provided by law, the provisions of this subchapter shall apply
to the purchase of apparatus, supplies, materials or equipment requiring the
estimated expenditure of municipal funds in an amount not to exceed $1,000 for
any one item or group of similar items.
(Prior Code, § 33.03) (Ord. O-98-004, passed 2-23-1998)
§ 33.04 OTHER AUTHORITY NOT LIMITED.
   The provisions of this subchapter are not intended to limit, restrict or
revoke, in any manner, authority otherwise granted or delegated to the Clerk by
statute, law or action or the Board of Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 33.04) (Ord. O-98-004, passed 2-23-1998)
§ 33.05 APPROPRIATION REQUIRED.
   No purchase shall be made by the Clerk under authority of this subchapter
unless an appropriation for that purpose has been authorized in the annual
budget, or by supplemental appropriation or budget appropriation amendment duly
adopted by the Board of Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 33.05) (Ord. O-98-004, passed 2-23-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 33.06 GENERAL STATUTES APPLY.
   In acting pursuant to the authority delegated by this subchapter, the Clerk
shall comply with the requirements of G.S. §§ 143-128 et seq., as from time to
time amended, modified, supplemented, revised or superseded, to the same extent
as would have otherwise applied to the Board of Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 33.06) (Ord. O-98-004, passed 2-23-1998)
§ 33.07 STATUTORY AUTHORITY.
   This subchapter is enacted pursuant to the provisions of G.S. § 143-129(a).
(Prior Code, § 33.07) (Ord. O-98-004, passed 2-23-1998)
DISPOSAL OF SURPLUS PROPERTY
§ 33.20 AUTHORITY OF CLERK.
   The Clerk is hereby authorized to dispose of any surplus personal property
owned by the town, whenever he or she determines, in his or her discretion,
that:
   (A)   The item or group of items has a fair market value of less than
$5,000;
   (B)   The property is no longer necessary for the conduct of public
business; and
   (C)   Sound property management principles and financial considerations
indicate that the interests of the town would best be served by disposing of
the property.
(Prior Code, § 33.20) (Ord. O-98-005, passed 2-23-1998)
§ 33.21 METHODS; GREATEST VALUE.
   (A)   The Clerk may dispose of any thus described surplus personal property
by any means which he or she judges reasonably calculated to yield the highest
attainable sale price in money or other consideration, including but not
limited to the methods of sale provided in G.S. §§ 160A-265 through 160A-279.
The sale may be public or private, and with or without notice and minimum
waiting period.
   (B)   The surplus property shall be sold to the party who tenders the
highest offer, or exchanged for property or services useful to the town if
greater value may be obtained in that manner, and the Clerk is hereby
authorized to execute and deliver any applicable title documents. If no offers
are received within a reasonable time, the Clerk may retain the property,
obtain any reasonably available salvage value or cause it to be disposed of as
waste material. No surplus property may be donated to any individual or
organization except by resolution of the Board of Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 33.21) (Ord. O-98-005, passed 2-23-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 33.22 RECORDS.
   The Clerk shall keep a record of all property sold under authority of this
subchapter, and that record shall generally describe the property sold or
exchanged, to whom it was sold or with whom exchanged and the amount of money
or other consideration received for each sale or exchange.
(Prior Code, § 33.22) (Ord. O-98-005, passed 2-23-1998)
§ 33.23 STATUTORY AUTHORITY.
   This subchapter is enacted pursuant to the provisions of G.S. § 160A-266(c).
(Prior Code, § 33.23) (Ord. O-98-005, passed 2-23-1998)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   WATER AND SEWER
      
51.   WATER SHORTAGE RESPONSE
      
52.   GARBAGE AND REFUSE
CHAPTER 50: WATER AND SEWER
Section
General Provisions
   
50.001   Purpose and policy; statutory authority
   
50.002   Definitions
   
50.003   Interpretation
   
50.004   Board of Commissioners to control; Administrator
   
50.005   Application of regulations
Construction and Connections
   
50.020   Use of public sewers required
   
50.021   Connection permit required; application; rejection; inspection
   
50.022   System alteration; permit required
   
50.023   Costs borne by owner
   
50.024   Separate building sewer required; exception
   
50.025   Old building sewers
   
50.026   Minimum standards of sewers
   
50.027   Common connections on one lot; requirements
   
50.028   Sewer size and slope; grades; drain elevation; connection angle
   
50.029   Excavation and backfill
   
50.030   Notice to town
Private Sewage Disposal
   
50.045   Permit required
   
50.046   Inspection requirements
   
50.047   Standards
   
50.048   Public sewer available; connection requirement
   
50.049   Operation and maintenance requirements
   
50.050   Requirements not exclusive
Water and Sewer Service Extensions
   
50.065   Service to property in town; general policy
   
50.066   Extension to developed property in town
   
50.067   Extension within new developments in town
   
50.068   Extensions outside of town
   
50.069   Extensions by other than town personnel; requirements; disclaimer
   
50.070   Work by others; inspection by town
   
50.071   Dedication of extensions; town to control
Service Line Use Requirements; Discharges
   
50.085   Prohibited activities
   
50.086   Sanitary sewers; prohibited discharges
   
50.087   National categorical pretreatment standards; application
   
50.088   Wastewater; local limits
   
50.089   Disposal of unacceptable waste
   
50.090   Right of rejection; service discontinuance
   
50.091   Dilution not a pretreatment substitute
   
50.092   Wastewater pretreatment; requirements
   
50.093   Accidental discharge and sludge control plans
   
50.094   Hauled wastewater; permit required; analysis and reporting
Industrial Wastewaters; Permits
   
50.105   Wastewater discharger; permit required
   
50.106   Significant industrial user permit
   
50.107   Wastewater discharge permit application; evaluation; hearings
   
50.108   Permit modification procedures
   
50.109   Conditions
   
50.110   Expiration
   
50.111   Nontransferable
   
50.112   Reissuance procedure
Industrial Users; Reporting Requirements; Compliance Monitoring
   
50.125   Baseline monitoring reports
   
50.126   Compliance schedule; progress reports
   
50.127   Categorical pretreatment standard deadline; compliance reports
   
50.128   Periodic compliance reports
   
50.129   Changed conditions; report required
   
50.130   Potential problems; notification and report required
   
50.131   Unpermitted users; reporting requirements
   
50.132   Notice of violation required; repeat sampling and report
   
50.133   Analysis and sampling techniques; national standards
   
50.134   Sample collection techniques
   
50.135   Submission dates
   
50.136   Record keeping requirements
   
50.137   Monitoring facilities
   
50.138   Inspection and sampling; right of entry
   
50.139   Search warrants
Administration and Enforcement
   
50.150   Confidential information
   
50.151   Administrative remedies
   
50.152   Additional remedies
   
50.153   Remedies not exclusive
   
50.154   Publication of significant noncompliance
   
50.155   Discharge violations; affirmative defenses
   
50.156   Enforcement procedures; termination of service; hearings;
reinstatement
   
50.157   Rates and charges adopted by reference
 
   
50.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.001 PURPOSE AND POLICY; STATUTORY AUTHORITY.
   (A)   This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for direct and indirect
contributors into the wastewater collection and treatment system for this town,
hereafter referred to as the town, and enables the town to comply with all
applicable state and federal laws, including the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. §§
1251 et seq.) and the General Pretreatment Regulations (40 C.F.R. part 403).
   (B)   The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipal
wastewater system which will interfere with the operation of the system or
contaminate the resulting sludge;
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipal
wastewater system which will pass through the system, inadequately treated,
into any waters of the state or otherwise be incompatible with the system;
      (3)   To promote reuse and recycling of industrial wastewater and sludges
from the municipal system;
      (4)   To protect municipal personnel who may be affected by sewage,
sludge and effluent in the course of their employment, as well as protecting
the general public;
      (5)   To provide for equitable distribution of the cost of operation,
maintenance and improvement of the municipal wastewater system; and
      (6)   To ensure that the municipality complies with its NPDES or non-
discharge permit conditions, sludge use and disposal requirements and any other
federal or state laws to which the municipal wastewater system is subject.
   (C)   This chapter provides for the regulation of direct and indirect
contributors to the municipal wastewater system through the issuance of permits
to certain non-domestic users and through enforcement of general requirements
for the other users, authorizes monitoring and enforcement activities, requires
user reporting and provides for the setting of fees for the equitable
distribution of costs resulting from the program established herein.
   (D)   This chapter shall apply to all users of the municipal wastewater
system. Except as otherwise provided herein, the POTW Director shall
administer, implement and enforce the provisions of this chapter. Any powers
granted to or imposed upon the POTW Director may be delegated by the POTW
Director to other town personnel. By discharging wastewater into the municipal
wastewater system, industrial users located outside the town limits agree to
comply with the terms and conditions established in this chapter, as well as
any permits, enforcement actions or orders issued hereunder.
   (E)   This chapter is adopted under the authority granted by G.S. Ch. 160A.
(Prior Code, § 50.001) (Ord. O-00-001, passed 2-24-2000)
§ 50.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT or THE ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the
Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
   APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The Director of the Division of Environmental Management
of the state Department of Environment, Health and Natural Resources, or his or
her designee.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE INDUSTRIAL USER.
      (1)   If the industrial user is a corporation, AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE
shall mean:
         (a)   The president, secretary or a vice-president of the corporation
in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who performs
similar policy or decision-making functions for the corporation; or
         (b)   The manager of one or more manufacturing, production, or
operation facilities employing more than 250 persons or having gross annual
sales or expenditures exceeding $25,000,000 (in second-quarter 1980 dollars),
if authority to sign documents has been assigned or delegated to the manager in
accordance with corporate procedures.
      (2)   If the industrial user is a partnership or sole proprietorship, an
AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE shall mean a general partner or the proprietor,
respectively.
      (3)   If the industrial user is a federal, state or local government
facility, an AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE shall mean a director or highest
official appointed or designated to oversee the operation and performance of
the activities of the government facility, or their designee.
      (4)   The individuals described in divisions (1) through (3) above may
designate another AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE if the authorization is in writing,
the authorization specifies the individual or position responsible for the
overall operation of the facility from which the discharge originates or having
overall responsibility for environmental matters for the company, and the
written authorization is submitted to the town.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or BOD. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures
for five days at 20°C, usually expressed as a concentration (such as mg/l).
   BOD. Biochemical oxygen demand.
   BUILDING SEWER. A sewer conveying wastewater from the premises of a user to
the POTW.
   BYPASS. The intentional diversion of waste streams from any portion of a
user’s treatment facility.
   CATEGORICAL STANDARDS. National categorical pretreatment standards or
pretreatment standard.
   C.F.R. The Code of Federal Regulations.
   COD. Chemical oxygen demand.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY or EPA. The United States Environmental
Protection Agency, or where appropriate the term may also be used as a
designation for the Administrator or other duly authorized official of that
agency.
   EPA. The Environmental Protection Agency.
   gpd. Gallons per day.
   GRAB SAMPLE. A sample which is taken from a waste stream on a one-time basis
without regard to the flow in the waste stream and over a period of time not to
exceed 15 minutes.
   G.S. North Carolina General Statutes.
   HOLDING TANK WASTE. Any waste from holding tanks, including but not limited
to such holding tanks as vessels, chemical toilets, campers, trailers, septic
tanks and vacuum-pump tank trucks.
   INDIRECT DISCHARGE or DISCHARGE. The discharge or the introduction from any
non-domestic source regulated under § 307(b), (c), or (d) of the Act, (33
U.S.C. § 1317), into the POTW (including holding tank waste discharged into the
system).
   INDUSTRIAL USER or USER. Any person which is a source of indirect discharge.
   INTERFERENCE. The inhibition or disruption of the POTW treatment processes,
operations or its sludge process, use or disposal, which causes or contributes
to a violation of any requirement of the POTW’s NPDES or non-discharge permit
or prevents sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance with specified
applicable state and federal statutes, regulations or permits. The term
includes prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal by the POTW in accordance
with § 405 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1345) or any criteria, guidelines, or
regulations developed pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA) (42
U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.), the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. §§ 7401 et seq.), the
Toxic Substances Control Act (15 U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq.), the Marine Protection
Research and Sanctuary Act (MPRSA) (16 U.S.C. §§ 1431 et seq., 33 U.S.C. §§
1401 et seq.) or more stringent state criteria (including those contained in
any state sludge management plan prepared pursuant to Title IV of SWDA (42
U.S.C. §§ 6941 et seq.) applicable to the method of disposal or use employed by
the POTW.
   l. Liter.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive or discretionary.
   MEDICAL WASTE. Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and blood
products, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated bedding,
surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory wastes and dialysis
wastes.
   mg. Milligrams.
   mg/l. Milligrams per liter.
   NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD or CATEGORICAL STANDARD. Any
regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by EPA in
accordance with § 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1317) which applies to
a specific category of industrial users, and which appears in 40 C.F.R. Chapter
1, Subchapter N, parts 405 through 471.
   NATIONAL POLLUTION DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM, OR NPDES, PERMIT. A permit
issued pursuant to § 402 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1342), or pursuant to G.S. §
143-215.1 by the state under delegation from EPA.
   NATIONAL PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE STANDARD or PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE STANDARD.
Absolute prohibitions against the discharge of certain substances; these
prohibitions appear in §
50.020 of this code and are developed under the authority of § 307(b) of the
Act (33 U.S.C. § 1317) and 40 C.F.R. § 403.5.
   NEW SOURCE.
      (1)   Any building, structure, facility or installation from which there
may be a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced after the
publication of proposed categorical pretreatment standards under § 307(c) of
the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1317) which will be applicable to that source if those
standards are thereafter promulgated in accordance with § 307(c) (33 U.S.C. §
1317), provided that:
         (a)   The building, structure, facility or installation is constructed
at a site at which no other source is located;
         (b)   The building, structure, facility or installation totally
replaces the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of
pollutants at an existing source; or
         (c)   The production or wastewater generating processes of the
building, structure, facility or installation are substantially independent of
an existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are
substantially independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility
is integrated with the existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility
is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source, should
be considered.
      (2)   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located
results in a modification rather than a NEW SOURCE if the construction does not
create a new building, structure, facility or installation meeting the criteria
of divisions (1)(b) or (1)(c) above but otherwise alters, replaces or adds to
existing process or production equipment.
      (3)   For purposes of this definition, construction of a NEW SOURCE has
commenced if the owner or operator has done either of the following:
         (a)   Begun, or caused to begin, as part of a continuous on-site
construction program:
            1.   Any placement, assembly or installation of facilities or
equipment; or
            2.   Significant site preparation work including clearing,
excavation or removal of existing buildings, structures or facilities which is
necessary for the placement, assembly or installation of NEW SOURCE facilities
or equipment.
         (b)   Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase
of facilities or equipment which are intended to be used in its operation
within a reasonable time. Options to purchase or contracts which can be
terminated or modified without substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility,
engineering and design studies do not constitute a contractual obligation under
this definition.
   NON-CONTACT COOLING WATER. Water used for cooling which does not come into
direct contact with any raw material, intermediate product, waste product or
finished product.
   NON-DISCHARGE PERMIT. A disposal system permit issued by the state pursuant
to G.S. § 143-215.1.
   NPDES. National Pollution Discharge Elimination System.
   O&M. Operation and maintenance.
   PASS THROUGH. A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the state in
quantities or concentrations which, alone or with discharges from other
sources, causes a violation, including an increase in the magnitude or duration
of a violation of the POTW’s NPDES or non-discharge permit, or a downstream
water quality standard.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental
entity or any other legal entity, or their legal representatives, agents or
assigns. This definition includes all federal, state and local government
entities.
   pH. A measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a substance, expressed as
standard units and calculated as the logarithm (base ten) of the reciprocal of
the concentration of hydrogen ions expressed in grams per liter of solution.
   POLLUTANT. Any waste as defined in G.S. § 143-213(18), and any dredged
spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage, garbage, sewage sludge,
munitions, medical wastes, chemical wastes, biological materials, radioactive
materials, heat, wrecked or discarded equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt and
industrial, municipal and any agricultural waste, and certain characteristics
of wastewater (such as pH, temperature, TSS, turbidity, color, BOD, COD,
toxicity or odor).
   POTW. Publicly owned treatment works, as defined herein.
   POTW DIRECTOR. The Town Administrator, appointed by the town’s Board of
Commissioners pursuant to §
50.004 of this code.
   POTW TREATMENT PLANT. The portion of the POTW designed to provide treatment
to wastewater.
   PRETREATMENT or TREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the
elimination of pollutants or the alteration of the nature of pollutant
properties in wastewater prior to or in lieu of discharging or otherwise
introducing that pollution into a POTW. The reduction or alteration can be
obtained by physical, chemical or biological processes, or process changes, or
other means, except by diluting the concentration of the pollutants unless
allowed by an applicable pretreatment standard.
   PRETREATMENT PROGRAM. The program for the control of pollutants introduced
into the POTW from non-domestic sources which was developed by the town in
compliance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.8 and approved by the approval authority as
authorized by G.S. § 143-215.3(a)(14) in accordance with 40 C.F.R § 403.11.
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement related
to pretreatment, other than a pretreatment standard.
   PRETREATMENT STANDARDS. Prohibited discharge standards, categorical
standards and local limits.
   PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS, POTW, or MUNICIPAL WASTEWATER SYSTEM. A
treatment works as defined by § 212 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1292), which is
owned in this instance by the town. This definition includes any devices or
systems used in the collection, storage, treatment, recycling and reclamation
of municipal sewage or industrial wastes of a liquid nature. It also includes
sewers, pipes and other conveyances only if they convey wastewater to the POTW
treatment plant. For the purposes of this chapter, POTW shall also include any
sewers that convey wastewaters to the POTW from persons outside the town who
are, by contract or agreement with the town or in any other way, users of the
town’s POTW.
   RCRA. The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et
seq.).
   SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE. Substantial physical damage to property, damage to
the user’s treatment facilities which causes them to become inoperable or
substantial and permanent loss of natural resources which can reasonably be
expected to occur in the absence of a bypass. SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE does not
mean economic loss caused by delays in production.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIC. Standard Industrial Classification, as defined herein.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER. Any industrial user of the wastewater disposal
system who:
      (1)   Has an average daily process wastewater flow of 25,000 gallons or
more;
      (2)   Contributes more than 5% of any design or treatment capacity (such
as allowable pollutant load) of the wastewater treatment plant receiving the
indirect discharge;
      (3)   Is required to meet a national categorical pretreatment standard;
or
      (4)   Is found by the town, the Division of Environmental Management or
the EPA to have the potential for impact, either singly or in combination with
other contributing industrial users, on the wastewater treatment system, the
quality of sludge, the system’s effluent quality or compliance with any
pretreatment standards or requirements.
   SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE or REPORTABLE NONCOMPLIANCE. A status of
noncompliance defined as follows:
      (1)   Violations of wastewater discharge limits:
         (a)   Chronic violations, such as 66% or more of the measurements
exceed (by any magnitude) the same daily maximum limit and the same average
limit in a six-month period;
         (b)   Technical Review Criteria (TRC) violations, such as 33% or more
of the measurements are more than the TRC times the limit (maximum or average)
in a six-month period, equal or exceed the product of the daily maximum or the
average limit multiplied by the applicable TRC. There are two groups of TRCs:
            1.   For conventional pollutants, BOD, TSS, fats, oil and grease,
TRC = 1.4; and
            2.   For all other pollutants, TRC = 1.2.
         (c)   Any other violation(s) of an effluent limit (average or daily
maximum) that the control authority believes has caused, alone or in
combination with other discharges, interference or pass through, or endangered
the health of the sewage treatment plant personnel or the public; and
         (d)   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent
endangerment to human health or welfare or to the environment or has resulted
in the POTW’s exercise of its emergency authority to halt or prevent such a
discharge.
      (2)   Violations of compliance schedule milestones, contained in a
pretreatment permit or enforcement order, for starting construction, completing
construction and attaining final compliance by 90 days or more after the
schedule date;
      (3)   Failure to provide reports for compliance schedule, self-monitoring
data, baseline monitoring reports, 90-day compliance reports and periodic
compliance reports within 30 days from the due date;
      (4)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; or
      (5)   Any other violation or group of violations that the control
authority considers to be significant.
   SLUDGE LOAD. Any discharge at a flow rate or concentration which could cause
a violation of the prohibited discharge standards in §
50.086 of this code.
   STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION or SIC. A classification pursuant to the
Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued by the Executive Office of the
President, Office of Management and Budget, 1987.
   STORM WATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation and resulting therefrom.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The person designated by the town to supervise the operation
of the publicly owned treatment works and who is charged with certain duties
and responsibilities by this chapter, or his or her duly authorized
representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The total suspended matter that floats on the surface of,
or is suspended in, water, wastewater or other liquids, and which is removable
by laboratory filtering.
   SWDA. The Solid Waste Disposal Act (42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.).
   TKN. Total Kjeldahl nitrogen.
   TOWN. The Town of Littleton, North Carolina.
   TSS. Total suspended solids.
   UPSET. An exceptional incident in which there is unintentional and temporary
noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards because of factors beyond
the reasonable control of the user. An UPSET does not include noncompliance to
the extent caused by operational error, improperly designed treatment
facilities, inadequate treatment facilities, lack of preventive maintenance or
careless or improper operation.
   U.S.C. United States Code.
   WASTEWATER. The liquid and water-carried industrial or domestic wastes from
dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities, mobile sources,
treatment facilities and institutions, together with any ground water, surface
water and storm water that may be present, whether treated or untreated, which
are contributed into or permitted to enter the POTW.
   WASTEWATER PERMIT. As set forth in §§
50.105 through
50.112 of this code.
   WATERS OF THE STATE. All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, watercourses,
waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation systems, drainage
systems and all other bodies or accumulations of water, surface or underground,
natural or artificial, public or private, which are contained within, flow
through or border upon the state or any portion thereof.
(Prior Code, § 50.002) (Ord. O-00-001, passed 2-24-2000)
§ 50.003 INTERPRETATION.
   Wherever a statute or regulation is cited, all subsequent amendments to and
enactments of that statute or regulation are incorporated by reference. This
chapter is gender neutral, and the masculine gender shall include the feminine
and vice versa. The use of the singular shall be construed to include the
plural, and the plural shall include the singular, as indicated by the context
of its use.
(Prior Code, § 50.003) (Ord. O-00-001, passed 2-24-2000)
§ 50.004 BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS TO CONTROL; ADMINISTRATOR.
   The sanitary sewer system of the town shall be under the control of the
Board of Commissioners for the town. The system shall be regulated and operated
as the Board of Commissioners shall ordain and direct. The Board of
Commissioners shall appoint a qualified person or outside firm, who shall be
known as the Administrator, to supervise the operation and regulation of the
system, under the direction of the Board of Commissioners. The title and duties
of the Administrator may be assigned to an employee of the town in addition to
his or her other duties.
(Prior Code, § 50.004) (Ord. O-00-001, passed 2-24-2000)
§ 50.005 APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of §§
50.020 through
50.030,
50.045 through
50.050 and
50.065 through
50.071 of this code apply only to domestic sewage dischargers, commercial users
and unpermitted industrial users. In those sections the term DOMESTIC SEWAGE
DISCHARGER OR COMMERCIAL USER shall refer to any discharger who is not
permitted pursuant to §§
50.105 through
50.112 of this code or by the approval authority.
   (B)   Industrial users permitted in accordance with §§
50.105 through
50.112 of this code, including holders of permits issued by the approval
authority prior to approval of the town’s pretreatment program, are governed by
§§
50.105 through
50.112 of this code, other portions of this chapter where applicable, and state
and federal pretreatment regulations.
(Prior Code, § 50.005) (Ord. O-00-001, passed 2-24-2000)
CONSTRUCTION AND CONNECTIONS
§ 50.020 USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Unlawful waste disposal.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to
be deposited in an unsanitary manner upon public or private property within the
town or in any area under the jurisdiction of the town, any human or animal
excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
town, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the town, any sanitary sewage,
industrial wastes or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has
been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct
or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   (B)   Public sewer use required. The owners of all houses, buildings or
properties used for human occupancy, employment, recreation or other purpose,
situated within the town and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in
which there is now located or may in the future be located a public sanitary
sewer of the town, is hereby required at his or her expense to install suitable
toilet facilities therein, and to connect those facilities directly with the
proper public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within
30 days after date of official notice to do so; provided, that the public sewer
is within 200 feet of the property line and can be reached by gravity flow.
   (C)   Exception. No property owner shall be required to connect to the
public sewer system if he or she must first purchase an easement in which to
install sewer lines.
(Prior Code, § 50.015) (Ord. O-00-001, passed 2-24-2000) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.021 CONNECTION PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION; REJECTION; INSPECTION.
   (A)   No person may connect or be connected to the water or sewer system of
the town until a permit for the connection has been issued pursuant to division
(B) below.
   (B)   Applications for water or sewer service connections shall be made at
the Town Hall during normal business hours. Application shall be made on the
forms prescribed, shall be made in the name of the customer who will be
responsible for the payment of the bills and shall be signed by the customer or
by his or her authorized agent. Every application for connection shall be
accompanied by the service connection fee specified in the schedule of rates
and charges.
   (C)   (1)   Upon application for connection permit, the town may reject the
application and decline to provide service for the following reasons:
         (a)   Service is not available under the standard rate;
         (b)   The cost of the service is excessive;
         (c)   The provision of service to the applicant will adversely affect
the supply of water to other customers or will adversely affect the town’s
sewage treatment capabilities; or
         (d)   Other good and sufficient reasons.
      (2)   The town may also reject an application for service if there is an
outstanding amount due the town for water or sewer service in the applicant’s
name.
      (3)   A lessee making an initial application for service to his or her
leased dwelling shall not be refused service by the town solely because of an
outstanding amount owed the town by another customer for service previously
furnished to that same address.
   (D)   By making application for service, the customer agrees that the town
possesses the right to inspect and accept or reject the private water
distribution systems, water connections, sewage collection systems and sewer
connections before he or she is connected to the town water and sewer systems.
The town shall be given notice to inspect before the pipes are covered and the
systems are connected.
(Prior Code, § 50.016) (Ord. O-00-001, passed 2-24-2000) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.022 SYSTEM ALTERATION; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening
into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenances thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the town.
(Prior Code, § 50.017) (Ord. O-00-001, passed 2-24-2000) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.023 COSTS BORNE BY OWNER.
   All cost and expense incident to the connection of the building sewer on the
owner’s property shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
town from any loss or damage that may be directly or indirectly occasioned by
the connection of the building sewer. Any connection into the public sewer
shall be made by the town, for which the owner shall pay the town a standard
sewer tap fee as set by the Board, copy of that schedule to be kept on file in
the office of the Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 50.018) (Ord. O-00-001, passed 2-24-2000)
§ 50.024 SEPARATE BUILDING SEWER REQUIRED; EXCEPTION.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer, when approved by the town.
(Prior Code, § 50.019) (Ord. O-00-001, passed 2-24-2000)
§ 50.025 OLD BUILDING SEWERS.
   No old sewers will be excepted. This requirement may be waived by the
approving authority after the condition of the sewer has been thoroughly
inspected by same.
(Prior Code, § 50.020) (Ord. O-00-001, passed 2-24-2000)
§ 50.026 MINIMUM STANDARDS OF SEWERS.
   (A)   The building sewer shall, in all cases, meet the minimum standards of
the state’s Plumbing and Building Codes and be installed in accordance with all
applicable OSHA requirements. Joints shall be watertight.
   (B)   Any part of the building sewer that is located within ten feet of a
water service shall be constructed of ferrous metal pipe with joints equivalent
to water main standards.
   (C)   Ductile iron with mechanical joints may be required by the town where
the building sewer is exposed to damage by tree roots.
   (D)   If installed in filled or unstable ground, the building sewer shall be
of ductile iron or cast iron soil pipe, except that nonmetallic material may be
accepted if laid on a suitable concrete bed or cradle as approved by the town.
(Prior Code, § 50.021) (Ord. O-00-001, passed 2-24-2000)
§ 50.027 COMMON CONNECTIONS ON ONE LOT; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Where there are multiple buildings or structures situated on one lot
and where the lot owner desires to have a common water connection, and a common
sewer connection, he or she must meet the following requirements.
      (1)   The building or buildings to be serviced shall be in compliance
with all applicable zoning regulations.
      (2)   The building permit and plot shall show a single owner and shall
indicate the complex of buildings to be constructed on a single lot.
      (3)   The applicant shall be required to submit to the town a site plan
showing the proposed water and sewer systems. Site plans shall be prepared by a
registered professional engineer who shall also provide satisfactory inspection
of the work. The plans shall include:
         (a)   Size of water lines, materials to be used for construction,
valve locations and hydrant locations. All construction from the property line
to the water meter shall be in accordance with town standards and
specifications. Construction beyond the water meter may be with materials
permitted in the Plumbing Code. All construction shall be performed by either a
licensed master plumber or a licensed utility contractor; and
         (b)   Size of sewers and materials to be used for construction. All
sewer lines eight inches or larger in size shall be constructed in accordance
with town specifications and standards. All sewer lines smaller than eight
inches shall be constructed in accordance with the Plumbing Code. All
construction shall be performed by either a licensed plumber or a licensed
utility contractor.
   (B)   Should a building served by a common connection be conveyed to a new
owner, the town shall require a separate water and sewer connection from that
building to the mains in the street, except in the case of condominium or
townhouse developments.
(Prior Code, § 50.022) (Ord. O-00-001, passed 2-24-2000)
§ 50.028 SEWER SIZE AND SLOPE; GRADES; DRAIN ELEVATION; CONNECTION ANGLE.
   (A)   Size and slope of sewer.
      (1)   The size and slope of the building sewer shall be subject to the
approval of the town; but in no event shall the diameter be less than four
inches.
      (2)   The slope of the four-inch pipe shall not be less than one-eighth
inch per foot.
   (B)   Grades for sewers. Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be
brought to the building at an elevation below the basement floor. No building
sewer shall be laid parallel to, or within three feet of, any load bearing wall
which might thereby be weakened. The building sewer shall be laid at uniform
grade and in straight alignment insofar as possible. Changes in direction shall
be made only with properly curved pipes and fittings.
   (C)   Building drains. In all buildings in which any building drain is too
low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by that
drain shall be lifted by approved artificial means and discharged to the
building sewer.
   (D)   Angle of connection. The connection of the building sewer into the
public sewer shall be made at an angle of approximately 45 degrees. A 45-degree
ell may be used to make the connection, with the spigot end cut so as not to
extend past the inner surface of the public sewer. The invert of the building
sewer at the point of connection shall be at the same or at a higher elevation
than the invert of the public sewer. A smooth, neat joint shall be made, and
the connection made secure and watertight. Special fittings may be used for the
connection only when approved by the town.
(Prior Code, § 50.023) (Ord. O-00-001, passed 2-24-2000) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.029 EXCAVATION AND BACKFILL.
   All excavations required for the installation of a building sewer shall be
open trench work, unless otherwise approved by the town. Backfill shall not be
performed until the work has been inspected by the County Plumbing Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 50.024) (Ord. O-00-001, passed 2-24-2000) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.030 NOTICE TO TOWN.
   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the town when the
building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public sewer.
(Prior Code, § 50.025) (Ord. O-00-001, passed 2-24-2000)
PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL
§ 50.045 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available, the building sewer
shall be connected to a private sewage disposal system complying with the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the County
Health Sanitarian. The application for this permit shall be made on a form
furnished by the county, which the applicant shall supplement by any permit and
inspection fee, plans, specifications and other information as are deemed
necessary by the Sanitarian, or county regulations.
(Prior Code, § 50.035) (Ord. O-00-001, passed 2-24-2000)
§ 50.046 INSPECTION REQUIREMENTS.
   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become effective
until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the Sanitarian. He
or she shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of construction and,
in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the Sanitarian when the
work is ready for final inspection and before any underground portions are
covered. The inspection shall be made within 48 hours of the receipt of notice
by the Sanitarian.
(Prior Code, § 50.036) (Ord. O-00-001, passed 2-24-2000)
§ 50.047 STANDARDS.
   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all recommendations of the state’s Department of
Environment, Health and Natural Resources, Division of Environmental
Management. No permit shall be issued for any private sewage disposal system
employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the lot is
less than 20,000 square feet. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to
discharge to any public sewer or natural outlet.
(Prior Code, § 50.037) (Ord. O-00-001, passed 2-24-2000) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.048 PUBLIC SEWER AVAILABLE; CONNECTION REQUIREMENT.
   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served by a
private sewage disposal system, as provided in §
50.020 of this code, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in
compliance with this chapter at the first malfunction of the private system. At
this time, any septic tanks, cesspools, or similar private sewage disposal
facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
(Prior Code, § 50.038) (Ord. O-00-001, passed 2-24-2000)
§ 50.049 OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times at his or her own expense.
   (B)   (1)   In addition to the other requirements of this subchapter, all
owners of lots on which private sewage systems are situated shall maintain
those systems properly.
      (2)   Failure to maintain the systems properly shall constitute a
nuisance which may be abated using the procedures of this chapter.
      (3)   However, notwithstanding the availability of these procedures, if a
lot owner does not respond to an emergency situation where a lack of sewer
service poses an immediate threat to public health, the town may summarily
abate the nuisance and bill the lot owner for all costs incurred by the town.
(Prior Code, § 50.039) (Ord. O-00-001, passed 2-24-2000) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.050 REQUIREMENTS NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the County Sanitarian.
(Prior Code, § 50.040) (Ord. O-00-001, passed 2-24-2000)
WATER AND SEWER SERVICE EXTENSIONS
§ 50.065 SERVICE TO PROPERTY IN TOWN; GENERAL POLICY.
   (A)   The town recognizes its basic responsibility to provide water and
sewer service to all properties within the corporate limits on a
nondiscriminatory basis and, subject to the availability of funds, to extend
its service lines to all in-town properties unless it is unreasonable to do so.
   (B)   The town may determine that an extension of service is unreasonable
for the following reasons:
      (1)   The cost of service extension is excessive in terms of the number
of customers to be serviced or because of topographical, engineering, technical
or other problems;
      (2)   The provision of service will adversely affect the supply of water
to other customers or will adversely affect the town’s sewage treatment
capabilities; or
      (3)   Other good and sufficient reasons.
(Prior Code, § 50.050) (Ord. O-00-001, passed 2-24-2000)
§ 50.066 EXTENSION TO DEVELOPED PROPERTY IN TOWN.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
50.067 of this code for extensions within new subdivisions and other new
developments in town, the town will initially bear the cost of extending water
or sewer service to properties within the corporate limits. However, the town
may recoup its costs, in whole or in part, by charging front footage fees at
the time of connection to the water or sewer system, or by levying special
assessments on benefitted property.
   (B)   Except as provided in §
50.067 of this code, the town or those entities it contracts with, will provide
water and sewer main extensions to serve properties within the town.
   (C)   Water mains shall be extended only within the rights-of-way of
publicly dedicated and opened streets. Sewer lines shall also be located within
such rights-of-way, except where the topography makes this impracticable.
However, in no case will the town extend sewer lines across private property,
unless the town has obtained adequate permanent easements for those lines.
   (D)   In order to preserve road surfaces, whenever the town installs water
or sewer line extensions in paved streets within the town, it may install
lateral lines to serve undeveloped as well as developed properties.
(Prior Code, § 50.051) (Ord. O-00-001, passed 2-24-2000)
§ 50.067 EXTENSION WITHIN NEW DEVELOPMENTS IN TOWN.
   (A)   As indicated in §
50.065 of this code, the town recognizes its responsibility to extend its water
and sewer lines to properties within the town. However, the responsibility for
extending water and sewer lines within new subdivisions or within other new
developments lies with the subdivider or developer, although the town may in
its discretion contract with the subdivider or developer to install these water
and sewer lines.
   (B)   The cost of extending water or sewer lines within new subdivisions or
other new developments shall generally be borne by the subdivider or developer.
However, if the town requires lines within a subdivision or other new
development that are larger than those necessary to serve the project and are
located so as to serve other properties, the town shall reimburse the developer
for any additional costs incurred as a result of installing the oversized
lines. This reimbursement shall be paid at the time the lines are connected to
the town’s system.
(Prior Code, § 50.052) (Ord. O-00-001, passed 2-24-2000)
§ 50.068 EXTENSIONS OUTSIDE OF TOWN.
   (A)   The town has no responsibility to provide water or sewer service to
property located outside its corporate limits. However, upon request, the town
may extend its water and sewer lines to serve properties outside the town when
it, in its sole discretion, determines that it is in the town’s best interests
to do so.
   (B)   Any owner of property outside the corporate limits who seeks an
extension of the town’s water or sewer system to service his or her property,
shall provide all information the town deems necessary to determine whether the
requested extension is feasible and in the town’s best interests.
   (C)   The responsibility for extending a water or sewer line to serve
property outside the town is solely that of the property owner requesting the
extension. Accordingly, the entire cost of extending lines within new
subdivisions or developments outside the town shall be borne by the subdivider
or developer.
(Prior Code, § 50.053) (Ord. O-00-001, passed 2-24-2000)
§ 50.069 EXTENSIONS BY OTHER THAN TOWN PERSONNEL; REQUIREMENTS; DISCLAIMER.
   (A)   All additions to the town’s water or sewer system by other than town
personnel, whether inside or outside the town, shall be performed in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter as well as all other applicable town
specifications and requirements. These include, but are not limited to,
specifications governing the size of all lines, their location, grade,
materials used, manner of installation and provision for future extensions.
   (B)   No construction on any addition to the town’s water or sewer system
shall commence until detailed plans have been reviewed and approved by the
Administrator. The plan shall include whatever information the Administrator
deems reasonably necessary to determine whether the proposed extension complies
with all applicable town specifications and requirements.
   (C)   Water lines intended for addition to the publicly owned water system
will be allowed to connect to the system only if installed within the right-of-
way of a publicly dedicated and opened street, except that the town may accept
an offer of dedication of lines installed within unsubdivided commercial or
industrial developments if necessary easements are provided. Sewer lines shall
also be installed within public street rights-of-way wherever practicable, but
the town may accept sewer lines constructed on private property (where the
topography makes this necessary) if adequate permanent easements are provided.
   (D)   To protect street surfaces, the town may require that whenever
extensions of water or sewer lines are made to properties or within new
subdivisions, laterals be extended to all properties expected to tap on to
those water or sewer lines.
   (E)   By making application for extension to the town’s water or sewer
system, the person responsible for the extension agrees to indemnify and hold
the town harmless from all loss, cost, damage, liability or expense resulting
from injury to any person or property arising out of the extension of those
service lines.
(Prior Code, § 50.054) (Ord. O-00-001, passed 2-24-2000) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.070 WORK BY OTHERS; INSPECTION BY TOWN.
   (A)   All work on the extension of water or sewer lines not performed by
town personnel (whether inside or outside the town) shall be subject to
inspection by the town. If, in the judgment of the Administrator, there is a
demonstrated lack of competent supervision by a contractor, the Administrator
may at his or her option:
      (1)   Halt work until approved supervision is obtained and the work done
in accordance with town specifications and requirements; or
      (2)   Provide constant inspection by town personnel at the expense of the
applicant.
   (B)   Inspection of a project by the town does not consist of or imply
supervision. The person requesting the extension is solely responsible for
ensuring that the project is completed according to town specifications (if the
work is not done by town personnel), and may be required to bring the project
into conformity with such specifications and requirements, including correction
of work already performed.
(Prior Code, § 50.055) (Ord. O-00-001, passed 2-24-2000)
§ 50.071 DEDICATION OF EXTENSIONS; TOWN TO CONTROL.
   (A)   All water and sewer mains constructed and connected with the
facilities of the town pursuant to this subchapter shall be conveyed to and
become the property of the town upon completion and acceptance by the town.
Connection to the system and acceptance by the town shall constitute dedication
of a water or sewer main extension by the person responsible for the extension.
   (B)   Following dedication as provided in division (A) above, the town shall
have exclusive control of all water or sewer lines and shall be responsible for
their maintenance, repair and operations. However, the conveyor of additions to
the system shall guarantee the entire project against defective material and
workmanship for a period of 12 months from the date of completion and
acceptance of the project, including all incidental damages as may arise from
such claims.
(Prior Code, § 50.056) (Ord. O-00-001, passed 2-24-2000)
SERVICE LINE USE REQUIREMENTS; DISCHARGES
§ 50.085 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   No unauthorized person may:
   (A)   Supply or sell water from the town system to other persons or carry
away water from any hydrant, public water fountain or other public outlet
without specific authorization from the town;
   (B)   Manipulate, tamper with or harm in any manner whatsoever any water
line, sewer line, main or appurtenance or any other part of the water or sewer
system, including, but not limited to, any testing or inspection device used to
measure the character or concentration of wastes discharged into the sanitary
sewer system;
   (C)   Tamper with the water meter so as to alter the true reading for the
amount of water consumed and sewage discharged; or
   (D)   Attach or cause to be attached any connection to the water line before
the water meter.
(Prior Code, § 50.070) (Ord. O-00-001, passed 2-24-2000) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.086 SANITARY SEWERS; PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   No user shall contribute or cause to be contributed into the POTW,
directly or indirectly, any pollutant or wastewater which causes interference
or pass through. These general prohibitions apply to all users of a POTW
whether or not the user is a significant industrial user or subject to any
national, state or local pretreatment standards or requirements.
   (B)   No user shall contribute or cause to be contributed into the POTW the
following pollutants, substances or wastewater:
      (1)   Pollutants which create a fire or explosive hazard in the POTW,
including, but not limited to, waste streams with a closed cup flashpoint of
less than 140°F (60°C) using the test methods specified in 40 C.F.R. § 261.21;
      (2)   Solid or viscous substances in amounts which will cause obstruction
of the flow in the POTW resulting in interference, but in no case solids
greater than one-half inch in any dimension;
      (3)   Petroleum oil, non-biodegradable cutting oil or products of mineral
oil origin, in amounts that will cause interference or pass through;
      (4)   Any wastewater having a pH less than 5.0 or more than 12.5, or
wastewater having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage to the
POTW or equipment;
      (5)   Any wastewater containing pollutants, including oxygen-demanding
pollutants (BOD and the like) in sufficient quantity (flow or concentration)
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to cause interference
with the POTW;
      (6)   Any wastewater having a temperature greater than 150°F (66°C), or
which will inhibit biological activity in the POTW treatment plant resulting in
interference, but in no case wastewater which infuses the temperature at the
introduction into the treatment plant to exceed 104°F (40°C);
      (7)   Any pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors
or fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems;
      (8)   Any trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points
designated by the POTW Director in accordance with §
50.094 of this code;
      (9)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases or solids or other
wastewater which, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, are
sufficient to create a public nuisance or hazard to life or are sufficient to
prevent entry into the sewers for maintenance and repair;
      (10)   Any substance which may cause the POTW’s effluent or any other
product of the POTW, such as residues, sludges or scums, to be unsuitable for
reclamation and reuse or to interfere with the reclamation process. In no case
shall a substance discharged to the POTW cause the POTW to be in noncompliance
with sludge use or disposal regulations or permits issued under § 405 of the
Act (33 U.S.C. § 1345), the Solid Waste Disposal Act (42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et
seq.), the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. §§ 7401 et seq.), the Toxic Substances
Control Act (15 U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq.) or state criteria applicable to the
sludge management method being used;
      (11)   Any wastewater which imparts color which cannot be removed by the
treatment process, including, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions, which consequently imparts sufficient color to the treatment
plant’s effluent to render the waters injurious to public health or secondary
recreation or to aquatic life and wildlife or to adversely affect the
palatability of fish or aesthetic quality or impair the receiving waters for
any designated uses;
      (12)   Any wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes,
except as specifically approved by the POTW Director in compliance with
applicable state or federal regulations;
      (13)   Storm water, surface water, ground water, artesian well water,
roof runoff, subsurface drainage, swimming pool drainage, condensate, de-
ionized water, non-contact cooling water and unpolluted industrial wastewater,
unless specifically authorized by the POTW Director;
      (14)   Fats, oils or greases of animal or vegetable origin in
concentrations greater than 50 mg/l;
      (15)   Any sludges, screenings or other residues from the pretreatment of
industrial wastes;
      (16)   Any medical wastes, except as specifically authorized by the POTW
Director in a wastewater discharge permit;
      (17)   Any material containing ammonia, ammonia salts or other chelating
agents which will produce metallic complexes that interfere with the municipal
wastewater system;
      (18)   Any material that would be identified as hazardous waste according
to 40 C.F.R. part 261 if not disposed of in a sewer;
      (19)   Any wastewater causing the treatment plant effluent to violate
state water quality standards for toxic substances as described in 15A NCAC 02B
.0200;
      (20)   Wastewater causing, alone or in conjunction with other sources,
the treatment plant’s effluent to fail a toxicity test;
      (21)   Recognizable portions of the human or animal anatomy;
      (22)   Any wastes containing detergents, surface active agents or other
substances which may cause excessive foaming in the municipal wastewater
system;
      (23)   At no time shall two successive readings on an explosion hazard
meter, at the point of discharge into the system (or at any point in the
system), be more than 5%, nor any single reading over 10%, of the lower
explosive limit (LEL) of the meter;
      (24)   Any substance discharged in a quantity that would cause any
portion of the POTW to be hydraulically overloaded;
      (25)   (a)   Waste from garbage shredders and grinders shall not be
acceptable for discharge into a town sewer, except:
            1.   Wastes generated in preparation of food normally consumed on
the premises; or
            2.   Where the user has obtained a permit for that specific use
from the town and agrees to undertake whatever self-monitoring is required to
enable the town to determine the waste constituents and characteristics and
applicable fees and charges.
         (b)   These grinders must shred the waste to a degree so that all
particles will be carried freely under normal flow conditions prevailing in the
town sewer. Garbage grinders shall not be used for grinding plastic, paper
products, inert materials or garden refuse.
      (26)   No person shall discharge any substances directly into a manhole
or other opening in a town sewer other than through an approved building sewer,
unless he or she has been issued a permit by the town. If a permit is issued
for such a direct discharge, the user shall pay the applicable charges and fees
and shall meet other conditions necessary to properly treat this discharge as
required by the town; and
      (27)   (a)   No person shall discharge any holding tank waste, including
by definition but not limited to pumpings from septic tanks, into a town sewer,
unless he or she has been issued a permit by the town. Unless otherwise allowed
by the town under the terms and conditions of the permit, a separate permit
must be secured for each separate discharge. The permit will state the specific
location of the discharge, the time of day the discharge is to occur, the
volume of the discharge and the wastewater constituents and characteristics. If
a permit is granted for discharge of this type of waste into a town sewer, the
user shall pay the applicable charges and fees and shall meet other conditions
necessary to properly treat this discharge as required by the town. An
exception to this division (B)(27)(a) is that no permit will be required for
discharge of domestic wastes from recreational motor home holding tanks,
provided that those discharges are made into a town approved facility designed
to receive those wastes.
         (b)   Monitoring facilities for holding type wastes such as those
described in the preceding division shall be provided by the user when in the
exclusive judgment of the town they are deemed reasonably necessary for
monitoring purposes.
   (C)   Pollutants, substances, wastewater or other wastes prohibited by this
subchapter shall not be processed or stored in such a manner that they could be
discharged to the municipal wastewater system. All floor drains located in
process or materials storage areas must discharge to the industrial user’s
pretreatment facility before connecting with the system.
   (D)   When the POTW Director determines that a user is contributing to the
POTW any of the enumerated substances in division (B)(27) above in amounts
which may cause or contribute to interference of POTW operation or pass
through, the POTW Director shall:
      (1)   Advise the user of the potential impact of the contribution on the
POTW in accordance with §
50.125 of this code; and
      (2)   Take appropriate actions in accordance with §§
50.105 through
50.112 of this code for that user to protect the POTW from interference or pass
through.
(Prior Code, § 50.071) (Ord. O-00-001, passed 2-24-2000) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.087 NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS; APPLICATION.
   (A)   Users subject to categorical pretreatment standards are required to
comply with applicable standards as set out in 40 C.F.R. Ch. 1, Subchapter N,
parts 405 through 471, which are specifically incorporated herein.
   (B)   (1)   Where a categorical pretreatment standard is expressed only in
terms of either the mass or the concentration of a pollutant in wastewater, the
POTW Director may impose equivalent concentration or mass limits in accordance
with 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(c).
      (2)   When wastewater subject to a categorical pretreatment standard is
mixed with wastewater not regulated by the same standard, the POTW Director
shall impose an alternate limit, using the combined waste stream formula in 40
C.F.R. § 403.6(e).
      (3)   A user may obtain a variance from a categorical pretreatment
standard if the user can prove, pursuant to the procedural and substantive
provisions in 40 C.F.R. § 403.13, that factors relating to its discharge are
fundamentally different from the factors considered by EPA when developing the
categorical pretreatment standard.
      (4)   A user may obtain a net gross adjustment to a categorical standard
in accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.15.
(Prior Code, § 50.072) (Ord. O-00-001, passed 2-24-2000) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.088 WASTEWATER; LOCAL LIMITS.
   (A)   To implement the general and specific discharge prohibitions listed in
this chapter, industrial user-specific local limits will be developed to ensure
that the POTW’s maximum allowable headworks loading is not exceeded for
particular pollutants of concern for each industrial user.
   (B)   Unless authorized by a permit issued pursuant to §§
50.105 through
50.112 of this code, no person shall discharge wastewater containing pollutants
at levels which exceed the levels associated with domestic sewage.
      (1)   For the following parameters, exceeding domestic sewage levels
shall mean in excess of the following levels:
Pollutant Maximum Domestic Sewage Level
Pollutant      Maximum Domestic Sewage Level
Arsenic        0.003 mg/l
BOD            250 mg/l
Cadmium        0.003 mg/l
Total chromium 0.05 mg/l
Copper         0.061 mg/l
Cyanide        0.041 mg/l
Lead           0.049 mg/l
Mercury        0.0003 mg/l
Nickel         0.021 mg/l
Silver         0.005 mg/l
TKN            40 mg/l
TSS            250 mg/l
Zinc           0.175 mg/l
 
      (2)   Domestic sewage levels for pollutants not listed in the table above
shall be determined by the POTW Director and shall be based on either actually
measured local domestic sewage levels or levels generally accepted as
reasonable in the scientific community.
      (3)   Industrial user-specific local limits for appropriate pollutants of
concern shall be included in wastewater permits and are considered pretreatment
standards. The POTW Director may impose mass limits in addition to, or in place
of, the concentration-based limits in the table above.
      (4)   State requirements and limitations on discharges shall apply in any
case where they are more stringent than federal requirements and limitations or
those in this chapter.
      (5)   The town reserves the right to establish limitations and
requirements for domestic sewage dischargers and commercial users which are
more stringent than those required by either state or federal regulation.
   (C)   Unless authorized by a permit issued pursuant to §§
50.105 through
50.112 of this code, no domestic sewage discharger or commercial user shall
discharge wastewater with any of the following characteristics:
      (1)   Having any clothing, rags, textile remnants or the like, except
scraps of fibers that will pass through a one quarter inch mesh screen or its
equivalent in screening ability;
      (2)   Having a COD of more than 1,500 mg/l;
      (3)   Having an ammonia nitrogen content of more than 40 mg/l;
      (4)   Containing in excess of 0.02 mg/l total identifiable chlorinated
hydrocarbons;
      (5)   Containing 1.0 mg/l phenolic compounds which cannot be removed by
the town’s treatment process;
      (6)   Containing any toxic or poisonous substances or any other materials
(including, but not limited to, heavy metals or chemicals) in sufficient
quantities to interfere with the biological processes used in the sewage
treatment works or that will pass through the sewage treatment works and harm
persons, livestock or aquatic life utilizing the natural outlet;
      (7)   Containing strong iron pickling wastes or concentrated plating
solutions unless pretreated in such a way as to comply with all other
limitations of this section;
      (8)   Containing any solid or viscous substance, including, but not
limited to, ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, paper products,
glass, rags, bones, feathers, slurry, lime residues, slops, whole blood,
fleshings, chemical residues, paint residues, waxes, asphalt, tar, hair,
plastics, wood, paunch manure, butcher’s offal or animal viscera capable of
causing obstructions to the flow in the sewers or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage collection system or the sewage treatment works;
      (9)   Containing any liquid waste or other substance that contains dyes
or other colors of such character and quantity as to prevent removal by
biological processes employed at the town’s treatment plant or that requires
special chemical treatment;
      (10)   Containing any liquid or other substances that, after normal
treatment, require excessive amounts of chlorine for stabilization or
pathogenic disinfection. The amount of excess demand will be determined by
comparing the chlorine demand of all other wastes entering the plant;
      (11)   Containing any materials that form excessive amounts of scum that
may interfere with the operation of the sewage treatment works or cause undue
additional labor or chemicals in connection with its operation; or
      (12)   Having any waste resulting from process(es) involving textiles,
fabrics, wool or other processes containing inert fibrous materials. These
discharges shall undergo evaluation by the town. Since some of these processes
have been shown to be detrimental to the treatment of waste, the evaluation
procedure will be concerned with residual fiber within the treatment plant and
its discharges. Any process determined by the town to be creating adverse
conditions within the treatment plant by the collection of fibrous or inert
materials in its basins, pond or discharges, shall not be allowed to continue
disposing of its waste into the sanitary sewer collection system of the town,
but shall dispose of its waste by alternative means.
   (D)   (1)   Users in industrial categories subject to effluent guidelines
issued under § 304(b) of the Act which are discharging incompatible pollutants
to publicly owned treatment works, are required to adopt the best practicable
control technology currently available, as defined by the Administrator
pursuant to § 304(b) of the Act. Where the town’s treatment works were designed
to and do achieve substantial removal of pollutants other than compatible
pollutants, as defined in this chapter, the town may not require the user to
achieve best practicable control technology currently available, since this
would lead to an uneconomical duplication of treatment facilities.
      (2)   While the term SUBSTANTIAL REMOVAL is not subject to precise
definition, it generally contemplates removals on the order of 80% or greater;
minor incidental removals on the order of 10% to 30% are not considered
substantial. For some industrial categories it may be necessary to define
pretreatment guidelines for problems that may arise as a result of the
discharge into the town’s treatment works or sanitary sewer system. However,
any adjustments required for particular industrial categories should be
considered in connection with the town’s requirements, rather than the national
pretreatment standard.
   (E)   Limitations on wastewater strength in this chapter may be supplemented
with more stringent limitations in accordance with the permit sections of this
chapter and regulations, laws and procedures governing reissuance of permits.
(Prior Code, § 50.073) (Ord. O-00-001, passed 2-24-2000) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.089 DISPOSAL OF UNACCEPTABLE WASTE.
   Waste not permitted to be discharged into the town’s sewer must be
transported to a state-approved disposal site.
(Prior Code, § 50.074) (Ord. O-00-001, passed 2-24-2000)
§ 50.090 RIGHT OF REJECTION; SERVICE DISCONTINUANCE.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes, discharged or proposed to be discharged to
the public sewers, contain the substances or possess the characteristics
enumerated in this subchapter, and which in the judgment of the town may have a
deleterious effect upon the wastewater treatment works, processes, equipment or
receiving waters, or which create a hazard to life, or constitute a public
nuisance, the town may reject the waters.
   (B)   The town may discontinue water service or sewer service, or both, to
any domestic sewage discharger or commercial user who violates this subchapter,
when in the judgment of the town that action is necessary to protect the
wastewater treatment works, processes, equipment or receiving waters from
injury or damage, or is necessary to protect life or health.
(Prior Code, § 50.075) (Ord. O-00-001, passed 2-24-2000)
§ 50.091 DILUTION NOT A PRETREATMENT SUBSTITUTE.
   No user shall ever increase the use of process water or in any way attempt
to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in the national
categorical pretreatment standards, unless expressly authorized by an
applicable pretreatment standard, or in any other pollutant-specific limitation
developed by the town or state.
(Prior Code, § 50.076) (Ord. O-00-001, passed 2-24-2000) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.092 WASTEWATER PRETREATMENT; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Pretreatment facilities. Users shall provide wastewater treatment as
necessary to comply with this chapter and wastewater permits issued under §§
50.105 through
50.112 of this code and shall achieve compliance with all national categorical
pretreatment standards, local limits and the prohibitions set out in §
50.085 of this code within the time limitations as specified by the EPA, the
state or the POTW Director, whichever is more stringent. Any facilities
necessary for compliance shall be provided, operated and maintained at the
user’s expense. Detailed plans showing the pretreatment facilities and
operating procedures shall be submitted to the town for review, and shall be
approved by the POTW Director before construction of the facility. The review
of these plans and operating procedures shall in no way relieve the user from
the responsibility of modifying the facility as necessary to produce an
effluent acceptable to the town under the provisions of this chapter. Any
subsequent changes in the pretreatment facilities or method of operation shall
be reported to and be approved by the POTW Director prior to the user’s
initiation of the changes.
   (B)   Additional pretreatment measures.
      (1)   Whenever deemed necessary, the POTW Director may require users to
restrict their discharge during peak flow periods, designate that certain
wastewater be discharged only into specific sewers, relocate or consolidate
points of discharge, separate sewage waste streams from industrial waste
streams and other conditions as may be necessary to protect the POTW and
determine the user’s compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   The POTW Director may require any person discharging into the POTW
to install and maintain, on his or her property and at his or her expense, a
suitable storage and flow-control facility to ensure equalization of flow. A
wastewater discharge permit may be issued solely for flow equalization.
      (3)   (a)   Grease and oil traps or other interceptors shall be provided
at the user’s expense, when that user operates an establishment preparing,
processing or serving food or food products. Grease interceptors can be
required in other industrial products. Grease interceptors can be required in
other industrial or commercial establishments when they are necessary for
proper handling of liquid wastes containing oil or grease in amounts in excess
of 50 mg/l by weight fat soluble, or for any flammable wastes. All such traps,
tanks, chambers or other interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved
by the town and shall be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection. All such interceptors shall be serviced and emptied of the waste
content as required, but not less often than every 30 days, in order to
maintain their minimum design capability to intercept oils and greases from the
wastewater discharged to the publicly owned sanitary sewer. Failure to comply
can result in the implementation of the enforcement procedures as written in §§
50.151 through
50.153 and
50.999 of this code.
         (b)   Wastes removed from grease interceptors shall not be discharged
into the publicly owned sanitary sewer. The owner shall be responsible for the
sanitary disposal of these wastes.
         (c)   A facility must keep interceptor cleaning records on file a
minimum of three years. The following information must be kept on file: receipt
for job performed signed by contractor and cost, clean out date, person
responsible for cleaning, name of firm performing the clean out and the
disposal method for and destination of material removed.
      (4)   Users with the potential to discharge flammable substances may be
required to install and maintain an approved combustible gas detection meter.
(Prior Code, § 50.077) (Ord. O-00-001, passed 2-24-2000) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.093 ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE AND SLUDGE CONTROL PLANS.
   (A)   At least once every two years, the POTW Director shall evaluate
whether each significant industrial user needs an accidental discharge and
sludge control plan. The POTW Director may require any user to develop, submit
for approval and implement such a plan. Alternatively, the POTW Director may
develop such a plan for any user.
   (B)   An accidental discharge and sludge control plan shall address, at a
minimum, the following:
      (1)   Description of discharge practices, including non-routine batch
discharges;
      (2)   Description of stored chemicals;
      (3)   Procedures for immediately notifying the POTW Director of any
accidental or sludge discharge, as required by §
50.130 of this code; and
      (4)   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or sludge
discharge. These types of procedures include, but are not limited to,
inspection and maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of
materials, loading and unloading operations, control of plant site runoff,
worker training, building of containment structures or equipment, measures for
containing toxic organic pollutants, including solvents and measures and
equipment for emergency response.
(Prior Code, § 50.078) (Ord. O-00-001, passed 2-24-2000)
§ 50.094 HAULED WASTEWATER; PERMIT REQUIRED; ANALYSIS AND REPORTING.
   (A)   (1)   Septic tank waste may be introduced into the POTW only at
locations designated by the POTW Director, and at times as are established by
the POTW Director.
      (2)   The waste shall not violate this subchapter or any other
requirements established by the town.
      (3)   The POTW Director may require septic tank waste haulers to obtain
wastewater discharge permits.
   (B)   The POTW Director shall require haulers of industrial waste to obtain
wastewater discharge permits. The POTW Director may require generators of
hauled industrial waste to obtain wastewater discharge permits. The POTW
Director also may prohibit the disposal of hauled industrial waste. The
discharge of hauled industrial waste is subject to all other requirements of
this chapter.
   (C)   (1)   Industrial waste haulers may discharge loads only at locations
designated by the POTW Director.
      (2)   No load may be discharged without prior consent of the POTW
Director. The POTW Director may collect samples of each hauled load to ensure
compliance with applicable standards. The POTW Director may require the
industrial waste hauler to provide a waste analysis of any load prior to
discharge.
   (D)   (1)   Industrial waste haulers must provide a waste-tracking form for
every load.
      (2)   This form shall include, at a minimum, the name and address of the
industrial waste hauler, permit number, truck identification, names and
addresses of sources of waste and volume and characteristics of waste.
      (3)   The form shall identify the type of industry, known or suspected
waste constituents and whether any wastes are RCRA (42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.)
hazardous wastes.
(Prior Code, § 50.079) (Ord. O-00-001, passed 2-24-2000) Penalty, see §
50.999
INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATERS; PERMITS
§ 50.105 WASTEWATER DISCHARGER; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Wastewater dischargers. It shall be unlawful for any person to connect
or discharge to the POTW without first obtaining the permission of the town.
When requested by the POTW Director, a user must submit information on the
nature and characteristics of its wastewater within 30 days of the request. The
POTW Director is authorized to prepare a form for this purpose and may
periodically require users to update this information.
   (B)   Wastewater permits. All significant industrial users shall obtain a
significant industrial user permit prior to the commencement of discharge to
the POTW. Existing industrial users who are determined by the POTW Director to
be significant industrial users shall obtain a significant industrial user
permit within 180 days of receiving notification of the POTW Director’s
determination. Industrial users who do not fit the significant industrial user
criteria may at the discretion of the POTW Director be required to obtain a
wastewater discharge permit for non-significant industrial users.
(Prior Code, § 50.090) (Ord. O-00-001, passed 2-24-2000) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.106 SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER PERMIT.
   (A)   Significant industrial user determination. All persons proposing to
discharge non-domestic wastewater, or proposing to change the volume or
characteristics of an existing discharge of non-domestic wastewater, shall
request from the POTW Director a significant industrial user determination. If
the POTW Director determines or suspects that the proposed discharge fits the
significant industrial user criteria, he or she will require that a significant
industrial user permit application be filed.
   (B)   Significant industrial user permit application. Users required to
obtain a significant industrial user permit shall complete and file with the
town, an application in the form prescribed by the POTW Director, and
accompanied by an application fee in the amount prescribed in the schedule of
charges and fees. Significant industrial users shall apply for a significant
industrial user permit within 90 days after notification of the POTW Director’s
determination in division (A) above. In support of the application, the user
shall submit, in units and terms appropriate for evaluation, the following
information:
      (1)   Name, address and location (if different from the address);
      (2)   Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) codes for pretreatment,
the industry as a whole, and any processes for which categorical pretreatment
standards have been promulgated;
      (3)   Analytical data on wastewater constituents and characteristics,
including but not limited to those mentioned in §§
50.085 through
50.094 of this code, any of the priority pollutants (as discussed in § 307(a)
of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1317(a)) which the applicant knows or suspects are
present in the discharge as determined by a reliable analytical laboratory and
any other pollutant of concern to the POTW; sampling and analysis shall be
performed in accordance with procedures established by the EPA pursuant to §
304(g) of the Act and contained in 40 C.F.R. part 136, as amended;
      (4)   Time and duration of the indirect discharge;
      (5)   Average daily and 30-minute peak wastewater flow rates, including
daily, monthly and seasonal variations, if any;
      (6)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans and details
to show all sewers, floor drains, sewer connections, direction of flow and
appurtenances by the size, location and elevation;
      (7)   Description of activities, facilities and plant processes on the
premises, including all materials which are or could be accidentally or
intentionally discharged;
      (8)   Where known, the nature and concentration of any pollutants in the
discharge which are limited by any town, state or federal pretreatment
standards; and a statement regarding whether or not the pretreatment standards
are being met on a consistent basis; and if not, whether additional operation
and maintenance (O&M) or additional pretreatment is required for the user to
meet applicable pretreatment standards;
      (9)   If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will be required to meet the
pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the user will provide
the additional pretreatment. The completion date in this schedule shall not be
longer than the compliance date established for the applicable pretreatment
standard. The following conditions apply to this schedule:
         (a)   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of
dates for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the
construction and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to
meet the applicable pretreatment standards. No increment in the schedule shall
exceed nine months; and
         (b)   No later than 14 days following each date in the schedule and
the final date for compliance, the user shall submit a progress report to the
POTW Director including, at a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress, the reason for any delay and if appropriate, the steps
being taken by the user to return to the established schedule. In no event
shall more than nine months elapse between progress reports to the POTW
Director.
      (10)   Each product produced by type, amount, process or processes and
rate of production;
      (11)   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum
per day);
      (12)   Number and type of employees, hours of operation of plant and
proposed or actual hours of operation of pretreatment system;
      (13)   If subject to a categorical standard, a baseline monitoring report
in accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(b) and 15A NCAC 02H .0908(a), as outlined
in §
50.125 of this code; and
      (14)   Any other information the POTW Director deems necessary to
evaluate the permit application.
(Prior Code, § 50.091) (Ord. O-00-001, passed 2-24-2000)
§ 50.107 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT APPLICATION; EVALUATION; HEARINGS.
   (A)   Application signatories and certification. All wastewater discharge
permit applications and user reports must be signed by an authorized
representative of the user and must contain the following certification
statement: “I certify under penalty of law that this document and all
attachments were prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with
a system designed to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and
evaluate the information submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or
persons who manage the system, or those persons directly responsible for
gathering the information, the information submitted is, to the best of my
knowledge and belief, true, accurate and complete. I am aware that there are
significant penalties for submitting false information, including the
possibility of fine and imprisonment for knowing violations.”
   (B)   Application review and evaluation. The POTW Director will evaluate the
data furnished by the user and may require additional information.
      (1)   The POTW Director is authorized to accept applications for the
town. He or she shall refer all applications to the POTW staff for review and
evaluation.
      (2)   Within 30 days of receipt, the POTW Director shall acknowledge and
accept the application if he or she determines that it is complete. If the POTW
Director determines that the application is not complete, he or she shall
return the application to the applicant with a statement explaining what
additional information is required.
   (C)   Tentative determination and draft permit.
      (1)   The POTW staff shall conduct a review of the application and an on-
site inspection of the significant industrial user, including any pretreatment
facilities, and shall prepare a written evaluation and tentative determination
to issue or deny the significant industrial user permit.
      (2)   If the staff’s tentative determination in division (C)(1) above is
to issue the permit, the following additional determinations shall be made in
writing:
         (a)   Proposed discharge limitations for those pollutants proposed to
be limited;
         (b)   A proposed schedule of compliance, including interim dates and
requirements, for meeting the proposed limitations; and
         (c)   A brief description of any other proposed special conditions
which will have significant impact upon the discharge described in the
application.
      (3)   The staff shall organize the determinations made pursuant to
divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2) above and the town’s general permit conditions into
a significant industrial user permit.
   (D)   Permit synopsis. A fact sheet providing a brief synopsis of the
application shall be prepared by the POTW staff for submission to the applicant
and the approval authority. This fact sheet shall be made available to the
public upon request. The contents of these fact sheets shall include at least
the following information:
      (1)   A sketch and detailed description of the industrial facilities and
pretreatment facilities, including the location of all points of discharge to
the POTW and all established compliance monitoring points; and
      (2)   A quantitative description of the discharge described in the
application, which includes at least the following:
         (a)   The rate or frequency of the proposed discharge; if the
discharge is continuous, the average daily flow;
         (b)   The actual average daily discharge in pounds per day of any
limited pollutant and any pollutant identified in the application as known or
suspected present; and
         (c)   The basis for the pretreatment limitations, including the
documentation of any calculations in applying categorical pretreatment
standards.
   (E)   Final action on significant industrial user permit applications.
      (1)   The POTW Director shall take final action on all applications not
later than 90 days following receipt of a complete application.
      (2)   The POTW Director is authorized to:
         (a)   Issue a significant industrial user permit containing those
conditions as are necessary to effectuate the purposes of this chapter and G.S.
§ 143-215.1;
         (b)   Issue a significant industrial user permit containing time
schedules for achieving compliance with applicable pretreatment standards and
requirements;
         (c)   Modify any permit upon not less than 60 days’ notice and
pursuant to §
50.108 of this code;
         (d)   Revoke any permit, pursuant to §
50.151 of this code;
         (e)   Suspend a permit, pursuant to §
50.151 of this code; or
         (f)   Deny a permit application when in the opinion of the POTW
Director the discharge may cause or contribute to pass through or interference
of the wastewater treatment plant or where necessary to effectuate the purposes
of G.S. § 143-215.1.
   (F)   Hearings.
      (1)   Initial adjudicatory hearing. An applicant whose permit is denied,
or is granted subject to conditions he or she deems unacceptable, a permittee/
user assessed a civil penalty under §
50.999 of this code, or one issued an administrative order under §
50.151 of this code, shall have the right to an adjudicatory hearing before a
hearing officer designated by the POTW Director upon making written demand,
identifying the specific issues to be contested, to the POTW Director within 30
days following receipt of the significant industrial user permit, civil penalty
assessment or administrative order. Unless this written demand is made within
the time specified herein, the action shall be final and binding. The hearing
officer shall make a final decision on the contested permit, penalty or order
within 45 days of the receipt of the written demand for a hearing. The POTW
Director shall transmit a copy of the hearing officer’s decision by registered
or certified mail.
         (a)   New permits. Upon appeal, including judicial review in the
general courts of justice, of the terms or conditions of a newly issued permit,
the terms and conditions of the entire permit are stayed and the permit is not
in effect until either the conclusion of judicial review or until the parties
reach a mutual resolution.
         (b)   Renewed permits. Upon appeal, including judicial review in the
general courts of justice, of the terms or conditions of a renewed permit, the
terms and conditions of the existing permit remain in effect until either the
conclusion of judicial review or until the parties reach a mutual resolution.
      (2)   Final appeal hearing. Any decision of a hearing officer made as a
result of an adjudicatory hearing held under division (F)(1) above, may be
appealed to the Board of Commissioners upon filing a written demand within ten
days of receipt of notice of the decision. Hearings held under this subdivision
shall be conducted in accordance with the state Administrative Procedure Act
(APA), G.S. Ch. 150B. APA forms may be utilized. APA forms and procedures are
incorporated herein solely as a convenience to the applicant and the town; the
town is not subject to the APA. Failure to make written demand within the time
specified herein shall bar further appeal. The Board of Commissioners shall
make a final decision on the appeal within 90 days of the date the appeal was
filed, and shall transmit a written copy of its decision by registered or
certified mail.
      (3)   Official record. When a final decision is issued under division (F)
(2) above, the Board of Commissioners shall prepare an official record of the
case. This record shall include:
         (a)   All notices, motions and other like pleadings;
         (b)   A copy of all documentary evidence introduced;
         (c)   A certified transcript of all testimony taken, if testimony is
transcribed. If testimony is taken and not transcribed, then a narrative
summary of any testimony taken; and
         (d)   A copy of the final decision of the Board of Commissioners.
      (4)   Judicial review.
         (a)   Any person against whom a final order or decision of the Board
of Commissioners is entered, pursuant to the hearing conducted under division
(F)(2) above, may seek judicial review of the order or decision by filing a
written petition within 30 days after receipt of notice by registered or
certified mail of the order or decision, but not thereafter, with the Superior
Court of the county.
         (b)   A copy of the petition must be served on the town when the
petition is filed.
         (c)   Within 30 days after receipt of the copy of the petition of
judicial review, the Board of Commissioners shall transmit to the reviewing
court the original or a certified copy of the official record.
(Prior Code, § 50.092) (Ord. O-00-001, passed 2-24-2000) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.108 PERMIT MODIFICATION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Modifications of permits shall be subject to the same procedural
requirements as the issuance of permits, except as follows:
      (1)   Changes in the ownership of the discharge when no other change in
the permit is indicated;
      (2)   A single modification of any compliance schedule not in excess of
four months; or
      (3)   Modification of compliance schedules (construction schedules) in
permits for new sources where the new source will not begin to discharge until
control facilities are operational.
   (B)   Any changes or new conditions in the permit shall include a reasonable
time schedule for compliance.
   (C)   (1)   Within nine months of the promulgation of a national categorical
pretreatment standard, the wastewater discharge permit of users subject to
those standards shall be revised to require compliance with that standard
within the time frame prescribed by that standard.
      (2)   Where a user subject to a national categorical pretreatment
standard has not previously submitted an application for a wastewater discharge
permit as required by §
50.106(B) of this code, the user shall apply for a wastewater discharge permit
within 180 days after the promulgation of the applicable national categorical
pretreatment standard.
   (D)   A request for a modification by the permittee shall constitute a
waiver of the 60-day notice required by G.S. § 143-215.1(b) for modifications.
(Prior Code, § 50.093) (Ord. O-00-001, passed 2-24-2000)
§ 50.109 CONDITIONS.
   (A)   The POTW Director shall have the authority to grant a permit with such
conditions attached as he or she believes necessary to achieve the purpose of
this chapter and G.S. § 143-215.1.
   (B)   Wastewater permits shall contain, but are not limited to, the
following:
      (1)   A statement of duration (in no case more than five years);
      (2)   A statement of nontransferability;
      (3)   Applicable effluent limits based on categorical standards or local
limits or both;
      (4)   Applicable monitoring, sampling, reporting, notification and record
keeping requirements. These requirements shall include an identification of
pollutants to be monitored, sampling location, sampling frequency and sample
type based on federal, state and local law;
      (5)   Notification requirements for sludge loads; and
      (6)   A statement of applicable civil and criminal penalties for
violation of pretreatment standards and requirements and any applicable
compliance schedule.
   (C)   In addition, permits may contain, but are not limited to, the
following:
      (1)   Limits on the average and/or maximum rate of discharge, and/or
requirements for flow regulation and equalization;
      (2)   Limits on the instantaneous, daily and monthly average and/or
maximum concentration, mass or other measure of identified wastewater
pollutants or properties;
      (3)   Requirements for the installation of pretreatment technology or
construction of appropriate containment devices, and the like, designed to
reduce, eliminate or prevent the introduction of pollutants into the treatment
works;
      (4)   Development and implementation of spill control plans or other
special conditions, including management practices necessary to adequately
prevent accidental, unanticipated or non-routine discharges;
      (5)   Development and implementation of waste minimization plans to
reduce the amount of pollutants discharged to the municipal wastewater system;
      (6)   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
management of the wastewater discharged to the system;
      (7)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities and equipment;
      (8)   Specifications for monitoring programs which may include sampling
locations, frequency of sampling, number, types and standards for tests and
reporting schedules;
      (9)    Requirements for immediate reporting of any instance of
noncompliance and for automatic resampling and reporting within 30 days where
self-monitoring indicates a violation(s);
      (10)   Compliance schedules for meeting pretreatment standards and
requirements;
      (11)   Requirements for submission of periodic self-monitoring or special
notification reports;
      (12)   Requirements for maintaining and retaining plans and records
relating to wastewater discharges as specified in §
50.136 of this code and affording the POTW Director, or his or her
representatives, access thereto;
      (13)   Requirements for prior notification and approval by the POTW
Director of any new introduction of wastewater pollutants or of any significant
change in the volume or character of the wastewater prior to introduction in
the system;
      (14)   Requirements for the prior notification and approval by the POTW
Director of any change in the manufacturing and/or pretreatment process used by
the permittee;
      (15)   Requirements for immediate notification of excessive, accidental
or slug discharges, or any discharge which could cause any problems to the
system;
      (16)   A statement that compliance with the permit does not relieve the
permittee of responsibility for compliance with all applicable federal and
state pretreatment standards, including those which become effective during the
terms of the permit; and
      (17)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the POTW Director to
ensure compliance with this chapter, and state and federal laws, rules and
regulations.
(Prior Code, § 50.094) (Ord. O-00-001, passed 2-24-2000)
§ 50.110 EXPIRATION.
   Permits shall be issued for a specified time period, not to exceed five
years. A permit may be issued for a period less than a year, or may be stated
to expire on a specific date.
(Prior Code, § 50.095) (Ord. O-00-001, passed 2-24-2000)
§ 50.111 NONTRANSFERABLE.
   Wastewater permits are issued to a specific user for a specific operation. A
wastewater discharge permit shall not be reassigned or transferred or sold to a
new owner, new user, different premises or a new or changed operation.
(Prior Code, § 50.096) (Ord. O-00-001, passed 2-24-2000) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.112 REISSUANCE PROCEDURE.
   A significant industrial user shall apply for permit reissuance by
submitting a complete permit application in accordance with this subchapter a
minimum of 180 days prior to the expiration of the existing permit.
(Prior Code, § 50.097) (Ord. O-00-001, passed 2-24-2000)
INDUSTRIAL USERS; REPORTING REQUIREMENTS; COMPLIANCE MONITORING
§ 50.125 BASELINE MONITORING REPORTS.
   (A)   Within either 180 days after the effective date of a categorical
pretreatment standard, or the final administrative decision on a category
determination under 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(a)(4), whichever is later, existing
categorical users currently discharging to or scheduled to discharge to the
POTW shall submit to the POTW Director a report which contains the information
listed in division (B) below. At least 90 days prior to commencement of their
discharge, new sources and sources that become categorical users subsequent to
the promulgation of an applicable categorical standard, shall submit to the
POTW Director a report which contains the information listed in division (B)
below. A new source shall report the method of pretreatment it intends to use
to meet applicable categorical standards. A new source also shall give
estimates of its anticipated flow and quantity of pollutants to be discharged.
   (B)   Users described in division (A) above shall submit the following
information:
      (1)   Identifying information. The name and address of the facility,
including the name of the operator and owner;
      (2)   Environmental permits. A list of any environmental control permits
held by or for the facility;
      (3)   Description of operations. A brief description of the nature,
average rate of production and standard industrial classifications of the
operation(s) carried out by the user. This description should include a
schematic process diagram which indicates points of discharge to the POTW from
the regulated processes;
      (4)   Flow measurement. Information showing the measured average daily
and maximum daily flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW from regulated process
streams and other streams, as necessary, to allow use of the combined waste
stream formula set out in 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(e);
      (5)   Measurement of pollutants.
         (a)   The categorical pretreatment standards applicable to each
regulated process;
         (b)   The results of sampling and analysis identifying the nature and
concentration, and/or mass, where required by the standard or by the POTW
Director, of regulated pollutants in the discharge from each regulated process.
Instantaneous, daily maximum and long-term average concentrations, or mass,
where required, shall be reported. The sample shall be representative of daily
operations and shall be analyzed in accordance with procedures set out in §
50.133 of this code; and
         (c)   Sampling must be performed in accordance with procedures set out
in §
50.135 of this code.
      (6)   Certification. A statement, reviewed by the user’s authorized
representative and certified by a qualified professional, indicating whether
pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis, and, if not,
whether additional operation and maintenance (O&M) and/or additional
pretreatment is required to meet the pretreatment standards and requirements;
      (7)   Compliance schedule. If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will be
required to meet the pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the
user will provide that additional pretreatment and/or O&M. The completion date
in this schedule shall not be later than the compliance date established for
the applicable pretreatment standard. A compliance schedule pursuant to this
subchapter must meet the requirements set out in §
50.126 of this code; and
      (8)   Signature and certification. All baseline monitoring reports must
be signed and certified in accordance with §
50.107(A) of this code.
(Prior Code, § 50.110) (Ord. O-00-001, passed 2-24-2000)
§ 50.126 COMPLIANCE SCHEDULE; PROGRESS REPORTS.
   The following conditions shall apply to the compliance schedule required by
§
50.125(B)(7) of this code:
   (A)   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of dates
for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction
and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to meet the
applicable pretreatment standards (such events include, but are not limited to,
hiring an engineer, completing preliminary and final plans, executing contracts
for major components, commencing and completing construction and beginning and
conducting routine operation);
   (B)   No increment referred to in division (A) above shall exceed nine
months;
   (C)   The user shall submit a progress report to the POTW Director no later
than 14 days following each date in the schedule and the final date of
compliance, including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress, the reason for any delay and, if appropriate, the steps
being taken by the user to return to the established schedule; and
   (D)   In no event shall more than nine months elapse between these progress
reports to the POTW Director.
(Prior Code, § 50.111) (Ord. O-00-001, passed 2-24-2000) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.127 CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD DEADLINE; COMPLIANCE REPORTS.
   (A)   Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with applicable
categorical pretreatment standards, or in the case of a new source following
commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any user subject
to those pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to the POTW
Director a report containing the information described in §
50.125(B)(4) through (B)(6) of this code.
   (B)   For users subject to equivalent mass or concentration limits
established in accordance with the procedures in 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(c), this
report shall contain a reasonable measure of the user’s long-term production
rate. For all other users subject to categorical pretreatment standards
expressed in terms of allowable pollutant discharge per unit of production (or
other measure of operation), this report shall include the user’s actual
production during the appropriate sampling period. All compliance reports must
be signed and certified in accordance with §
50.107(A) of this code.
(Prior Code, § 50.112) (Ord. O-00-001, passed 2-24-2000)
§ 50.128 PERIODIC COMPLIANCE REPORTS.
   (A)   All significant industrial users shall, at a frequency determined by
the POTW Director, but in no case less than twice per year (in June and
December), submit a report indicating the nature and concentration of
pollutants in the discharge which are limited by pretreatment standards and the
measured or estimated average and maximum daily flows for the reporting period.
All periodic compliance reports must be signed and certified in accordance with
§
50.107(A) of this code.
   (B)   All wastewater samples must be representative of the user’s discharge.
Wastewater monitoring and flow measurement facilities shall be properly
operated, kept clean and maintained in good working order at all times. The
failure of a user to keep its monitoring facility in good working order shall
not be grounds for the user to claim that sample results are unrepresentative
of its discharge.
   (C)   If a user subject to the reporting requirement in this subchapter
monitors any pollutant more frequently than required by the POTW Director,
using the procedures prescribed in §
50.133 of this code, the results of this monitoring shall be included in the
report.
(Prior Code, § 50.113) (Ord. O-00-001, passed 2-24-2000)
§ 50.129 CHANGED CONDITIONS; REPORT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Each user must notify the POTW Director of any planned significant
changes to the user’s operations or system which might alter the nature,
quality or volume of its wastewater at least 90 days before the change.
   (B)   (1)   The POTW Director may require the user to submit information as
may be deemed necessary to evaluate the changed condition, including the
submission of a wastewater discharge permit application under §§
50.105 through
50.112 of this code.
      (2)   The POTW Director may issue a wastewater discharge permit under §§
50.105 through
50.112 of this code or modify an existing wastewater discharge permit under §§
50.105 through
50.112 of this code in response to changed conditions or anticipated changed
conditions.
      (3)   For purposes of this requirement, significant changes include, but
are not limited to, flow increases of 20% or greater, and the discharge of any
previously unreported pollutants.
(Prior Code, § 50.114) (Ord. O-00-001, passed 2-24-2000)
§ 50.130 POTENTIAL PROBLEMS; NOTIFICATION AND REPORT REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   In the case of any discharge, including, but not limited to,
accidental discharges, discharges of a non-routine, episodic nature, a non-
customary batch discharge or a sludge load, that may cause potential problems
for the POTW, the user shall immediately telephone and notify the POTW Director
of the incident.
      (2)   This notification shall include the location of the discharge, type
of waste, concentration and volume, if known, and corrective actions taken by
the user.
   (B)   (1)   Within five days following the discharge described in division
(A) above, the user shall, unless waived by the POTW Director, submit a
detailed written report describing the cause(s) of the discharge and the
measures to be taken by the user to prevent similar future occurrences.
      (2)   This notification shall not relieve the user of any expense, loss,
damage or other liability which may be incurred as a result of damage to the
POTW, natural resources or any other damage to person or property; nor shall
this notification relieve the user of any fines, penalties or other liability
which may be imposed pursuant to this chapter.
   (C)   A notice shall be permanently posted on the user’s bulletin board or
other prominent place, advising employees whom to call in the event of a
discharge described in division (A) above. Employers shall ensure that all
employees who may cause such a discharge to occur are advised of the emergency
notification procedure.
(Prior Code, § 50.115) (Ord. O-00-001, passed 2-24-2000) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.131 UNPERMITTED USERS; REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.
   All users not required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit shall provide
appropriate reports to the POTW Director as the POTW Director may require.
(Prior Code, § 50.116) (Ord. O-00-001, passed 2-24-2000)
§ 50.132 NOTICE OF VIOLATION REQUIRED; REPEAT SAMPLING AND REPORT.
   (A)   If sampling performed by a user indicates a violation, the user must
notify the POTW Director within 24 hours of becoming aware of the violation.
   (B)   The user shall also repeat the sampling and analysis and submit the
results of the repeat analysis to the POTW Director within 30 days after
becoming aware of the violation.
   (C)   The user is not required to resample if the POTW Director monitors at
the user’s facility at least once a month, or if the POTW Director samples
between the user’s initial sampling and when the user receives the results of
this sampling.
(Prior Code, § 50.117) (Ord. O-00-001, passed 2-24-2000)
§ 50.133 ANALYSIS AND SAMPLING TECHNIQUES; NATIONAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   All pollutant analyses, including sampling techniques, to be submitted
as part of a wastewater discharge permit application or report, shall be
performed in accordance with the techniques prescribed in 40 C.F.R. part 136,
unless otherwise specified in an applicable categorical pretreatment standard.
   (B)   If 40 C.F.R. part 136 does not contain sampling or analytical
techniques for the pollutant in question, sampling and analyses must be
performed in accordance with procedures approved by the EPA.
(Prior Code, § 50.118) (Ord. O-00-001, passed 2-24-2000)
§ 50.134 SAMPLE COLLECTION TECHNIQUES.
   (A)   Except as indicated in division (B), below, the user must collect
wastewater samples using flow proportional composite collection techniques. In
the event flow proportional sampling is infeasible, the POTW Director may
authorize the use of time proportional sampling or a minimum of four grab
samples where the user demonstrates that this will provide a representative
sample of the effluent being discharged. In addition, grab samples may be
required to show compliance with instantaneous discharge limits.
   (B)   Samples for oil and grease, temperature, pH, cyanide, phenols,
sulfides and volatile organic compounds must be obtained using grab collection
techniques.
(Prior Code, § 50.119) (Ord. O-00-001, passed 2-24-2000)
§ 50.135 SUBMISSION DATES.
   Written reports will be deemed to have been submitted on the date
postmarked. For reports which are not mailed, postage prepaid, into a mail
facility serviced by the United States Postal Service, the date of receipt of
the report shall govern.
(Prior Code, § 50.120) (Ord. O-00-001, passed 2-24-2000)
§ 50.136 RECORD KEEPING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Users subject to the reporting requirements of this chapter shall
retain, and make available for inspection and copying, all records of
information obtained pursuant to any monitoring activities required by this
chapter and any additional records of information obtained pursuant to
monitoring activities undertaken by the user independent of these requirements.
Records shall include the date, exact place, method and time of sampling, and
the name of the person(s) taking the samples, the dates analyses were
performed, who performed the analyses, the analytical techniques or methods
used and the results of the analyses.
   (B)   These records shall remain available for a period of at least three
years. This period shall be automatically extended for the duration of any
litigation concerning the user or the town, or where the user has been
specifically notified of a longer retention period by the POTW Director.
(Prior Code, § 50.121) (Ord. O-00-001, passed 2-24-2000)
§ 50.137 MONITORING FACILITIES.
   (A)   (1)   The town requires the user to provide and operate, at the user’s
own expense, monitoring facilities to allow inspection, sampling and flow
measurement of the building sewer and internal drainage systems.
      (2)   The monitoring facility should normally be situated on the user’s
premises, but the town may, when that location would be impractical or cause
undue hardship on the user, allow the facility to be constructed in the public
street or sidewalk area and located so that it will not be obstructed by
landscaping or parked vehicles.
   (B)   There shall be ample room in or near the sampling manhole or facility
to allow accurate sampling and preparation of samples for analysis. The
facility, sampling and measuring equipment shall be maintained at all times in
a safe and proper operating condition at the expense of the user.
   (C)   Whether constructed on public or private property, the sampling and
monitoring facilities shall be provided in accordance with the town’s
requirements and all applicable local construction standards and
specifications. Construction shall be completed within 90 days following
written notification by the town.
(Prior Code, § 50.122) (Ord. O-00-001, passed 2-24-2000)
§ 50.138 INSPECTION AND SAMPLING; RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   (1)   The town will inspect the facilities of any user to ascertain
whether the purpose of this chapter is being met and all requirements are being
complied with. Persons or occupants of premises where wastewater is created or
discharged shall allow the town, approval authority and the EPA or their
representative, ready access at all reasonable times to all parts of the
premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, records examination and
copying or in the performance of any of their duties.
      (2)   The town, approval authority and the EPA shall have the right to
set up on the user’s property devices as are necessary to conduct sampling,
inspection, compliance monitoring and metering operations. Where a user has
security measures in force which would require proper identification and
clearance before entry into the premises, the user shall make necessary
arrangements with its security guards so that upon presentation of suitable
identification, personnel from the town, approval authority and EPA will be
permitted to enter, without delay, for the purposes of performing their
specific responsibilities.
   (B)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for anyone to deny the POTW
Director, approval authority or EPA access to the user’s premises. Unreasonable
delays may constitute denial of access.
(Prior Code, § 50.123) (Ord. O-00-001, passed 2-24-2000) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.139 SEARCH WARRANTS.
   If the POTW Director, approval authority or EPA has been refused access to a
building, structure or property, or any part thereof, and is able to
demonstrate probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of this
chapter, or that there is a need to inspect or sample as part of a routine
inspection and sampling program of the town designed to verify compliance with
this chapter or any permit or order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall
public health, safety and welfare of the community, then the POTW Director,
approval authority or EPA may seek issuance of a search warrant from the County
Superior Court.
(Prior Code, § 50.124) (Ord. O-00-001, passed 2-24-2000)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 50.150 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   Information and data on a user obtained from reports, questionnaires,
permit applications, permits and monitoring programs and from inspections,
shall be available to the public or other governmental agency without
restriction, unless the user specifically requests and is able to demonstrate
to the satisfaction of the POTW Director that the release of this information
would divulge information, processes or methods of production entitled to
protection as trade secrets of the user. Any request of this type must be
asserted at the time of submission of the information or data.
   (B)   When requested by the person furnishing a report, the portions of a
report which might disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made
available for inspection by the public, but shall be made available upon
written request to governmental agencies for uses related to this chapter, the
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit, non-discharge
permit and the pretreatment programs; provided, however, that these portions of
a report shall be available for use by the state or any state agency in
judicial review or enforcement proceedings involving the person furnishing the
report. Wastewater constituents and characteristics will not be recognized as
confidential information.
   (C)   All records relating to compliance with pretreatment standards shall
be made available to officials of the approval authority and EPA upon request.
(Prior Code, § 50.135) (Ord. O-00-001, passed 2-24-2000)
§ 50.151 ADMINISTRATIVE REMEDIES.
   (A)   Notification of violation. Whenever the POTW Director finds that any
industrial user has violated or is violating this chapter, wastewater permit or
any prohibition, limitation or requirements contained therein or any other
pretreatment requirement, the POTW Director may serve upon that person a
written notice stating the nature of the violation. Within 30 days from the
date of that notice, an explanation for the violation and a plan for the
satisfactory correction thereof shall be submitted to the town by the user.
Submission of this plan does not relieve the discharger of liability for any
violations occurring before or after receipt of the notice of violation.
   (B)   Consent orders. The POTW Director is hereby empowered to enter into
consent orders, assurances of voluntary compliance or other similar documents
establishing an agreement with the person responsible for the noncompliance.
These orders will include specific action to be taken by the discharger to
correct the noncompliance within a time period also specified by the order.
Consent orders shall have the same force and effect as an administrative order
issued pursuant to division (D) below.
   (C)   Show cause hearing.
      (1)   The POTW Director may order any industrial user who causes or is
responsible for an unauthorized discharge, has violated this chapter or is in
noncompliance with a wastewater discharge permit, to show cause why a proposed
enforcement action should not be taken. In the event the POTW Director
determines that a show cause order should be issued, a notice shall be served
on the user specifying the time and place for the hearing, the proposed
enforcement action, the reasons for the action and a request that the user show
cause why the proposed enforcement action should not be taken. The notice of
the hearing shall be served personally or by registered or certified mail
(return receipt requested) at least ten days before the hearing. Service may be
made on any agent or officer of a corporation.
      (2)   The POTW Director shall review the evidence presented at the
hearing and determine whether the proposed enforcement action is appropriate.
      (3)   A show cause hearing under this section is not a prerequisite to
the assessment of a civil penalty under §
50.999 of this code; nor is any action or inaction taken by the POTW Director
under this section subject to an administrative appeal under §
50.107(F) of this code.
   (D)   Administrative orders. When the POTW Director finds that an industrial
user has violated or continues to violate this chapter, permits or orders
issued hereunder or any other pretreatment requirement, the POTW Director may
issue an order to cease and desist all violations of this type and direct those
persons in noncompliance to do any of the following:
      (1)   Immediately comply with all requirements;
      (2)   Comply in accordance with a compliance time schedule set forth in
the order;
      (3)   Take appropriate remedial or preventive action in the event of a
continuing or threatened violation; or
      (4)   Disconnect unless adequate treatment facilities, devices or other
related appurtenances are installed and properly operated within a specified
time period.
   (E)   Emergency suspensions.
      (1)   The POTW Director may suspend the wastewater treatment service and
wastewater permit when the suspension is necessary in order to stop an actual
or threatened discharge which presents or may present an imminent or
substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons or the
environment, interferes with the POTW or causes the POTW to violate any
condition of its NPDES or non-discharge permit.
      (2)   Any user notified of a suspension of the wastewater treatment
service or the wastewater permit shall immediately stop or eliminate the
contribution. A hearing will be held within 15 days of the notice of suspension
to determine whether the suspension may be lifted or the user’s waste discharge
permit terminated. In the event of a failure to comply voluntarily with the
suspension order, the POTW Director shall take steps as deemed necessary,
including immediate severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize
damage to the POTW system or endangerment to any individuals. The POTW Director
shall reinstate the wastewater permit and the wastewater treatment service upon
proof of the elimination of the noncompliant discharge. The industrial user
shall submit a detailed written statement describing the causes of the harmful
contribution and the measures taken to prevent any future occurrence to the
POTW Director prior to the date of the hearing described in this division (E)
(2).
   (F)   Termination of permit.
      (1)   Any user who violates the following conditions of this chapter, or
applicable state and federal regulations, is subject to having its permit
terminated:
         (a)   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of his or her discharge;
         (b)   Failure to report significant changes in operations or
wastewater constituents and characteristics;
         (c)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user’s premises for the
purpose of inspection or monitoring; or
         (d)   Violation of conditions of the permit.
      (2)   Noncompliant industrial users will be notified of the proposed
termination of their wastewater permit and will be offered an opportunity to
show cause under this section why the proposed action should not be taken.
(Prior Code, § 50.136) (Ord. O-00-001, passed 2-24-2000) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.152 ADDITIONAL REMEDIES.
   (A)   Other remedies, in addition to those mentioned elsewhere in this
chapter, are available to the POTW Director, who may use any single remedy or
combination of remedies against a noncompliant user.
   (B)   Additional available remedies include, but are not limited to the
following.
      (1)   Criminal violations. The District Attorney for Judicial District 6A
may, at the request of the town, prosecute noncompliant users who violate the
provisions of G.S. § 143-215.6B.
      (2)   Injunctive relief. Whenever a user is in violation of the
provisions of this chapter or an order or permit issued hereunder, the POTW
Director, through the Town Attorney, may petition the Superior Court of Justice
for the issuance of a restraining order or a preliminary and permanent
injunction which restrains or compels the activities in question.
      (3)   Water supply severance. Whenever an industrial user is in violation
of the provisions of this chapter or an order or permit issued hereunder, water
service to the industrial user may be severed and service will only recommence,
at the user’s expense, after it has satisfactorily demonstrated ability to
comply.
      (4)   Public nuisances.
         (a)   Any violation of the prohibitions or effluent limitations of
this chapter or of a permit or order issued hereunder, is hereby declared a
public nuisance and shall be corrected or abated as directed by the POTW
Director.
         (b)   Any person creating a public nuisance shall be subject to the
provisions of the applicable local law governing nuisances, including
reimbursing the POTW for any costs incurred in removing, abating or remedying
the nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 50.137) (Ord. O-00-001, passed 2-24-2000) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.153 REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The remedies provided for in this chapter are not exclusive. The POTW
Director may take any, all, or any combination of these actions against a
noncompliant user. Enforcement of pretreatment violations will generally be in
accordance with the town’s enforcement response plan. However, the POTW
Director may take other action against any user when the circumstances warrant.
Further, the POTW Director is empowered to take more than one enforcement
action against any noncompliant user.
(Prior Code, § 50.138) (Ord. O-00-001, passed 2-24-2000) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.154 PUBLICATION OF SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE.
   At least annually, the POTW Director shall publish in the largest daily
newspaper circulated in the service area, a list of those industrial users
which were found to be in significant noncompliance, also referred to as
reportable noncompliance in 15A NCAC 02H .0903(b)(10), with applicable
pretreatment standards and requirements, during the previous 12 months.
(Prior Code, § 50.139) (Ord. O-00-001, passed 2-24-2000)
§ 50.155 DISCHARGE VIOLATIONS; AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES.
   (A)   Upset. An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense to an action
brought for noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards if the
requirements of division (A)(1), below, are met.
      (1)   A user who wishes to establish the affirmative defense of upset
shall demonstrate, through properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs or
other relevant evidence, that:
         (a)   An upset occurred and the user can identify the cause(s) of the
upset;
         (b)   The facility was at the time being operated in a prudent and
professional manner and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance
procedures; and
         (c)   The user has submitted the following information to the POTW
Director within 24 hours of becoming aware of the upset (if this information is
provided orally, a written submission must be provided within five days):
            1.   A description of the indirect discharge and cause of
noncompliance;
            2.   The period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times
or, if not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is expected to
continue; and
            3.   Steps being taken or planned to reduce, eliminate and prevent
recurrence of the noncompliance.
      (2)   In any enforcement proceeding, the user seeking to establish the
occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof.
      (3)   Users will have the opportunity for a judicial determination on any
claim of upset only in an enforcement action brought for noncompliance with
categorical pretreatment standards.
      (4)   Users shall control production of all discharges to the extent
necessary to maintain compliance with categorical pretreatment standards upon
reduction, loss or failure of its treatment facility, until the facility is
restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement
applies in the situation where, among other things, the primary source of power
of the treatment facility is reduced or lost, or fails.
   (B)   Prohibited discharge standards defense. A user shall have an
affirmative defense to an enforcement action brought against it for
noncompliance with the general prohibitions in §
50.086(A) of this code or the specific prohibitions in §
50.086(B)(2), (B)(3), and (B)(5) through (B)(7) of this code if it can prove
that it did not know, or have reason to know, that its discharge, alone or in
conjunction with discharges from other sources, would cause pass through or
interference, and that either:
      (1)   A local limit exists for each pollutant discharged and the user was
in compliance with each limit directly prior to, and during, the pass through
or interference; or
      (2)   No local limit exists, but the discharge did not change
substantially in nature or constituents from the user’s prior discharge when
the town was regularly in compliance with its NPDES permit, and in the case of
interference, was in compliance with applicable sludge use or disposal
requirements.
   (C)   Bypass.
      (1)   A user may allow any bypass to occur which does not cause
pretreatment standards or requirements to be violated, but only if it also is
for essential maintenance to assure efficient operation. These bypasses are not
subject to the provisions of divisions (C)(2) and (C)(3) below.
      (2)   (a)   If a user knows in advance of the need for a bypass, it shall
submit prior notice to the POTW Director at least ten days before the date of
the bypass, if possible.
         (b)   A user shall submit oral notice to the POTW Director of an
unanticipated bypass that exceeds applicable pretreatment standards within 24
hours from the time it becomes aware of the bypass. A written submission shall
also be provided within five days of the time the user becomes aware of the
bypass. The written submission shall contain a description of the bypass and
its cause; the duration of the bypass, including exact dates and times, and, if
the bypass has not been corrected, the anticipated time it is expected to
continue; and steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate and prevent
reoccurrence of the bypass. The POTW Director may waive the written report on a
case-by-case basis if the oral report has been received within 24 hours.
      (3)   Bypass is prohibited, and the POTW Director may take an enforcement
action against a user for a bypass, unless:
         (a)   Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury
or severe property damage;
         (b)   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the
use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not
satisfied if adequate back-up equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred
during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventive maintenance; and
         (c)   The user submitted notices as required under division (C)(2)
above.
      (4)   The POTW Director may approve an anticipated bypass, after
considering its adverse effects, if the POTW Director determines that it will
meet the three conditions listed in division (C)(3) above.
(Prior Code, § 50.140) (Ord. O-00-001, passed 2-24-2000) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.156 ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES; TERMINATION OF SERVICE; HEARINGS;
REINSTATEMENT.
   (A)   Application. Except with respect to nonpayment of accounts as
described in division (B)(1)(a) below, the provisions of this section do not
apply to industrial users or other users permitted pursuant to §§
50.105 through
50.112 of this code or by the approval authority. Users who are not permitted
pursuant to §§
50.105 through
50.112 of this code or the approval authority are governed by this section.
   (B)   Termination or interruption of services by town.
      (1)   The town may terminate service to enforce any of the provisions of
this chapter. Accordingly, the town may terminate service for reasons which
include the following:
         (a)   Refusal by the customer to pay in full an account that remains
delinquent in excess of ten days;
         (b)   Prevention of fraud or abuse by a customer; or
         (c)   Failure of the customer to comply with any of the provisions of
this chapter.
      (2)   Before service is terminated, the customer shall be notified of the
proposed termination and given an opportunity to be heard on the matter as
provided in this section.
      (3)   The town reserves the right to discontinue or interrupt service
temporarily for any of the following reasons:
         (a)    Emergency repairs;
         (b)    Insufficient supply or treatment capacity; or
         (c)   Strike, riot, flood, accident, act of God or any other
unavoidable cause.
      (4)   The town shall make a good faith effort to notify affected
customers before service is discontinued or interrupted as provided in division
(B)(3) above. However, the customer, by making application for service, agrees
to hold the town harmless from liability for any loss or damage that may occur
due to discontinuance or interruption of service for the causes listed in
divisions (B)(3)(a) and (B)(3)(b) above.
   (C)   Notice of proposed termination of service and right of hearing.
      (1)   On the day that an account becomes delinquent, or as soon
thereafter as possible, the town shall mail to the customer a notice informing
the customer of the amount owed and stating that:
         (a)   The customer’s account is delinquent and is subject to a penalty
charge of $5;
         (b)   The customer is entitled to be heard before service termination
by a designated employee at a specified address or telephone number during
stated business hours if there is any dispute over the amount of the bill; and
         (c)   Unless the bill is paid in full or otherwise resolved by a
specified date, the town may terminate service without further notice.
      (2)   The service termination date stated in the notice described in
division (B) above shall be the later of the following:
         (a)    The tenth day after the date the notice is mailed; or
         (b)    The tenth day after the account becomes delinquent.
      (3)   If the town proposes to terminate service for any reason other than
nonpayment, the town shall first mail to the customer a notice informing the
customer:
         (a)   That the town proposes to terminate service without further
notice on a specified date, which date shall be not earlier than the tenth day
after the notice is mailed;
         (b)   What the reasons for the proposed termination are and what, if
anything, the customer may or must do to avoid termination of service; and
         (c)   That the customer is entitled to be heard by a designated
employee (at any time prior to termination of service) at a specified address
or telephone number during stated business hours if there is any question about
the accuracy or legitimacy of the reasons stated for the proposed termination.
   (D)   Termination hearing.
      (1)   The hearing provided for in division (C) above may be held by phone
or, at the request of the customer, the customer may meet in person with the
employee at the office of the employee, as specified in the notice.
      (2)   The hearing shall be conducted informally. The customer shall be
given every reasonable opportunity to bring to the attention of the designated
employee information that reasonably bears upon the reasons for the proposed
termination.
   (E)   Stay of termination pending hearing outcome.
      (1)   If the hearing provided for is requested and held before the
service termination date indicated in the notice, the town shall postpone the
proposed termination date until three days after the written decision is served
on the customer as provided in division (E)(2) below.
      (2)   As soon as reasonably possible after the hearing, the employee
conducting the hearing shall inform the customer in writing of his or her
decision and the reasons therefor. If the proposed termination relates to an
unpaid account, the writing shall also inform the customer that unless the
account is paid in full within three days after the notice is served, the
service will be terminated. This decision may be served upon the customer
personally or mailed by certified mail, return receipt requested.
      (3)   If the customer fails to make a timely request for the hearing or,
following a hearing, fails to comply with the decision of the town within the
time specified in division (E)(2) above, the town may terminate service without
further notice.
   (F)   Lessee may take responsibility for payment.
      (1)   (a)   A copy of the notice of proposed termination required by
division (C) above shall be sent to the occupant of the dwelling unit or the
tenant of the non-residential structure, whenever:
            1.   A water meter serves a single dwelling unit or, in the case of
non-residential structures, a single tenant;
            2.   The occupant of the dwelling unit or the tenant is not the
person responsible for water or sewer payments (such as is not the customer);
and
            3.   The customer becomes delinquent in his or her payments.
         (b)   The notice shall include or be accompanied by a statement
setting forth the rights of the occupant or tenant (the lessee) as provided in
division (F)(2) below.
      (2)   When a lessor becomes delinquent in his or her water or sewer
payment, a lessee may take responsibility for the payments and may thereby
become the customer. The lessee shall not be responsible for the debts of the
lessor.
   (G)   Procedure for service termination and reinstatement.
      (1)   Water and sewer service termination shall be effected only by
authorized agents of the town.
      (2)   When service is terminated, discontinued or interrupted for any
reason set forth in this section, it shall be unlawful for any person other
than a duly authorized agent or employee of the town to do any act that results
in the resumption of service.
      (3)   When service is terminated for nonpayment of bills, the service
application deposit shall be applied to the outstanding bill.
      (4)   If there are deposit funds remaining after the deposit is applied
to the outstanding bill, the excess shall be refunded to the customer. If a
portion of the bill remains outstanding, the town may proceed to collect the
balance using any lawful procedure.
      (5)   Before service will be reinstated, the customer shall be required
to make full payment of any charges still outstanding on his or her account. In
addition, the customer shall also redeposit with the town an amount equal to
his or her application deposit or the amount of the bill outstanding at the
time of termination, whichever is greater.
      (6)   A charge for service reinstatement shall be made pursuant to the
schedule of rates and charges adopted by the Board of Commissioners.
   (H)   Termination at customer’s request.
      (1)   The customer shall request that service be discontinued (for a
change in occupancy or other reason) at least one day before the customer
desires the termination to become effective.
      (2)   The customer shall be responsible for all water consumed and for
prorated service up to the time service is terminated, or until one day
following receipt of the request for termination, whichever occurs sooner.
      (3)   When all charges for service are paid in full, the customer’s
deposit shall be refunded. The deposit will be refunded pursuant to the
schedule of rates and charges.
      (4)   The customer shall be entitled to be heard by a designated employee
concerning any dispute about the amount of the deposit refund. The employee
shall inform the customer in writing of his or her decision and the reasons
therefor as soon as reasonably possible.
(Prior Code, § 50.141) (Ord. O-00-001, passed 2-24-2000) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.157 RATES AND CHARGES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The town’s Board of Commissioners hereby amends its previous utility
rate ordinance for water and sewer services. The new schedule for water and
sewer rates is as follows:
      (1)   Residential rates flat fee in town: $27;
Tiers
Tiers
0-1000      $3.50
1001-2000   $4.20
2001-3000   $5.50
3001-4000   $8
4001-5000   $9.90
5000-20,000 $10
And up      $10 (per 1000 gallons)
 
      (2)   Residential rates flat fee out of town: $35;
 
Tiers
0-1000      $4.50
1001-2000   $5.20
2001-3000   $6.50
3001-4000   $9
5001-20,000 $10.90 (per 1000 gallons)
And up      $11 (per 1000 gallons)
 
      (3)   Commercial rates flat flee in town: $33; and
Tiers
Tiers
0-1000      $3.50
1001-2000   $4.20
2001-3000   $5.50
3001-4000   $8
4001-5000   $9.90
5001-20,000 $10 (per 1000 gallons)
And up      $10 (per 1000 gallons)
 
      (4)   Commercial rates flat fee out of town: $40.
Tiers
Tiers
0-1000      $4.50
1001-2000   $5.20
2001-3000   $6.50
3001-4000   $9
4001-5000   $10.90
5001-20,000 $11 (per 1000 gallons)
And up      $11 (per 1000 gallons)
 
   (B)   This section shall apply to all water and sewer accounts effective
beginning with the April 2021 billing cycle, as previously authorized by the
Board of Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 50.142) (Ord. 2021-005, passed 5-10-2021)
§ 50.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
other specific penalty has been provided shall be subject to the penalties
described in §
10.99 of this code.
   (B)   (1)   Any user who is found to have failed to comply with any
provision of this chapter, or the orders, rules, regulations, and permits
issued hereunder, may be fined up to $10,000 per day per violation.
      (2)   In determining the amount of the civil penalty, the POTW Director
shall consider the following:
         (a)   The degree and extent of the harm to the natural resources, to
the public health, or to public or private property resulting from the
violation;
         (b)   The duration and gravity of the violation;
         (c)   The effect on ground or surface water quantity or quality or on
air quality;
         (d)   The cost of rectifying the damage;
         (e)   The amount of money saved by noncompliance;
         (f)   Whether the violation was committed willfully or intentionally;
         (g)   The prior record of the violator in complying or failing to
comply with the pretreatment program; and
         (h)   The costs of enforcement to the town.
      (3)   Appeals of civil penalties assessed in accordance with division (B)
(2) above shall be as provided in §
50.107(F) of this code.
(Prior Code, § 50.999) (Ord. O-00-001, passed 2-24-2000; Ord. 19- , passed 2-
21-19)
CHAPTER 51: WATER SHORTAGE RESPONSE
Section
   
51.01   Purpose
   
51.02   Definitions
   
51.03   Declaration of voluntary conservation
   
51.04   Declaration of mandatory conservation
   
51.05   Declaration of a water shortage emergency
   
51.06   Declaration of rationing
   
51.07   Shortage Water Rates
   
51.08   Regulations
   
51.09   Effective Date
   
51.10   Effective Period
   
51.11   Conservation Measures
 
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the declaration of official
phases of water supply shortage situations and the implementation of voluntary
and mandatory water conservation measures throughout the town in the event a
shortage is declared.
(Ord. O-07-002, passed 7-2-2007)
§ 51.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLOTMENT. The maximum quantity of water allowed for each customer over an
applicable period as established in the water rationing provisions of this
chapter.
   ANY WATER. Any type of water, including fresh water, brackish water,
wastewater or reclaimed water.
   BRACKISH WATER. Water containing more than 1,000 parts per million of
dissolved salts.
   CUSTOMER. Any person using water for any purpose from the town’s water
distribution system and for which a regular charge is made.
   EMERGENCY. The water supplies are below the level necessary to meet normal
needs and that serious shortages exist in the area.
   EXCESS USE. The usage of water by a water customer in excess of the water
allotment provided under the water rationing provisions of this chapter for
that customer, over any applicable period.
   FRESH WATER. Water withdrawn from surface or ground water, which has not
been previously used, other than brackish water.
   MANDATORY CONSERVATION. That raw water supplies are consistently below
seasonal averages, and if they continue to decline, may not be adequate to meet
normal needs.
   NON-RESIDENTIAL CUSTOMER. Commercial, industrial, institutional, public and
all other such users, with exception of hospitals and health care facilities.
   RATIONING. Procedures established to provide for the equitable distribution
of critically-limited water supplies, in order to balance demand and limited
available supplies, and to assure that sufficient water is available to
preserve public health and safety.
   RECLAIMED WATER. Wastewater, which has been treated to allow reuse.
   RESIDENTIAL CUSTOMER. Any customer who receives water service for a single
or multi-family dwelling unit. The term RESIDENTIAL CUSTOMER does not include
educational or other institutions, hotels, motels or similar commercial
establishments.
   SERVICE INTERRUPTION. The temporary suspension of water supply, or reduction
of pressure below that required for adequate supply, to any customer, portion
of the system or the entire system.
   VOLUNTARY CONSERVATION. That conditions exist which indicate the potential
for serious water supply shortages.
   WASTE OF WATER. Includes, but is not limited to:
      (1)   Permitting water to escape down a gutter, ditch or other surface
drain; or
      (2)   Failure to repair a controllable leak of water due to defective
plumbing.
   WASTEWATER. Water previously used for industrial, municipal, county,
domestic or other purposes, and has not been returned to the surface or ground
water source.
   WATER. Water available to the town for treatment by virtue of its water
right or withdrawal permit or any treated water introduced by the county into
the town’s water distribution system, including water offered for sale.
   WATER USE CLASSES. Established as follows:
      (1)   Class 1. Essential water uses:
         (a)   Domestic use. Water necessary to sustain human life and the
lives of domestic pets, and to maintain minimum standards of hygiene and
sanitation;
         (b)   Health care facilities. Patient care and rehabilitation,
including swimming pools used for patient care and rehabilitation;
         (c)   Public use.
            1.   Fire hydrants;
            2.   Firefighting; and
            3.   Certain testing and drills by the fire departments if
performed in the interest of public safety and if approved by the town’s Board
of Commissioners.
         (d)   Flushing of sewers and hydrants. As needed to ensure public
health and safety if approved by the town’s Board of Commissioners.
      (2)   Class 2. Socially or economically important uses of water:
         (a)   All domestic uses other than those included in Classes 1 and 3:
            1.   Home water use including kitchen, bathroom and laundry use;
            2.   Minimal watering of vegetable gardens; and
            3.   Watering trees where necessary to preserve them.
         (b)   Commercial, agricultural, industrial and institutional uses:
            1.   Outdoor commercial watering (public or private) using
conservation measures and to the extent that sources of water other than fresh
water are not available to use;
            2.   Irrigation for commercial vegetable gardens and fruit orchards
or the maintenance of livestock;
            3.   Watering by commercial nurseries at a minimum level necessary
to maintain stock;
            4.   Water use by arboretums and public gardens of national, state
or regional significance where necessary to preserve specimens;
            5.   Use of fresh water at a minimum rate necessary to implement
vegetation following earth-moving, where such re-vegetation is required by law
or regulation;
            6.   Watering of golf course greens;
            7.   Filling and operation of swimming pools. Residential pools
which serve more than 25 dwelling units, pools used by health care facilities
for patient care and rehabilitation, and municipal pools;
            8.   Commercial car and truck washes;
            9.   Commercial laundromats;
            10.   Restaurants, clubs, and eating establishments;
            11.   Air conditions. Refilling for start-up at the beginning of
the cooling season, make-up water during cooling season, refilling specifically
approved by health officials and the town’s Board of Commissioners, where the
system has been drained for health protection or repair purposes; and
            12.   Schools, churches, motels, hotels and similar commercial
establishments.
      (3)   Class 3. Non-essential uses of water:
         (a)   Ornamental purposes: Fountains, reflecting pools, artificial
waterfalls and the like;
         (b)   Outdoor non-commercial watering (public or private):
            1.   Gardens, lawns, parks, golf courses (except greens), playing
fields and other recreational areas;
            2.   Filling and operation of recreational swimming pools which
serve fewer than 25 dwellings;
            3.   Non-commercial washing of motor vehicles;
            4.   Serving water in restaurants, clubs or eating places except by
specific request; and
            5.   Refilling of air conditioning cooling towers after draining
except as specified in Class 1.
         (c)   Public use:
            1.   Fire hydrants, any use including use of sprinkler caps and
testing fire apparatus and for fire department drills, except as listed in
Class 1; and
            2.   Flushing of sewers and hydrants except as listed in Class 1.
(Ord. O-07-002, passed 7-2-2007)
§ 51.03 DECLARATION OF VOLUNTARY CONSERVATION.
   Whenever the town’s Board of Commissioners finds that a potential shortage
of water supply is indicated, it shall be empowered to declare by adoption of a
resolution that voluntary conservation conditions exist, and that the Water
Director shall, on a daily basis, monitor the supply and demand upon that
supply. In addition, the Board is authorized to call upon all water customers
to employ voluntary water conservation measures (see §
51.11 of this code) to limit water use (especially Class 3 users) and eliminate
the waste of water. This resolution shall be published in a newspaper of
general circulation in the areas which qualifies under G.S. § 1-597, and may be
publicized through the general news media or any other appropriate method of
making such resolutions public.
(Ord. O-07-002, passed 7-2-2007)
§ 51.04 DECLARATION OF MANDATORY CONSERVATION.
   Whenever the town’s Board of Commissioners finds raw water supplies to be
consistently below seasonal averages, and if they continue to decline and may
not be adequate to meet normal needs, it shall be empowered to declare by
adoption of a resolution that mandatory conservation conditions exist. The town
shall continue to encourage voluntary water conservation measures defined under
the voluntary conservation declaration, and further shall impose a ban on all
Class 3 water uses for the duration of the shortage until it is declared ended
by resolution of the town’s Board of Commissioners. Publications of these
resolutions shall follow the provisions declared in §
51.03 of this code.
(Ord. O-07-002, passed 7-2-2007)
§ 51.05 DECLARATION OF A WATER SHORTAGE EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the town’s Board of Commissioners finds that raw water supplies are
below the level necessary to meet normal needs and that serious shortages
exist, it shall be empowered to declare by adoption of a resolution that a
water shortage emergency exists. Class 1, essential uses shall be identified,
in specific, as targets for voluntary conservation initiatives. Also, all Class
2, socially or economically important uses shall be banned in addition to the
Class 3, non-essential uses. These restrictions shall continue until the
emergency is declared ended by resolution of the town’s Board of Commissioners.
Publication of these resolutions shall follow the provisions in §
51.03 of this code.
(Ord. O-07-002, passed 7-2-2007)
§ 51.06 DECLARATION OF RATIONING.
   When the town’s Board of Commissioners has declared a water shortage
emergency and finds a need to provide for the equitable distribution of
critically-limited water supplies, in order to balance demand and limited
available supplies, and to assure that sufficient water is available to
preserve public health and safety, it shall be empowered to provide for
mandatory rationing by adoption of a resolution.
   (A)   Objectives of rationing. A resolution that provides for mandatory
rationing shall state findings that:
      (1)   It is imperative that water customers achieve an immediate further
reduction in water use in order to extend existing water supplies and, at the
same time, assure that sufficient water is available to preserve the public
health and sanitation and to provide fire protection service;
      (2)   The immediate further reduction in water usage is another step
along a continuum of responses to the present water supply shortage. Should
shortage continue, further reductions in usage may be required. It must be
emphasized that the additional usage reduction in the rationed area is a valid
and attainable goal reflective of the conditions, which currently exist; and
      (3)   The plan provides for equitable reductions in water usage and for
equal sacrifice on the part of each water customer. The success of this chapter
depends on the cooperation of all water customers in the emergency area.
   (B)   Water use rationing for residential users.
      (1)   Metered residential water customers and allotments.
         (a)   The number of permanent residents in each dwelling unit
(household) will determine the amount of water that each household will be
allowed.
         (b)   Each dwelling unit (household) shall be allotted 25 gallons per
day for each resident of the household. Households with only one permanent
resident will have a daily allotment of 30 gallons.
         (c)   Residential water customers are required to provide municipality
and utility personnel with reasonable access to read meters as necessary to
this rationing declaration. Where access is not readily available, all
reasonable efforts to contact customers in order to arrange for access to read
meters shall be made. In the event a water customer does not allow entry to
read the meter after reasonable efforts to arrange for such access, the
dwelling unit (household) allotment will be reduced to 30 gallons per day.
         (d)   If it is found that the residential water allotment provided
under this section would create an extraordinary hardship for individual
customers, as in the case of special health-related requirements, a revised
allotment for the particular customer may be established.
      (2)   Suggested conservation measures. See §
51.11 of this code.
   (C)   Water use rationing for non-residential water users.
      (1)   Non-residential customers include commercial, industrial,
institutional, public and all other such users, with the exception of hospital
and health care facilities.
      (2)   Non-residential water customers shall further reduce their water
usage to 25 gallons per person per day or to 50% of normal usage during the
period of this resolution.
      (3)   It is the primary responsibility of each non-residential water
customer to meet its mandated water use reduction goal in whatever manner
possible, including limitation of operating hours or days if necessary.
      (4)   The town will establish a water allotment for each non-residential
water customers, based upon a required further reduction water usage from the
rate of water used by the customer during the period described in division (C)
(2) above.
      (5)   Each non-residential water user shall provide access to town
personnel for purposes of meter reading and monitoring of compliance with this
chapter.
      (6)   (a)   If the mandated further reduction in water usage cannot be
obtained without imposing extraordinary hardship which threatens health and
safety, the non-residential customer may apply to the town for a variance.
         (b)   For these purposes EXTRAORDINARY HARDSHIP means a permanent
damage to property or an economic loss which is substantially more severe than
the sacrifices borne by other water users subject to the water rationing
resolution. If the further reduction would cause an extraordinary hardship or
threaten health or safety, a variance may be granted by the town and a revised
water use reduction requirement for the particular customer may be established.
      (7)   The town will provide each non-residential customer with suggested
means to reduce usage levels. (See §
51.11 of this code.)
   (D)   Water use rationing for hospitals and health care facilities.
      (1)   Hospitals and health care facilities shall comply with all
restrictions imposed on residential and non-residential water customers as may
be applicable to each individual institution, to be extent compliance will not
endanger the health of patients or residents of the institution.
      (2)   Each hospital or health care facility shall survey its water usage
patters and requirements and implement such additional conservation measures as
may be possible without endangering the health of its patients or residents to
achieve a further reduction in the institution’s water usage.
      (3)   The town will provide each hospital and health care facility with
suggested means to reduce usage levels. (See §
51.11 of this code.)
   (E)   Enforcement of water rationing.
      (1)   The town will have primary responsibility for monitoring of
compliance with the water rationing resolution.
      (2)   The following provisions shall govern the implementations of
temporary service interruptions.
         (a)   In order to effectuate compliance with this chapter, the town is
hereby authorized and required to plan and implement temporary service
interruptions to all or part of its water distribution system, as may be deemed
appropriate, when any and/or all of the following conditions are determined to
exist:
            1.   The mandated reduction in system-wide usage has not been
achieved;
            2.   The mandated reduction in system-wide water usage has been
achieved, but has failed to have a significant impact in extending limited
water supplies; or
            3.   Temporary service interruptions are necessary in order to
further extend limited and/or dwindling water supplies.
         (b)   In the event it is determined that temporary service
interruptions are necessary, the town shall notify its customers through the
public media (newspapers, radio and television), at least one day prior to the
temporary service interruption, that a planned, temporary service interruption
is to be imposed. Such notice shall:
            1.   State the day or days when the planned, temporary service
interruption will occur;
            2.   State the time(s) when such planned, temporary service
interruptions will commence, and the time(s) such interruption will cease;
            3.   State whether the planned, temporary service interruptions are
to be imposed on the entire system, or part thereof, and if only part(s) of the
system will experience planned, temporary service interruption, identify
geographic boundaries within which such interruptions will occur; and
            4.   Advise all customers within the areas affected by planned,
temporary service interruptions how to treat any water received from the
system, for human consumption, during the period(s) of such interruptions and
for such additional time as may be necessary until full pressure is restored to
the system.
         (c)   If a planned, temporary service interruption is imposed as
authorized and required by this chapter, the town must provide for the
continued delivery of water to health care facilities within the area(s)
effected by such interruptions, by means of any adequate, alternative delivery
measures that may be necessary.
         (d)   If a planned, temporary service interruption is implemented, the
town must make provision, by any means possible, for the continued delivery of
such water as may be necessary for the proper operation of sewage collection,
treatment and disposal systems and facilities.
      (3)   Any residential or non-residential water customer who exceeds the
allotments established pursuant to this water rationing will be subject to the
following excess-use civil penalties.
         (a)    Excess-use civil penalties will be collected based on the
amount by which a customer’s use exceeds the ware allotments established
pursuant to the local water rationing declaration, computed in accordance with
the following schedule:
 
Excess Usage per Month                 Civil Penalty for Excess
First 2,000 gallons or portion thereof $20 per 1,000 gallons or portion thereof
Each 1,000 gallons or portion thereof, $15 per 1,000 gallons or portion thereof
thereafter
 
         (b)   Any monies collected through excess-use civil penalties shall
not be accounted for as income, but shall be placed in a reserve account that
is dedicated to addressing water shortage problems and water conservation
initiatives.
      (4)   In addition to the excess-use civil penalty, non-compliance with
the water rationing provisions of this chapter will result in the following.
         (a)   For the first excess use, a warning of possible discontinuation
shall be issued to the customer.
         (b)   For the second or subsequent excess use, service to the customer
may be interrupted or shut off for a period not to exceed 48 hours, or, if the
customer provides access, a flow restrictor may be installed in the customer’s
service line for the duration of the emergency. The cost incurred to interrupt
or shut of and reinstate service, or to install and remove a flow restrictor
shall be assessed to the water customer.
         (c)   Before service to an individual may be terminated under this
provision, actual notice of the intent to discontinue shall be given, which
shall include notice that the customer may appear at a designated time and
place (within 24 hours) for an informal hearing to show why service should not
be discontinued.
      (5)   Meter reading schedules are authorized to be altered to assure
adequate monitoring of compliance with this chapter.
      (6)   Any customer or other person aggrieved by a decision or action
imposing an excess-use civil penalty or other remedy for non-compliance with
the requirements of this chapter may proceed in accordance with the following
provisions.
         (a)   The town shall adopt procedures, which provide an opportunity
for the customer or aggrieved party to rebut the finding of a violation, or
provide evidence of circumstances beyond the customer’s control, which resulted
in the violation.
         (b)   A record of evidence regarding disputed violations shall be
kept, and a written notice of the town’s final decision and action in such
cases shall be provided to the customer or aggrieved party.
(Ord. O-07-002, passed 7-2-2007) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.07 SHORTAGE WATER RATES.
   (A)   Upon the declaration of a water supply shortage as provided in §§
51.03 through
51.06 of this code, the town’s Board of Commissioners shall have the power to
adopt shortage water rates by ordinance designed to conserve water supplies.
   (B)   Such rates may provide for, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Higher charges per unit for increasing usage;
      (2)   Uniform charges for water usage per unit of use;
      (3)   Extra charges for use in excess of a specified level; or
      (4)   Discounts for conserving water beyond specified levels.
(Ord. O-07-002, passed 7-2-2007)
§ 51.08 REGULATIONS.
   During the effective period of any water supply shortage as provided for in
§§
51.03 through
51.06 of this code, the town’s Board of Commissioners is empowered to
promulgate by ordinance such provisions and requirements as may be necessary to
carry out the provisions of this chapter, any water supply shortage declaration
ordinance, or water shortage rate ordinance. Such ordinances may be adopted at
a special or emergency meeting of the governing body, if statutory requirements
are met.
(Ord. O-07-002, passed 7-2-2007)
§ 51.09 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The ordinance codified in this chapter shall take effect immediately upon
adoption or passage by the town’s Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. O-07-002, passed 7-2-2007)
§ 51.10 EFFECTIVE PERIOD.
   This chapter will remain in effect until terminated by action of the town’s
Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. O-07-002, passed 7-2-2007)
§ 51.11 CONSERVATION MEASURES.
   Direct users to adopt the following conservation measures.
   (A)   Indoor residential use.
      (1)   Conservation for voluntary and mandatory conservation measures.
         (a)   Use dishwashers only when they are full. Washing dishes by hand
(don’t let the tap run!) saves about 25 gallons.
         (b)   Adjust water level on clothes washing machines, if possible. Use
full loads only, if not adjustable.
         (c)   Turn off faucets while brushing teeth and the like. Saves about
five gallons per day.
         (d)   Reduce water used per flush by installing toilet tank
displacement inserts.
         (e)   Do not use the toilet as a trash can.
         (f)   Use sink and tub stoppers to avoid wasting water.
         (g)   Keep a bottle of chilled water in the refrigerator for drinking.
         (h)   Find and fix leaks in toilet, which can leak silently. Place a
drop of food coloring in the upper tank and don’t flush for 30 minutes. If
color appears in the bowl, there’s leakage.
         (i)   Adapt plumbing with flow-restricting or other water-saving
devices. Learn to read your water meter to keep track of the difference
conservation makes.
         (j)   Take shorter showers and shallower baths.
         (k)   Reduce the number of toilet flushes per day.
         (l)   Don’t use a garbage disposal.
      (2)   Conservation for emergency conversation or rationing phase (in
addition to the measures listed in division (A)(1) above):
         (a)   Turn off shower while soaping up.
         (b)   Use disposable eating utensils.
   (B)   Outdoor residential use.
      (1)   Conservation for normal conditions and voluntary conservation
phase.
         (a)   Lawns.
            1.   Water before 10:00 a.m. to prevent evaporation which occurs
during the hottest part of the day.
            2.   Water only when lawn shows signs of wilt. Grass that springs
back when stepped on does not need water.
            3.   Water thoroughly, not frequently: long enough to soak roots.
            4.   Don’t let the sprinkler run any longer than necessary.
            5.   Allow maximum of one inch of water per week on your lawn.
            6.   Use pistol-grip nozzles on hoses to avoid waste when watering
flowers and shrubs.
            7.   Aerate lawns by punching holes six inches apart. This allows
water to reach the roots rather than run off surfaces.
            8.   Position sprinklers to water the lawn, not the pavement.
            9.   Avoid watering on windy days, which causes excess evaporation.
            10.   Adjust hose to simulate a gentle rain not a fine mist.
            11.   Know how to turn off automatic sprinkler system in case of
rain.
            12.   Use an audible timer to remind you to shut off sprinklers
that don’t have timers.
         (b)   Vegetables and flower gardens.
            1.   Water deeply, slowly and weekly. Most vegetables require
moisture to a depth of six to eight inches.
            2.   Keep soil loose so water can penetrate easily.
            3.   Use mulch around plants and between rows to hold in moisture.
            4.   Keep weeds pit to reduce competition of water.
            5.   Put the water where you want it and avoid evaporation by using
soil-soakers or slow-running hoses, not sprinklers.
         (c)   Trees and shrubs.
            1.   Water deeply using a soil-soaker.
            2.   Water only when needed. Check the depth of soil dryness by
digging with a trowel.
            3.   Mulch to reduce evaporation.
            4.   Dig troughs around plants to catch and retain water.
            5.   Water trees growing in full sun more often than those in
shade.
            6.   Do not use sprinklers. Apply water directly at base.
            7.   Do not fertilize during the summer. Fertilizing increases a
plant’s need for water.
            8.   Postpone planting until fall or spring when there is generally
less need for water.
            9.   Water at night, when cloudy or even when a light rain is
falling.
      (2)   Conservation for voluntary conservation phase (in addition to
measures listed in division (B)(1) above).
         (a)   Do not allow children to play with hose or sprinklers.
         (b)   Limit car washing.
         (c)   Be ready to catch rainfall that occurs. Place containers under
drainspouts.
         (d)   Use leftover household water.
         (e)   Consider delaying the seeding or sodding of new lawns.
         (f)   Determine the amount of water being used outdoors by comparing
water bills for summer and winter.
      (3)   Conservation for mandatory conservation phase (in addition to
measures listed in divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) above).
         (a)   Vegetable gardens and food trees should be given minimal amounts
of water on an individual basis only.
         (b)   Do not water lawns and inedible plants.
         (c)   Do not use sprinklers.
   (C)   Hospital and health care facility use.
      (1)   Reduce laundry usage or services by changing bed linens and the
like, only when necessary to preserve the health of patients or residents.
      (2)   Use disposable food service items.
      (3)   Eliminate, postpone or reduce, as may be appropriate, elective
surgical procedures during the period of emergency.
   (D)   Industrial use.
      (1)   Identify and repair all leaky fixtures and water-using equipment.
      (2)   Adjust water-using equipment to use the minimum amount of water
required to achieve its stated purpose.
      (3)   Shorten rinse cycles for laundry machines as much as possible:
implement lower water levels wherever possible.
      (4)   For processing, cooling and other uses, either re-use water or use
water from sources that would not adversely affect public water supplies.
      (5)   Advise employees, students, patients, customers and other users not
to flush toilets after every use. Install toilet tank displacement inserts;
place flow restrictors in shower heads and faucets.
      (6)   Place water-saving posters and literature where employees,
students, patients, customers and the like will have access to them.
      (7)   Check water meter on a frequent basis to determine consumption
patterns.
      (8)   Review usage patterns to see where other savings can be made.
(Ord. O-07-002, passed 7-2-2007)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter, who fails to
carry out the duties and responsibilities imposed by this chapter, or who
impedes or interferes with any action undertaken or ordered pursuant to this
chapter shall be subject to the following penalties.
      (1)   If the Manager, Water Director or other town official or officials
charged with implementation and enforcement of this chapter or a water supply
shortage resolution learns of any violation of any water use restriction
imposed pursuant to this chapter, a written notice of the violation shall be
affixed to the property where the violation occurred and mailed to the customer
of record and to any other person known to the town who is responsible for the
violation or its correction. This notice shall describe the violation and order
that it be corrected, cured or abated immediately or within such specified time
as the town determines is reasonable under the circumstances. If the order is
not complied with, the town may terminate water service to the customer subject
to the following procedures.
         (a)   The town shall give the customer notice by mail that, due to the
violation, water services will be discontinued within a specified time and that
the customer will have the opportunity to appeal the termination by requesting
a hearing scheduled before the town’s Board of Commissioners or a town official
designated as a hearing officer by the town’s Board of Commissioners.
         (b)   If such a hearing is requested by the customer charged with the
violation, he or she shall be given a full opportunity to be heard before
termination is order.
         (c)   The town’s Board of Commissioners or hearing officer shall make
findings of fact and order whether service should continue or be terminated.
      (2)   A fee of $50 shall be paid for the reconnection of any water
service terminated pursuant to §
51.06 of this code. In the event of subsequent violation, the reconnection fee
shall be $200 for the second violation and $300 for each additional violation.
      (3)   Any customer may also be charged with violation of this chapter and
prosecuted in District Court. Any person so charged and found guilty of
violating the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to a civil penalty,
not to exceed $100, as further described in §
10.99. Each day’s violation shall constitute a separate violation.
   (C)   Violation of this chapter may subject the offender to civil penalties
in the amounts provided, or otherwise in an amount of $25 per day, collectible
in a civil action in the nature of debt.
(Ord. O-07-002, passed 7-2-2007; Ord. 19- , passed 2-21-2019)
CHAPTER 52: GARBAGE AND REFUSE
Section
   
52.01   Definition
   
52.02   Prompt removal required
   
52.03   Wet garbage
   
52.04   Deposit of garbage on public or private property prohibited
   
52.05   Transportation of garbage; permit required
   
52.06   Hour for placing cans
   
52.07   Removal of dead animals
§ 52.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Includes all refuse, animal, fruit and other vegetable matter, all
tin cans, glassware and crockery in which any such matter has been put up or
stored and all rags, waste paper, floor sweepings and other combustible refuse,
except building material, scraps and tree trimmings.
(Prior Code, § 52.01)
§ 52.02 PROMPT REMOVAL REQUIRED.
   No garbage that has become decayed or that shall otherwise be a menace to
health or cleanliness shall be allowed to remain in any dwelling house, hotel,
boarding house, safe, restaurant, lunch stand, fruit stand, meat market, store
or other building, or on any premises, a longer time than shall be reasonably
necessary to remove and deposit the same in a can or cans as provided in this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 52.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.03 WET GARBAGE.
   All wet garbage shall have the liquid drained off and shall be wrapped in
paper or other combustible material before it is placed in the garbage can,
thus preventing smell and the breeding of flies in summer and freezing and
adhesion to the can in winter.
(Prior Code, § 52.03)
§ 52.04 DEPOSIT OF GARBAGE ON PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   No person shall throw, place or deposit any garbage in any street, alley,
public place or private property within the city limits, except in garbage cans
or garbage vehicles as provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 52.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.05 TRANSPORTATION OF GARBAGE; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person or persons shall collect, handle, haul or transport, on any of the
streets, alleys or public ways or places of the town, any garbage without first
having procured a permit therefor from the Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 52.05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.06 HOUR FOR PLACING CANS.
   Garbage cans or similar containers containing garbage and trash for removal
shall be placed on the premises from which the same are to be removed at or
before 7:00 a.m. on the day scheduled for removal.
(Prior Code, § 52.06)
§ 52.07 REMOVAL OF DEAD ANIMALS.
   Dead animals will be removed by the town at any time.
(Prior Code, § 52.07)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   General violations
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Vehicles of the Fire Department, police
vehicles and ambulances designated or authorized by the Chief of Police.
   BLOCK. A portion of any street located between two intersections next
adjacent to each other.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to a highway when 50% or more of
frontage thereon for a distance of 300 feet or more is occupied by buildings in
use for business.
   CROSSWALK. The portion of a roadway ordinarily included within the
prolongation or connection of the lateral lines of sidewalks at intersections.
Any portion of a roadway distinctly indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines
or other markings on the surface.
   DRIVER. Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
   INTERSECTION. The area embraced within the prolongation of the lateral curb
lines or if none, then the lateral boundary lines of two or more highways which
join one another at an angle whether or not one of these highways crosses the
other.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle which
is propelled by electric power obtained from overhand trolley wires, but not
operated upon rails.
   OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD. Whenever certain hours are named herein, they shall
mean standard time or daylight saving time as may be in current use in this
town.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, markings and devices
not inconsistent with this title, placed or erected by authority of the
governing body or official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating,
warning or guiding traffic.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC SIGNAL. Any device, whether manually, electrically or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and to
proceed.
   PARK. The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, otherwise than
temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or
unloading.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   PERSON. Every natural person, firm, co-partnership, association or
corporation.
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer of the municipal Police Department or any
officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to make arrests for
violation of traffic regulations.
   PRIVATE ROAD or DRIVEWAY. Every road or driveway not open to the use of the
public for purposes of vehicular travel.
   PUBLIC CONVEYANCE. Any vehicle other than a taxicab or railroad train for
transporting for fare.
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to a highway not comprising a
business district when the frontage on that highway for a distance of 300 feet
or more is mainly occupied by dwellings or by dwellings and buildings in use
for business.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a street improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel.
   SAFETY ZONE. The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians and which is protected or is so marked or
indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set
apart as a SAFETY ZONE.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for the use of
pedestrians.
   STANDING. Any stopping of a vehicle, whether occupied or not.
   STOP. When required, means complete cessation of movement.
   STOP or STOPPING. When prohibited, means any stopping of a vehicle except
when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the
direction of a police officer or traffic-control sign or signal.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between property lines of every way or
place of whatever nature when any part thereof is open to the use of the
public, as a matter of right, for purpose of vehicular traffic.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, street cars and
other conveyances either singly or together while using any street for purposes
of travel.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices moved by human power or
used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks; provided, that for the
purpose of this title, a bicycle or a ridden animal shall be deemed a VEHICLE.
(Prior Code, § 70.01)
§ 70.02 GENERAL VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation receiving citations for violating any
of the regulations of the traffic ordinances in division (B) below may, before
a warrant is issued, be permitted to pay at the Town Hall to the Clerk, or to
the officer on duty in the absence of the Clerk, such fines as are set forth in
the conditions below. A receipt shall be given for the payment of these fines,
and a duplicate of the receipt shall be retained in the Clerk’s office.
   (B)   The following acts are violations:
      (1)   U-turn in business block;
      (2)   Illegal turn;
      (3)   Parking on wrong side of the street;
      (4)   Double parking;
      (5)   Parking in a no-parking zone;
      (6)   Parking in a loading zone;
      (7)   Parking in a taxi stand or bus stop;
      (8)   Obstructing traffic, vehicular or pedestrian;
      (9)   Parking more than 12 inches from the curb;
      (10)   Failure to park within a parking space;
      (11)   Parking on sidewalk;
      (12)   Failure to stop at a stop sign;
      (13)   Improper lights;
      (14)   Failure to stop at a stop light when red;
      (15)   Parking within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
      (16)   Driving too near a fire truck;
      (17)   Vehicle entering a block in which fire is in progress;
      (18)   Speed limit violators, as described in §
71.090 of this code;
      (19)   No person shall talk on a hand held cellular telephone while
operating a motor vehicle in motion within the city limits. (Upon receiving a
call, vehicle operator will be allowed ten seconds to pull to the side of the
road.)
(Prior Code, § 70.02) (Ord. O-61-001, passed 6-5-1961) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   If any person shall violate an ordinance regulating the operation or
parking of vehicles, he or she shall be required to pay a civil penalty of not
more than $100 per G.S. § 14-4(b).
   (C)   (1)   A warrant shall be issued for any person cited for violation of
any of the regulations in §
70.02 of this code and who fails to pay the penalties provided.
      (2)   No state tax shall be paid to the state in cases disposed of by
this division (C).
      (3)   All penalties collected under this division (C) shall be paid into
the General Fund of the town.
(Prior Code, § 70.99) (Ord. passed 6-5-1961; Ord. 19- , passed 2-21-2019)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
General Provisions
   
71.001   Obedience to traffic ordinances required
   
71.002   Obedience to police officers
   
71.003   Authority of police officers
   
71.004   Application to public employees
   
71.005   Authorized emergency vehicles; application and exemptions
   
71.006   Push carts, bicycles and animals; application
Traffic-Control Devices
   
71.020   Obedience required
   
71.021   Signal legend
   
71.022   Flashing signals
Stops and Yields
   
71.035   Stop before entering a through street
   
71.036   Stop before entering certain intersections
   
71.037   Stop when traffic obstructed
   
71.038   Emerging from alley or driveway
Turning Movements
   
71.050   Left turns as indicated
   
71.051   Restricted right or left turns
   
71.052   Turning around restricted
   
71.053   Passing a vehicle; limitations
   
71.054   When passing vehicle on the right side is permitted
Riding Regulations
   
71.065   Boarding and alighting
   
71.066   Non-passenger areas
   
71.067   Riding or entering without permission
   
71.068   Riding fully inside vehicle
   
71.069   Front seat; three persons maximum
   
71.070   Child restraint systems required
   
71.071   Seat belt use mandatory
   
71.072   Motor vehicle registration plates
   
71.073   Windows and windshield wipers
   
71.074   Required lighting equipment of vehicles
   
71.075   Violation of registration provisions
   
71.076   Unlawful use of mobile telephone for text messaging or electronic mail
   
71.077   Exhaust system and emissions control devices
   
71.078   Additional permissible light on vehicle
Additional Driving Rules
   
71.090   Speed limit
   
71.091   One-way streets
   
71.092   Funeral processions
   
71.093   Backing restricted
   
71.094   Driving on sidewalk prohibited
   
71.095   Driving on laned roadways
   
71.096   Lights on parked vehicles
   
71.097   Moving cars from parked position
   
71.098   Scratching off
Motorcycles, Bicycles, Coasters and the Like
   
71.110   Clinging to vehicles prohibited
   
71.111   Riding on handlebars prohibited
   
71.112   Handlebar use required
   
71.113   Roller-skates, coasters and the like
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.001 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC ORDINANCES REQUIRED.
   It is a misdemeanor for any person to do any act forbidden, or fail to
perform any act required, in this title.
(Prior Code, § 71.001) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.002 OBEDIENCE TO POLICE OFFICERS.
   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction by a police officer.
(Prior Code, § 71.002) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.003 AUTHORITY OF POLICE OFFICERS.
   In the event of a fire or other emergency, or where necessary to expedite
traffic or safeguard pedestrians, police officers may direct traffic as
conditions may require, notwithstanding the provisions of this title.
(Prior Code, § 71.003)
§ 71.004 APPLICATION TO PUBLIC EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   The provisions of this title shall apply to the driver of any vehicle
owned by, or used in the service of, the United States government, or this
state, county or town.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any so described driver to violate any of the
provisions of this title, except as otherwise permitted in this title, or by
state statute.
(Prior Code, § 71.004) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.005 AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES; APPLICATION AND EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this title regulating the operation, parking and
standing of vehicles shall apply to authorized emergency vehicles, as defined
in this chapter, except as follows. A driver when operating such a vehicle in
any emergency, except when otherwise directed by a police officer, may:
      (1)   Park or stand, notwithstanding the provisions of this title;
      (2)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
      (3)   Exceed the prima facie speed limits so long as it does not endanger
life or property; and
      (4)   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement, or turning,
in specified directions so long as he or she does not endanger life or
property.
   (B)   The foregoing exemptions shall not, however, protect the driver of any
authorized emergency vehicle from the consequences of reckless disregard of the
safety of others.
(Prior Code, § 71.005)
§ 71.006 PUSH CARTS, BICYCLES AND ANIMALS; APPLICATION.
   Every person propelling any push cart, or riding a bicycle or an animal upon
a roadway and every person driving any animal drawn vehicle, shall be subject
to the provisions of this title applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except
those provisions which, by their very nature, can have no application.
(Prior Code, § 71.006)
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 71.020 OBEDIENCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Obedience to official traffic-control devices.
      (1)   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the directions of any official
traffic-control device applicable thereto and placed in accordance with the
traffic ordinances of this town, unless otherwise directed by a police officer,
subject to the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle
in §
71.005 of this code.
      (2)   No provision of this title for which signs are required shall be
enforced against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the alleged
violation, an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently legible
to an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular section does not state
that signs are required, that section shall be effective without signs being
placed to give notice thereof.
   (B)   Obedience to no-turn signs and turning markers. Whenever authorized
signs are placed, erected or installed indicating that no right or left or U-
turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of any
such sign, and when authorized markers, buttons or other indications are placed
within an intersection indicating the course to be traveled by vehicles
traversing or turning thereat, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the
directions of those indications.
   (C)   Obedience to no-parking and safety zone markers. Whenever authorized
signs or markings are placed, erected or installed indicating no-parking zones
or safety zones, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the regulations in
connection therewith.
(Prior Code, § 71.020) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.021 SIGNAL LEGEND.
   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals exhibiting the
words “go,” “caution,” or “stop,” or exhibiting differently colored lights,
successively, one at a time, the following colors only shall be used, and these
terms and lights shall indicate as follows.
   (A)   Green alone, or “go.”
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed straight through,
or turn right or left unless a sign at that place prohibits either turn. But
vehicular traffic shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles and to
pedestrians lawfully within the intersection at the time this signal is
exhibited.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across the roadway within
any marked or unmarked crosswalk.
   (B)   Yellow alone, or “caution,” when shown following the green or “go”
signal.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at the intersection, but if the stop cannot be made in
safety, a vehicle may be driven cautiously through the intersection.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing the signal are hereby advised that there is
insufficient time to cross a roadway, and any pedestrian then starting to cross
shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles.
   (C)   Red alone, or “stop.”
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection, or at such other point as may indicated
by a clearly visible line, and shall remain standing until green or “go” is
shown alone.
      (2)   No pedestrian facing this signal shall enter the roadway unless he
or she can do so safely and without interfering with any vehicular traffic.
   (D)   Red with green arrow.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing this signal may cautiously enter the
intersection, only to continue the movement in the direction indicated by the
arrow, but shall not interfere with other traffic.
      (2)   No pedestrian facing this signal shall enter the roadway unless he
or she can do so safely and without interfering with any vehicular traffic.
(Prior Code, § 71.021) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.022 FLASHING SIGNALS.
   Whenever flashing red or yellow signals are used, they shall require
obedience by vehicular traffic as follows.
   (A)   Flashing red (stop signal). When a red lens is illuminated by rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection, or at a limit line when marked, and the
right to proceed shall be subject to the rules applicable after making a stop
at a stop sign.
   (B)   Flashing yellow (caution signal). When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or past the signal only with caution.
(Prior Code, § 71.022) Penalty, see §
70.99
STOPS AND YIELDS
§ 71.035 STOP BEFORE ENTERING A THROUGH STREET.
   (A)   Those streets and parts of streets as may be so designated by the
Board of Commissioners are hereby declared to be through streets for the
purpose of this section.
   (B)   When stop signs are placed, erected or installed upon highways
intersecting a through street at the entrance thereto, or at the entrance to
any intersection, every driver of a vehicle or street car shall stop in
obedience to those signs before entering the intersection and shall not proceed
into or across the through street until he or she has first determined that no
conflict with traffic will be involved.
(Prior Code, § 71.035) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.036 STOP BEFORE ENTERING CERTAIN INTERSECTIONS.
   Those intersections as may be so designated by the Board of Commissioners,
are hereby declared to be stop intersections when entered from the streets so
named, and when stop signs are placed, erected or installed at those
intersections every driver of a vehicle or street car shall stop in obedience
to those signs before entering the intersection, and shall not proceed into or
across the through street until he or she has first determined that no conflict
will be involved.
(Prior Code, § 71.036) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.037 STOP WHEN TRAFFIC OBSTRUCTED.
   No driver shall enter an intersection, or a marked crosswalk, unless there
is sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate the vehicle he or she is operating without obstructing the passage
of other vehicles, or pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic-control signal
indication to proceed.
(Prior Code, § 71.037) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.038 EMERGING FROM ALLEY OR DRIVEWAY.
   The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, driveway or building shall
stop that vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or into the
sidewalk areas extending across any alleyway, and upon entering the roadway he
or she shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on that
roadway.
(Prior Code, § 71.038)
TURNING MOVEMENTS
§ 71.050 LEFT TURNS AS INDICATED.
   In making left turns at those street intersections as may be so designated
by the Board of Commissioners, all traffic shall travel to the left of the
center of those intersections as may be indicated by buttons, markers or other
directing signs.
(Prior Code, § 71.050)
§ 71.051 RESTRICTED RIGHT OR LEFT TURNS.
   (A)   No vehicle shall make a left turn at any street intersection as may be
so designated by the Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   No vehicle shall make a right turn at any intersection as may be so
designated by the Board of Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 71.051) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.052 TURNING AROUND RESTRICTED.
   No driver shall turn any vehicle so as to proceed in the opposite direction
in the business district, except at street intersections, in the streets or
portions of streets, as may be so designated by the Board of Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 71.052) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.053 PASSING A VEHICLE; LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   The driver of any vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding
in the same direction shall pass at least two feet to the left thereof, and
shall not again drive to the right side of the roadway until safely clear of
such overtaken vehicle. This division shall not apply when a vehicle is passing
another vehicle pursuant to division (B) below or §
71.054.
      (2)   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
driver of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle while being lawfully overtaken on audible signal and shall
not increase the speed of such vehicle until completely passed by the
overtaking vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   The driver of a vehicle shall not drive to the left side of the
center of a roadway, in overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in
the same direction, unless such left side is clearly visible and is free of
oncoming traffic for a sufficient distance ahead to permit such overtaking and
passing to be safely made.
      (2)   The driver of a vehicle shall not overtake and pass another vehicle
proceeding in the same direction upon the crest of a grade or upon a curve in
the roadway where the driver’s view along the roadway is obstructed within a
distance of 500 feet.
      (3)   The driver of a vehicle shall not overtake and pass any other
vehicle proceeding in the same direction at any railway grade crossing nor at
any intersection of roadway, unless permitted to do so by a police officer.
      (4)   The driver of a vehicle shall not drive to the left side of the
centerline of a roadway upon the crest of a grade or upon a curve in the
roadway where such centerline has been placed upon such roadway by the
Department of Transportation, and is visible.
      (5)   The driver of a vehicle shall not overtake and pass another vehicle
on any portion of a roadway which is marked by signs, markers or markings
placed by the town or the Department of Transportation stating or clearly
indicating that passing should not be attempted. This division (B)(5) shall not
apply when the overtaking and passing is done in accordance with all of the
following:
         (a)   The slower moving vehicle to be passed is a bicycle or a moped;
         (b)   The slower moving vehicle is proceeding in the same direction as
the faster moving vehicle;
         (c)   The driver of the faster moving vehicle either provides a
minimum of four feet between the faster moving vehicle and the slower moving
vehicle or completely enters the left lane of the roadway;
         (d)   The operator of the slower moving vehicle is not making a left
turn or signaling in accordance with G.S. § 20-154 that he or she intends to
make a left turn; and
         (e)   The driver of the faster moving vehicle complies with all other
applicable requirements set forth in this section.
      (6)   The driver of a vehicle shall not overtake and pass self-propelled
farm equipment proceeding in the same direction when the farm equipment is
making a left turn or signaling that it intends to make a left turn.
      (7)   The foregoing limitations shall not apply upon a one-way street nor
to the driver of a vehicle turning left in or from an alley, private road or
driveway.
(Ord. 21-012, passed 10-11-2021)
§ 71.054 WHEN PASSING VEHICLE ON THE RIGHT SIDE IS PERMITTED.
   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass upon the right of another
vehicle only under the following conditions:
   (A)   When the vehicle overtaken is in a lane designated for left turns;
   (B)   Upon a roadway with unobstructed pavement of sufficient width which
has been marked for two or more lanes of moving vehicles in each direction and
is not occupied by parked vehicles;
   (C)   Upon a roadway on which traffic is restricted to one direction of
movement when such roadway is free from obstructions and is of sufficient width
and is marked for two or more lanes of moving vehicles which are not occupied
by parked vehicles; or
   (D)   When driving in a lane designating a right turn on a red traffic
signal light.
(Ord. 21-012, passed 10-11-2021)
RIDING REGULATIONS
§ 71.065 BOARDING AND ALIGHTING.
   No person shall board or alight from any public conveyance or other vehicle,
while that conveyance or vehicle is in motion.
(Prior Code, § 71.065) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.066 NON-PASSENGER AREAS.
   (A)   No person shall ride on any public conveyance or vehicle, or any
portion thereof, not designed or intended for the use of passengers.
   (B)   This provision shall not apply to an employee engaged in the necessary
discharge of a duty, or to persons riding within a truck body in spaces
intended for merchandise.
(Prior Code, § 71.066) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.067 RIDING OR ENTERING WITHOUT PERMISSION.
   No person shall enter, jump on or ride any automobile or other vehicle
without the consent of the owner or driver.
(Prior Code, § 71.067) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.068 RIDING FULLY INSIDE VEHICLE.
   No person when riding shall allow any part of his or her body to protrude
beyond the limits of the vehicle in which he or she is riding, except to give
signals as are by law required, and no person shall hang on to any vehicle
whatsoever.
(Prior Code, § 71.068) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.069 FRONT SEAT; THREE PERSONS MAXIMUM.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver or the person in charge of any motor
vehicle to permit more than three persons, including the driver, to ride in the
front or driver’s seat of a motor vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 71.069) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.070 CHILD RESTRAINT SYSTEMS REQUIRED.
   The provisions of G.S. § 20-137.1, as amended, are incorporated herein by
reference to the fullest extent permitted by law.
(Ord. 19-006, passed 1-9-2019) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.071 SEAT BELT USE MANDATORY.
   The provisions of G.S. § 20-135.2A, as amended, are incorporated herein by
reference to the fullest extent permitted by law.
(Ord. 19-006, passed 1-9-2019) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.072 MOTOR VEHICLE REGISTRATION PLATES.
   The provisions of G.S. § 20-63, as amended, are incorporated herein by
reference to the fullest extent permitted by law.
(Ord. 19-006, passed 1-9-2019) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.073 WINDOWS AND WINDSHIELD WIPERS.
   The provisions of G.S. § 20-127, as amended, are incorporated herein by
reference to the fullest extent permitted by law.
(Ord. 19-006, passed 1-9-2019) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.074 REQUIRED LIGHTING EQUIPMENT OF VEHICLES.
   The provisions of G.S. § 20-129, as amended, are incorporated herein by
reference to the fullest extent permitted by law.
(Ord. 19-006, passed 1-9-2019) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.075 VIOLATION OF REGISTRATION PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of G.S. § 20-111, as amended, are incorporated herein by
reference to the fullest extent permitted by law.
(Ord. 19-006, passed 1-9-2019) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.076 UNLAWFUL USE OF MOBILE TELEPHONE FOR TEXT MESSAGING OR ELECTRONIC
MAIL.
   The provisions of G.S. § 20-137.4A, as amended, are incorporated herein by
reference to the fullest extent permitted by law.
(Ord. 19-006, passed 1-9-2019) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.077 EXHAUST SYSTEM AND EMISSIONS CONTROL DEVICES.
   The provisions of G.S. § 20-128, as amended, are incorporated herein by
reference to the fullest extent permitted by law.
(Ord. 19-006, passed 1-9-2019) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.078 ADDITIONAL PERMISSIBLE LIGHT ON VEHICLE.
   The provisions of G.S. § 20-130, as amended, are incorporated herein by
reference to the fullest extent permitted by law.
(Ord. 19-006, passed 1-9-2019) Penalty, see §
70.99
ADDITIONAL DRIVING RULES
§ 71.090 SPEED LIMIT.
   (A)   A vehicle may be operated on any street of this town designated as a
business section, at a rate of speed not exceeding 20 mph; provided, however,
that at no time shall the speed be greater than is reasonable and prudent under
the conditions then existing.
   (B)   The speed limit on state highways in residential sections shall be 35
mph, and 25 mph on all other streets unless otherwise posted.
(Prior Code, § 71.080) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.091 ONE-WAY STREETS.
   Upon those streets and parts of streets as may be so designated by the Board
of Commissioners, vehicular traffic shall move only in the indicated direction,
when signs indicating the direction of traffic are erected and maintained at
every intersection where movement in the opposite direction is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 71.081) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.092 FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   No vehicle shall be driven through a funeral procession, except Fire
Department vehicles, police patrols and ambulances, when the same are
responding to calls.
(Prior Code, § 71.082) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.093 BACKING RESTRICTED.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same into any intersection, or
over a crosswalk, and shall not in any event, or at any place, back a vehicle
unless that movement can be made in safety, and he or she shall have given
ample warning to those who may be behind, by hand and horn or other signal.
(Prior Code, § 71.083) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.094 DRIVING ON SIDEWALK PROHIBITED.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not drive within any sidewalk area.
(Prior Code, § 71.084) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.095 DRIVING ON LANED ROADWAYS.
   All vehicles operated on any roadway which has been clearly marked with
lanes for traffic, shall be driven as nearly as practical entirely within a
single lane and shall not be moved from that lane until the driver has first
ascertained that this movement can be made with safety.
(Prior Code, § 71.085) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.096 LIGHTS ON PARKED VEHICLES.
   The displaying of lights upon a vehicle, when lawfully parked at night upon
a street of the town in accordance with this title, shall not be required when
there is sufficient light to reveal any person within a distance of 200 feet
upon that street.
(Prior Code, § 71.086)
§ 71.097 MOVING CARS FROM PARKED POSITION.
   Cars parked shall move out in the direction headed, or if they are parked at
an angle with the curb they shall back out on that angle until they have
cleared the other cars and shall then proceed in the direction they are most
nearly headed in.
(Prior Code, § 71.087)
§ 71.098 SCRATCHING OFF.
   For the purpose of this section, the term SCRATCHING OFF shall mean the act
of spinning the wheels of a motor vehicle on the street when starting off in a
manner that it causes the tires to squeal; and the term shall also mean the
operating of a motor vehicle around a curve or corner at a high rate of speed
so that the tires squeal. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a
motor vehicle in a manner so as to cause the automobile to scratch off as
defined in division (A) above.
(Ord. 18-02, passed 8-1-2018) Penalty, see §
70.99
MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, COASTERS AND THE LIKE
§ 71.110 CLINGING TO VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   Any person riding upon any bicycle, motorcycle, coaster, sled, roller-skates
or any toy vehicle, shall not attach the same, or himself or herself, to any
public conveyance or moving vehicle upon any roadway.
(Prior Code, § 71.100) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.111 RIDING ON HANDLEBARS PROHIBITED.
   The operator of motorcycle or bicycle, when upon a street, shall not carry
any person upon the handlebar, frame or tank of that vehicle, nor shall any
person so ride upon any so described vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 71.101) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.112 HANDLEBAR USE REQUIRED.
   No person shall ride a bicycle or motorcycle on any street without having
his or her hands upon the handlebars.
(Prior Code, § 71.102) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.113 ROLLER-SKATES, COASTERS AND THE LIKE.
   No person upon roller-skates, or riding in or by means of any coaster, toy
vehicle or similar device, shall go upon any roadway, unless it be while
crossing a street at a crosswalk or intersection; except upon streets set aside
as play streets.
(Prior Code, § 71.103) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
General Parking and Stopping Restrictions
   
72.01   Stopping in streets prohibited; exceptions
   
72.02   Obstruction of traffic prohibited
   
72.03   Taxicabs parking in one block; restrictions
   
72.04   Park parallel to curb; exceptions
   
72.05   Parking backed to curb prohibited
   
72.06   Parking with left side to curb restricted
   
72.07   Marked parking spaces; park within lines
   
72.08   Unlawful parking purposes
   
72.09   Stopping, standing or parking prohibited; no signs required
   
72.10   Moving vehicle to unlawful location by non-owner prohibited
Parking Restrictions in Designated Areas
   
72.25   Designated no-parking zones
   
72.26   Designated restricted hours parking zones
   
72.27   Designated limited time parking zones
   
72.28   Reserved stands for specific vehicles
   
72.29   Designated double diagonal parking
   
72.30   Designated 45-degree angle parking
   
72.31   Town parking lots; hours of operation
   
72.32   Town parking lots; unlawful assembly
GENERAL PARKING AND STOPPING RESTRICTIONS
§ 72.01 STOPPING IN STREETS PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   No vehicle shall stop in any street except for the purpose of parking as
prescribed in this chapter, unless that stop is made necessary by the approach
of fire apparatus, by the approach of a funeral or other procession which is
given the right-of-way, by the stopping of a public conveyance, by the lowering
of railway gates, by the giving of traffic signals, by the passing of some
other vehicle or pedestrian or by some emergency; and in any case covered by
these exceptions, vehicles shall stop so as not to obstruct any footway,
pedestrian aisle, safety zone, crossing or street intersection if that can be
avoided.
(Prior Code, § 72.01) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.02 OBSTRUCTION OF TRAFFIC PROHIBITED.
   No vehicle shall so stand on any street as to interrupt or interfere with
the passage of public conveyances or other vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 72.02) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.03 TAXICABS PARKING IN ONE BLOCK; RESTRICTIONS.
   Not more than two taxicabs owned by the same company shall be parked in one
block at the same time, except taxicabs as may be parked in established taxi
stands as set out in §
72.28 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 72.03) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.04 PARK PARALLEL TO CURB; EXCEPTIONS.
   Where not otherwise indicated by this title, and where the street is not
marked to show how vehicles shall park, all vehicles shall park parallel to the
curb, and not more than 12 inches therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 72.04) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.05 PARKING BACKED TO CURB PROHIBITED.
   In no case shall a vehicle remain backed up to a curb, except when actually
loading or unloading. If the vehicle be horse-drawn, the horse or horses shall
stand parallel to the curb and face the direction of traffic.
(Prior Code, § 72.05) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.06 PARKING WITH LEFT SIDE TO CURB RESTRICTED.
   No vehicle shall stop with its left side to the curb in the business
district, except that on one-way streets vehicles shall stop headed in the
direction of traffic.
(Prior Code, § 72.06) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.07 MARKED PARKING SPACES; PARK WITHIN LINES.
   On any street which is marked off with lines indicating the parking spaces
for cars, the same shall be parked between those lines.
(Prior Code, § 72.07)
§ 72.08 UNLAWFUL PARKING PURPOSES.
   (A)   No person shall stand or park a vehicle upon any street for the
principal purposes of:
      (1)   Displaying it for sale;
      (2)   Washing, greasing or repairing the vehicle, except repairs
necessitated by an emergency;
      (3)   Storage thereof by garages, dealers or other persons when that
storage is not incident to the bona fide use and operation of the automobile or
other vehicles; or
      (4)   Storage of any detached trailer or van, when the towing unit has
been disconnected, or for the purpose of transferring merchandise or freight
from one vehicle to another.
   (B)   No person shall stand or park on any street any vehicle for the
primary purpose of advertising.
(Prior Code, § 72.08) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.09 STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING PROHIBITED; NO SIGNS REQUIRED.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic, or in compliance with the directions of a police
officer or traffic-control device, in any of the following places:
   (A)   On the sidewalk;
   (B)   On a crosswalk;
   (C)   Within 30 feet of any flashing beacon, stop sign or traffic-control
signal located at the side of a street or roadway;
   (D)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction, when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
   (E)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure or within any underpass
structure;
   (F)   Within 15 feet in either direction of the entrance to a hotel,
theater, hospital, sanatorium or any public building; or
   (G)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped, standing or parked at the
edge or curb of a street.
(Prior Code, § 72.09) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.10 MOVING VEHICLE TO UNLAWFUL LOCATION BY NON-OWNER PROHIBITED.
   No person shall move a vehicle not owned by that person into any prohibited
area, or sufficiently away from the curb to make that distance unlawful.
(Prior Code, § 72.10) Penalty, see §
70.99
PARKING RESTRICTIONS IN DESIGNATED AREAS
§ 72.25 DESIGNATED NO-PARKING ZONES.
   When signs are placed, erected or installed giving notice thereof, or the
curbing has been painted yellow in lieu of signs, no person shall park a
vehicle at any time upon any of the streets as may be so designated by the
Board of Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 72.20) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.26 DESIGNATED RESTRICTED HOURS PARKING ZONES.
   When signs are placed, erected or installed in each block giving notice
thereof, no person shall park a vehicle between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 6:00
a.m. upon any of the streets as may be so designated by the Board of
Commissioners, unless other hours are designated; provided that this section
shall not apply to automobiles or other vehicles parked on those streets
between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. when the owners thereof are at
work in the building or on the premises in front of which, or near which, the
automobiles or other vehicles are parked.
(Prior Code, § 72.21) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.27 DESIGNATED LIMITED TIME PARKING ZONES.
   (A)   Two-hour parking. When signs are placed, erected or installed in each
block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle for longer than two
hours at any time between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 6:30 p.m. on any day,
except Sundays and public holidays, upon any of the streets as may be so
designated by the Board of Commissioners, and the changing of the position of a
vehicle from one point directly to another point within the same block shall be
deemed one continuous parking period.
   (B)   One-hour parking. When signs are placed, erected or installed in each
block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle for longer than one
hour at any time between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 6:30 p.m. of any day,
except Sundays and public holidays, upon any of the streets as may be so
designated by the Board of Commissioners, and the changing of the position of a
vehicle from one point directly to another point within the same block shall be
deemed one continuous parking period.
   (C)   Ten-minute parking. When signs are placed, erected or installed in
each block giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle for longer
than ten minutes at any time upon any streets as may be so designated by the
Board of Commissioners, and the changing of the position of a vehicle from one
point directly to another point within the same block shall be deemed one
continuous parking period.
(Prior Code, § 72.22) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.28 RESERVED STANDS FOR SPECIFIC VEHICLES.
   Those streets or parts of streets as may be so designated by the Board of
Commissioners shall be reserved as stands for the specific purpose and at the
exact location named thereby, and no automobile or other vehicle shall park
therein except those for which the space or stand has been designated.
(Prior Code, § 72.23) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.29 DESIGNATED DOUBLE DIAGONAL PARKING.
   Double diagonal parking, at an angle of approximately 45 degrees, shall be
allowed in the center of designated streets or portions of streets.
(Prior Code, § 72.24)
§ 72.30 DESIGNATED 45-DEGREE ANGLE PARKING.
   Automobiles and other vehicles shall be parked at an angle of approximately
45 degrees with the curb on those streets or parts of streets as may be so
designated by the Board of Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 72.25)
§ 72.31 TOWN PARKING LOTS; HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      TOWN PARKING LOT. Any parking lot owned or controlled by the town and
maintained for public use.
   (B)   The hours of operation for the town parking lot(s) shall be from 6:00
a.m. to 6:00 p.m., seven days per week, for public parking.
   (C)   The town parking lot(s) shall be closed and not available for public
parking or use during the hours of 6:01 p.m. to 5:59 a.m., seven days per week.
   (D)   The town shall cause signs to be constructed and placed at the
entrance of the parking lot(s) at locations that are clearly visible.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for a person to enter upon and/or remain on the
town parking lot(s) during the hours of non-operation as defined in division
(C) above.
   (F)   Violation shall be a misdemeanor as provided by G.S. § 14-4.
(Prior Code, § 72.26) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.32 TOWN PARKING LOTS; UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY.
   (A)   Town parking lot. It shall be unlawful for any person to assemble with
one or more other persons on a town owned or controlled parking lot except for
the purpose of lawfully parking a vehicle in the lot. It shall not be a
violation of this section to lawfully park a vehicle in a town parking lot and
leave the lot without delay, or go upon a town parking lot and without delay
proceed to a lawfully parked vehicle and then leave during the hours of
operation set forth in §
72.31 of this code.
   (B)   Constitutional exception. The prohibition in division (A) above shall
not apply to a congregation of persons pursuant to any lawfully issued permit
for a parade, demonstration, picketing or other event or congregation protected
under the Constitution of the United States or of the state.
   (C)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      TOWN PARKING LOT. Any parking lot owned or controlled by the town and
maintained for public or public and leased space parking.
   (D)   Violations. Violation shall be a misdemeanor as provided by G.S. § 14-
4.
(Prior Code, § 72.27) (Ord. O-98-002, passed 3-2-1998) Penalty, see §
70.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
91.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
92.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
93.   CEMETERIES
      
94.   ABANDONED, NUISANCE AND JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES
      
95.   ANIMALS
      
96.   CIVIL EMERGENCIES
CHAPTER 90: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Damaging implements prohibited on streets
   
90.02   House moving
   
90.03   Damage to bridges and culverts
   
90.04   Damage to lights, signs and the like
   
90.05   Bicycles on sidewalks prohibited
   
90.06   Playing ball in street prohibited
Excavations and Construction
   
90.20   Excavation; permit required
   
90.21   Sidewalk construction; permit required
   
90.22   Excavation; restoration
   
90.23   Excavation; barricades and lights
Obstructions
   
90.35   Assembling on sidewalk
   
90.36   Display of goods
   
90.37   Placing objects on streets and sidewalks
   
90.38   Construction near sidewalk; passageway
   
90.39   Sheds and awnings; restrictions
Maintenance
   
90.50   Depositing or burning trash prohibited
   
90.51   Tree trimmings
   
90.52   Snow and ice removal
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DAMAGING IMPLEMENTS PROHIBITED ON STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to drag or run, or
cause to be dragged or run any harrow or other implement, engine, machine or
tool upon any asphalt, bithulitic, warrenite or other permanently paved street
of the town which shall be liable in any way to injure or cut the surface
thereof. It shall also be unlawful to injure any dirt street in the same
manner.
(Prior Code, § 90.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.02 HOUSE MOVING.
   No person shall move any house or building upon or across the public streets
or sidewalks without the written consent of the Board of Commissioners and the
deposit of a good and sufficient bond in the sum of $500 to cover damage done
to a street or sidewalk or to any property of any person.
(Prior Code, § 90.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.03 DAMAGE TO BRIDGES AND CULVERTS.
   No person shall injure or misplace any part of any bridge, culvert, ditch
and drain or other property belonging to or used by the town, or shall place
any obstruction in any culvert, ditch or drain, to prevent the free flow of
water on or over the streets of the town.
(Prior Code, § 90.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.04 DAMAGE TO LIGHTS, SIGNS AND THE LIKE.
   No person shall injure, tamper with, remove or paint upon or deface any
sign, signpost, street light, traffic signal or bulletin board, or other
municipal property upon the streets and sidewalks, except employees of the town
in performance of their duties.
(Prior Code, § 90.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.05 BICYCLES ON SIDEWALKS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride a bicycle on any sidewalk in the
business district of the town.
(Prior Code, § 90.05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.06 PLAYING BALL IN STREET PROHIBITED.
   No person shall play ball or bat or catch a ball on any of the streets of
the town.
(Prior Code, § 90.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
EXCAVATIONS AND CONSTRUCTION
§ 90.20 EXCAVATION; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to dig any hole,
ditch or excavation of any kind whatsoever, on any street in the town, without
first securing a permit therefor in writing from the Water and Sewer
Commissioner or Street Commissioner.
(Prior Code, § 90.20) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.21 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No sidewalk of any description shall be built by any individual, firm or
corporation, of any brick, wood or other material, without a written permit
from the town.
(Prior Code, § 90.21) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.22 EXCAVATION; RESTORATION.
   It shall be the duty of every person, firm or corporation, who shall open or
dig a ditch, trench or hole in any street, public alley or sidewalk of the
town, to put that street, public alley or sidewalk in as good condition in all
respects as it was before, and every person, firm or corporation violating or
failing to observe the provisions of this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 90.22) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.23 EXCAVATION; BARRICADES AND LIGHTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation making any
excavation for any purpose whatsoever in any of the streets or sidewalks to
fail to securely cover those excavations with plank or place ropes around the
same three feet from the ground, or to fail to place a sufficient number of red
lights around the excavation before dark and to keep that light burning all
night every night the excavation shall be open.
(Prior Code, § 90.23) Penalty, see §
10.99
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 90.35 ASSEMBLING ON SIDEWALK.
   (A)   No person or group of persons shall assemble, gather or stand, or
cause, direct, invite or in any way induce any person or group of persons to
assemble, gather or stand so as to obstruct any public sidewalk to pedestrian
traffic or any public street or alley to vehicular traffic, or pedestrian
traffic at designated crosswalks.
   (B)   At any place of business where it is necessary for patrons awaiting
entry or service to wait on the sidewalks at the place of business or for entry
to service, it shall be the responsibility of the owner or proprietor, or his
or her agents or employees, to see that the patrons are lined in a way so that
pedestrian traffic is not blocked because of the line of patrons. In no event
may any patrons awaiting service line up, gather, assemble, stand or wait in
the public streets or alleys of the town. Violation shall be a misdemeanor as
provided by G.S. § 14-4.
(Prior Code, § 90.35) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.36 DISPLAY OF GOODS.
   No person shall place for display or sale any goods, wares or merchandise of
any kind upon any of the sidewalks of the town in a manner which shall obstruct
the free and safe passage of persons.
(Prior Code, § 90.36) (Ord. O-83-002, passed 3-7-1983) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.37 PLACING OBJECTS ON STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   No brick, stone or wood, or other substances obstructing the free passage of
persons and vehicles shall be placed or suffered to lie in any of the
alleyways, streets or other routes of the town, nor shall any person place on
or in any of the streets, sidewalks or alleyways of the town any boxes, crates,
casks or barrels of any description, or any other obstruction of any kind;
provided, that any person erecting a building may, with permission, place
building material for immediate use on the streets in such a way as to not
interfere with the usual traffic.
(Prior Code, § 90.37) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.38 CONSTRUCTION NEAR SIDEWALK; PASSAGEWAY.
   Before building or remodeling at any place where the same is in close
proximity to the sidewalk, a passageway shall be constructed so as to leave the
sidewalk unobstructed and provide safe and easy passage.
(Prior Code, § 90.38) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.39 SHEDS AND AWNINGS; RESTRICTIONS.
   No person shall erect or repair over any sidewalk or street any wooden shed
or awning or any wooden shed for the support of an awning or erect upon any
street or sidewalk any post for the support of any awning. If any person shall
violate this section, then each day that the above forbidden structure shall
remain after notice shall constitute a separate violation. Provided that this
shall not construed to prevent the erection over the sidewalk of cloth or metal
awnings supported upon metallic frames firmly suspended from the building, and
at least seven feet above the level of the sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 90.39) Penalty, see §
10.99
MAINTENANCE
§ 90.50 DEPOSITING OR BURNING TRASH PROHIBITED.
   No paper, straw, lemon peel, banana peel, watermelon rind or any trash of
any kind shall be thrown or swept upon any sidewalk or street of the town, nor
shall any trash, refuse or rubbish be burned thereon.
(Prior Code, § 90.50) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.51 TREE TRIMMINGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or allow to be placed any tree
trimmings or shrubbery on any street or sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 90.51) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.52 SNOW AND ICE REMOVAL.
   Every occupant of a store building in front of which the sidewalk is paved
with stone, brick, asphalt or cement, shall remove snow, ice or other
obstruction from that sidewalk at the earliest possible time and as soon as the
weather permits.
(Prior Code, § 90.52) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 91: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
Nuisances
   
91.01   Posting bills; permission required
   
91.02   Noise restrictions
Health and Sanitation
   
91.15   Enforcement; hindrance unlawful; right of entry
   
91.16   Property to be kept clean; notice and abatement
   
91.17   Weeds and noxious growth
   
91.18   Human waste
   
91.19   Stagnant water
   
91.20   Sale of food; eating establishments
   
91.21   Construction debris
   
91.22   Septic tanks restricted
   
91.23   Removal and deposit of trees, logs and the like
NUISANCES
§ 91.01 POSTING BILLS; PERMISSION REQUIRED.
   No person shall stick, paint, brand, stamp, write or put upon any house,
fence, wall, pavement, post or upon any property, owned by any person, firm or
corporation, or owned by the town, any printed, written, painted or other
advertisement, bill, notice, sign or poster, without first having obtained the
written permission of the owner of that property and having received a permit
from the Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 91.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.02 NOISE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Excessive noise prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm
or corporation to create or assist in creating, permit, continue or permit the
continuance of any unreasonably loud, disturbing and unnecessary noise in the
town. Noise of a character, intensity and duration so as to be detrimental to
the life or health of any individual is prohibited.
   (B)   Noises expressly prohibited. The following acts, among others, are
declared to be loud, disturbing and unnecessary noises in violation of this
section, but this enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive, namely:
      (1)   The sounding of any horn or signal device or any device on any
automobile, motorcycle, bus or other vehicle while not in motion, except as a
danger signal if another vehicle is approaching apparently out of control, or
if in motion only as a danger signal after or as brakes are being applied and
deceleration of the vehicle is intended; the creation by means of any such
signal device of any unreasonably loud or harsh sound; and the sounding of such
a device for an unnecessary and unreasonable period of time;
      (2)   The use of any gong or siren upon any vehicle, other than police,
fire or other emergency vehicle;
      (3)   The use or operation of any piano, manual or automatic, phonograph,
radio, loudspeaker or any other instrument or sound amplifying devices, so
loudly as to disturb persons in the vicinity thereof, or in a manner which
renders the same a public nuisance; provided, however, that upon application to
the Mayor, permits may be granted to responsible organizations to produce
programs in music, speeches or general entertainment;
      (4)   The keeping of any animal or bird which by causing frequent or long
continued noise shall disturb the comfort and repose of any person in the
vicinity;
      (5)   The use of any automobile, motorcycle or other vehicle so out of
repair, so loaded or in a manner so as to create loud or unnecessary grating,
grinding, rattling or other noise;
      (6)   The blowing of any steam whistle attached to any stationary boiler
except to give notice of the time to begin or stop work or as a warning of
danger;
      (7)   The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any steam engine,
stationary internal combustion engine or motor vehicle except through a muffler
or other device which will effectively prevent loud or explosive noises
therefrom;
      (8)   The use of any mechanical device operated by compressed air unless
the noise created thereby is effectively muffled and reduced;
      (9)   The erection (including excavation), demolition, alteration or
repair of any building in a residential or business district other than between
the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on weekdays, except in the case of urgent
necessity in the interest of public safety and then only with a permit from the
Clerk, which permit may be renewed for a period of three days or less while the
emergency continues;
      (10)   The creation of any excessive noise on any street adjacent to any
school, institution of learning or court while the same are in session, or
within 150 feet of any hospital, which unreasonably interferes with the working
of that institution, provided, conspicuous signs are displayed in those streets
indicating that the same is a school, court or hospital street;
      (11)   The creation of any excessive noise on Sundays on any street
adjacent to any church, provided, conspicuous signs are displayed in the
streets adjacent to churches indicating that the same is a church street;
      (12)   The creation of loud and excessive noise in connection with
loading or unloading any vehicle, or the opening and destruction of bales,
boxes, crates and containers;
      (13)   The sounding of any bell or gong attached to any building or
premises which disturbs the quiet or repose of persons in the vicinity thereof;
      (14)   The shouting and crying of peddlers, barkers, hawkers and vendors
which disturbs the quiet and peace of the neighborhood;
      (15)   The use of any drum, loudspeaker or other instrument or device for
the purpose of attracting attention by creation of noise to any performance,
show or sale or display of merchandise;
      (16)   The use of any mechanical loudspeakers or amplifiers on trucks or
other moving vehicles for advertising purposes or other purposes except where
specific license is received from the Board of Commissioners;
      (17)   The conducting, operating or maintaining of any garage or filling
station in any residential district so as to cause loud or offensive noises to
be emitted therefrom between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.; and
      (18)   The firing or discharging of squibs, crackers, gunpowder or other
combustible substance in the streets or elsewhere for the purpose of making
noise or disturbance, except by permit from the Board of Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 91.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
HEALTH AND SANITATION
§ 91.15 ENFORCEMENT; HINDRANCE UNLAWFUL; RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   The enforcement of this subchapter shall be under the supervision of
the County Health Officer.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, obstruct or delay the
Health Officer or any of his or her assistants in the lawful discharge of their
duties.
   (C)   The Health Officer or any of his or her assistants shall have the
right to enter at any reasonable time any premises for the purpose of making
inspections or investigations as required by this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 91.15) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.16 PROPERTY TO BE KEPT CLEAN; NOTICE AND ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Owners or occupants required to keep premises clean. Every person
owning or occupying any premises in the corporate limits shall keep the
premises free from noxious weeds, trash and all other forms of animal or
vegetable refuse which may be dangerous or prejudicial to the public health, or
which may constitute a public nuisance. No owner or occupant of any premises
shall bury therein any animal or vegetable matter which, upon decaying, may
become dangerous or prejudicial to the public health, or may constitute a
nuisance.
   (B)   Notice of violation; abatement.
      (1)   If any person shall violate division (A) above, it shall be the
duty of the Chief of Police or the Sanitary Inspector or his or her associates
to give notice to the owner or person in possession of the premises that within
15 days or sooner from the date of that notice, all weeds, trash and other
offensive animal or vegetable matter, be removed from that lot.
      (2)   Should any owner or occupant fail to comply with this notice, the
Chief of Police or Sanitary Inspector shall proceed to have the matter removed,
and the owner or occupant shall be responsible to the town for the cost
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 91.16) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.17 WEEDS AND NOXIOUS GROWTH.
   Every owner or person in possession of a vacant lot within the corporate
limits shall shrub down, within four inches of the ground, all weeds, grass or
other noxious growth from that lot at least twice each year; the first not
later than June 15, and the second, not later than August 15 of each and every
year. If the weeds or other noxious growth are not cut in compliance with this
section, the Chief of Police or Sanitary Inspector shall proceed to have the
weeds or other noxious growth cut, and the owner or person in possession of the
lot shall be responsible to the town for the cost thereof.
(Prior Code, § 91.17) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.18 HUMAN WASTE.
   No person shall urinate or deposit any human waste of any kind on any
street, lot or premises except in approved sanitary facilities.
(Prior Code, § 91.18) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.19 STAGNANT WATER.
   No person or occupant of any property shall allow stagnant water to
accumulate or remain in cellars or anywhere on the property.
(Prior Code, § 91.19) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.20 SALE OF FOOD; EATING ESTABLISHMENTS.
   All persons, firms or corporations selling food of any kind or serving
prepared meals shall comply with all requirements pertaining thereto of the
state’s Board of Health.
(Prior Code, § 91.20) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.21 CONSTRUCTION DEBRIS.
   All refuse, lumber and debris, remaining both as a result of the repair of
any new buildings, or of the erection and completion of any new buildings,
shall be removed by the property owner within ten days from the completion of
the aforementioned work.
(Prior Code, § 91.21) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.22 SEPTIC TANKS RESTRICTED.
   Septic tanks may be installed where a sewer is not reasonably accessible;
provided, the tank is constructed in accordance with the specifications of the
state’s Board of Health, and a permit therefor is issued by the county’s
Building Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 91.22) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.23 REMOVAL AND DEPOSIT OF TREES, LOGS AND THE LIKE.
   The town will not remove any trees, logs, lap, limbs, stumps or roots from
any vacant lot, and it shall be unlawful for any person to deposit upon any
street, alley or sidewalk any trees, logs, laps, limbs, stumps or roots.
(Prior Code, § 91.23) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 92: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Burning Regulations
   
92.01   Fire limits
   
92.02   Burning trash
   
92.03   Bonfire; permit required
   
92.04   Certain fires to be guarded
Building Fire Hazards; Exit Requirements
   
92.15   Fire exits; encumbrances prohibited
   
92.16   Exit signs
   
92.17   Passageways and exit doors
   
92.18   Fire hazard accumulation
Fireworks
   
92.30   Pyrotechnics defined
   
92.31   Possession by minors restricted
   
92.32   Sale restricted
   
92.33   Distribution restricted
   
92.34   Places of public assembly; possession prohibited
 
   
92.99   Penalty
BURNING REGULATIONS
§ 92.01 FIRE LIMITS.
   No construction or alterations of any kind or description shall be made
within the fire limits without a building permit and full compliance with
ordinances governing construction in the town.
(Prior Code, § 92.01) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.02 BURNING TRASH.
   (A)   Burning trash within fire limits prohibited. No person shall burn or
cause to be burned any trash, refuse, shavings, paper, leaves, litter or other
material of any kind outside any house, or on or in any street, sidewalk,
alley, lot or yard within the fire limits of the town.
   (B)   Burning trash outside fire limits. Trash or rubbish shall not be
burned on any private lot outside the fire limits except within a safely
constructed enclosure made of wire mesh or in a similar safety device.
(Prior Code, § 92.02) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 BONFIRE; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall kindle or maintain any bonfire, or shall knowingly
furnish the material for any bonfire, or authorize any bonfire to be kindled or
maintained, on or in any street, avenue, road or lane, or public ground, or
upon any private lot, within the limits of the town, unless a written permit so
to do shall have first been secured from the Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit the burning of
trash and rubbish on private lots of residences without a permit when that
burning is done in conformity with the provisions of §
92.02(B) of this code.
(Prior Code, § 92.03) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 CERTAIN FIRES TO BE GUARDED.
   All persons, firms or corporations who shall burn any tar kiln or pit of
charcoal, or set fire to or burn any brush, grass or other material, whereby
any property may be endangered or destroyed, shall keep and maintain a careful
and competent watchperson in charge of that kiln, pit, brush or other material
while burning. Fire escaping from the kiln, pit, brush or other material while
burning shall be prima facie evidence of neglect of these provisions.
(Prior Code, § 92.04) Penalty, see §
92.99
BUILDING FIRE HAZARDS; EXIT REQUIREMENTS
§ 92.15 FIRE EXITS; ENCUMBRANCES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall at any time place any encumbrances of any kind whatsoever
before or upon any fire escape, balcony or ladder intended as a means of escape
from fire. It shall be the duty of every member of the Police and Fire
Departments who shall discover any fire escape encumbered in any manner to
forthwith report the same through Department channels to the Chief of the Fire
Department, who shall immediately notify the owner or owners, their agent or
agents, tenant or tenants, to remove the encumbrance, and the encumbrance shall
thereupon be immediately removed.
(Prior Code, § 92.15) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.16 EXIT SIGNS.
   Every exit in any theater or motion picture house shall be plainly indicated
by a sign bearing the word “exit,” which sign shall be kept lighted throughout
each performance.
(Prior Code, § 92.16) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.17 PASSAGEWAYS AND EXIT DOORS.
   (A)   All doors, aisles and passageways within and leading into or out of
theaters, churches and all other places of public assemblage, shall, during the
entire time which any show, performance, service, exhibition, lecture, concert,
ball or other assemblage may be held therein, be kept adequately lighted and
free from easels, signs, standards, campstools, chairs, sofas, benches and any
other article or articles that might obstruct or delay the exit of the
audience, congregation or assemblage; and doors of this type of buildings while
occupied shall not be fastened so that they cannot easily be opened by anyone
from within.
   (B)   No person shall sit or stand or remain seated or standing, nor shall
the owner or operator of such a place allow any person to remain, in any place
of public assemblage, in any aisle under any circumstances or in any exit or
passage required for the safe exit of the assemblage.
   (C)   Clear passage from all exits and on outside sidewalks of all theaters
and other places of public assemblage shall be maintained at all times.
   (D)   No aisle, passageway or stairway in any store shall be obstructed with
tables, showcases or other obstructions during the hours the store is open to
the public.
(Prior Code, § 92.17) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.18 FIRE HAZARD ACCUMULATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit or suffer rubbish, refuse or
articles of combustible or inflammable nature to accumulate or remain on any
lot or premises.
(Prior Code, § 92.18) Penalty, see §
92.99
FIREWORKS
§ 92.30 PYROTECHNICS DEFINED.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      PYROTECHNICS. Is and includes any and all kinds of fireworks and
explosives, which are used for exhibitions or amusement purposes.
   (B)   Exception. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the manufacture,
purchase, sale, transportation and use of explosive and signaling flares used
in the course of ordinary business or industry, or shells or cartridges used as
ammunition in firearms, or explosive caps designed to be fired in toy pistols,
provided that the explosive mixture of the explosive caps shall not exceed 0.25
gram for each cap.
(Prior Code, § 92.30) (Ord. O-94-006, passed 8-1-1994) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.31 POSSESSION BY MINORS RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in the town who is less than 16 years of
age to manufacture, sell, possess, store or use the following pyrotechnic
devices:
   (A)   Snakes and glow worms composed of pressed pellets of a pyrotechnic
mixture that produce a large, snake-like ash when burning;
   (B)   Smoke devices consisting of a tube or sphere containing a pyrotechnic
mixture that produces white or colored smoke;
   (C)   Trick noisemakers which produce a small report designed to surprise
the user and which include:
      (1)   A party popper, which is a small plastic or paper item containing
not in excess of 16 mg of explosive mixture. A string protruding from the
device is pulled to ignite the device, expelling paper streamers and producing
a small report; and
      (2)   A snapper or drop pop, which is a small, paper-wrapped item
containing no more than 16 mg of explosive mixture coated on small bits of
sand. When dropped, the device produces a small report.
   (D)   Wire sparklers consisting of wire or stick coated with nonexplosive
pyrotechnic mixture that produces a shower of sparks upon ignition. These items
must not exceed 100 grams of mixture per item; and
   (E)   Other sparkling devices which emit showers of sparks and sometimes a
whistling or crackling effect when burning, do not detonate or explode, do not
spin, are hand-held or ground-based, cannot propel themselves through the air
and contain not more than 75 grams of chemical compound per tube, or not more
than a total of 200 grams if multiple tubes are used.
(Prior Code, § 92.31) (Ord. O-94-006, passed 8-1-1994) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.32 SALE RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any merchant in the town to sell any pyrotechnic
device, as defined herein, to anyone under 16 years of age. Determination of
age for this purpose shall be made in like manner to that for the purchase of
alcoholic beverages by those 21 years of age and older.
(Prior Code, § 92.32) (Ord. O-94-006, passed 8-1-1994) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.33 DISTRIBUTION RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful to distribute any pyrotechnic device, as set out
herein, to anyone under 16 years of age without parental permission and adult
supervision of their use.
(Prior Code, § 92.33) (Ord. O-94-006, passed 8-1-1994) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.34 PLACES OF PUBLIC ASSEMBLY; POSSESSION PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to possess or use any of the pyrotechnic
devices as set out herein, in any school, theater, shopping mall, church,
public building or other place of public assembly.
(Prior Code, § 92.34) (Ord. O-94-006, passed 8-1-1994) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no other
specific penalty has been provided shall be subject to the penalties described
in §
10.99 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 92.99) (Ord. O-94-006, passed 8-1-1994; Ord. 19- , passed 2-21-
2019)
CHAPTER 93: CEMETERIES
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Application
   
93.02   Superintendent; powers and duties
   
93.03   Deed for lot
   
93.04   Transfer or sale of lots
   
93.05   Lot charges
   
93.06   Use; graves
Structures; Maintenance
   
93.20   Monuments and markers
   
93.21   Plantings
   
93.22   Landscaping and improvements
   
93.23   Structures
Rules of Conduct
   
93.35   Personal conduct
   
93.36   Vehicles
   
93.37   Rubbish and waste prohibited
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 APPLICATION.
   (A)   All lots within the cemetery, and within any extension of the cemetery
at any time hereafter made, whether owned by the town or by any other person or
persons, shall be subject to and regulated and controlled by the provisions of
this chapter.
   (B)   In all deeds of conveyance by the town to any person or persons for
any lot, the following provisions shall be included therein as a covenant
running with the land: “This conveyance is made subject to an ordinance
adopting rules and regulations for the control of Littleton Cemetery and
providing penalties in relation thereto duly of record up to the minute of the
proceedings of the Board of Commissioners of the Town of Littleton, and the
grantee herein, his or her heirs and assigns, agree that upon the breach of any
of its provisions, the title to this property shall revert to the Town of
Littleton.”
(Prior Code, § 93.01)
§ 93.02 SUPERINTENDENT; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Board of Commissioners to appoint some
suitable person as the superintendent of the cemetery, who shall serve at the
will of the Board.
   (B)   The superintendent shall have those powers and duties as shall be
conferred upon him or her by this section, and any ordinance, resolution or
order of the Board at any time hereafter adopted or made.
   (C)   The superintendent shall have charge of the upkeep, protection and
preservation of the cemetery; he or she shall supervise the digging of all
graves, the interment and disinterment of bodies, the erection of monuments and
markers, supervise the planting of any and all shrubbery, trees and flowers,
and make provision for the entrance and exit of persons and vehicles to and
from the cemetery; provided, however, the superintendent shall not contract any
debt or expend any money without first having obtained the consent and approval
of the Board of Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 93.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.03 DEED FOR LOT.
   All persons desiring to purchase a lot in the town shall apply to the Clerk,
who, upon payment of the fixed price for each lot, shall cause a deed or other
instrument of receipt therefor to be given the purchaser.
(Prior Code, § 93.03)
§ 93.04 TRANSFER OR SALE OF LOTS.
   In the event any purchaser or owner shall desire to dispose of the lot, only
the town shall have the right to purchase such lot and shall pay the full price
which was originally paid for the lot. No person shall transfer ownership of
any lot except upon written permission of the Board of Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 93.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.05 LOT CHARGES.
   The cost of lots in the Town Cemetery for residents and non-residents of the
town are available at the Clerk’s office.
(Prior Code, § 93.05)
§ 93.06 USE; GRAVES.
   (A)   The Town Cemetery shall be used exclusively for the burial of human
beings, and no person shall be interred or disinterred therein without lawful
authority and permission first had and obtained.
   (B)   All graves shall be at least four feet in depth, and all graves shall
be dug under the supervision of the superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 93.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
STRUCTURES; MAINTENANCE
§ 93.20 MONUMENTS AND MARKERS.
   (A)   Only one central or family monument shall be allowed on a family lot.
   (B)   Markers shall be laid flush with the ground and shall not exceed two
feet in length and one foot in width, and shall be placed at the end of the
grave farthest from the monument.
   (C)   No coping, curb, fencing, hedging, grave mounds, boarders or curb of
any kind shall be allowed on any burial lot.
(Prior Code, § 93.20) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.21 PLANTINGS.
   No person shall plant or set any tree, shrub, flower, grass or other plant
of any kind in the cemetery except with the approval of and under the
supervision of a representative of the town.
(Prior Code, § 93.21) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.22 LANDSCAPING AND IMPROVEMENTS.
   All grading, landscaping, pruning or cutting of all trees and shrubbery, and
improvements of every kind shall be made or done by the town only.
(Prior Code, § 93.22) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.23 STRUCTURES.
   (A)   No mausoleum, tomb, building or other structure of any kind shall be
erected on any lot within the cemetery, or within any extension of the
cemetery; provided, however, mausoleums and tombs may be constructed on lots
which may be designated on the plat and plan of the cemetery from time to time
by the Board of Commissioners as lots to be used exclusively for mausoleums and
tombs.
   (B)   Should any mausoleum, monument or tomb at any time become unsafe,
unsightly or in need of repair or re-setting, the superintendent shall so
notify the owner of that lot, or any person having an interest in that lot, and
shall request the person to make the needed repairs under his or her
supervision, and if the person shall fail to make the repairs within 30 days
thereafter, the Board of Commissioners may order the repairs to be made, or
remove the same from that lot, as the Board may elect.
(Prior Code, § 93.23) Penalty, see §
10.99
RULES OF CONDUCT
§ 93.35 PERSONAL CONDUCT.
   (A)   No person shall disturb the quiet, repose and good order of the
cemetery, nor shall any person deface, remove, disturb, injure or destroy any
tree, plant or shrub therein except in the manner herein provided.
   (B)   Trespassing within the cemetery is hereby prohibited.
   (C)   No person shall commit any immoral act therein under penalty of the
law herein prescribed.
(Prior Code, § 93.35) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.36 VEHICLES.
   Vehicles shall be driven only upon the roadways within the cemetery and at a
rate of speed not in excess of 15 mph. No vehicles shall enter the cemetery
except for the purpose of attending funerals, visiting graves or other lawful
mission.
(Prior Code, § 93.36) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.37 RUBBISH AND WASTE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall deposit any rubbish, filth, waste or other unclean or
unsightly substance in the cemetery, and all materials carried within the
cemetery and not used in the erection of monuments, markers or other lawful
structures authorized herein, shall be promptly removed therefrom by the owner
of the lot upon which that monument, marker or structure shall be located.
(Prior Code, § 93.37) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 94: ABANDONED, NUISANCE AND JUNKED
MOTOR VEHICLES
Section
   
94.01   Administration
   
94.02   Definitions
   
94.03   Abandoned vehicle unlawful
   
94.04   Nuisance vehicle unlawful
   
94.05   Junked motor vehicle unlawful
   
94.06   Pretowing notice requirements
   
94.07   Exceptions to pretowing notice requirements
   
94.08   Removal of vehicles; post towing requirements
   
94.09   Hearing
   
94.10   Redemption of vehicle during proceedings
   
94.11   Sale and disposition of unclaimed vehicle
   
94.12   Conditions on removal of vehicles from private property
   
94.13   Protection against criminal or civil liability
   
94.14   Exceptions
   
94.15   Unlawful removal of impounded vehicle
   
94.16   Towing rotation list
   
94.17   Towing business
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The Police Department and the Building Inspector shall be responsible
for the administration and enforcement of this chapter. The town may contract
with private tow truck operators or towing businesses to remove, store and
dispose of abandoned vehicles, nuisance vehicles and junked motor vehicles in
compliance with this chapter and applicable state laws.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to limit the legal
authority or powers of officers of the town’s Police Department and Fire
Department in enforcing other laws or in otherwise carrying out their duties.
(Ord. O-07-003, passed 1-7-2008)
§ 94.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. As authorized and defined in G.S. § 160A-303, an
ABANDONED VEHICLE is one that:
      (1)   Is left upon a public street or highway in violation of a law or
ordinance prohibiting parking;
      (2)   Is left on a public street or highway for longer than seven days;
      (3)   Is left on property owned or operated by the town for longer than
24 hours; or
      (4)   Is left on private property without the consent of the owner,
occupant or lessee thereof, for longer than two hours.
   AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL. The Police Officer/Building Inspector, respectively,
designated to authorize the removal of vehicles under the provisions of this
chapter.
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE. As authorized and defined in G.S. § 160A-303.2, the
term JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE means a vehicle that does not display a current
license plate upon that vehicle and that:
      (1)   Is partially dismantled or wrecked;
      (2)   Cannot be self-propelled or moved in the manner in which it
originally was intended to move; or
      (3)   Is more than five years old and appears to be worth less than $500.
   MOTOR VEHICLE or VEHICLE. All machines designed or intended to travel over
land by self-propulsion or while attached to any self-propelled vehicle.
   NUISANCE VEHICLE. A vehicle on public or private property that is determined
and declared to be a health or safety hazard, a public nuisance and unlawful,
including a vehicle found to be:
      (1)   A breeding ground or harbor for mosquitoes, other insects, rats or
other pests;
      (2)   A point of heavy growth of weeds or other noxious vegetation over
eight inches in height;
      (3)   A point of collection of pools or ponds of water;
      (4)   A point of concentration of quantities of gasoline, oil or other
flammable or explosive materials as evidenced by odor;
      (5)   One which has areas of confinement, such as trunks, hoods and the
like, which cannot be operated from inside the area of confinement;
      (6)   One so situated or located that there is a danger of it falling or
turning over;
      (7)   One which is a point of collection of garbage, food waste, animal
waste or any other rotten or putrescible matter of any kind;
      (8)   One which has sharp parts thereof which are jagged or contain sharp
edges of metal, glass; or
      (9)   Any other vehicle specifically declared a health and safety hazard
and a public nuisance by the Board.
(Ord. O-07-003, passed 1-7-2008; Ord. 20- , passed 2- -2020)
§ 94.03 ABANDONED VEHICLE UNLAWFUL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a motor vehicle to cause or allow such vehicle to be an abandoned
vehicle.
   (B)   Upon investigation, the authorizing official may determine that a
vehicle is an abandoned vehicle as defined in this chapter and order the
vehicle removed.
(Ord. O-07-003, passed 1-7-2008) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 NUISANCE VEHICLE UNLAWFUL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee or occupant of the real
property upon which the vehicle is located to leave or allow the vehicle to
remain on the property after it has been declared a nuisance vehicle.
   (B)   Upon investigation, the authorizing official may determine and declare
that a vehicle is a health and safety hazard and a nuisance vehicle as defined
in this chapter, and order the vehicle removed.
(Ord. O-07-003, passed 1-7-2008) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE UNLAWFUL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee or occupant of the real
property upon which the vehicle is located to leave or allow the vehicle to
remain on the property after it has been ordered removed.
   (B)   Upon investigation, the authorizing official may order the removal of
a junked motor vehicle as defined in this chapter after finding in writing that
the aesthetic benefits of removing the vehicle outweigh the burdens imposed on
the private property owner. Such finding shall be based on a balancing of the
monetary loss of the apparent owner against the corresponding gain to the
public by promoting or enhancing community, neighborhood or area appearance.
The following, among other relevant factors, may be considered:
      (1)   Protection of property values;
      (2)   Promotion of tourism and other economic development opportunities;
      (3)   Indirect protection of public health and safety;
      (4)   Preservation of the character and integrity of the community; or
      (5)   Promotion of the comfort, happiness and emotional stability of area
residents.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to have more than one junked motor vehicle on the
premises of public or private property. A single, permitted junked motor
vehicle must strictly comply with the location and concealment requirements of
this section.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, person entitled to the possession
of a junked motor vehicle or the owner, lessee or occupant of the real property
upon which a junked motor vehicle is located to fail to comply with the
locational requirements or the concealment requirements of this section.
   (E)   (1)   Permitted concealment or enclosure of junked motor vehicles
includes:
         (a)   One junked motor vehicle, in its entirety, can be located in the
rear yard, as defined in §
153.005, if the junked motor vehicle is entirely concealed from public view
from a public street and from abutting premises by an acceptable covering; and
         (b)   More than one junked motor vehicle. Any other junked motor
vehicles must be kept in a garage or building structure that provides a
complete enclosure so that the junked motor vehicles cannot be seen from a
public street or abutting property. A GARAGE or BUILDING STRUCTURE means either
a lawful, nonconforming use or a garage or building structure erected pursuant
to the lawful issuance of a building permit and which has been constructed in
accordance with all Zoning Code and Building Code regulations.
      (2)   The Chief of Police or his or her designee has the authority to
determine whether any junked motor vehicle is adequately concealed as required
by this section. The covering must remain in good repair and must not be
allowed to deteriorate.
(Ord. O-07-003, passed 1-7-2008; Ord. 20- , passed 2- -2020) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.06 PRETOWING NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as set forth in §
94.07 of this code, an abandoned, nuisance or junked vehicle which is to be
removed shall be towed only after notice to the registered owner or person
entitled to possession of the vehicle. In the case of a nuisance vehicle or a
junked motor vehicle, if the names and mailing addresses of the registered
owner or person entitled to the possession of the vehicle, or the owner, lessee
or occupant of the real property upon which the vehicle is located can be
ascertained in the exercise of reasonable diligence, the notice shall be given
by first class mail. The person who mails the notice shall retain a written
record to show the name and address to which mailed and the date mailed. If
such names and addresses cannot be ascertained or if the vehicle to be removed
is an abandoned motor vehicle, notice shall be given by affixing on the
windshield or some other conspicuous place on the vehicle a notice indicating
that the vehicle will be removed by the town on a specific date no sooner than
seven days after the notice is affixed. The notice shall state that the vehicle
will be removed by the town on specified date, no sooner than seven days after
the notice is affixed or mailed unless the vehicle is moved by the owner or
legal possessor prior to that time.
   (B)   With respect to an abandoned vehicle on private property, nuisance
vehicle and junked motor vehicles to which notice is required to be given, if
the registered owner or person entitled to possession does not remove the
vehicle but chooses to appeal the determination that the vehicle is abandoned,
a nuisance vehicle or in the case of a junked motor vehicle that the aesthetic
benefits of removing the vehicle outweigh the burdens, such appeal shall be
made to the town’s Manager in writing within 72 hours upon receipt of notice
and heard as soon as possible: further proceedings to remove the vehicle shall
be stated until the appeal is heard and decided.
(Ord. O-07-003, passed 1-7-2008)
§ 94.07 EXCEPTIONS TO PRETOWING NOTICE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   The requirement that notice be given prior to the removal of an
abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle may, as determined by the
authorizing official, be omitted in those circumstances where there is special
need for prompt action to eliminate traffic, obstructions or to otherwise
maintain and protect the public safety and welfare. Such findings shall, in all
cases, be entered by the authorizing official in the appropriate daily
recorded.
   (B)   Circumstances justifying the removal of vehicles without proper notice
include:
      (1)   Vehicles abandoned on the public streets. For vehicles left on the
public streets and highways, the Board hereby determines that immediate removal
of such vehicles may be warranted when they are:
         (a)   Obstructing traffic;
         (b)   Parking in violation of an ordinance prohibiting or restricting
parking;
         (c)   Parked in a no-stopping or standing zone;
         (d)   Parked in loading zones;
         (e)   Parked in bus zones; or
         (f)   Parked in violation of temporary parking restrictions.
      (2)   Other abandoned or nuisance vehicles. With respect to abandoned or
nuisance vehicles left on town-owned property other than the streets and
highways and on private property, such vehicles may be removed without giving
prior notice only in those circumstances where the authorizing official finds a
special need for prompt action to protect and maintain the public health,
safety and welfare. By way of illustration and not of limitation, such
circumstances include vehicles blocking or obstructing ingress or egress to
businesses and residences, vehicles parked in such a location or manner as to
pose a traffic hazard, or vehicles causing damage to public or private
property.
(Ord. O-07-003, passed 1-7-2008)
§ 94.08 REMOVAL OF VEHICLES; POST TOWING NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any abandoned, nuisance or junked vehicle which has been ordered
removed may, as directed by the town, be removed to a storage garage or area by
the tow truck operator or towing business contracting to perform such services
for the town. Whenever such a vehicle is removed, the authorizing town official
shall immediately notify the last known registered owner of the vehicle, such
notice to include the following:
      (1)   The description of the removed vehicle;
      (2)   The location where the vehicle is stored;
      (3)   The violation with which the owner is charged, if any;
      (4)   The procedure the owner must follow to redeem the vehicle; and
      (5)   The procedure the owner must follow to request a probable cause
hearing on the removal.
   (B)   The town shall attempt to give notice to the vehicle owner by
telephone; however, whether or not the owner is reached by telephone, written
notice, including the information set forth in divisions (A)(1) through (A)(5)
above, shall also be mailed to the registered owner’s last known address,
unless the notice is waived in writing by the vehicle owner or his or her
agent.
   (C)   If the vehicle is registered in the state, notice shall be given
within 24 hours. If the vehicle is not registered in the state, notice shall be
given to the registered owner within 72 hours of the removal of the vehicle.
   (D)   Whenever an abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle is removed and
such vehicle has no valid registration or registration plates, the authorizing
town official shall make reasonable efforts, including checking the vehicle
identification number, to determine the last known registered owner of the
vehicle and to notify him or her of the information set forth in divisions (A)
(1) through (A)(5) above.
(Ord. O-07-003, passed 1-7-2008) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.09 HEARING.
   After the removal of an abandoned vehicle, nuisance vehicle or junked motor
vehicle, the owner or any other person entitled to possession is entitled to a
hearing for the purpose of determining if probable cause existed for removing
the vehicle. A request for hearing must be filed in writing with the County
Magistrate designated by the Chief District Court Judge to receive such hearing
request. The Magistrate will set the hearing within 72 hours of receipt of the
request, and the hearing will be conducted in accordance with the provisions of
G.S. § 20-219.11.
(Ord. O-07-003, passed 1-7-2008)
§ 94.10 REDEMPTION OF VEHICLE DURING PROCEEDINGS.
   At any stage in the proceedings, including before the probable cause
hearing, the owner may obtain possession of the removed vehicle by paying the
towing fee, including any storage charged, or by posting a bond for double the
amount of such fees and charged to the tow truck operator or towing business
having custody of the removed vehicle. Upon regaining possession of a vehicle,
the owner or person entitled to the possession of the vehicle shall not allow
or engage in further violations of this chapter.
(Ord. O-07-003, passed 1-7-2008)
§ 94.11 SALE AND DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLE.
   Any abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle which is not claimed by the
owner or other party entitled to possession will be disposed of by the tow
truck operator or towing business having custody of the vehicle. Disposition of
such vehicle shall be carried out in accordance with G.S. Ch. 44A.
(Ord. O-07-003, passed 1-7-2008)
§ 94.12 CONDITIONS ON REMOVAL OF VEHICLES FROM PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   As a general policy, the town will not remove a vehicle from private
property if the owner, occupant or lessee of such property could have the
vehicle removed under applicable state law procedures. In no case will a
vehicle be removed by the town from private property without a written request
of the owner, occupant or lessee, except in those cases where a vehicle is a
nuisance vehicle or is a junked motor vehicle which has been ordered removed by
the authorizing official. The town may require any person requesting the
removal of an abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle from private property
to indemnify the town against any loss, expense or liability incurred because
of the removal, storage or sale thereof.
(Ord. O-07-003, passed 1-7-2008)
§ 94.13 PROTECTION AGAINST CRIMINAL OR CIVIL LIABILITY.
   No person shall be held to answer in any civil or criminal action to any
owner or other person legally entitled to the possession of an abandoned,
nuisance or junked motor vehicle for disposing of such vehicle as provide in
this chapter.
(Ord. O-07-003, passed 1-7-2008) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.14 EXCEPTIONS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall apply to any vehicle which is:
   (A)   Located in a bone fide automobile graveyard or junkyard as defined in
G.S. § 136-143, in accordance with the Junkyard Control Act, being G.S. §§ 136-
141 et seq.;
   (B)   In an enclosed building;
   (C)   On the premises of a business enterprise being operated in a lawful
place and manner if the vehicle is necessary to the operation of the
enterprise; or
   (D)   In an appropriate storage place or depository maintained in a lawful
place and manner by the town.
(Ord. O-07-003, passed 1-7-2008)
§ 94.15 UNLAWFUL REMOVAL OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or attempt to remove from any
storage facility designated by the town any vehicle which has been impounded
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter unless and until all towing and
impoundment fees which are due, or bond in lieu of such fees, have been paid.
(Ord. O-07-003, passed 1-7-2008) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.16 TOWING ROTATION LIST.
   (A)   The Police Department shall annually prepare and maintain an eligible
list of those persons, firms and corporations who apply and qualify to tow and
store vehicles at the request of the authorizing official pursuant to this
chapter. The owner or principal must either reside, own property or maintain a
business within the corporate limits of the city, to qualify for the eligible
list. The Chief of Police shall prepare rules in accordance with the provisions
of this chapter for the qualifications of private tow truck operators or
businesses for the eligible list.
   (B)   Any private tow truck operator or business on the eligible list that
violates any provision of this chapter or the rules established in accordance
herewith shall be subject to removal from the eligible list after written
notice. Any private tow truck operator or business removed from the eligible
list may, within five working days of the date of the notice of removal,
request a hearing before the Chief of Police to show cause why he or she should
not be removed from the list.
(Ord. O-07-003, passed 1-7-2008) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.17 TOWING BUSINESS.
   (A)   Qualifications.
      (1)   To qualify for the eligible list, a private tow truck operator or
business must:
         (a)   Keep the towing operation either open or available by a
telephone number between the hours of 9:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.;
         (b)   Have available at all times a factory built wrecker consisting
of a one-ton chassis with dual rear wheels and having the necessary equipment
to tow vehicles from the streets and other public or private places in the town
when called upon to do so; and
         (c)   Have, at or in the immediate vicinity of the location of his or
her towing operation, sufficient fenced storage space and facilities to protect
both damaged and undamaged vehicles and have a facility to store a vehicle out
of exposure to the elements overnight.
      (2)   The private tow truck operator or business must also agree to
assume the obligation to:
         (a)   Promptly tow and store all vehicles to be removed from the
public streets or other public places or private property upon the request of
the authorizing official;
         (b)   Issue a receipt to the authorizing official for each vehicle
towed and stored and keeps the vehicle until its release is authorized by the
authorizing official;
         (c)   Store vehicles in a secured, fenced storage space;
         (d)   Collect towing and storage fees from the owner or the vehicle by
the sale of the vehicle without recourse to the town unless it is found that no
probable cause existed for the towing pursuant to G.S. § 20-219.11;
         (e)   Pay all damage to vehicles entrusted to his custody as the
result of his negligence and to maintain for the protection of the vehicle
owner the garage keeper’s legal liability insurance while performing any of the
services provided for in this chapter;
         (f)   Indemnify and save the city harmless from all liability for
damages sustained by vehicles being towed or stored and all personal injuries
occurring as a result of the towing or storage:
         (g)   Remove from the scene of a vehicle accident in which the vehicle
to be towed was involved all glass, metal or debris caused by the accident;
         (h)   Maintain a liability insurance policy covering the operation of
the business, equipment, tow truck and other vehicles for any bodily injury or
property damage with minimum liability of $100,000 for any one person injured
or killed and a minimum of $300,000 for more than one person killed or injured
in any accident and an additional $50,000 for property damage. The policy must
contain an endorsement by carriers providing ten days notice to the city in the
event of any change in coverage under the policy; and
         (i)   Cooperate with the investigation of the criminal record and
character of the owner of the business and each tow truck operator. No such
person shall have been convicted of any felony or of a crime involving fraud,
theft or receiving or possession of stolen property within ten years.
   (B)    Contracts. A private tow truck operator or business on the eligible
list shall contract with the town to remove the vehicles described in this
chapter from the public streets or other public places or private property upon
the request of the authorizing official. The contract shall be in writing,
shall specify the charges to be made for towing and shall require the person
entering into the contract for the towing of such vehicles to perform the
service in a manner consistent with the provisions of this chapter and the
rules prepared thereunder and shall provide for the forfeiture of the contract
in the event of a violation of any of the provisions of the contract or of the
provisions of this chapter. The contract shall further provide that the town
shall not be obligated to the person undertaking the towing and storage of such
vehicles for any damages which may be incurred in the performance of the
obligation assumed by him or her that probable cause existed for the towing of
any vehicle involved unless it is found that no probable cause existed for the
towing of any vehicle pursuant to G.S. § 20-219-11.
   (C)   Fees. Unless written authorization is received as provided in this
section, the amount which a private towing operator or business may charge for
the towing of a motor vehicle at the request of an authorizing official
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall not exceed $65. For the
purposes of this section, towing occurs at the time the city contracts the
private towing operator or business. In the event that the towing requires
extraordinary measures in order to be completed, the Chief of Police may
authorize in writing a greater charge in order to compensate the private towing
operator or business for the expense of such extraordinary measures.
(Ord. O-07-003, passed 1-7-2008)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no other
specific penalty has been provided shall be subject to the penalties described
in §
10.99 of this code.
(Ord. O-07-003, passed 1-7-2008; Ord. 19- , passed 2-21-2019)
CHAPTER 95: ANIMALS
Section
General Regulations
   
95.01   Cruelty to animals prohibited
   
95.02   Impoundment of at large or improperly hitched animals
Care and Keeping
   
95.15   Chickens and other fowl; restrictions
   
95.16   Fowl at large
   
95.17   Pigeons; confinement required
   
95.18   Grazing prohibited
   
95.19   Hitching restricted
   
95.20   Hogs prohibited
   
95.21   Stables
Dogs
   
95.35   Unvaccinated or untagged dogs a nuisance; impoundment
   
95.36   Prowling bitches and vicious dogs at large prohibited
   
95.37   Habitual barking, chasing, yard damage
   
95.38   Running at large prohibited; impoundment
Bird Sanctuary
   
95.50   Town declared a bird sanctuary
   
95.51   Hunting certain birds unlawful
 
   
95.99   Penalty
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 95.01 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to molest, torture, torment,
deprive of necessary sustenance, cruelly beat, needlessly mutilate or kill,
wound, poison, abandon or subject to conditions detrimental to its health or
general welfare of any animal or to cause or procure such action.
   (B)   The words TORTURE, TORMENT or CRUELTY shall be held to include every
act, omission or neglect whereby unjustifiable physical pain, suffering or
death is caused or permitted; however, nothing in this chapter shall be
construed to prohibit the Chief of Police or veterinarians from destroying
dangerous, unwanted or injured animals in a humane manner.
(Prior Code, § 95.01) (Ord. O-86-003, passed 10-6-1986) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.02 IMPOUNDMENT OF AT LARGE OR IMPROPERLY HITCHED ANIMALS.
   Any animal which is found running at large or staked, hitched or fastened in
violation of the provisions of this chapter shall be seized and impounded by
the Chief of Police or any person finding same. The impounder may demand the
same fee as is allowed by state law.
(Prior Code, § 95.02) (Ord. O-86-003, passed 10-6-1986) Penalty, see §
95.99
CARE AND KEEPING
§ 95.15 CHICKENS AND OTHER FOWL; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The raising or keeping of chickens and other fowl within the corporate
limits of the town shall be unlawful except in the following instances.
      (1)   Any household (persons residing in one dwelling) may have for
domestic purposes not more than 25 chickens or other fowl on a lot, provided
they are:
         (a)   Not located within 25 feet of the property line of another
residence lot;
         (b)   Kept confined or penned at all times in a manner so as to
prevent escape and running at large; and
         (c)   Kept in a clean, sanitary and properly maintained pen or
enclosure at all times.
      (2)   The keeping of not more than 25 chickens or other fowl shall not be
deemed the keeping of the same for commercial purposes.
   (B)   The violation of this section shall constitute a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 95.15) (Ord. 1974-10, passed - -1974) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.16 FOWL AT LARGE.
   No person shall permit ducks, geese or chickens to remain on or in any of
the streets or public places at night, or to run at large in the daytime.
(Prior Code, § 95.16) (Ord. O-86-003, passed 10-6-1986) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.17 PIGEONS; CONFINEMENT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to keep pigeons, except when those pigeons are properly
kept in a cage or enclosure at all times.
(Prior Code, § 95.17) (Ord. O-86-003, passed 10-6-1986) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.18 GRAZING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall graze or tie up on any vacant lot, within 50 feet of any
dwelling or street, any cattle, sheep or other animal.
(Prior Code, § 95.18) (Ord. O-86-003, passed 10-6-1986) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.19 HITCHING RESTRICTED.
   No person shall hitch any horse or other animal to any of the trees;
lampposts; electric light, power, telephone or telegraph poles; mailboxes; or
hydrants owned by the town or permitted by the town to be erected on or in any
of the streets, sidewalks, squares or parks.
(Prior Code, § 95.19) (Ord. O-86-003, passed 10-6-1986) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.20 HOGS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall keep any pigs or hogs within the corporate limits.
(Prior Code, § 95.20) (Ord. O-86-003, passed 10-6-1986) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.21 STABLES.
   Every stable and place where cattle, horses or other animals may be kept
shall be maintained at all times in a clean and healthful condition.
(Prior Code, § 95.21) (Ord. O-86-003, passed 10-6-1986) Penalty, see §
95.99
DOGS
§ 95.35 UNVACCINATED OR UNTAGGED DOGS A NUISANCE; IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Dogs not inoculated, registered or tagged declared a nuisance. The
keeping of dogs that have not been inoculated, registered and tagged, as herein
set forth, within the corporate limits of the town, is hereby declared a
nuisance and a menace to the public and the same is hereby prohibited, and any
person permitting any dog that has not been so inoculated, registered and
tagged and equipped with a collar to be or to remain in the town shall be
subject to a penalty for each violation.
   (B)   Provision for impoundment. Any dog found in the town that has not been
inoculated, registered and tagged as hereinbefore set forth shall be impounded
by the police for three days, at the expiration of which time, unless claimed
by its owner, inoculated, registered and tagged, it shall be destroyed by the
police or a person acting under the direction of the Police Department. Any
person interfering with the catching, impounding or destruction of any dog as
herein authorized or attempting to release any such dog from the pound shall be
subject to the penalties provided by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 95.35) (Ord. O-86-003, passed 10-6-1986) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.36 PROWLING BITCHES AND VICIOUS DOGS AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner or keeper of a prowling bitch or vicious
dog to permit that animal to run at large within the town, and any such animal
found running at large within the town may be destroyed by the police or a
person acting under the direction of the Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 95.36) (Ord. O-86-003, passed 10-6-1986) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.37 HABITUAL BARKING, CHASING, YARD DAMAGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner or keeper of any dog to have within the
town a dog that habitually or repeatedly barks in a manner so as to disturb the
neighborhood, or a dog that habitually or repeatedly chases, snaps at, attacks
or barks at pedestrians, bicycles or vehicles, or turns over garbage pails, or
damages gardens, flowers or vegetables.
(Prior Code, § 95.37) (Ord. O-86-003, passed 10-6-1986) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.38 RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED; IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or keeper of any dog to permit that
animal to run at large in the town. Proof of finding a dog off the premises of
the owner or keeper, unless under the control of its owner, shall constitute a
prima facie case. Any dog found running at large within the town except upon
the premises of the owner or his or her agent shall be impounded by the police
and a charge of $15 made, plus $5 each day so impounded for feed and care. At
the expiration of three days, unless claimed by its owner and the impounding
and care charges paid, it shall be destroyed. The owner of any dog found in
violation of this section shall be served with a summons for the violation
thereof by any town police officer or dog warden duly appointed by the Board of
Commissioners.
   (B)   The Chief of Police or the Dog Catcher shall have the authority under
this section to notify owners of dogs that are running loose and not in control
of the owner, that the dog cannot be caught, and after a second notification by
the Chief of Police or Dog Catcher the owner of the dog shall be subject to
criminal prosecution.
   (C)   If the Dog Catcher or other duly appointed officer shall duly impound
any dog on a second or subsequent occasion under the provisions of this
section, there shall be imposed a charge of $25 for the recovery of the dog
from the dog pound, plus $5 per day for each day so impounded for feeding and
care.
(Prior Code, § 95.38) (Ord. O-86-003, passed 10-6-1986) Penalty, see §
95.99
BIRD SANCTUARY
§ 95.50 TOWN DECLARED A BIRD SANCTUARY.
   All the territory embraced within the corporate limits of the town shall be
a bird sanctuary.
(Prior Code, § 95.50) (Ord. O-86-003, passed 10-6-1986)
§ 95.51 HUNTING CERTAIN BIRDS UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hunt, kill or trap any bird within
the corporate limits of the town except pigeons, crows, starlings, English
sparrows, domesticated fowl and birds classed as predatory by the Wildlife
Resources Commission or by the General Statutes of the state.
(Prior Code, § 95.51) (Ord. O-86-003, passed 10-6-1986) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided, any person violating the provisions of
this chapter shall be subject to a civil fine of not more than $100, as further
described in §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating §
95.35(A) of this code shall be subject to a penalty of $50 for each violation.
(Prior Code, § 95.99) (Ord. O-86-003, passed 10-6-1986; Ord. 19- , passed 2-21-
2019)
CHAPTER 96: CIVIL EMERGENCIES
Section
   
96.01   State of emergency
§ 96.01 STATE OF EMERGENCY.
   (A)   The Mayor shall have the authority and is given the authority to
declare a state of emergency within the town at any time that he or she deems
that an emergency exists and that the declaration is necessary for the
protection of life and property and in order to preserve the public peace.
   (B)   At any time during the period that a state of emergency has been
declared as provided herein, the Mayor shall have the authority to restrict:
         (1)   The hours of operation of any office, business establishment or
other place from which people may travel or congregate;
         (2)   The possession, transportation, sale, purchase and consumption
of alcoholic beverages;
         (3)   The possession, transportation, sale, purchase, storage and use
of dangerous weapons and substances and gasoline; or
         (4)   Other activities, or place other conditions that may be
necessary to maintain order and protect lives or property during the state of
emergency.
   (C)   The Mayor is authorized and empowered to limit the application of all
or any part of such restrictions to any area specifically designated or
described within the corporate limits and to specific hours of the day or
night, and to exempt the following from all or any part of such restrictions:
      (1)   Law enforcement officers, firefighters and other public employees;
      (2)   Doctors, nurses, employees of hospitals and other medical
facilities;
      (3)   On-duty military personnel, whether state or federal;
      (4)   On-duty employees of public utilities, public transportation
companies, and newspaper, magazine, radio broadcasting, and television
broadcasting corporations operated for profit; and
      (5)   Such other classes of persons as may be essential to the
preservation of public order and immediately necessary to serve the safety,
health and welfare needs of the people within the city.
   (D)   The Mayor shall proclaim the end of such state of emergency or all or
any part of the restrictions imposed as soon as circumstances warrant or when
directed to do so by the Board of Commissioners.
   (E)   Any declaration may be extended, altered or repealed in any particular
during the continued or threatened existence of a state of emergency by the
issuance of a subsequent declaration.
   (F)   During the existence of a declared state of emergency, it shall be
unlawful for any person to violate any provision of any restriction imposed by
any declaration authorized by this section. Any person who violates such a
provision shall, upon conviction, be subject to penalties in accordance with §
10.99.
   (G)   During the existence of a proclaimed state of emergency, the Mayor is
authorized to award contracts for construction or repair work and for the
purchase of apparatus, supplies, materials or equipment without regard to the
amount of such contract and without complying with G.S. § 143-129, provided
that the expeditious award of such contract is reasonably necessary to address
the effects of such emergency. In the absence of the Mayor, the following
officials shall have the same authority as provided herein to the Mayor: the
Mayor pro tem and Finance Commissioner, in that order. The person who awards
any contract shall submit a report to the Board of Commissioners summarizing
all contracts awarded pursuant to this section as soon as reasonably possible
after the state of emergency has ended.
(Ord. passed 3-16-2020)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL LICENSING REGULATIONS
      
111.   AMUSEMENTS
      
112.   TAXICABS
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL LICENSING REGULATIONS
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   License required
   
110.03   License tax on certain businesses; terms
   
110.04   License required for each separate business
   
110.05   License required for each business location
   
110.06   Display required
   
110.07   No tax abatement
   
110.08   Schedule of licenses adopted by reference
   
110.09   Sale of malt beverages, wine and mixed beverages on sundays
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENT. The person having the agency for the manufacturer, producer or
distributor.
   BUSINESS. Any business, trade, occupation, profession, avocation or calling
of any kind, subject, by the provision of this title, to a license.
   ENGAGED IN BUSINESS. Engaged in the business as owner or operator.
   FISCAL YEAR. The period beginning with July 1 and ending with the June 30
next following.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, company or corporation.
   QUARTER. Any three consecutive months.
(Prior Code, § 110.01)
§ 110.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or his or her agent or servant to engage
in or carry on a business in the town for which there is required a license,
without first having paid the license fee and obtained the license. For the
purpose of this section, the opening of a place of business or offering to
sell, followed by a single sale or the doing of any act or thing in furtherance
of the business shall be construed to be engaging in or carrying on that
business; and each day that a person, firm or corporation shall engage in or
carry on a business as described above shall be construed to be a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 110.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.03 LICENSE TAX ON CERTAIN BUSINESSES; TERMS.
   (A)   In addition to the tax on property and polls, as otherwise provided
for, and under the power and authority conferred in the laws of the state,
there shall be levied and collected annually or oftener, where provided for, a
privilege license tax on trades, professions, business operations, exhibitions,
circuses and all subjects authorized to be licensed, as set out in the
following sections and schedule. All licenses shall be a personal privilege and
shall not be transferable. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to
prevent the Board of Commissioners from imposing from time to time, as they may
see fit, license taxes that are not specifically herein defined, or from
increasing or decreasing the amount of any special license tax, or from
prohibiting or regulating the business or acts licensed, and all licenses are
granted subject to the provisions of existing ordinances, or those hereafter
enacted.
   (B)   All taxes provided for and fixed in the following sections and
schedule shall be for 12 months, unless otherwise specified, and shall so
remain for 12 months beginning July 1 and ending June 30; provided, that where
the license is issued after January 1, then the licensee shall be required to
pay one-half the tax prescribed, except where otherwise specifically provided
for.
(Prior Code, § 110.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.04 LICENSE REQUIRED FOR EACH SEPARATE BUSINESS.
   The payment of any particular tax imposed by this title shall not relieve
the person paying the same from the payment of any other tax imposed by this
title for any other business he or she may carry on, unless so provided by the
section imposing that tax; it being the intent of this title that license taxes
prescribed by various sections or divisions of this title applicable to any
business shall be cumulative except where otherwise specifically provided.
(Prior Code, § 110.04)
§ 110.05 LICENSE REQUIRED FOR EACH BUSINESS LOCATION.
   A license issued for the privilege of conducting a business is only valid
for the business conducted at the place and by the licensed named therein.
Every person doing business in more than one factory, mill, warehouse, store,
stall or stand, or other place of business, shall secure a separate license for
each place of business, unless those places of business are contiguous to each
other, communicate directly with an opening into each other and are operated as
a unit. If the business is moved or if the licensee sells to another, then a
new license is necessary, unless a special permit to continue business under
the original license is obtained from the Board of Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 110.05)
§ 110.06 DISPLAY REQUIRED.
   Every license must be kept prominently displayed at the place of business of
the licensee named in the license, or, if the licensee has no fixed place of
business, the licensee must keep the same wherever that business is being
operated and where it can be inspected at any time by the proper municipal
official.
(Prior Code, § 110.06)
§ 110.07 NO TAX ABATEMENT.
   No license tax shall be abated nor shall any refund of any part thereof be
made, in any case where the licensee discontinues his or her business before
the end of the period for which the license was issued.
(Prior Code, § 110.07)
§ 110.08 SCHEDULE OF LICENSES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The current schedule of annual privilege licenses, on file in the office of
the Clerk, is hereby adopted by reference.
(Prior Code, § 110.08)
§ 110.09 SALE OF MALT BEVERAGES, WINE AND MIXED BEVERAGES ON SUNDAYS.
   The sale of malt beverages, unfortified wine, fortified wine and mixed
beverages shall be allowed within the town’s corporate limits at any premises
licensed pursuant to G.S. § 18B-1001 on Sundays beginning at 10:00 a.m.
(Ord. 21- , passed 10-25-2021)
CHAPTER 111: AMUSEMENTS
Section
Game Rooms
   
111.01   Definition
   
111.02   Approval required
   
111.03   Grounds for license denial
   
111.04   Prohibited conduct
   
111.05   Rules of operation for game rooms
   
111.06   Rules of operation for electronic gaming rooms
   
111.07   License revocation
GAME ROOMS
§ 111.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ELECTRONIC GAMING OPERATION. A business enterprise, whether principal or
accessory, where persons utilize one or more electronic machines, including,
but not limited to, computers and gaming terminals, to conduct games of skill,
odds or chance, including sweepstakes entries, and where cash, coupons, gift
cards, internet access time, merchandise or other items of value are redeemed
or otherwise distributed, whether or not the value of such items is determined
by skill on electronic games played or by predetermined odds, and regardless of
whether the business operation does not violate any provision of G.S. Ch. 14,
Article 37, pt. 1 or any other state or federal law. An electronic gaming
operation does not include a lawful operation associated with the official
State Education Lottery.
   GAME ROOM. Any place of business other than an electronic gaming operation
that principally operates mechanical games or pay devices or tables for which
charge is made either directly or indirectly. Examples of GAME ROOMS, by way of
illustration and not limitation, are pool rooms, bowling alleys, billiard
halls, amusement centers and the like.
(Prior Code, § 111.01) (Ord. O-82-003, passed 12-6-1982; Ord. 17- , passed 9-7-
2017)
§ 111.02 APPROVAL REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every operator of a game room shall be required to pay a privilege
license tax in accordance with the privilege license regulations of the town in
Ch. 110 of this code.
   (B)   In addition, every operator of a game room or electronic gaming
operation shall apply for and obtain written approval from the Board of
Commissioners prior to operation. Application for this license shall be made
upon forms provided by the Clerk in which the applicant shall declare under the
penalty of perjury that the applicant:
      (1)   Has not been convicted of unlawfully selling intoxicating liquors
or narcotic drugs;
      (2)   Is a resident of this state;
      (3)   Is not of immoral character; and
      (4)   Is not an habitual user of alcoholic beverages or narcotic drugs.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to operate a game room or electronic gaming
operation within the town without first having filed an application and
obtained written approval as required by this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 111.02) (Ord. O-82-003, passed 12-6-1982; Ord. 17- , passed 9-7-
2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.03 GROUNDS FOR LICENSE DENIAL.
   The Board of Commissioners shall not issue a license to any applicant who:
   (A)   Has been convicted of unlawfully selling intoxicating liquors or
narcotic drugs;
   (B)   Is not a resident of this state;
   (C)   Is of immoral character; or
   (D)   Is an habitual user of alcoholic beverages or narcotic drugs.
(Prior Code, § 111.03) (Ord. O-82-003, passed 12-6-1982) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.04 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   Licensees under this subchapter shall not, and neither shall their
employees:
   (A)   Except as otherwise specifically allowed by law, suffer or permit any
gambling on the licensed premises at any time, nor the sale or use of any
racing, football or other parlay cards or gambling boards or devices;
   (B)   Suffer or permit the licensed premises to become disorderly, or permit
any profane, obscene or indecent language thereon; or
   (C)   Employ in carrying on the business any person who has been convicted
of unlawfully selling alcoholic beverages or narcotic drugs.
(Prior Code, § 111.04) (Ord. O-82-003, passed 12-6-1982; Ord. 17- , passed 9-7-
2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.05 RULES OF OPERATION FOR GAME ROOMS.
   The following rules shall be observed by all operators of game rooms within
the town.
   (A)   All game rooms shall be closed from 11:00 p.m. until 7:00 a.m. Monday
through Saturday.
   (B)   No play on any game shall be allowed during the times when game rooms
are required by this subchapter to remain closed.
   (C)   Game rooms may be open on Sunday only between the hours of 1:00 p.m.
and 6:00 p.m.
   (D)   All game rooms shall be operated only on the ground floor of a
building.
   (E)   No loud noises shall be allowed to emanate beyond the licensed
premises.
(Prior Code, § 111.05) (Ord. O-82-003, passed 12-6-1982; Ord. 17- , passed 9-7-
2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.06 RULES OF OPERATION FOR ELECTRONIC GAMING ROOMS.
   (A)   Electronic gaming operations shall operate only between the hours of
8:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. Monday through Saturday, and between 1:00 p.m. and 6:
00 p.m. on Sunday, unless the business is located 150% or more of the setback
distances set forth in subsection 1413.02, in which case the hours of operation
may be extended until 12:00 a.m. (midnight).
   (B)   (1)   Electronic gaming operations shall not be located closer than:
         (a)   One-thousand feet from any building used as a dwelling
(residence);
         (b)   Two-thousand feet from any church, day care facility, school,
playground, park, library, movie theatre; and
         (c)   Two-thousand feet from any existing electronic gaming operation,
tattoo and body piercing establishment or adult and sexually oriented business.
      (2)   Measurement of distance shall be in a straight line from the
closest point of the building at which the business is located to the closest
point of the building being protected by the applicable setback.
   (C)   No alcoholic beverages shall be sold or consumed on the premises
(buildings or grounds);
   (D)   There shall be one and one-half parking spaces for each electronic
gaming machine, plus one for each employee on the shift of greatest employment;
   (E)   There shall be no loitering on the premises (buildings or grounds)
after business hours; and
   (F)   The requirements set forth in this section are intended to be minimum
requirements. Meeting the minimum requirements in this section shall raise no
presumption of general compatibility or compliance with any of the other
specific standards set forth in this code of ordinances, Zoning Ordinance or
otherwise required by applicable law. The Board of Commissioners shall have
full authority to impose requirements more stringent than those set forth in
this section if more stringent requirements are supported by competent evidence
received by the Board of Commissioners during the special use permit hearing.
(Ord. 17- , passed 9-7-2017)
§ 111.07 LICENSE REVOCATION.
   After giving the operator of a game room adequate notice and an opportunity
to be heard, the Board of Commissioners may revoke the license of any game room
operator who:
   (A)   Violates the provisions of §§
111.04 or
111.05 of this code;
   (B)   Is convicted of unlawfully selling alcoholic beverages or narcotic
drugs; or
   (C)   Is found to have obtained a license based upon a false or incorrect
application.
(Prior Code, § 111.06) (Ord. O-82-003, passed 12-6-1982) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 112: TAXICABS
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   Definitions
Certificate of Convenience and Necessity
   
112.15   Certificate required
   
112.16   Application
   
112.17   Issuance
   
112.18   Approval procedure; burden of proof
   
112.19   Failure to begin operations
   
112.20   Transfer restricted
   
112.21   Revocation
   
112.22   Vehicle substitution
   
112.23   Multiple certificates prohibited
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSONS. Includes both singular and plural, and shall also mean and include
persons, individuals, firms, corporations, partnerships and associations.
   TAXICAB. Any motor vehicle seating nine or fewer passengers, operated upon
any street or highway on call or on demand, accepting or soliciting passengers
indiscriminately for hire between points along streets or highways as may be
directed by the passenger or passengers so being transported, and shall not
include motor vehicles or motor vehicle carriers as defined in G.S. § 62-103
(k).
(Prior Code, § 112.01)
CERTIFICATE OF CONVENIENCE AND NECESSITY
§ 112.15 CERTIFICATE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a taxicab upon and over the
streets of the town without first having applied for and secured from the Board
of Commissioners a certificate of convenience end necessity as hereinafter set
forth.
(Prior Code, § 112.15) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.16 APPLICATION.
   Every person desiring to operate a taxicab upon and over the streets of the
town shall file on forms supplied by the Clerk an application for a certificate
of convenience and necessity.
(Prior Code, § 112.16)
§ 112.17 ISSUANCE.
   The Board shall have power and it will be its duty to order certain
certificates issued or refuse to issue certain certificates or to issue
certificates for partial exercise of the rights granted only if such
certificate includes such terms and conditions as in its judgment the public
convenience and necessity may require.
(Prior Code, § 112.17)
§ 112.18 APPROVAL PROCEDURE; BURDEN OF PROOF.
   (A)   In determining whether the public convenience and necessity require
the franchising of a taxicab or taxicabs, the Board of Commissioners shall,
among other things, take into consideration the following factors:
      (1)   Whether or not the public convenience and necessity require the
proposed or additional taxicab service within the town;
      (2)   The financial responsibility of the applicant and the likelihood of
this proposed service being permanent, responsible and satisfactory;
      (3)   The number and condition of equipment;
      (4)   The schedule of proposed rates, if required by the Board of
Commissioners to be charged;
      (5)   The number of taxicabs now operated and the demand for increased
service, if any, and whether or not the safe use of the streets by the public,
both vehicular and pedestrian, will be preserved, and whether or not adequate
provision has been made for off-street parking of these taxicabs;
      (6)   The experience of the applicant in the taxicab business; and
      (7)   Other relevant facts as may be deemed necessary and advisable.
   (B)   Before making any decision with respect to the issuance of a
certificate of convenience and necessity, the Board of Commissioners, or a
committee thereof, shall make a full and complete investigation of all facts,
if it so desires, subpoena witnesses and utilize the services of the Chief of
Police or any other officer or employee of the town.
   (C)   The burden of proof shall be upon the applicant to establish the
existence of public convenience and necessity for the operation of the taxicab
or taxicabs specified in his or her application, and all other facts required
for the granting of a certificate.
(Prior Code, § 112.18)
§ 112.19 FAILURE TO BEGIN OPERATIONS.
   If a certificate is granted to an applicant, and that applicant shall fail,
in accordance with the provisions of the certificate, to begin operations
within 60 days after the date of the certificate, then that certificate shall
become null and void, and no refund of any amount paid by the applicant will be
made by the town.
(Prior Code, § 112.19)
§ 112.20 TRANSFER RESTRICTED.
   A certificate is not transferable without the consent and approval of the
Board of Commissioners. Applications for a permit to transfer shall be filed in
the same manner as an application for a certificate of convenience and
necessity. The proceedings upon the application for a transfer shall be the
same as those prescribed for the issuance of a certificate, except that the
question of public convenience and necessity need not be proved. No certificate
will be issued to any applicant unless that applicant be the holder in due
course and for value of the title to that taxicab, and the holder of that
certificate only shall be permitted to operate that taxicab, and that applicant
shall not be allowed to engage the services of any person to operate his or her
taxicab for him or her or in his or her stead at any time.
(Prior Code, § 112.20) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.21 REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners may at any time after a public hearing
revoke any certificate issued by authority of this chapter for any one, or
more, of the following causes:
      (1)   Failure to operate the taxicab specified in the certificate in a
manner so as to serve the public adequately and efficiently;
      (2)   Failure to maintain motor equipment in good repair;
      (3)   Failure to carry liability insurance or bond as required by law;
      (4)   Failure to pay to the town taxes or license fees of $15 imposed
upon these taxicabs;
      (5)   Repeated and persistent violation by the taxicab driver of traffic
and safety ordinances, or state laws relating to alcoholic beverages or
prostitution;
      (6)   Failure to report accidents; or
      (7)   Willful failure to comply with any provision of this chapter or
other ordinances or state laws relating to the operation of taxicabs, whether
those ordinances and laws are now in force or are hereafter enacted into
ordinances and into laws.
   (B)   No certificate shall be revoked until the owner has had at least five
days’ notice by personal service or registered mail of the charges against him
or her, and of the time and place of the hearing. If, after the hearing, it is
found that the owner is guilty of one or more of the offenses listed herein,
the Board shall have the power to revoke the certificate, or to condition a
revocation upon compliance of its order within any time fixed by it.
(Prior Code, § 112.21)
§ 112.22 VEHICLE SUBSTITUTION.
   The person to whom a certificate has been issued may, by proper endorsement
thereon by the Clerk, substitute another vehicle, or other vehicles, for the
vehicle or vehicles for which the certificate was granted. In this instance,
the liability insurance or bonds shall also be transferred to the substitute
vehicle or vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 112.22)
§ 112.23 MULTIPLE CERTIFICATES PROHIBITED.
   The Board of Commissioners reserves the right to issue only one certificate
of convenience and necessity to any one person, and the person holding such a
certificate shall be required to operate his or her taxicab himself or herself
and shall have no power or authority by virtue of the certificate to delegate
the operation of that taxicab to any person.
(Prior Code, § 112.23) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
Section
   
130.01   Occupant not to permit disorderly conduct or loitering
   
130.02   Vagrants
   
130.03   House of ill fame
   
130.04   Profanity and boisterous conduct
   
130.05   Public drunkenness
   
130.06   Beer and wine
   
130.07   Loitering at night
   
130.08   Pool rooms; minors restricted
   
130.09   Trespassing
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 OCCUPANT NOT TO PERMIT DISORDERLY CONDUCT OR LOITERING.
    No occupant of any house, whether residence or business, shall permit the
same to be kept in an indecent and offensive or disorderly manner or permit
loafers or idle persons to congregate therein or in front of the same to the
annoyance of persons passing by or living in the vicinity.
(Prior Code, § 130.01) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 VAGRANTS.
   Any and all tramps, vagrants or persons under suspicion, who shall be found
with no visible means of support, either male or female, shall not be allowed
on the streets or other public places.
(Prior Code, § 130.02) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 HOUSE OF ILL FAME.
   No person shall keep a house or other place of ill fame in the town, and no
person shall knowingly rent any house to be used as a house of ill fame. All
adult persons living in such a house shall be considered as keepers thereof and
be subject to the penalties of this code.
(Prior Code, § 130.03) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 PROFANITY AND BOISTEROUS CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use loud and boisterous language so
as to become a nuisance, or to use any form of profanity or indecent language
on the street or in a gathering, audience or assembly, or in any public place
whatsoever, or to indecently expose themselves within the corporate limits.
(Prior Code, § 130.04) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05 PUBLIC DRUNKENNESS.
   It shall be unlawful for any intoxicated person to be on or upon any public
street or other public place.
(Prior Code, § 130.05) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.06 BEER AND WINE.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES. Includes:
         (a)   Beer, lager beer, ale, porter and other brewed or fermented
beverages containing 0.5% of alcohol by volume but not more than 5% of alcohol
by weight as authorized by the laws of the United States of America; and
         (b)   UNFORTIFIED WINES. Wine of an alcoholic content produced only by
natural fermentation or by the addition of pure cane, beet or dextrose sugar
and having an alcoholic content of not less than 5% and not more than 14% of
absolute alcohol, the percentage of alcohol to be reckoned by volume, which
wine has been approved as to identity, quality and purity by the state’s Board
of Alcoholic Control as provided by law.
      PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation or
other groups or combinations acting as a unit.
   (B)   Unlawful acts. It shall be unlawful for:
      (1)   Any person to drink alcoholic beverages or to offer a drink to
another person on any public road, street, alley, parking lot, sidewalk or
other publicly owned or leased place within the town;
      (2)   Any person to make public display of alcoholic beverages at any
athletic contest in the town; or
      (3)   Any person to possess or consume any alcoholic beverages upon any
premises except where expressly permitted by the General Statutes of the state.
(Prior Code, § 130.06) (Ord. passed 7-1-1974) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.07 LOITERING AT NIGHT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to loaf, loiter or congregate
on the streets or sidewalks, or in the alleys, or any public place in the town
after 11:00 p.m. Anyone violating this section shall, upon conviction, be
guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 130.07) (Ord. passed 11-3-1969) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.08 POOL ROOMS; MINORS RESTRICTED.
   No person or owner of any pool room or billiard room shall allow any person
under 18 years of age to play at games or to loiter in public pool rooms in the
town.
(Prior Code, § 130.08) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.09 TRESPASSING.
   The provisions of G.S. § 14-159.12, as amended, are incorporated herein by
reference to the fullest extent permitted by law.
(Ord. 19-006, passed 1-9-2019) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no other
specific penalty has been provided shall be subject to the penalties described
in §
10.99 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 130.99) (Ord. passed 7-1-1974; Ord. 19- , passed 2-21-2019)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
Section
Picketing and Demonstrations
   
131.01   Noise restrictions
   
131.02   Sidewalk use
   
131.03   Numbers and spacing
   
131.04   One location within a block
   
131.05   Placards
   
131.06   Prohibited locations
   
131.07   Notice requirement
   
131.08   Right-of-way obstruction; dispersal requirement
 
   
131.99   Penalty
PICKETING AND DEMONSTRATIONS
§ 131.01 NOISE RESTRICTIONS.
   Any or all assemblies and picketing shall be peaceful and unattended by
boisterousness or excessive noise, and there shall be no shouting, clapping or
singing of a nature so as to disturb the peace and tranquility of the
community.
(Prior Code, § 131.01) (Ord. O-63-002, passed 9-6-1963) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.02 SIDEWALK USE.
   Picketing and demonstrations shall be conducted only on public sidewalks
maintained by the town, and only the outside half of the sidewalks next to the
nearest street edge shall be used by the pickets or demonstrators. No picketing
or demonstrating shall be conducted on the remaining portion of the sidewalks
or on that portion of the streets used primarily for vehicular traffic or
parking.
(Prior Code, § 131.02) (Ord. O-63-002, passed 9-6-1963) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.03 NUMBERS AND SPACING.
   The marching of pickets and demonstrators shall be in single file and they
shall be spaced a distance of not less than 15 feet apart, and not more than
six pickets shall picket or demonstrate before any given place of business or
public facility. No vehicle or animal shall be used in any picket or
demonstrating line, and all pickets or demonstrators shall be afoot.
(Prior Code, § 131.03) (Ord. O-63-002, passed 9-6-1963) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.04 ONE LOCATION WITHIN A BLOCK.
   (A)   Pickets or demonstrators promoting the same objective may picket or
demonstrate in front of only one place of business or public facility within a
town block at any one time.
   (B)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BLOCK. The portion of a street lying between intersections.
(Prior Code, § 131.04) (Ord. O-63-002, passed 9-6-1963) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.05 PLACARDS.
   Pickets or demonstrators shall carry only cardboard or paper placards or
signs and the words used thereon shall not be defamatory in nature and shall
not be such that they would tend to produce violence. No metal, wood or other
hard material may be attached to the placards or signs, and placards or signs
shall not be more than 24 inches in length nor more than 24 inches in width. No
picket, demonstrator or person supervising or accompanying the picket or
demonstration shall make any statement which is inflammatory in nature or which
would tend to produce violence or incite riot.
(Prior Code, § 131.05) (Ord. O-63-002, passed 9-6-1963) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.06 PROHIBITED LOCATIONS.
   There shall be no picketing or demonstrating in front of any building in
which the following are located:
   (A)   A church;
   (B)   A fraternal order;
   (C)   A school; or
   (D)   A hospital, nursing home or rest home.
(Prior Code, § 131.06) (Ord. O-63-002, passed 9-6-1963) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.07 NOTICE REQUIREMENT.
   The Chief of Police of the town is to be given at least eight hours’ notice
by any person or persons planning to picket or demonstrate. This notice shall
include the name of the organization or organizations planning to picket and
also shall include the names of the places of business or public facilities
which will be picketed and the date and the hours that the picketing or
demonstrating will be conducted.
(Prior Code, § 131.07) (Ord. O-63-002, passed 9-6-1963) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.08 RIGHT-OF-WAY OBSTRUCTION; DISPERSAL REQUIREMENT.
   Whenever the free passage of any street or sidewalk in the town shall be
obstructed for any reason by a crowd, the persons composing that crowd shall
disperse or move on when directed to do so by a police officer. It shall be
unlawful for any person to refuse to so disperse or move on when so directed by
a police officer as herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 131.08) (Ord. O-63-002, passed 9-6-1963) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no other
specific penalty has been provided shall be subject to the penalties described
in §
10.99 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 131.99) (Ord. O-63-002, passed 9-6-1963; Ord. 19- , passed 2-21-
2019)
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section
   
132.01   Firearms discharge
   
132.02   Public urination or defecation
   
132.03   Loitering for drug-related activity
   
132.04   Regulation of all-terrain vehicles
§ 132.01 FIREARMS DISCHARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any firearm of any type
within the corporate limits, except a peace officer in the performance of his
or her duty.
(Prior Code, § 132.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.02 PUBLIC URINATION OR DEFECATION.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The purpose of this section is to prohibit
urinating or defecating in public, in order to allow public property to be used
more enjoyably and to promote the good health of the public.
   (B)   Authority. This section is adopted under the authority granted by G.S.
§ 160A-174.
   (C)   Jurisdiction. This section applies to all property accessible to the
general public.
   (D)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DEFECATE. The act of expelling solid waste from the human body.
      PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
other organizations or groups or a combination of persons acting as a unit.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any building, street, alley, parking lot or any other place
that is easily accessible to the general public.
   (E)   Enforcement. Any person violating this section will be charged by
citation, criminal summons or by physical arrest for this violation. Violation
shall be a misdemeanor as provided by G.S. § 14-4.
(Prior Code, § 132.02) (Ord. O-99-01, passed 10-4-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.03 LOITERING FOR DRUG-RELATED ACTIVITY.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any street, sidewalk, bridge, alley or alleyway, plaza,
park, driveway, parking lot or transportation facility or the doorways and
entranceways to any building which fronts on any of those places, or a motor
vehicle in or on any of those places, or any property owned by the town.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for a person to remain or wander about in a
public place in a manner and under circumstances manifesting the purpose to
engage in a violation of any subdivision of the state’s Controlled Substance
Act, G.S. Ch. 90, Article 5. This type of circumstances shall include:
      (1)   Repeatedly beckoning to, stopping or attempting to stop passersby
or repeatedly attempting to engage passersby in conversation;
      (2)   Repeatedly stopping or attempting to stop motor vehicles;
      (3)   Repeatedly interfering with the free passage of other persons;
      (4)   Repeatedly passing to or receiving from passersby, whether on foot
or in a vehicle or by courier, money or objects; or
      (5)   Taking flight upon the approach of a police officer.
   (C)   Violation of any provision of this section shall be a misdemeanor as
provided by G.S. § 14-4.
(Prior Code, § 132.03) (Ord. O-98-001, passed 3-2-1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.04 REGULATION OF ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES.
   No person shall operate any motorized all-terrain vehicle on any private
property not owned by the operator without the written consent of the owner. As
used in this section, a MOTORIZED ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE is a motorized vehicle
with two or more wheels designed for recreational off-road use. This section
shall not apply to any parade or other special event sponsored or approved by
the town.
(Ord. passed 2-8-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
152.   HOUSING CODE
      
153.   ZONING
      
154.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Adoption of Building Code
   
150.02   Fees
   
150.03   Required certifications, licenses
   
150.04   Inspections
   
150.05   Stop work orders
   
150.06   Certificate of occupancy
   
150.07   Reservation of additional remedies
   
150.08   Amendments
   
150.09   Appeals
Reserved
   
150.20   [Reserved]
   
150.21   [Reserved]
Street Numbers
   
150.30   Display; specifications; notice of violation
 
   
150.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 ADOPTION OF BUILDING CODE.
   The North Carolina State Building Code, as adopted, and amended by the
state, is hereby adopted and incorporated by reference as if fully provided
herein.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
Statutory reference:
   Building Code Publications; General Information, see 11 NCAC 08.0203
   State Building Code to apply statewide, see G.S. § 143-138(e)
§ 150.02 FEES.
   (A)   Required. Every person shall be required to apply for a building
permit and inspection permit from the Code Enforcement Officer before beginning
any construction, installation, repair, removal or remodeling when the activity
shall fall within the jurisdiction of the Code Enforcement Officer. A building
and inspection permit fee structure will be established annually during the
town budget process and will be subject to change at any time by the Board of
Commissioners. A building permit is valid for the time provided by G.S. § 160D-
1111. A site-specific development plan vests for the period of time provided by
G.S. § 160D-108.1. All other development approvals are valid for the time
provided by G.S. § 160D-108(d)(2).
   (B)   Emergency work. For the purpose of facilitating emergency work when
immediate necessity exists, construction repairs and replacement to structures
and buildings damaged by storms, fire, accident or any other emergency, where a
delay would likely result in further damage or injury to persons or property,
work may be commenced immediately. The required building permit shall be
applied for on the next regular working day after work is commenced.
   (C)   Transfers. Permit fees are not transferable.
   (D)   Refunds. Permit fees are not refundable.
   (E)   Permit renewal. Upon written application of the permittee prior to the
expiration of the original permit, the Code Enforcement Officer or his or her
designee may renew the permit. The renewed permit shall be valid for 90 days
from the expiration of the original permit. There will be no fees charged for
authorized permit renewals.
   (F)   Permit suspension. All permit fees will be forfeited on any permit
invalidated because the authorized work either is not commenced within the
valid life of the permit or if the authorized work is suspended or abandoned
for a period of six months after time of commencing work.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.03 REQUIRED CERTIFICATIONS, LICENSES.
   (A)   Any person who is certified as a journeyperson, electrician, plumber,
gasfitter or mechanical tradesperson or as a master electrician, plumber,
gasfitter or mechanical tradesperson by the state shall be considered certified
as the same in the town.
   (B)   Any person who is licensed as either an electrical, plumbing, gas,
mechanical or general contractor by the state’s Board of Examiners shall be
considered licensed as the same in the town. It shall be unlawful for any
person to work as either an electrical, plumbing, gasfitter, mechanical or
general contractor within the town without having a current license issued in
accordance with the General Statutes.
   (C)   No person shall install or alter any electrical equipment or make any
addition or alteration in the arrangement of any electrical system in the town,
or wire any building for the installation of any electrical lights, meters,
heating devices or apparatus requiring the use of electrical current unless the
person is considered certified by the state’s Board of Examiners.
   (D)   No person shall install or alter any plumbing system or related
appurtenances or make any addition or alteration on the arrangement of any
plumbing system in the town, or pipe any building for the installation of any
appliance meters, heating devices or apparatus requiring the use of potable
water supply, sanitary or storm drainage unless the person is considered
certified by the state’s Board of Examiners.
   (E)   No person shall install or alter any gas system or make any addition
or alteration in the arrangement of any gas system in the town, or pipe any
building for the installation of any appliance, meters, heating device or
apparatus requiring the use of gas unless the person is considered certified by
the state’s Board of Examiners.
   (F)   No person shall install or alter any mechanical equipment or make any
addition or alteration in the arrangement of any mechanical system in the town,
unless the person is considered certified by the state’s Board of Examiners.
   (G)   The Code Enforcement Officer or his or her designee shall enforce this
section.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.04 INSPECTIONS.
   The town shall have the authority and the duty to inspect property for
compliance with this chapter. The town shall have the discretion to determine
when and how such inspections are to be made, and any written warnings that may
be given, provided that its policies are reasonably calculated to ensure that
this chapter is enforced. Inspections shall be conducted pursuant to G.S. §
160D-403(e). Any notice of violation shall be in writing and shall be issued
pursuant to G.S. § 160D-404(a).
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.05 STOP WORK ORDERS.
   Whenever any work or activity subject to regulation pursuant to this chapter
or other applicable local development regulation or any state law delegated to
the town for enforcement purposes in lieu of the state is undertaken in
substantial violation of any state or local law, or in a manner that endangers
life or property, the Zoning Administrator or other designee may order the
specific part of the work or activity that is in violation or presents such a
hazard to be immediately stopped pursuant to G.S. § 160D-404(b).
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.06 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   No building, structure or use of land that is subject to a building permit
required by G.S. Ch. 160D, Article 11 shall be occupied or used until a
certificate of occupancy or temporary certificate pursuant to G.S. § 160D-1114
has been issued.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.07 RESERVATION OF ADDITIONAL REMEDIES.
   The town reserves the right to implement any general enforcement remedy as
provided by G.S. § 160D-404(c).
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 150.08 AMENDMENTS.
   An amendment to this chapter may be adopted by the Board of Commissioners
only by ordinance and only after the notice and public hearing requirements
contained in G.S. § 160D-601 have been satisfied. A simple majority of voting
Board members present at the meeting upon which the amendment is presented is
required to adopt any amendment to this chapter as provided by G.S. § 160A-75.
The Mayor or Board of Commissioners may refer any amendment to the Planning
Board for review and comment.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 150.09 APPEALS.
   The Board of Adjustment shall hear all administrative appeals arising under
this chapter in accordance with G.S. §§ 160D-302, 160D-405, 160D-406, 160D-705
and other applicable laws, as may be amended. Appeals from the Board of
Adjustment shall be made to Superior Court as provided by applicable law.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
[RESERVED]
§ 150.20 [RESERVED].
(Ord. 21- , passed - -)
§ 150.21 [RESERVED].
(Ord. 21- , passed - -)
STREET NUMBERS
§ 150.30 DISPLAY; SPECIFICATIONS; NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   The owner, agent or occupant of any residential, commercial or other
building or structure within the town shall cause such building or structure to
be numbered in accordance with the street number or address assigned by the
county.
   (B)   The street numbers on commercial buildings or structures shall not be
less than four inches high, and not less than three inches high on all other
buildings or structures. All numbers shall be of a contrasting color to the
background to which they are attached, and located in such a manner as to be
readily identified from the street on which the building or structure is
located.
   (C)   No person shall alter, deface or take down any number placed on any
property in accordance with this section, except for repair or replacement of
such number.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any violation of §
150.30 of this code subjects the offender to a civil penalty of $100 and any
other penalty as provided in §
10.99 of this code.
      (2)   The town may institute injunction, mandamus or other appropriate
action in any judicial proceeding to prevent the violation of §
150.30 of this code.
      (3)   Any notice of violation shall be in writing and shall be issued
pursuant to G.S. § 160D-404(a).
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
CHAPTER 151: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Title and purpose
   
151.02   Definitions
   
151.03   Authority and jurisdiction
   
151.04   Prerequisite to plat recordation
   
151.05   Acceptance of streets
   
151.06   Thoroughfare plans
   
151.07   School sites on land use plan
   
151.08   Zoning and other plans
   
151.09   Transportation improvement plans
   
151.10   General procedure for plat approval
   
151.11   Statement by owner
   
151.12   Effect of plat approval on dedications
   
151.13   Variances
   
151.14   Amendments
   
151.15   Abrogation
   
151.16   Administrator designated
   
151.17   Stop work orders
   
151.18   Reservation of additional remedies
Subdivision Plats
   
151.30   Plat required on any subdivision of land
   
151.31   Approval prerequisite to plat recordation
   
151.32   Procedures for review of major and minor subdivisions
   
151.33   Procedure for review of minor subdivisions
   
151.34   Preliminary plat submission and review for major subdivisions
   
151.35   Final plat submission and review
   
151.36   Information contained in or depicted on preliminary and final plats
   
151.37   Recombination of land
   
151.38   Resubdivision procedures
Design; Required Improvements and Minimum Standards
   
151.50   Generally
   
151.51   Suitability of land
   
151.52   Name duplication
   
151.53   Subdivision design
   
151.54   Streets
   
151.55   Utilities
   
151.56   Placement of monuments
   
151.57   Construction procedures
   
151.58   Oversized improvements
   
151.59   As-built drawings
   
151.60   Buffering
 
   
151.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 TITLE AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Subdivision
Regulations of the Town of Littleton, North Carolina, and may be referred to as
the subdivision regulations.
   (B)   The purpose of this chapter is to establish procedures and standards
for the development and subdivision of land within the territorial jurisdiction
of the town. It is further designed to provide for the orderly growth and
development of the town; for the coordination of streets and highways within
proposed subdivisions with existing or planned streets and highways and with
other public facilities; for the dedication or reservation of recreation areas
serving residents of the immediate neighborhood within the subdivision and of
rights-of-way or easements for street and utility purposes; and for the
distribution of population and traffic in a manner that will avoid congestion
and overcrowding and will create conditions essential to public health, safety
and the general welfare. This chapter is designed to further facilitate
adequate provision of water, sewerage, parks, schools and playgrounds, and also
to facilitate the further resubdivision of larger tracts into smaller parcels
of land.
   (C)   Development approvals and determinations, as defined by G.S. § 160D-
102, subject to this chapter are governed by G.S. § 160D-403. Development
approvals attach to and run with the land as provided by G.S. § 160D-104. A
site-specific development plan vests for the period of time provided by G.S. §
160D-108(d)(3).
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 151.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BLOCK. A piece of land bounded on one or more sides by streets or roads.
   BUFFER STRIP. A strip of land which shall be a minimum of 20 feet in width
and may be composed of evergreen bushes, trees or anchor shrubs that at least
two rows are provided from the ground to a height of five feet within six years
and foliage overlaps within six years, or a barrier constructed of stone,
block, brick or other suitable building material, with a minimum height of five
feet.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE. A line parallel to the front property line in front
of which no structure shall be erected. Setbacks shall be figured from the
right-of-way line.
   DEDICATION. A gift, by the owner, or a right to use of land for a specified
purpose or purposes. Because a transfer of property rights is entailed, a
DEDICATION must be made by written instrument, and is completed with an
acceptance.
   EASEMENT. A grant by the property owner of a strip of land for a specified
purpose and use by the public, a corporation or persons.
   HALF-STREET. A street whose centerline coincides with a subdivision plat
boundary, with one-half the street right-of-way width being contained within
the subdivision plat.
   LOT. Includes the words PLOT, PARCEL or TRACT. A LOT is a portion of a
subdivision, or any other parcel of land, intended as a unit of transfer of
ownership or for development or both. LOT types are as follows.
      (1)   CORNER LOT. A lot located at the intersection of two or more
streets. A lot abutting on a curved street or streets shall be considered a
CORNER LOT if straight lines drawn from the foremost points of the side lot
lines to the foremost point of the lot meet at an interior angle of less than
135 degrees.
      (2)   INTERIOR LOT. A lot other than a corner lot with only one frontage
on a street.
      (3)   LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is part of a subdivision, a plat of
which has been recorded in the office of the Register of Deeds of the county
prior to the adoption of this chapter, or a lot described by metes and bounds,
the description of which has been so recorded prior to the adoption of this
chapter.
      (4)   REVERSED FRONTAGE LOT. A lot on which the frontage is at right
angles or approximately right angles (interior angles less than 135 degrees) to
the general pattern in the area. A reversed frontage lot may also be a corner
lot, an interior lot or a through lot.
      (5)   SINGLE-TIER LOT. A lot which backs upon a limited access highway, a
railroad, a physical barrier or another type of land use and to which access
from the rear is usually prohibited.
      (6)   THROUGH LOT or DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOT. A lot other than a corner lot
with frontage on more than one street. THROUGH LOTS abutting two streets may be
referred to as DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOTS.
   OFFICIAL MAPS OR PLANS. Any maps or plans officially adopted by the Board of
Commissioners.
   OPEN SPACE. An area of land or water generally lacking in human-made
structures and reserved for its unaltered state.
   PLAT. A map or plan of a parcel of land which is to be, or has been
subdivided.
   PUBLIC OR COMMUNITY SEWAGE SYSTEM. A single system of sewage collection
treatment and disposal owned and operated by a sanitary district, a
metropolitan sewage district, a water and sewer authority, a county or
municipality or a public utility.
   RECREATION AREA or PARK. An area of land or combination of land and water
resources that is developed for active and/or passive recreation pursuits with
various human-made features that accommodate like activities.
   STREET. A dedicated and accepted public right-of-way for vehicular traffic.
The following classifications shall apply.
      (1)   Rural roads.
         (a)   LOCAL ROAD. A road which primarily provides access to adjacent
land and for travel over relatively short distances.
         (b)   MAJOR COLLECTOR. A road which serves major intra-county travel
corridors and traffic generators and provides access to the arterial system.
         (c)   MINOR ARTERIAL. A rural link in a network joining cities and
larger towns and providing intrastate and inter-county service at relatively
high overall travel speeds with minimum interference to through movement. This
network would primarily serve traffic.
         (d)   MINOR COLLECTOR. A road which provides service to small local
communities and links locally important traffic generators with their rural
hinterland.
         (e)   PRINCIPAL ARTERIAL. A rural link in a network of continuous
routes serving corridor movements having trip length and travel density
characteristics indicative of substantial statewide or interstate travel and
existing solely to serve traffic. This network would consist of interstate
routes and other routes designed as PRINCIPAL ARTERIALS.
      (2)   Specific type rural or urban streets.
         (a)   ALLEY. A strip of land, owned publicly or privately, set aside
primarily for vehicular service access to the back or side of properties
otherwise abutting on a street.
         (b)   CUL-DE-SAC. A short street having but one end open to traffic
and the other end being permanently terminated and a vehicular turnaround
provided.
         (c)   DEAD END STREET. Has the same meaning as a cul-de-sac without a
defined vehicle turnaround.
         (d)   FREEWAY, EXPRESSWAY or PARKWAY. Divided multi-lane roadway
designed to carry large volumes of traffic at relatively high speeds. A FREEWAY
is a divided highway providing for continuous flow of vehicles with no direct
access to abutting property or streets and with access to selected crossroads
provided via connecting ramps. An EXPRESSWAY is a divided highway with full or
partial control of access and generally with grade separations at major
intersections. A PARKWAY is a highway for noncommercial traffic, with full or
partial control of access, and usually located within a park or a ribbon of
park-like development.
         (e)   FRONTAGE ROAD. A local street or road that is parallel to a full
or partial access control facility and functions to provide access to adjacent
land.
         (f)   LOCAL RESIDENTIAL STREET. Cul-de-sacs, loop streets less than
2,500 feet in length or streets less than one mile in length that do not
connect thoroughfares or serve major traffic generators, and do not collect
traffic from more than 100 dwelling units.
         (g)   RESIDENTIAL COLLECTOR STREET. A local access street which serves
as a connector street between local residential streets and the thoroughfare
system. RESIDENTIAL COLLECTOR STREETS typically collect traffic from 100 to 400
dwelling units.
      (3)   Urban streets.
         (a)   LOCAL STREET. A street used as a link, not part of a higher-
order urban system which serves primarily to provide direct access to abutting
land and access to higher systems.
         (b)   MAJOR THOROUGHFARES. Thoroughfares which consist of interstate,
other freeway and expressway links and major streets that provide for the
expeditious movement of volumes of traffic within and through urban areas.
         (c)   MINOR THOROUGHFARES. Thoroughfares are important streets in the
urban system and perform the function of collecting traffic from local access
streets and carrying it to the major thoroughfare system by facilitating a
minor through traffic movement and may also serve abutting property.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person, firm or corporation who subdivides or develops any
land deemed to be a subdivision as defined in this chapter.
   SUBDIVISION. All divisions of a tract or parcel of land into two or more
lots, building sites or other divisions for the purpose of sale or building
development (whether immediate or future) and shall include all divisions of
land involving the dedication of a new street or a change in existing streets;
but the following shall not be included within this definition nor be subject
to any regulations enacted pursuant to this chapter:
      (a)   The combination or recombination of portions of previously
subdivided and recorded lots where the total number of lots is not increased
and the resultant lots are equal to or exceed the standards of the town as
shown in this chapter;
      (b)   The division of land into parcels greater than ten acres where no
street right-of-way dedication is involved;
      (c)   The public acquisition by purchase of strips of land for the
widening or opening of streets or for public transportation system corridors;
      (d)   The division of a tract in single ownership whose entire area is no
greater than two acres into not more than three lots, where no street right-of-
way dedication is involved and where the resultant lots are equal to or exceed
the standards of the town as shown in this chapter; or
      (e)   The divisions of a tract into parcels in accordance with the terms
of a probated will or in accordance with intestate succession under G.S. Ch.
29.
   STRUCTURE. Includes the word BUILDING.
   USED FOR. Includes the meaning “designed for.”
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 151.03 AUTHORITY AND JURISDICTION.
   This chapter is hereby adopted under the authority and provisions of G.S. §§
160D-801 et seq. The regulations contained in this chapter shall govern each
and every subdivision within the town and its extraterritorial jurisdiction as
shown on the official extraterritorial boundary map.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 151.04 PREREQUISITE TO PLAT RECORDATION.
   After the effective date of this chapter, each individual subdivision plat
of land within the town’s jurisdiction shall be approved by the Board of
Commissioners of the town.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 151.05 ACCEPTANCE OF STREETS.
   No street shall be maintained by the town nor street dedication accepted for
ownership and maintenance in any subdivision for which a plat is required to be
approved unless and until the final plat has been approved by the town.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 151.06 THOROUGHFARE PLANS.
   Where a proposed subdivision includes any part of a thoroughfare which has
been designated as that upon the officially adopted thoroughfare plan of the
town, that part of the thoroughfare shall be platted by the subdivider in the
location shown on the plan and at the width specified in this chapter.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 151.07 SCHOOL SITES ON LAND USE PLAN.
   If the Board of Commissioners and the School Board have jointly determined
the specific location and size of any school sites to be reserved and this
information appears in the comprehensive land use plan, the Planning Board
shall immediately notify the School Board whenever a plan for a subdivision is
submitted which includes all or part of a school site to be reserved. The
School Board shall promptly decide whether it still wishes the site to be
reserved. If the School Board does not wish to reserve the site, it shall so
notify the Board of Commissioners. If the School Board does wish to reserve the
site, the subdivision shall not be approved without a reservation. The School
Board shall then have 18 months beginning on the date of final approval of the
subdivision within which to acquire the site by purchase or by initiating
condemnation proceedings. If the School Board has not purchased or begun
proceedings to condemn the site within 18 months, the subdivider may treat the
land as freed of the reservation.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 151.08 ZONING AND OTHER PLANS.
   Similarly, proposed subdivisions must comply in all respects with the
requirements of Ch. 153 of this code in effect in the area to be subdivided,
and any other officially adopted plans.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 151.09 TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENT PLANS.
   (A)   If the state’s Department of Transportation has determined the
specific location and size of any road or right-of-way improvements
necessitating the reservation of land, and this information appears in its
officially adopted transportation improvement program, the Planning Board shall
immediately notify the Department of Transportation whenever a preliminary plat
for a subdivision is submitted, which includes all or part of a road
improvement area to be reserved.
   (B)   If the Department of Transportation does not wish to reserve the site,
it shall so notify the Planning Board. If the Department of Transportation does
wish to reserve the site, the subdivision shall not be approved without a
reservation. The Department of Transportation shall then have 18 months
beginning on the date of final approval of the subdivision within which to
acquire the site by purchase or by initiating condemnation proceedings.
   (C)   If the Department of Transportation has not purchased or begun
proceedings to condemn the site within 18 months, the subdivider may treat the
land as freed of the reservation.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 151.10 GENERAL PROCEDURE FOR PLAT APPROVAL.
   (A)   After the effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter, no
subdivision plat of land within the town’s jurisdiction shall be filed or
recorded until it has been submitted to and approved by the Board of
Commissioners as set forth in §
151.04 of this code, and until this approval is entered in writing on the face
of the plat by the Mayor and attested by the Clerk.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator shall request that the Register of Deeds not
file or record a plat of a subdivision of land located within the territorial
jurisdiction of the town that has not been approved in accordance with these
provisions, nor shall the Clerk of the Superior Court order or direct the
recording of a plat if the recording would be in conflict with this section.
   (C)   No lots identified within a proposed subdivision may be sold prior to
approval and recordation of that subdivision.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 151.11 STATEMENT BY OWNER.
   The owner of land shown on a subdivision plat submitted for recording, or
his or her authorized agent, shall sign a statement on the plat stating whether
or not any land shown thereon is within the subdivision regulation jurisdiction
of any other jurisdiction.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 151.12 EFFECT OF PLAT APPROVAL ON DEDICATIONS.
   Pursuant to G.S. § 160D-806, the approval of a plat shall not be deemed to
constitute or affect the acceptance by the municipality or public of the
dedication of any street or other ground, public utility line or other public
facility shown on the plat. However, the Board of Commissioners may by
resolution accept any dedication made to the public of lands or facilities for
streets, parks, public utility lines or other public purposes, when the lands
or facilities are located within its subdivision regulation jurisdiction.
Acceptance of dedication of lands or facilities located within the subdivision
regulation jurisdiction but outside the corporate limits of the town shall not
place on the town any duty to open, operate, repair or maintain any street,
utility line or other land or facility, and the town shall in no event be held
to answer in any civil action or proceeding for failure to open, repair or
maintain any street located outside its corporate limits.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 151.13 VARIANCES.
   Where, because of severe topographical or other conditions peculiar to the
site, strict adherence to the provisions of this chapter would cause an
unnecessary hardship, the Board of Commissioners may authorize a variance to
the terms of this chapter only to the extent that is absolutely necessary and
not to an extent which would violate the intent of this chapter.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 151.14 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners may from time to time amend the terms of
this chapter, but no amendment shall become effective unless it shall have been
proposed by or shall have been submitted to the Planning Board for review and
recommendation. The Planning Board shall have 45 days from the time the
proposed amendment is submitted to it within which to submit its report. If the
Planning Board fails to submit a report within the specified time, it shall be
deemed to have recommended approval of the amendment.
   (B)   An amendment to this chapter may be adopted by the Board of
Commissioners only by ordinance and only after the notice and public hearing
requirements contained in G.S. § 160D-601 have been satisfied. A simple
majority of voting Board members present at the meeting upon which the
amendment is presented is required to adopt any amendment to this chapter as
provided by G.S. § 160A-75. The Mayor or Board of Commissioners may refer any
amendment to the Planning Board for review and comment.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 151.15 ABROGATION.
   It is not intended that this chapter repeal, abrogate, annul, impair or
interfere with any existing easements, covenants, deed restrictions,
agreements, rules, regulations or permits previously adopted or issued pursuant
to law. However, where this chapter imposes greater restrictions, the
provisions of this chapter shall govern.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 151.16 ADMINISTRATOR DESIGNATED.
   The Zoning Administrator is hereby appointed to enforce the provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 151.17 STOP WORK ORDERS.
   Whenever any work or activity subject to regulation pursuant to this chapter
or other applicable local development regulation or any state law delegated to
the town for enforcement purposes in lieu of the state is undertaken in
substantial violation of any state or local law, or in a manner that endangers
life or property, the Zoning Administrator or other designee may order the
specific part of the work or activity that is in violation or presents such a
hazard to be immediately stopped pursuant to G.S. § 160D-404(b).
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.18 RESERVATION OF ADDITIONAL REMEDIES.
   The town reserves the right to implement any general enforcement remedy as
provided by G.S. § 160D-404(c).
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
SUBDIVISION PLATS
§ 151.30 PLAT REQUIRED ON ANY SUBDIVISION OF LAND.
   Pursuant to G.S. § 160D-804, a final plat shall be prepared, approved and
recorded pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter whenever any subdivision
of land takes place.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 151.31 APPROVAL PREREQUISITE TO PLAT RECORDATION.
   (A)   Pursuant to G.S. § 160D-803, no final plat of a subdivision within the
jurisdiction of the town as established in §
151.35 of this code shall be recorded by the Register of Deeds of the county
until it has been approved by the Board of Commissioners of the town as
provided in this subchapter.
   (B)   To secure approval of a final plat, the subdivider shall follow the
procedures established in this subchapter.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 151.32 PROCEDURES FOR REVIEW OF MAJOR AND MINOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   All subdivisions shall be considered major subdivisions except those defined
as minor subdivisions in this section. A MINOR SUBDIVISION is defined as one
involving no new public or private streets or roads, or right-of-way
dedication, no easements, no utility extension, and where ten or fewer lots
result after the subdivision is completed. Major subdivisions shall be reviewed
in accordance with the procedures in §§
151.34 through
151.36 of this code. MINOR SUBDIVISIONS shall be reviewed in accordance with
the provisions in §
151.33 of this code. However, if the subdivider owns, leases, holds an option
on or holds any legal or equitable interest in any property adjacent to or
located directly across a street, easement, road or right-of-way from the
property to be subdivided, the subdivision shall not qualify under the minor
subdivision procedure. Furthermore, the minor subdivision procedure may not be
used a second time within three years on any property less than 1,500 feet from
the original property boundaries by anyone who owned, had an option on or any
legal or equitable interest in the original subdivision at the time the
subdivision received preliminary or final plat approval.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 151.33 PROCEDURE FOR REVIEW OF MINOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   The subdivider shall submit a final plat of the minor subdivision to
the Zoning Administrator not less than seven days prior to the Planning Board
meeting at which it will be reviewed.
   (B)   The final plat shall be prepared by a registered land surveyor
currently licensed and registered in the state by the state’s Board of
Registration for Professional Engineers and Land Surveyors. The final plat
shall conform to the provisions for plats, subdivisions and mapping
requirements set forth in G.S. § 47-30 and the Standards of Practice for Land
Surveying in North Carolina.
   (C)   Five copies, plus any additional copies as required by the Zoning
Administrator, of the final plat shall be submitted; two of these shall be on
reproducible material, three shall be black or blue line paper prints.
Materials and drawing medium for the original shall be in accordance with the
Standards of Practice for Land Surveying in North Carolina, where applicable,
and the requirements of the county’s Register of Deeds.
   (D)   The final plat shall be of a size suitable for recording with the
county’s Register of Deeds and shall be at a scale of not less than one inch
equals 200 feet. Maps may be placed on more than one sheet with appropriate
match lines.
   (E)   Submission of the final plat shall be accompanied by a filing fee,
paid by the subdivider, in accordance with the town’s fee schedule.
   (F)   The final plat shall meet the specifications in §
151.36 of this code.
   (G)   The following signed certificate shall appear on all five copies of
the final plat.
      (1)   Certificate of ownership and dedication.
 
I hereby certify that I am the owner of the property shown and described
hereon, which is located in the subdivision jurisdiction of the Town of
Littleton and that I hereby adopt this plan of subdivision with my free consent
and establish minimum building setback lines as noted.
Owner __________________________________
Date ____________________________________
 
      (2)   Certificate of survey and accuracy. In accordance with G.S. § 47-
30: There shall appear on each plat a certificate by the person under whose
supervision the survey or plat was made, stating the origin of the information
shown on the plat, including recorded deed and plat references shown thereon.
The ratio of precision as calculated by latitudes and departures before any
adjustments must be shown. Any lines on the plat that were not actually
surveyed must be clearly indicated and a statement included revealing the
source of information. The execution of a certificate shall be acknowledged
before any officer authorized to take acknowledgments by the registered land
surveyor preparing the plat. All plats to be recorded shall be probated as
required by law for the registration of deeds. Where a plat consists of more
than one sheet, only the first sheet must contain the certification and all
subsequent sheets must be signed and sealed.
   (H)   (1)   The certificate required in division (G)(2) above shall include
the source of information for the survey and data indicating the accuracy of
closure of the plat before adjustments and shall be in substantially the
following form:
 
“I, _______________________ , certify that this plat was drawn under my supervision from
(an actual survey made under my supervision) (deed description recorded in Book       
Page        , etc.) (other); that the boundaries not surveyed are shown as broken lines
plotted from information found in Book ____ Page ______ ; that this plat was prepared in
accordance with G.S. § 47-30 as amended. Witness my original signature, registration
number and seal this       day of           , A.D. 20         .”
   Surveyor
   Seal or Stamp
   Registration Number
 
      (2)   The certificate of the notary shall comply with state law.
   (I)   The Planning Board shall review the final plat at or before its next
regularly scheduled meeting which follows at least seven days after the Zoning
Administrator receives the final plat and shall recommend approval, conditional
approval with modifications to bring the plat into compliance or disapproval of
the final plat with reasons within 45 days of its first consideration of the
plat.
      (1)   During its review of the final plat, the Planning Board may
recommend that the Board of Commissioners appoint an engineer or surveyor to
confirm the accuracy of the final plat. If substantial errors are found, the
costs shall be charged to the subdivider and the plat shall not be recommended
for approval until the errors have been corrected.
      (2)   If the Planning Board recommends approval of the final plat, it
shall transmit all copies of the plat and its written recommendations to the
Board of Commissioners through the Zoning Administrator.
      (3)   If the Planning Board recommends conditional approval of the final
plat with modifications to bring the plat into compliance, it shall retain one
print of the plat for its minutes, return its written recommendation and two
reproducible copies of the plat to the subdivider and transmit one print of the
plat and its written recommendation to the Board of Commissioners through the
Zoning Administrator.
      (4)   If the Planning Board recommends disapproval of the final plat, it
shall instruct the subdivider concerning resubmission of a revised plat and the
subdivider may make changes as will bring the plat into compliance with the
provisions of this chapter and resubmit same for reconsideration by the
Planning Board, or appeal the decision to the Board of Commissioners.
   (J)   Failure of the Planning Board to make a written recommendation within
45 days after its first review shall constitute grounds for the subdivider to
apply to the Board of Commissioners for approval.
   (K)   If the Planning Board recommends approval or conditional approval with
modifications to bring the plat into compliance, or the subdivider appeals to
the Board of Commissioners, the Board of Commissioners shall review and approve
or disapprove the final plat within 65 days after the plat and recommendations
of the Planning Board have been received by the Zoning Administrator.
   (L)   If the Board of Commissioners approves the final plat, approval shall
be shown on each copy of the plat by the following signed certificate of
approval for recording:
 
I hereby certify that the subdivision plat shown hereon has been found to
comply with the Subdivision Regulations of the Town of Littleton, North
Carolina and that this plat has been approved by the Board of Commissioners of
the Town of Littleton for recording in the Office of the Register of Deeds of
Halifax County.
 
Mayor ___________________
Littleton, North Carolina
 
Date _____________________
 
   (M)   (1)   If the final plat is disapproved by the Board of Commissioners,
the reasons for disapproval shall be stated in writing, specifying the
provisions of this chapter with which the final plat does not comply. One copy
of the reasons and one print of the plat shall be retained by the Board of
Commissioners as part of its proceedings; one copy of the reasons and three
copies of the plat shall be transmitted to the subdivider.
      (2)   If the final plat is disapproved, the subdivider may make changes
as will bring the final plat into compliance and resubmit same without fee for
reconsideration by the Planning Board and Board of Commissioners or by the
Board of Commissioners as determined by the Board of Commissioners.
   (N)   If the final plat is approved by the Board of Commissioners, the
original tracing and one print of the plat shall be retained by the subdivider.
One reproducible tracing and one print shall be filed with the Clerk and one
print shall be returned to the Planning Board for its records.
   (O)   The subdivider shall file the approved final plat with the Register of
Deeds of the county within 60 days of the Board of Commissioners’ approval;
otherwise, approval shall be null and void.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 151.34 PRELIMINARY PLAT SUBMISSION AND REVIEW FOR MAJOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Submission procedure.
      (1)   For every subdivision within the territorial jurisdiction
established by §
151.03(B) of this code, which does not qualify for the minor subdivision
procedure, the subdivider shall submit to the Zoning Administrator a
preliminary plat which shall be reviewed by the Subdivision Review Board and
approved by the Board of Commissioners before any construction or installation
of improvements may begin.
      (2)   Three copies of the preliminary plat (as well as any additional
copies which the Zoning Administrator determines are needed to be sent to other
agencies) shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator. Submission of the
preliminary plat shall be accompanied by a filing fee, paid by the subdivider,
in accordance with the town’s fee schedule.
      (3)   Preliminary plats shall meet the specifications in §
151.37 of this code.
   (B)   Creation of Subdivision Review Board. All major subdivision plats
shall be reviewed by a Subdivision Review Board which shall make a
recommendation for approval or disapproval to the Board of Commissioners. The
Subdivision Review Board shall be composed of the following members:
      (1)   Chairperson of Planning Board serves as Chairperson of Board;
      (2)   Member of Board of Commissioners appointed by the Mayor;
      (3)   Two at-large members to be appointed by the Board of Commissioners;
(initially one member shall be appointed for a four-year term, and one member
shall be appointed for a two-year term. Thereafter, terms shall be for four
years.)
      (4)   Zoning Administrator; and
      (5)   Director of Public Works and Utilities.
   (C)   Review by other agencies. After having received the preliminary plat
from the subdivider, the Zoning Administrator shall submit copies of the
preliminary plat and any accompanying material to other officials and agencies
concerned with new development including, where applicable, but not limited to:
the county’s Health Departments, the Director of Public Works and Utilities,
the District Engineer of the state’s Department of Transportation (four copies)
and the county’s Soil Conservation Service, for review and recommendation,
staff review.
   (D)   Review procedure.
      (1)   The Subdivision Review Board shall review the preliminary plat at
or before its next meeting which shall be held at least 14 days after the
Zoning Administrator receives the preliminary plat and the comments from the
appropriate agencies.
      (2)   The Subdivision Review Board shall, in writing, recommend approval,
conditional approval with recommended changes to bring the plat into compliance
or disapproval with reasons, within 45 days of its first consideration of the
plat.
      (3)   If the Subdivision Review Board recommends approval of the
preliminary plat, it shall retain one copy of the plat for its minutes and
transmit two copies of the plat, to the Board of Commissioners with its
recommendation.
      (4)   If the Subdivision Review Board recommends conditional approval of
the preliminary plat, it shall keep one copy of the plat for its minutes,
transmit two copies of the plat and its recommendation to the Board of
Commissioners and return the remaining copy of the plat and its recommendation
to the subdivider.
      (5)   If the Subdivision Review Board recommends disapproval of the
preliminary plat, it shall retain one copy of the plat for its minutes,
transmit one copy of the plat and its recommendation to the Board of
Commissioners and return the remaining copy of the plat and its recommendation
to the subdivider.
      (6)   If the preliminary plat is disapproved, the subdivider may make the
recommended changes and submit a revised preliminary plat, or appeal the
decision to the Board of Commissioners.
      (7)   If the Subdivision Review Board does not make a written
recommendation within 45 days after its first consideration of the plat, the
subdivider may apply to the Board of Commissioners for approval or disapproval.
      (8)   If the Board of Commissioners approves the preliminary plat,
approval shall be noted on two copies of the plat. One copy of the plat shall
be retained by the Board of Commissioners and one copy shall be returned to the
subdivider. If the Board of Commissioners approves the preliminary plat with
conditions, approval shall be noted on two copies of the plat along with a
reference to the conditions. One copy of the plat along with the conditions
shall be retained by the Board of Commissioners and one copy of the preliminary
plat along with the conditions shall be returned to the subdivider. If the
Board of Commissioners disapproves the preliminary plat, the reasons for
disapproval shall be specified in writing. One copy of the plat and the reasons
shall be retained by the Board of Commissioners and one copy shall be returned
to the subdivider.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 151.35 FINAL PLAT SUBMISSION AND REVIEW.
   (A)   Preparation of final plat, installation of improvements. Upon approval
of the preliminary plat by the Board of Commissioners, the subdivider may
proceed with the preparation of the final plat, and the installation of or
arrangement for required improvements in accordance with the approved
preliminary plat and the requirements of this chapter. Prior to approval of a
final plat, the subdivider shall have installed the improvements specified in
this chapter or guaranteed their installation as provided herein. No final plat
will be accepted for review by the Subdivision Review Board or the Board of
Commissioners unless accompanied by written notice by the Zoning Administrator
acknowledging compliance with the improvement and guaranteeing standards of
this chapter. The final plat shall constitute only that portion of the
preliminary plat which the subdivider proposes to record and develop at that
time; that portion shall conform to all requirements of this chapter. The first
final plat shall be submitted within 12 months after the date on which the
preliminary plat was approved; otherwise, the preliminary plat shall become
null and void unless an extension of time is applied for and granted by the
Board of Commissioners before the date on which the preliminary plat would
become null and void.
   (B)   Improvements guarantees.
      (1)   Agreement and security required. Subject to G.S. § 160D-804.1, and
in lieu of requiring the completion, installation and dedication of all
improvements prior to final plat approval, the town may enter into an agreement
with the subdivider whereby the subdivider shall agree to complete all required
improvements. Once an agreement is signed by both parties and the security
required herein is provided, the final plat may be approved by the Board of
Commissioners if all other requirements of this chapter are met. The agreement
shall be for a period of one year, unless extended pursuant to G.S. § 160D-
804.1. To secure this agreement, the subdivider shall provide, subject to the
approval of the Board of Commissioners, either one or a combination of the
following guarantees, not exceeding one and one-quarter times the entire cost
as provided herein.
         (a)   Surety performance bond. The subdivider shall obtain a
performance bond from a surety bonding company authorized to do business in the
state. The bonds shall be payable to the town and shall be in an amount equal
to one and one-quarter times the entire cost of installing all required
improvements. The duration of the bond shall be until a time as the
improvements are accepted by the Board of Commissioners.
         (b)   Letter of credit. The subdivider shall provide a letter of
credit issued by any financial institution licensed to do business in the
state.
         (c)   Cash or equivalent security. The subdivider shall deposit cash
or other instrument readily convertible into cash at face value, either with
the town or in escrow with a financial institution designated as an official
depository of the town. The use of any instrument other than cash shall be
subject to the approval of the Board of Commissioners. If cash or other
instrument is deposited in escrow with a financial institution as provided
above, then the subdivider shall file with the Board of Commissioners an
agreement between the financial institution and himself or herself guaranteeing
the following:
            1.   That the escrow account shall be held in trust until released
by the Board of Commissioners and may not be used or pledged by the subdivider
in any other matter during the term of escrow; and
            2.   That in the case of a failure on the part of the subdivider to
complete the improvements, the financial institution shall, upon notification
by the Board of Commissioners and submission by the Board of Commissioners to
the financial institution of an engineer’s estimate of the amount needed to
complete the improvements, immediately either pay to the town the funds needed
to complete the improvement, up to the full balance of the escrow account, or
deliver to the town any other instruments fully endorsed or otherwise made
payable in full to the town.
      (2)   Default.
         (a)   Upon default, meaning failure on the part of the subdivider to
complete the required improvements in a timely manner as spelled out in the
performance bond or escrow agreement, then the surety, or the financial
institution holding the escrow account shall, if requested by the Board of
Commissioners pay all or any portion of the bond or escrow fund to the town up
to the amount needed to complete the improvements based on an engineering
estimate.
         (b)   Upon payment, the Board of Commissioners, in its discretion, may
expend a portion of the funds as it deems necessary to complete all or any
portion of the required improvements.
         (c)   The town shall return to the subdivider any funds not spent in
completing the improvements.
      (3)   Release of guarantee security. The Board of Commissioners may
release a portion of any security posted as the improvements are completed and
recommended for approval by the Zoning Administrator. Within 45 days after
receiving the Zoning Administrator’s recommendation, the Board of Commissioners
shall approve or disapprove the improvements. If the Board of Commissioners
approves the improvements, then it shall immediately release any security
posted on that portion.
      (4)   Defects guarantee. The Board of Commissioners shall require a
guarantee from the subdivider guaranteeing utility taps, curbs, gutters, street
construction including pavement, sidewalks, drainage facilities, seeding and
grading of road shoulders, water and sewer lines and other improvements for one
year. The one year shall begin from the date of town certification of
completion of all improvements by the Board of Commissioners.
   (C)   Submission procedure.
      (1)   The subdivider shall submit the final plat, so marked, to the
Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   The final plat shall be prepared by a registered land surveyor
currently licensed and registered in the state by the state’s Board of
Registration for Professional Engineers and Land Surveyors. The final plat
shall conform to the provisions for plats, subdivisions and mapping
requirements set forth in G.S. § 47-30 and the Standards of Practice for Land
Surveying in North Carolina.
      (3)   Five copies plus any additional copies as required by the Zoning
Administrator of the final plat shall be submitted; two of these shall be on
reproducible material; three shall be black or blue line paper prints. Material
and drawing medium for the original shall be in accordance with the Standards
of Practice for Land Surveying in North Carolina, where applicable, and the
requirements of the county’s Register of Deeds.
      (4)   The final plat shall be of a size suitable for recording with the
county’s Register of Deeds and shall be at a scale of not less than one inch
equals 200 feet. Maps may be placed on more than one sheet with appropriate
match lines.
      (5)   Submission of the final plat shall be accompanied by a filing fee,
paid by the subdivider, in accordance with the town’s fee schedule.
      (6)   The final plat shall meet the specifications in §
151.37 of this code.
      (7)   The following signed certificates shall appear on all five copies
of the final plat.
         (a)   Certificate of ownership and dedication.
 
I hereby certify that I am the owner of the property shown and described
hereon, which is located in the subdivision jurisdiction of the Town of
Littleton and that I hereby adopt this plan of subdivision with my free
consent, establish minimum building setback lines, and dedicate all streets,
alleys, walks, parks and other sites and easements to public or private use as
noted. Furthermore, I hereby dedicate all sanitary sewer, storm sewer and water
lines to the Town of Littleton.
Owners ______________________
Date ________________________
 
         (b)   Certificate of survey and accuracy.
            1.   In accordance with G.S. § 47-30, there shall appear on each
plat a certificate by the person under whose supervision the survey or plat was
made, stating the origin of the information shown on the plat, including a
recorded deed and plat references shown thereon. The ratio of precision as
calculated by latitudes and departures before any adjustments must be shown.
Any lines on the plat that were not actually surveyed must be clearly indicated
and a statement included revealing the source of information.
            1.   The execution of a certificate shall be acknowledged before
any officer authorized to take acknowledgments by the registered land surveyor
preparing the plat. All plats to be recorded shall be probated as required by
law for the registration of deeds. Where a plat consists of more than one
sheet, only the first sheet must contain the certification and all subsequent
sheets must be signed and sealed.
               a.   The certificate required above shall include the source of
information for the survey and data indicating the accuracy of closure of the
plat before adjustments and shall be in substantially the following form:
 
I,            , certify that this plat was drawn under my supervision from (an actual
survey made under my supervision) (deed description recorded in Book        , Page
       , etc.) (other); that the boundaries not surveyed are shown as broken lines
plotted from information found in Book ____ , Page ____ that this plat was prepared in
accordance with G.S. § 47-30 as amended. Witness my original signature, registration
number and seal this _______ day of______, A.D. 20_____ .
   Surveyor
   Seal or Stamp
   Registration Number
 
               b.   The certificate of the notary shall comply with state law.
         (c)   Certificate of approval of the design and installation of
streets, utilities and other required improvements.
 
I hereby certify that all streets, utilities and other required improvements
have been installed in an acceptable manner and according to town
specifications and standards in the _________ Subdivision, or that guarantees
of the installation of the required improvements in an amount and manner
satisfactory to the Town of Littleton have been received, and that the filing
fee for this plat, in the amount of $ _______ has been paid.
Town Manager ___________
Date __________
 
      (8)   The Subdivision Review Board shall review the final plat at or
before its next meeting which shall be called at least 14 days after the Zoning
Administrator receives the final plat and shall recommend approval, conditional
approval with modifications to bring the plat into compliance or disapproval of
the final plat with reasons within 45 days of its first consideration of the
plat.
      (9)   During its review of the final plat, the Subdivision Review Board
may appoint a registered land surveyor to confirm the accuracy of the final
plat (if agreed to by the Board of Commissioners). If substantial errors are
found, the costs shall be charged to the subdivider and the plat shall not be
recommended for approval until errors have been corrected.
      (10)   If the Subdivision Review Board recommends approval of the final
plat, it shall transmit all copies of the plat and its written recommendations
to the Board of Commissioners through the Zoning Administrator.
      (11)   If the Subdivision Review Board recommends conditional approval of
the final plat with modifications to bring the plat into compliance, it shall
retain one print of the plat for its minutes, return its written
recommendations and two reproducible copies of the plat to the subdivider and
transmit one print of the plat and its written recommendation to the Board of
Commissioners through the Zoning Administrator.
      (12)   If the Subdivision Review Board recommends disapproval of the
final plat, it shall instruct the subdivider concerning resubmission of a
revised plat and the subdivider may make changes as will bring the plat into
compliance with the provisions of this chapter, and resubmit same for
reconsideration by the Subdivision Review Board, or appeal the decision to the
Board of Commissioners.
      (13)   Failure of the Subdivision Review Board to make a written
recommendation within 45 days shall constitute grounds for the subdivider to
apply to the Board of Commissioners for approval.
      (14)   If the Subdivision Review Board recommends approval or conditional
approval with modifications to bring the plat into compliance, or the
subdivider appeals to the Board of Commissioners, the Board of Commissioners
shall review and approve or disapprove the final plat within 65 days after the
plat and recommendations of the Subdivision Review Board have been received by
the Zoning Administrator.
      (15)   If the Board of Commissioners approves the final plat, approval
shall be shown on each copy of the plat by the following signed certificate:
 
   Certificate of approval for recording.
I hereby certify that the subdivision plat shown hereon has been found to
comply with the Subdivision Regulations of the Town of Littleton, North
Carolina and that this plat has been approved by the Board of Commissioners of
the Town of Littleton for recording in the Office of the Register of Deeds of
Halifax County.
   Mayor
   Town of Littleton, North Carolina
   Date
 
      (16)   If the final plat is disapproved by the Board of Commissioners,
the reasons for disapproval shall be stated in writing, specifying the
provisions of this chapter with which the final plat does not comply. One copy
of the reasons and one print of the plat shall be retained by the Board of
Commissioners as part of its proceedings; one copy of the reasons and three
copies of the plat shall be transmitted to the subdivider. If the final plat is
disapproved, the subdivider may make changes as will bring the final plat into
compliance and resubmit same for reconsideration by the Subdivision Review
Board and Board of Commissioners or by the Board of Commissioners as determined
by the Board of Commissioners.
      (17)   If the final plat is approved by the Board of Commissioners, the
original tracing and one print of the plat shall be retained by the subdivider.
One reproducible tracing and one print shall be filed with the Clerk, and one
print shall be returned to the Subdivision Review Board for its records. The
subdivider shall file the approved final plat with the Register of Deeds of the
county within 60 days of the Board of Commissioners’ approval; otherwise,
approval shall be null and void.
§ 151.36 INFORMATION CONTAINED IN OR DEPICTED ON PRELIMINARY AND FINAL PLATS.
   The preliminary and final plats shall depict or contain the information
indicated in the following table. An “x” indicates that the information is
required.
Information Final Plat Preliminary Plat
Information                                                                     Final Preliminary
                                                                                Plat  Plat
Title Block Containing:
A bar graph                                                                     x     x
A scale of drawing in feet per inch listed in words or figures                  x     x
A sketch vicinity map showing the relationship between the proposed subdivision x     x
and surrounding area
Corporate limits, township boundaries, county lines, if on the subdivision      x     x
tract
Date of plat preparation                                                        x     x
Date or dates survey was conducted and plat prepared                            x     x
Existing buildings or other structures, watercourses, railroads, bridges,
culverts, storm drains, both on the land to be subdivided and land immediately  x     x
adjoining
Existing property lines on the tract to be subdivided and on adjoining          x     x
properties
Location (including township, county and state)
Minimum building setback lines                                                  x     x
Name, address, registration number and seal of the registered land surveyor     x     x
Name of owner                                                                   x     x
North arrow and orientation                                                     x     x
Property designation                                                            x     x
Proposed lot lines; lot and block numbers and approximate dimensions                  x
The boundaries of the tract or portion thereof to be subdivided, distinctly and       x
accurately represented with all bearings and distances shown
The exact boundary lines of the tract to be subdivided, fully dimensioned by
lengths and bearings and the location of existing boundary lines of adjoining   x
lands
The exact location of the flood hazard areas from the appropriate Federal       x     x
Emergency Management Agency maps
The lots numbered consecutively throughout the subdivision                      x
The names, addresses and telephone numbers of all owners, mortgagers,
registered land surveyors, land planners, architects, landscape architects and  x     x
professional engineers responsible for the subdivision
The names of any adjoining subdivisions of record or proposed and under review  x     x
The names of owners of adjoining properties                                     x     x
The name of the subdivider                                                      x     x
The registration numbers and seals of the professional engineers                x     x
The zoning classifications of the tract to be subdivided and adjoining                x
properties
Wooded areas, marshes, swamps, rock outcrops, ponds or lakes, streams or              x
streambeds and any other natural features affecting the site
The Following Data Concerning Streets:
Approximate grades                                                                    x
Design engineering data for all corners and curves                              x     x
Existing and platted streets on adjoining properties and in the proposed        x     x
subdivision
If any street is proposed to intersect with a state-maintained road, the
subdivider shall apply for driveway approval as required by the state’s       x     x
Department of Transportation, Division of Highways Manual on Driveway
Regulations; evidence that the subdivider has obtained approval
Pavement widths                                                                       x
Proposed streets                                                                x     x
Rights-of-way, location and dimensions                                          x     x
Street maintenance agreement in accordance with §                              x
151.54 of this code
Street names                                                                    x     x
Type of street dedication; all streets must be designated as public; where
public streets are involved which will be dedicated to the town, the subdivider
must submit all street plans to the Director of Public Works and Utilities for
approval prior to preliminary plat approval; public streets which will not be
dedicated to a municipality must meet all construction requirements as though
the street was to be dedicated to the municipality. Further, the subdivider
must submit the following documents to the state’s Department of Transportation
District Highway Office for review: a complete site layout, including any       x     x
future expansion anticipated; horizontal alignment indicating general curve
data on site layout plan; vertical alignment indicated by percent grade, PI
station and vertical curve length on site plan layout; the District Engineer
may require the plotting of the ground profile and grade line for roads where
special conditions or problems exist; typical section indicating the pavement
design and width and the slopes, widths and details for either the curb and
gutter or the shoulder and ditch proposed; drainage facilities and drainage
areas
Typical street cross-sections                                                         x
Where streets are dedicated to the public, but not accepted into a municipal or
the state system before lots are sold, a statement explaining the status of the x
street in accordance with §
151.54(B) of this code
The Location and Dimensions of All:
Areas to be dedicated to or reserved for public use                             x     x
Areas to be used for purposes other than residential with the purpose of each   x     x
stated
Natural buffers                                                                 x     x
Parks and recreation areas with specific type indicated                         x     x
Pedestrian or bicycle paths                                                     x     x
Riding trails                                                                   x     x
School sites                                                                    x     x
The future ownership (dedication or reservation for public use to governmental
body, for owners to duly constituted homeowners association or for tenants            x
remaining in subdivider’s ownership) of recreation and open space lands
Utility and other easements                                                     x     x
The Plans for Utility Layouts Including:
Electric lines                                                                  x*    x
Natural gas lines                                                                     x
Other drainage facilities, if any, prepared by a registered engineer, except    x*    x
incidental drainage
Plans for individual water supply and sewage disposal systems, if any           x     x
Profiles based upon mean sea level datum for sanitary sewers and storm sewers         x
Sanitary sewers, prepared by a registered engineer                                    x
Storm sewers, prepared by a registered engineer                                       x
Telephone lines                                                                 x*    x
Water distribution lines, prepared by a registered engineer illustrating
connections to existing systems, showing line sizes, the location of fire             x
hydrants, blowoffs, manholes, force mains and gate valves
*Required on final plat only for minor subdivisions, but not required on final plat for major
subdivision.
Site Calculations Including:
A copy of any proposed deed restrictions or similar covenants; restrictions are x     x
mandatory when private recreation areas are established
A copy of the erosion control plan submitted to the appropriate authority, if a x
plan is required
Acreage in parks and recreation areas and other nonresidential uses                   x
Acreage in the smallest lot in the subdivision                                        x
Acreage in total tract to be subdivided                                               x
All certifications required in §§
151.33 or                                                                       x
151.36 of this code if applicable
Any other information considered by either the subdivider, Subdivision Board or x     x
Board of Commissioners to be pertinent to the review of the plat
Linear feet in streets                                                                x
Sufficient engineering data to determine readily and reproduce on the ground
every straight or curved line, street line, lot line, right-of-way line,
easement line and setback line, including dimensions, bearings or deflection
angles, radii, central angles and tangent distances for the center line of      x
curved property lines that are not the boundary line of curved streets; all
dimensions shall be measured to the nearest one-tenth of a foot and all angles
to the nearest minute
The accurate locations and descriptions of all monuments, markers and control   x
points
The name and location of any property or buildings within the proposed
subdivision or within any contiguous property that is located on the U.S.       x     x
Department of the Interior’s National Register of Historic Places
Topographic map with contour intervals of no greater than five feet at a scale        x
of no less than one inch equals 200 feet
Total number of parcels created                                                       x
 
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 151.37 RECOMBINATION OF LAND.
   (A)   Any plat or any part of any plat may be vacated by the owner at any
time before the sale of any lot in the subdivision by a written instrument to
which a copy of the plat shall be attached, declaring the same to be vacated.
   (B)   An instrument shall be approved by the same agencies as approved the
final plat. The governing body may reject any instrument which abridges or
destroys any public rights in any of its public uses, improvements, streets or
alleys.
   (C)   An instrument shall be executed, acknowledged or approved and recorded
and filed in the same manner as a final plat; and being duly recorded or filed,
shall operate to destroy the force and effect of the recording of the plat so
vacated, and to divest all public rights in the streets, alleys and public
grounds, and all dedications laid out or described in the plat.
   (D)   When lots have been sold, the plat may be vacated in the manner
provided in divisions (A) through (C) above by all owners of the lots in the
plat joining in the execution of the writing.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 151.38 RESUBDIVISION PROCEDURES.
   For any re-platting or resubdivision of land, the same procedures, rules and
regulations shall apply as prescribed herein for an original subdivision.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
DESIGN; REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS AND MINIMUM STANDARDS
§ 151.50 GENERALLY.
   Each subdivision shall contain the improvements specified in this
subchapter, which shall be installed in accordance with the requirements of
this chapter and paid for by the subdivider, unless other means of financing is
specifically stated in this chapter. Land shall be dedicated and reserved in
each subdivision as specified in this subchapter. Each subdivision shall adhere
to the minimum standards of design established by this subchapter.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 151.51 SUITABILITY OF LAND.
   (A)   Land which has been determined by the Board of Commissioners on the
basis of engineering or other expert surveys to pose an ascertainable danger to
life or property by reason of its unsuitability for the use proposed shall not
be platted for that purpose, unless and until the subdivider has taken the
necessary measures to correct the conditions and to eliminate dangers.
   (B)   Areas that have been used for disposal of solid waste shall not be
subdivided unless tests by the county’s Health Department, a structural
engineer and a soils expert determine that the land is suitable for the purpose
provided.
   (C)   (1)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
      (2)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and
constructed to minimize flood damage.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 151.52 NAME DUPLICATION.
   The name of the subdivision shall not duplicate nor closely approximate the
name of an existing subdivision within the town and its extraterritorial
jurisdiction or in the county.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 151.53 SUBDIVISION DESIGN.
   (A)   Blocks.
      (1)   The lengths, widths and shapes of blocks shall be determined with
due regard to: provision of adequate building sites suitable to the special
needs of the type of use contemplated; zoning requirements, needs for vehicular
and pedestrian circulation; control and safety of street traffic; limitations
and opportunities of topography; and convenient access to water areas.
      (2)   Blocks shall not be less than 400 feet or more than 1,800 feet in
length.
      (3)   Blocks shall have sufficient width to allow two tiers of lots of
minimum depth except where single tier lots are required to separate
residential development from through vehicular traffic or another type of use,
in nonresidential subdivisions or where abutting a water area.
      (4)   Where deemed necessary by the Board of Commissioners, a pedestrian
crosswalk at least 15 feet in width may be required to provide convenient
public access to a public area such as a park or school, to a water area or to
areas such as shopping centers, religious or transportation facilities.
      (5)   Block numbers shall conform to the town street numbering system, if
applicable.
   (B)   Lots.
      (1)   All lots in new subdivisions shall conform to the zoning
requirements of the district in which the subdivision is located. Conformance
to zoning requirements means, among other things, that the smallest lot in the
subdivision must meet all dimensional requirements of
Ch. 153 of this code. It is not sufficient merely for the average lot to meet
zoning requirements.
      (2)   Lots shall meet any applicable Health Department requirements.
      (3)   Double frontage lots shall be avoided wherever possible.
      (4)   Side lot lines shall be substantially at right angles to or radial
to street lines.
      (5)   The dwelling shall be placed on the lot so that the front shall
face and be parallel to the addressed street.
   (C)   Easements. Easements shall be provided as follows:
      (1)   Utility easements. Easements for underground or aboveground
utilities shall be provided, where necessary, across lots or centered on rear
or side lot lines and shall be at least 20 feet wide for water and sanitary
sewer lines and as required by the companies involved, for telephone, gas and
power lines. The Board of Commissioners will determine whether one easement is
sufficient or whether several easements are necessary to accommodate the
various facilities, and the subdivider shall provide the required easements.
      (2)   Drainage easements. Where a subdivision is traversed by a stream or
drainageway, an easement shall be provided conforming with the lines of the
stream and of sufficient width as will be adequate for the purpose.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 151.54 STREETS.
   (A)   Type of street required. All subdivision lots shall abut on a public
street. All public streets shall be dedicated to the town, the state or the
public, as determined appropriate by the Board of Commissioners. All public
streets shall be built to the standards of this chapter and all other
applicable standards of the town and the state’s Department of Transportation.
Public streets not dedicated to the town which are eligible for acceptance into
the state highway system shall be constructed to the standards necessary to be
put on the state highway system or the standards in this chapter, whichever is
more strict, in regard to each particular item, and shall be put on the system.
Streets not dedicated to the town which are not eligible to be put on the state
highway system because there are too few lots or residences shall nevertheless
be dedicated to the public and shall be in accordance with the standards in
this chapter or the standards necessary to be put on the state highway system,
whichever is more strict in regard to each particular item, so as to be
eligible to be put on the system at a later date. A written maintenance
agreement with provisions for maintenance of the street until it is put on the
state system shall be included with the final plat.
   (B)   Subdivision street disclosure statement. All streets shown on the
final plat shall be designated in accordance with G.S. § 136-102.6 and
designation as public shall be conclusively presumed an offer of dedication to
the public. Where streets are dedicated to the public but not accepted into a
municipal or the state system, a statement explaining the status of the street
shall be included with the final plat before lots are sold.
   (C)   Half-streets. The dedication of half-streets of less than 60 feet at
the perimeter of a new subdivision shall be prohibited. If circumstances render
this impractical, adequate provision for the concurrent dedication of the
remaining half of the street shall be furnished by the subdivider. Where there
exists a half-street in an adjoining subdivision, the remaining half shall be
provided by the proposed subdivision. However, in circumstances where more than
60 feet of right-of-way is required, a partial width right-of-way, not less
than 60 feet in width, may be dedicated when adjoining undeveloped property is
owned or controlled by the subdivider, provided that the width of the partial
dedication is so as to permit the installation of facilities as may be
necessary to serve abutting lots. When the adjoining property is subdivided,
the remainder of the full required right-of-way shall be dedicated.
   (D)   Marginal access streets. Where a tract of land to be subdivided
adjoins a principal arterial street, the subdivider may be required to provide
a marginal access street parallel to the arterial street or reverse frontage on
a minor street for the lots to be developed adjacent to the arterial. Where
reverse frontage is established, private driveways shall be prevented from
having direct access to the principal arterial.
   (E)   Access to adjacent properties. Where in the opinion of the Board of
Commissioners it is necessary to provide for street access to an adjoining
property, proposed streets shall be extended by dedication to the boundary of
the property and a temporary turnaround provided. The extension dedicated shall
have the same right-of-way width as the street being extended.
   (F)   Nonresidential streets. The subdivider of a nonresidential subdivision
shall provide streets in accordance with I. F-4 of the state’s Department of
Transportation, Division of Highways Subdivision Roads, Minimum Construction
Standards, current issue and the standards in this chapter, whichever are more
strict in regard to each particular item.
   (G)   Design standards.
      (1)   In general.
         (a)   The design of all streets and roads within the jurisdiction of
this chapter shall be in accordance with the accepted policies of the state’s
Department of Transportation, Division of Highways, as taken or modified from
the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials (AASHTO)
manuals.
         (b)   The current issue of the state’s Department of Transportation,
Division of Highways Subdivision Roads Minimum Construction Standards shall
apply for any items not included in this chapter, or where more strict than
this chapter.
         (c)   The provision of street rights-of-way shall conform to and meet
the requirements of the thoroughfare plan of the town as approved by the
Planning Board and adopted by the Board of Commissioners and the state’s Board
of Transportation.
         (d)   The urban planning area shall consist of that area within the
urban planning boundary as depicted on the mutually adopted town thoroughfare
plan.
         (e)   The rural planning area shall be that area outside the urban
planning boundary.
      (2)   Right-of-way widths. Right-of-way widths shall not be less than the
following and shall apply except in those cases where right-of-way requirements
have been specifically set out in the thoroughfare plan.
Rural Minimum Right-of-Way (Feet)
Rural               Minimum Right-of-Way (Feet)
Local road          50*
Major collector     100
Minor collector     100
Minor arterial      100
Principal arterial:
   Freeways      350
   Other         200
*The desirable minimum right-of-way is established as 50 feet. If curb and
gutter are provided, 50 feet of right-of-way is adequate on local residential
streets.
Urban Minimum Right-of-Way (Feet)
Urban                                     Minimum Right-of-Way (Feet)
Cul-de-sac                                50
Cul-de-sac turnaround                     100
Local street                              50*
Major thoroughfare other than freeway and 90
expressway
Minor thoroughfare                        70
*The desirable minimum right-of-way is established as 50 feet. If
curb and gutter are provided, 50 feet of right-of-way is adequate on
local residential streets.
The subdivider will only be required to dedicate a maximum of 100
feet of right-of-way. In cases where over 100 feet of right-of-way is
desired, the subdivider will be required only to reserve the amount
in excess of 100 feet. In all cases in which right-of-way is sought
for an access controlled facility, the subdivider will only be
required to make a reservation.
 
      (3)   Street widths. Widths for street and road classifications other
than local shall be as required by the thoroughfare plan. Width of local roads
and streets shall be as follows:
         (a)   Local residential:
            1.   Curb and gutter section: 26 feet, face-to-face of curb; or
            2.   Shoulder section: 20 feet to edge of pavement, four-foot
shoulders.
         (b)   Residential collector:
            1.   Curb and gutter section: 34 feet, face-to-face of curb; or
            2.   Shoulder section: 20 feet to edge of pavement, six-foot
shoulders.
      (4)   Geometric characteristics. The standards outlined below shall apply
to all subdivision streets proposed for addition to the state highway system or
municipal street system. In cases where a subdivision is sought adjacent to a
proposed thoroughfare corridor, the requirements of dedication and reservation
discussed under right-of-way shall apply.
         (a)   Design speed. The design speeds for subdivision-type streets
shall be:
 
Minimum                                                        Desirable
Rural
50*     Local roads including residential collectors and local 50
        residential
Urban
40**    Local streets                                          40
*Based on projected annual average daily traffic of 400 to 750. In cases
where a road will serve a very limited area and small number of dwelling
units, minimum design speeds can be reduced further, but in no case
below 25.
**Based on projected annual average daily traffic of 50 to 250
 
         (b)   Maximum and minimum grades.
            1.   The maximum grades in percent shall be:
 
Design Speed Grade
40 or less   6
 
            2.   A minimum grade for curbed streets normally should not be less
than 0.5%; a grade of 0.35% may be allowed where there is a high type pavement
accurately crowned and in areas where specific drainage conditions may control.
            3.   Grades for 100 feet each way from intersections should not
exceed 5%.
            4.   For streets and roads with projected annual average daily
traffic less than 250, short grades less than 500 feet long, may be 150%
greater.
         (c)   Minimum sight distances.
            1.   In the interest of public safety, no less than the minimum
sight distance applicable shall be provided in every instance.
            2.   Vertical curves that connect each change in grade shall be
provided and calculated using the following parameters. (General practice calls
for vertical curves to be multiples of 50 feet. Calculated lengths shall be
rounded up in each case.)
Design speed (mph) 20 30 40 50 60
Design speed (mph)              20  30  40  50  60
Stopping sight distance:
   Min. stopping distance, fe150 200 275 400 525
   Des. stopping distance, fe150 200 325 475 650
Minimum K* value for:
   Min. crest vert. curve    16  28  55  85  160
   Des. crest vert. curve    16  28  65  145 300
   Min. SAG vert. curve      24  35  55  75  105
   Des. SAG vert. curve      24  35  60  100 155
*K is a coefficient by which the algebraic difference in grade may be
multiplied to determine the length in feet of the vertical curve which
will provide minimum sight distance. Sight distance provided for stopped
vehicles at intersections shall be in accordance with A Policy on
Geometric Design of Rural Highways and Ch. 153 of this code.
 
         (d)   Degree of curve and design speeds.
            1.   The following table shows the maximum degree of curve and
related maximum superelevation for design speeds.
            2.   The maximum rate of roadway superelevation (e) for rural roads
with no curb and gutter is .08.
            3.   The maximum rate of superelevation for urban streets with curb
and gutter is .06 with .04 being desirable.
Degree Curve (Rounded) Design Speed (mph) Maximum e* Minimum Radius (Rounded)
Degrees                                              Feet
Degree Curve (Rounded) Design Speed (mph) Maximum e* Minimum Radius (Rounded)
Degrees                                              Feet
19.0                   30                 .04        300
10.0                   40                 .04        560
6.0                    50                 .04        950
4.0                    60                 .04        1,500
21.0                   30                 .06        275
11.5                   40                 .06        510
7.0                    50                 .06        850
4.5                    60                 .06        1,375
23.0                   30                 .08        250
12.5                   40                 .08        460
7.5                    50                 .08        760
5.0                    60                 .08        1,200
*Rate of roadway superelevation, foot per foot.
 
      (5)   Intersections.
         (a)   Streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as nearly as
possible at right angles, and no street shall intersect any other street at an
angle less than 60 degrees.
         (b)   Property lines at intersections should be set so that the
distance from the edge of pavement, of the street turnout, to the property line
will be at least as great as the distance from the edge of pavement to the
property line along the intersecting streets. This property line can be
established as a radius or as a sight triangle. Greater offsets from the edge
of pavement to the property lines will be required, if necessary, to provide
sight distance for the vehicle on the side street.
         (c)   Offset intersections are to be avoided unless exception is
granted by the Division of Highways or the town as applicable. Intersections
which cannot be aligned should be separated by a minimum length of 200 feet
between survey and centerlines.
         (d)   Intersections with arterials, collectors and thoroughfares shall
be at least 1,000 feet from centerline to centerline, or more if required by
the state’s Department of Transportation.
      (6)   Cul-de-sacs. Permanent dead-end streets should not exceed 500 feet
in length unless necessitated by topography or property accessibility and in no
case shall be permitted to be over 900 feet. Measurement shall be from the
point where the centerline of the dead-end street intersects with the center of
a through street to the center of the turnaround of the cul-de-sac. Where one
cul-de-sac intersects with another cul-de-sac, the end of each cul-de-sac shall
be no more than 500 to 900 feet from a through street, measured as stated
above. The distance from the edge of pavement on the vehicular turnaround to
the right-of-way line shall not be less than the distance from the edge of
pavement to the right-of-way line on the street approaching the turnaround.
Cul-de-sacs should not be used to avoid connection with an existing street or
to avoid the extension of an important street, unless exception is granted by
the Board of Commissioners.
      (7)   Alleys.
         (a)   Alleys shall be required to serve lots used for commercial and
industrial purposes except that this requirement may be waived where other
definite and assured provision is made for service access. Alleys shall not be
provided in residential subdivisions unless necessitated by unusual
circumstances.
         (b)   The width of an alley shall be at least 20 feet.
         (c)   Dead-end alleys shall be avoided where possible, but if
unavoidable, shall be provided with adequate turnaround facilities at the dead-
end as may be approved by the Board of Commissioners.
         (d)   Sharp changes in alignment and grade shall be avoided.
         (e)   All alleys shall be designated in accordance with the state’s
Department of Transportation standards.
   (H)   Other requirements.
      (1)   Through traffic discouraged on residential collector and local
streets. Residential collector and local streets shall be laid out in a way
that their use by through traffic will be discouraged. Streets shall be
designed or walkways dedicated to assure convenient access to parks,
playgrounds, schools or other places of public assembly.
      (2)   Sidewalks. Sidewalks may be required by the Board of Commissioners
on one or both sides of the street in areas likely to be subject to heavy
pedestrian traffic such as near schools and shopping areas. Sidewalks shall be
constructed to a minimum width of four feet, and shall consist of a minimum
thickness of four inches of concrete. All sidewalks shall be placed in the
right-of-way, unless the development is platted as a planned unit or group
development. Sidewalks shall consist of a minimum of six inches of concrete at
driveway crossings.
      (3)   Street names. Proposed streets which are obviously in alignment
with existing streets shall be given the same name. In assigning new names,
duplication of existing names shall be avoided and in no case shall the
proposed name be phonetically similar to existing names in the town, and its
extraterritorial jurisdiction or the county irrespective of the use of a suffix
such as street, road, drive, place, court and the like. Street names shall be
subject to the approval of the Board of Commissioners.
      (4)   Street name signs. The subdivider shall be required to provide
street name signs for all intersections within the subdivision. These street
name signs shall be purchased through the town, and installed by town workers.
The subdivider shall pay the town for the signs and their installation.
      (5)   Permits for connection to state roads. An approved permit is
required for connection to any existing state system road. This permit is
required prior to any construction on the street or road. The application is
available at the office, of the nearest district engineer of the Division of
Highways.
      (6)   Offsets to utility poles. Poles for overhead utilities should be
located clear of roadway shoulders, preferably a minimum of at least 30 feet
from the edge of pavement on major thoroughfares. On streets with curb and
gutter, utility poles should be set back a minimum distance of six feet from
the face of curb.
      (7)   Wheelchair ramps. In accordance with G.S. § 136-44.14, all street
curbs in the state being constructed or reconstructed for maintenance
procedures, traffic operations, repairs, correction of utilities or altered for
any reason after September 1, 1973, shall provide wheelchair ramps for the
physically disabled at all intersections where both curb and gutter and
sidewalks are provided and at other major points of pedestrian flow.
      (8)   Horizontal width on bridge deck.
         (a)   The clear roadway widths for new and reconstructed bridges
serving two-lane, two-way traffic shall be as follows.
            1.   Shoulder section approach.
               a.   Under 800 ADT design year: Minimum 28 feet width face-to-
face of parapets or rails or pavement width plus ten feet, whichever is
greater.
               b.   800-2000 ADT design year: Minimum 34 feet width face-to-
face of parapets or rails or pavement width plus 12 feet, whichever is greater.
               c.   Over 2000 ADT design year: Minimum 40 feet. Desirable 44
feet width face-to-face of parapets or rails.
            2.   Curb and gutter approach.
               a.   Under 800 ADT design year: Minimum 24 feet face-to-face of
curbs.
               b.   Over 800 ADT design year: Width of approach pavement
measured face-to-face of curbs.
         (b)   Where curb and gutter sections are used on roadway approaches,
curbs on bridges shall match the curbs on approaches in height, in width of
face-to-face of curbs and in crown drop. The distance from face of curb to face
of parapet or rail shall be one foot, six inches minimum, or greater if
sidewalks are required.
         (c)   The clear roadway widths for new and reconstructed bridges
having four or more lanes serving undivided two-way traffic shall be as
follows:
            1.   Shoulder section approach: Width of approach pavement plus
width of usable shoulders on the approach left and right.
            2.   Curb and gutter approach: Width of approach pavement measured
face-to-face of curbs.
      (9)   Curb and gutter. Curb and gutter shall be provided where deemed
necessary by the Board of Commissioners with advice from the Planning Board,
Public Services Director or the town’s consulting engineer in order to provide
adequate drainage, or because high traffic volumes, soil conditions or other
similar conditions or special problems exist.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.55 UTILITIES.
   (A)   Water and sanitary sewer systems.
      (1)   Each lot in all subdivisions within the corporate limits of the
town shall be provided, at the subdivider’s expense, with an extension of the
municipal water and sanitary sewer systems.
      (2)   Each subdivision in the extraterritorial area of the town may be
connected at the subdivider’s expense to the municipal water and sanitary sewer
systems if approved by the Board of Commissioners.
      (3)   Water and sanitary sewer lines, connections and equipment shall be
in accordance with the town standards and policies. Water and sewer taps and
meters, meter curb boxes and conservation stops shall be installed at the
subdivider’s expense on each lot within the corporate limits of the town, or if
the subdivider is utilizing the town’s water and sewer system in a subdivision
outside the corporate limits, in each lot within the subdivision.
      (4)   All lots in subdivisions not connected to municipal or county water
or sanitary sewer systems must have a suitable source of water supply and
sanitary sewage system, which complies with the regulations of the applicable
county and state agencies.
   (B)   Storm water drainage system. The subdivider shall provide a surface
water drainage system constructed to the standards of the state’s Department of
Transportation, as reflected in the current issue of the Handbook for the
Design of Highway Surface Drainage Structures, subject to review by the
Director of Public Works and Utilities.
      (1)   No surface water shall be channeled or directed into a sanitary
sewer.
      (2)   Where feasible, the subdivider shall connect to an existing storm
drainage system.
      (3)   Where an existing storm drainage system cannot feasibly be extended
to the subdivision, a surface drainage system shall be designed to protect the
proposed development from water damage.
      (4)   Surface drainage courses shall have side slopes of at least three
feet of horizontal distance for each one foot of vertical distance, and courses
shall be of sufficient size to accommodate the drainage area without flooding,
and designed to comply with the standards and specifications for erosion
control of the state’s Sedimentation Pollution Control Act, G.S. Ch. 113A,
Article 4, and state’s Administrative Code Title 15A, Ch. 4, and any locally
adopted erosion and sedimentation control ordinances.
      (5)   The minimum grade along the bottom of a surface drainage course
should be a vertical fall of at least one foot in each 200 feet of horizontal
distance.
      (6)   Streambanks and channels downstream from any land disturbing
activity shall be protected from increased degradation by accelerated erosion
caused by increased velocity of runoff from the land disturbing activity in
accordance with the state’s Sedimentation Pollution Control Act, G.S. § 143-
34.12, Ch. 113A, Article 4 and the state’s Administrative Code Title 15, Ch. 4.
      (7)   Anyone constructing a dam or impoundment within the subdivision
must comply with the state’s Dam Safety Law of 1967, being G.S. §§ 143-215.33
through 143-215.37, and Administrative Code Title 15, subchapter 2K.
      (8)   In all areas of special flood hazard, all subdivision proposals
shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood damage.
   (C)   Street lights. All subdivisions in which the size of the smallest lot
is less than 40,000 square feet shall have street lights installed throughout
the subdivision in accordance with the standards of the town.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.56 PLACEMENT OF MONUMENTS.
   Unless otherwise specified by this chapter, the Standards of Practice for
Land Surveying as adopted by the state’s Board of Registration for Professional
Engineers and Land Surveyors, under the provisions of Title 21 of the state’s
Administrative Code, Ch. 56 (21 NCAC 56), shall apply when conducting surveys
for subdivisions; to determine the accuracy for surveys and placement of
monuments, control corners, markers and property corner ties; to determine the
location, design and material of monuments, markers, control corners and
property corner ties; and to determine other standards and procedures governing
the practice of land surveying for subdivisions. All property corners shall be
monumented with permanent monuments.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 151.57 CONSTRUCTION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   No construction or installation of improvements shall commence in a
proposed subdivision until the preliminary plat has been approved, and all
plans and specifications have been approved by the appropriate authorities.
   (B)   (1)   No building, zoning or other permits shall be issued for
erection of a structure on any lot not of record at the time of adoption of
this chapter until all the requirements of this chapter have been met.
      (2)   The subdivider, prior to commencing any work within the
subdivision, shall provide for adequate inspection. The approving authorities
having jurisdiction or their representatives shall inspect and approve all
completed work prior to release of the sureties. Inspections shall be conducted
pursuant to G.S. § 160D-403(e).
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 151.58 OVERSIZED IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The town may require installation of certain oversized utilities or
the extension of utilities to adjacent property when it is in the interest of
future development.
   (B)   If the town requires the installation of improvements in excess of the
standards required in this chapter, including all standards adopted by
reference, the town shall pay the cost differential between the improvement
required and the standards in this chapter. The town may recoup this cost
through fees.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 151.59 AS-BUILT DRAWINGS.
   At the time of the developer’s request to dedicate the improvements to the
town, the developer shall provide as-built drawings of all improvements and
utilities.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 151.60 BUFFERING.
   Whenever a residential subdivision is located adjacent to an office,
institutional, commercial or industrial use which does not have a buffer, or
property zoned for these uses, and a buffer is not required between these and
the subdivision, the subdivider shall provide a buffer as defined in §
151.02 of this code. The width of the buffer shall be in addition to the lot
area required by
Ch. 153 of this code. The buffer shall become part of the lot on which it is
located, or in the case of commonly owned property, shall be deeded to the
homeowners association.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   After the effective date of this chapter, any person who, being the
owner or agent of the owner of any land located within the territorial
jurisdiction of this chapter, thereafter subdivides his or her land in
violation of this chapter or transfers or sells land by reference to,
exhibition of or any other use of a plat showing a subdivision of the land
before the plat has been properly approved under the terms of this chapter and
recorded in the office of the Register of Deeds, shall be in violation of this
chapter. The description by metes and bounds in the instrument of transfer or
other document used in the process of selling or transferring land shall not
exempt the transaction from this civil penalty. The town, through its attorney
or other official designated by the Board of Commissioners, may enjoin illegal
subdivision, transfer or sale of land by action for injunction. Further,
violation of this chapter shall be punishable in accordance with §
10.99.
   (C)   Each day’s continuing violation of this chapter shall be a separate
and distinct violation.
   (D)   Notwithstanding division (B) above, this chapter may be enforced by
appropriate equitable remedies issuing from a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (E)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the use of
remedies available to the town. The town may seek to enforce this chapter by
using any one, all or a combination of remedies.
(Ord. 21, passed - -; Ord. 19- , passed 2-21-2019)
CHAPTER 152: HOUSING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Definitions
   
152.02   Purpose
   
152.03   Conflicts with other provisions
   
152.04   Inspector; duties and powers
   
152.05   Inspections
   
152.06   Procedure for enforcement
   
152.07   Methods of service of complaints and orders
   
152.08   In rem action by Inspector
   
152.09   Costs declared lien on premises
   
152.10   Disposition of abandoned personal property found in housing ordered
demolished
   
152.11   Alternative remedies
   
152.12   Appeals
   
152.13   Amendments
Minimum Standards
   
152.25   Compliance
   
152.26   Structural condition
   
152.27   Basic equipment and facilities
   
152.28   Ventilation
   
152.29   Space, use and location
   
152.30   Safe and sanitary maintenance
   
152.31   Control of insects, rodents and infestations
   
152.32   Applicable to roominghouses; exceptions
   
152.33   Responsibilities of owners and occupants
 
   
152.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ABANDONED STRUCTURE. Any structure, other than a dwelling, dwelling unit,
habitable room, multiple dwelling, rooming unit or roominghouse, which is a
health or safety hazard as a result of the attraction of insects or rodents,
conditions creating a fire hazard, dangerous conditions constituting a threat
to children or frequent use by vagrants as living quarters in the absence of
sanitary facilities, and which cannot be repaired, altered or improved so as to
no longer constitute health or safety hazard at a cost of less than 50% of its
value.
      BASEMENT. A portion of a building which is located partly underground,
having direct access to light and air from windows located above the level of
the adjoining ground.
      CELLAR. A portion of a building located partly or wholly underground
having inadequate access to light and air from windows located partly or wholly
below the level of the adjoining ground.
      DETERIORATED. A dwelling is unfit for human habitation and can be
repaired, altered or improved to comply with all of the minimum standards
established by this chapter, at a cost not in excess of 50% of its value, as
determined by findings of the Inspector.
      DILAPIDATED. A dwelling is unfit for human habitation and cannot be
repaired, altered or improved to comply with all of the minimum standards
established by this chapter at a cost not in excess of 50% of its value as
determined by the finding of the Inspector.
      DWELLING. As defined by G.S. § 160D-102(15).
      DWELLING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms located within a dwelling,
manufactured home or mobile home and forming a single habitable unit with
facilities which are used or intended to be used for living, sleeping, cooking
and eating.
      EXTERMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rodents or other
pests by eliminating their harborage places; by removing or making inaccessible
materials that may serve as their food; by poisoning, spraying, fumigating,
trapping or by any other recognized and legal pest elimination methods approved
by the Inspector.
      GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
      HABITABLE ROOM. A room or enclosed floor space used or intended to be
used for living, sleeping, cooking or eating purposes, excluding bathrooms,
water closet compartments, laundries, heater rooms, foyers or communicating
corridors, closets and storage spaces.
      INFESTATION. The presence, within or around a dwelling, of any insects,
rodents or other pests in a number as to constitute a menace to the health,
safety or welfare of the occupants or to the public.
      INSPECTOR. The Inspector of the town appointed to administer this chapter
and shall include any agent of the Inspector who is authorized by the
Inspector.
      MODULAR HOME. A factory-built structure that is designed to be used as a
dwelling, is manufactured in accordance with the specifications for modular
homes under the state’s Residential Building Code and bears a seal or label as
provided in G.S. § 143-139.1.
      MULTIPLE DWELLING. Any dwelling containing more than two dwelling units.
      OCCUPANT. Any person over one year of age, living, sleeping, cooking or
eating in or having actual possession of a dwelling unit or rooming unit.
      OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care or control of a building, or a
part thereof, in which dwelling units or rooming units are let.
      OWNER. Any person who alone or jointly or severally with others:
         (a)   Has title to any dwelling, dwelling unit or abandoned structure,
with or without accompanying actual possession thereof; or
         (b)   Has charge, care or control of any dwelling, dwelling unit or
abandoned structure, as owner, or as executor, administrator, trustee or
guardian of the estate of the owner. Any person thus representing the actual
OWNER shall be bound to comply with the provisions of this chapter, and the
rules and regulations adopted pursuant thereto, to the same extent as if he or
she were the owner.
      PARTIES IN INTEREST. All individuals, associations and corporations who
have interests of record in a dwelling and any who are in possession thereof.
      PLUMBING. Includes all of the following supplied facilities and
equipment: gas pipes, gas-burning equipment, water pipes, mechanical garbage
disposal units (mechanical sink grinder), waste pipes, water closets, sinks,
installed dishwashers, lavatories, bathtubs, shower baths, installed clothes
washing machines, catchbasin, drains, vents and any other similar supplied
fixtures, together with all connections to water, sewer or gas lines.
      PUBLIC AUTHORITY. The Board of Commissioners or any officer who is in
charge of any department or branch of the government of the town health, fire,
building regulations or other activities concerning dwellings or abandoned
structures in the town.
      ROOMING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit
used or intended to be used for living and sleeping, but not for cooking or
eating purposes.
      ROOMINGHOUSE. Any dwelling, or that part of any dwelling containing one
or more rooming units, in which space is let by the owner or operator to three
or more persons who are not husband, wife, son or daughter, mother, father,
sister or brother of the owner or operator.
      RUBBISH. Combustible and noncombustible waste materials, except garbage
and ashes; and the term shall include paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood,
excelsior, rubber, leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, tin cans, metals,
mineral matter, glass, crockery and dust.
      SUBSTANDARD DWELLING OR STRUCTURE. A dwelling, dwelling unit, multiple
dwellings, apartment house or any other space used or intended to be used as a
habitable living space in any building or structure which does not meet the
basic minimum requirements of this chapter for that use.
      SUPPLIED. Paid for, furnished or provided by or under the control of, the
owner or operator.
      TEMPORARY HOUSING. Any tent, trailer or other structure used for human
shelter which is designed to be transportable and which is not attached to the
ground, to another structure or to any utility system on the same premises for
more than 30 consecutive days.
      UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION. Conditions exist in a dwelling which violate
or do not comply with one or more of the minimum standards of fitness or one or
more of the requirements established by this chapter.
   (B)   Whenever the words dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming use, rooming unit,
premises and abandoned structure are used in this chapter, they shall be
construed as though they were followed by the words “or any part thereof.”
(Ord. passed 7-12-2004; Ord. 21, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Minimum housing standards, see G.S. §§ 160D-1201 et seq.
§ 152.02 PURPOSE.
   (A)   Pursuant to G.S. § 160D-1201, it is hereby found and declared that
there exists in the town:
      (1)   Dwellings which are unfit for human habitation due to dilapidation;
defects increasing the hazards of fire, accidents and other calamities; lack of
ventilation, light and sanitary facilities; and other conditions rendering
dwellings unsafe or unsanitary, dangerous and otherwise detrimental to the
health, safety, morals and welfare of the residents of the town; and
      (2)   Certain abandoned structures which, due to the attraction of
insects and rodents, conditions creating a fire hazard, dangerous conditions
contributing a threat to children or frequent use by vagrants as living
quarters in the absence of sanitary facilities, are a health hazard and are
otherwise inimical to the welfare of the town.
   (B)   In order to protect the health, safety and welfare of the residents of
the town, it is the purpose of this chapter to establish minimum standards of
fitness for the initial and continued occupancy of all buildings used for human
habitation, and in addition to provide for the regulations of abandoned
structures, as expressly authorized by G.S. § 160D-1205.
   (C)   Development approvals and determinations, as defined by G.S. § 160D-
102, subject to this chapter are governed by G.S. § 160D-403. Development
approvals attach to and run with the land as provided by G.S. § 160D-104.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 152.03 CONFLICTS WITH OTHER PROVISIONS.
   If any provision, standard or requirement of this chapter is found to be in
conflict with any provision of any other ordinance or code of the town, the
provision that establishes the higher standard or more stringent requirement
for the promotion and protection of the health and safety of the residents of
the town shall prevail.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 152.04 INSPECTOR; DUTIES AND POWERS.
   (A)   The Inspector is hereby designated as the officer to enforce the
provisions of this chapter and to exercise the duties and powers herein
prescribed. It shall be the duty of the Inspector to:
      (1)   Investigate the dwelling conditions, and to inspect dwellings and
dwelling units, located in the town, in order to determine which dwellings and
dwelling units are unfit for human habitation, and for the purpose of carrying
out the objectives of this chapter with respect to dwellings and dwelling
units;
      (2)   Investigate any structures located in the town, in order to
determine which structures are abandoned structures by reason of constituting a
health or safety hazard, and for the purpose of carrying out the objectives of
this chapter with respect to abandoned structures;
      (3)   Take action, together with other appropriate departments and
agencies, public and private, as may be necessary to effect rehabilitation of
housing that is deteriorated;
      (4)   To keep a record of the results of inspections made under this
chapter and an inventory of abandoned structures and of those dwellings that do
not meet the minimum standards of fitness prescribed in this chapter; and
      (5)   To perform other duties as may be prescribed in this chapter.
   (B)   The Inspector is authorized to exercise powers as may be necessary or
convenient to carry out and effectuate the purpose and provisions of this
chapter including the following:
      (1)   Investigate the dwelling conditions in the town in order to
determine which dwellings are unfit for human habitation;
      (2)   Investigate structures in the town to determine which structures
are abandoned structures;
      (3)   Administer oaths and affirmations, examine witnesses and receive
evidence;
      (4)   Enter upon premises for the purpose of making examinations and
inspections pursuant to G.S. § 160D-403(e); and
      (5)   Appoint and fix the duties of officers, agents and employees as he
or she deems necessary to carry out the purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 152.05 INSPECTIONS.
   Inspections to enforce the provisions of this chapter shall be conducted
pursuant to G.S. §§ 160D-403(e) and 160D-1207. For the purpose of making
inspections, the Inspector is hereby authorized to enter, examine and survey at
all reasonable times and all dwellings, dwelling units, rooming units,
abandoned structures and premises. The owner or occupant of every dwelling,
dwelling unit, rooming unit or abandoned structure or person in charge thereof,
shall give the Inspector free access to the dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming
unit or abandoned structure and its premises at all reasonable times for the
purposes of inspection, examination and survey. Every occupant of a dwelling or
dwelling unit shall give the owner thereof, or his or her agent or employees,
access to any part of a dwelling or dwelling unit and its premises at all
reasonable times for the purpose of making repairs or alterations as are
necessary to effect compliance with the provisions of this chapter or with any
lawful order issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 152.06 PROCEDURE FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Preliminary investigation; notice; hearing. Whenever a petition is
filed with the public officer by a public authority, or whenever a petition is
filed by at least five residents of the town charging that any dwelling is
unfit for human habitation, or whenever it appears to the public officer either
on his or her own action or upon his or her investigation of a written
complaint filed by an adult occupant of a specific dwelling that any dwelling
is unfit for human habitation, the public officer shall, if his or her
preliminary investigation discloses a basis for charges, issue and cause to be
served upon the owner of and parties in interest in dwellings a complaint and a
notice that a hearing will be held before the public officer or his or her
designated agent not less than ten days nor more than 30 days after serving of
the complaint. Any complaint or other notice of violation shall be in writing
and shall be issued pursuant to G.S. § 160D-404(a).
   (B)   Procedure after hearing on dwelling or dwelling unit. After notice and
hearing on the dwelling or dwelling unit, the Inspector shall state in writing
his or her determination whether the dwelling unit is unfit for human
habitation, and if so, whether it is deteriorated or dilapidated.
      (1)   If the Inspector determines that the dwelling or dwelling unit is
deteriorated, he or she shall state in writing his or her findings of fact in
support of the determination and shall issue and cause to be served upon the
owner thereof an order directing and requiring the owner to repair, alter and
improve the dwelling or dwelling unit to comply with the minimum standards of
fitness established by this chapter within a specified period of time not to
exceed 90 days. The order may also direct and require the owner to vacate and
close the dwelling or dwelling unit until repairs, alterations and improvements
have been made.
      (2)   If the Inspector determines that the dwelling is dilapidated, he or
she shall state in writing his or her findings of fact to support the
determination, and shall issue and cause to be served upon the owner thereof an
order directing and requiring the owner to either repair, alter and improve the
dwelling or dwelling unit to comply with the minimum standards of fitness
established by this chapter, or else vacate and remove or demolish the same
within a specified period of time not to exceed 90 days.
   (C)   Procedure after hearing on abandoned structure. After notice and
hearing, the Inspector shall state in writing his or her determination whether
the structure is an abandoned structure. If the Inspector determines that the
structure is an abandoned structure, he or she shall state in writing his or
her findings of fact to support the determination, and shall issue and cause to
be served upon the owner thereof an order directing and requiring the owner to
either repair, alter and improve the structure to correct those conditions
which constitute a hazard to health or safety, or else remove or demolish the
same within a specified period of time not to exceed 90 days.
   (D)   Failure to comply with order for abandoned structure or dilapidated
dwelling. After failure of an owner of an abandoned structure, or a dilapidated
dwelling or dwelling unit, to comply with an order of the Inspector within the
time specified therein, the Board of Commissioners shall adopt an ordinance
ordering the Inspector to cause the particular dwelling, dwelling unit or
abandoned structure to be vacated and closed and moved or demolished, as
provided in the original order of the Inspector, and pending removal or
demolition, to placard the dwelling or abandoned structure as provided by G.S.
§ 160D-1203 and §
152.08 of this code. This ordinance shall be recorded in the office of the
Register of Deeds and shall be indexed in the name of the property owner in the
grantor index. If the owner has been given a reasonable opportunity to bring
the dwelling or structure into conformity with the housing code but fails to
comply with the order to remove or demolish the dwelling, the Inspector may
cause such dwelling to be removed or demolished after the Board of
Commissioners adopts a subsequent ordinance ordering the Inspector to take such
action. This subsequent ordinance shall be recorded in the office of the
Register of Deeds in the county where the property or properties are located
and shall be indexed in the name of the property owner in the grantor index.
   (E)   Failure to comply with order for deteriorated dwelling. After failure
of an owner of a deteriorated dwelling or dwelling unit to comply with an order
of the Inspector within one year, the Board of Commissioners shall adopt an
ordinance ordering the Inspector to cause the particular dwelling, dwelling
unit to be repaired, altered, improved or vacated and closed and moved or
demolished, as provided G.S. § 160D-1203(6). This ordinance shall be recorded
in the office of the Register of Deeds and shall be indexed in the name of the
property owner in the grantor index.
   (F)   Mandatory compliance procedures. All property owners shall be given
every consideration in their efforts to comply with the order of findings of
the Inspector. In all cases where a property and structure are under an order
of finding, the property owner shall diligently pursue the steps necessary to
comply with the order of finding within the time limit set forth in the order.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 152.07 METHODS OF SERVICE OF COMPLAINTS AND ORDERS.
   (A)   Complaints or orders issued by the Inspector shall be delivered upon
the owner of an abandoned structure and the owner of and parties in interest in
a dwelling, as the case may be, as provided by G.S. § 160D-404(a). If the
whereabouts of the persons are unknown and the same cannot be ascertained by
the Inspector in the exercise of reasonable diligence, the Inspector shall make
an affidavit to that effect, and the delivery of a complaint or order upon the
person may be made by publishing the same once each week for two successive
weeks in a newspaper printed and in circulation in town. Where service is made
by publication, a notice of the pending proceedings shall be posted in a
conspicuous place on the premises affected by the complaint order.
   (B)   No person without written consent of the Inspector shall remove or
permit the removal of any complaint, notice or order posted in accordance with
the provisions of this code. Any person violating or failing to comply with the
provisions of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.08 IN REM ACTION BY INSPECTOR.
   (A)   If the owner fails to comply with an order to repair, alter or improve
or to vacate and close the dwelling or abandoned structure, the public officer
may cause the dwelling or abandoned structure to be repaired, altered or
improved or to be vacated and closed; the Inspector may cause to be posted on
the main entrance of any dwelling or abandoned structure so closed, a placard
with the following words: “This building is unfit for human habitation; the use
or occupation of this building for human habitation is prohibited and
unlawful.” Occupation of a building so posted shall constitute a misdemeanor.
   (B)   If the owner fails to comply with an order to remove or demolish the
dwelling or abandoned structure, the Inspector may cause the dwelling to be
removed or demolished. The duties of the Inspector set forth in division (A)
above and this division (B) shall not be exercised until the Board of
Commissioners has by ordinance ordered the Inspector to proceed to effectuate
the purpose of this section with respect to the particular property or
properties which the Inspector shall have found unfit for human habitation or
found to be a health or safety hazard and which property shall be described in
the ordinance. No ordinance shall be adopted to require demolition of a
dwelling or abandoned structure until the owner has first been given a
reasonable opportunity to bring it into conformity with the housing code or to
correct the conditions which constitute a health or safety hazard. The
ordinance shall be recorded in the office of the Register of Deeds in the
county wherein the property or properties are located and shall be indexed in
the name of the property owner in the grantor index.
   (C)   Dwellings or abandoned structures ordered vacated by the Inspector
shall have all outer doors firmly locked and basement, cellar and first-story
windows barred or boarded to prevent entry, and shall not again be used for
human habitation until written approval is secured from the Inspector.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.09 COSTS DECLARED LIEN ON PREMISES.
   The amount of the cost of proceedings under this chapter, including
attorney’s fees and the cost of any repairs, alterations or improvements,
vacating and closing or removal or demolition, caused to be made or done by the
Inspector pursuant to this section shall be a lien against the real property
upon which cost was incurred. A lien shall be filed, have the same priority and
be enforced and the costs be collected as provided by G.S. §§ 105-375 et seq.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 152.10 DISPOSITION OF ABANDONED PERSONAL PROPERTY FOUND IN HOUSING ORDERED
DEMOLISHED.
   Any article of personal property found by the Inspector to be abandoned in a
house or abandoned structure which the Board of Commissioners has ordered the
Inspector to demolish and being found by the Inspector to have an appraised
value of $50 or more shall be disposed of in the following manner.
   (A)   The Inspector shall first make an effort to communicate with the owner
of the articles of personal property and to request that he or she remove the
same from the premises.
   (B)   If the Inspector is unable to communicate with the owner of the
articles of personal property promptly or if the owner thereof fails or refuses
to remove the property from the premises after being requested to do so, the
articles of personal property found on the premises may be removed for
safekeeping in a storage facility owned by the town. Written notice of each
removal of personal property shall be promptly given to the owner of the
articles of personal property to the extent that the identity of the person is
known or may be reasonably ascertained. The owner or any other person who may
be entitled to possession of any articles of personal property, before
obtaining possession thereof, shall pay to the town all reasonable costs
incident to the removal, storage and locating the owner of the property or any
other person who may be entitled to possession thereof. Should the owner or
other person entitled to possession fail or refuse to pay the costs, or should
the identity or whereabouts of the owner be unknown and unascertainable after a
diligent search has been made and after notice to him or her at his or her last
known address, the Inspector may, after holding the property for 30 days,
dispose of the same by public sale after ten days’ public notice published in a
local newspaper of general circulation, and the proceeds of the sale shall be
forwarded to the Finance Officer of the town. The Finance Officer shall pay,
from the proceeds of the sale, costs of removal, storage, investigation as to
ownership and sale, the liens, in that order; and the remaining proceeds shall
be deposited in the General Fund of the town, subject to the following
provisions. If the ownership of the property is established satisfactorily to
the Finance Officer, the owner shall be paid by the officer so much of the
proceeds from the sale of the property as remains after paying the cost of
removal, storage, investigation as to ownership and sale and any other liens
thereon.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 152.11 ALTERNATIVE REMEDIES.
   The town reserves the right to implement any general enforcement remedy as
provided by G.S. § 160D-404(c). Neither this chapter nor any of its provisions
shall be construed to impair or limit in any way the power of the town to
define and declare nuisances and to cause their abatement by summary action or
otherwise, or to enforce this chapter by criminal process as authorized by G.S.
§ 14-4, and the enforcement of any remedy provided in this chapter shall not
prevent the enforcement of any other remedy provided in this code or in other
ordinances or laws.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.12 APPEALS.
   The Board of Adjustment shall hear all administrative appeals arising under
this chapter in accordance with G.S. §§ 160D-302, 160D-405, 160D-406, 160D-705
and other applicable laws, as may be amended. Appeals from the Board of
Adjustment shall be made to Superior Court as provided by applicable law.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 152.13 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   An amendment to this chapter may be adopted by the Board of
Commissioners only by ordinance and only after the notice and public hearing
requirements contained in G.S. § 160D-601 have been satisfied.
   (B)   A simple majority of voting Board members present at the meeting upon
which the amendment is presented is required to adopt any amendment to this
chapter as provided by G.S. § 160A-75. The Mayor or Board of Commissioners may
refer any amendment to the Planning Board for review and comment.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
MINIMUM STANDARDS
§ 152.25 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   This chapter contains the minimum standards of fitness for dwellings
and dwelling units. Every dwelling and dwelling unit used as a human
habitation, or held out for use as a human habitation, shall comply with all of
the minimum standards of fitness for human habitation and all of the
requirements of this chapter. No person shall occupy as owner-occupant, or let
to another for occupancy or use as a human habitation, any dwelling or dwelling
unit which does not comply with all of the minimum standards of fitness for
human habitation and all of the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Development approvals and determinations, as defined by G.S. § 160D-
102, subject to this chapter are governed by G.S. § 160D-403. Development
approvals attach to and run with the land as provided by G.S. § 160D-104.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.26 STRUCTURAL CONDITION.
   (A)   Walls or partitions, supporting members, sills, joists, rafters or
other structural members shall not list, lean or buckle, and shall not be
rotted, deteriorated or damaged, and shall not have holes or cracks which might
admit rodents.
   (B)   Floors or roofs shall have adequate supporting members and strength to
be reasonably safe for the purpose used. Kitchen and bathroom floors will be
easily cleanable and covered with resistant floor covering so as to impede
water and spills.
   (C)   Foundations, foundation walls, piers or other foundation supports
shall not be deteriorated or damaged.
   (D)   Steps, stairs, landings, porches or other parts or appurtenances shall
be maintained in a condition that they will not fail or collapse.
   (E)   Adequate facilities for egress in case of fire or panic shall be
provided.
   (F)   Interior walls and ceilings of all rooms, closets and hallways shall
be finished of suitable materials, which will, by use of reasonable household
methods promote sanitation and cleanliness and shall be maintained in a manner
so as to enable the occupants to maintain reasonable privacy between various
spaces.
   (G)   The roof, flashing, exterior walls, basement walls, floors and all
doors and windows exposed to the weather shall be constructed and maintained so
as to be weathertight and watertight.
   (H)   There shall be no chimneys or parts thereof which are defective,
deteriorated or in danger of falling or in a condition or location as to
constitute a fire hazard.
   (I)   There shall be no use of the ground for floors or wood floors on the
ground.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.27 BASIC EQUIPMENT AND FACILITIES.
   (A)   Plumbing system.
      (1)   Each dwelling unit shall be connected to a potable water supply and
to the public sewer system.
      (2)   Each dwelling unit shall contain not less than a kitchen sink,
lavatory, tub or shower, water closet and adequate supply of both cold water
and hot water. All water shall be supplied through an approved pipe
distribution system connected to a potable water supply.
      (3)   All plumbing fixtures and appliances shall meet the standards of
the state’s Plumbing Code and shall be maintained in a state of good repair and
in good working order.
      (4)   All required plumbing fixtures shall be located within the dwelling
unit and be accessible to the occupants of same. The water closet and tub or
shower shall be located in a room affording privacy to the user.
   (B)   Heating system. Every dwelling and dwelling unit shall have facilities
for providing heat in accordance with either divisions (B)(1) or (B)(2) below.
      (1)   Central and electric heating systems. Every central or electric
heating system shall be of sufficient capacity so as to heat all habitable
rooms, bathrooms and water closet compartments in every dwelling unit to which
it is connected with a minimum temperature of 70°F measured three feet above
the floor during ordinary winter conditions.
      (2)   Other heating facilities. Where a central or electric heating
system is not provided, each dwelling and dwelling unit shall be provided with
sufficient fireplaces, chimneys, flues or gas vents whereby heating appliances
may be connected so as to heat all habitable rooms with a minimum temperature
of 70°F measured three feet above the floor during ordinary winter conditions.
   (C)   Electrical system.
      (1)   (a)   Every dwelling and dwelling unit shall be wired for electric
lights and convenience receptacles.
         (b)   Every habitable room shall contain at least two floor or wall-
type electric convenience receptacles, connected in a manner as determined by
the state’s Electrical Code.
      (2)   There shall be installed in every bathroom, water closet room,
laundry room and furnace room at least one supplied ceiling or wall-type
electric light fixture. If wall or ceiling light fixtures are not provided in
any habitable room, each habitable room shall contain at least one floor or
wall-type electric convenience receptacle.
      (3)   Every public hall and stairway in every multiple dwelling shall be
adequately lighted by electric lights at all times when natural daylight is not
sufficient.
      (4)   There shall be no bare wire, open joints or spliced cables. All
switches, outlets, receptacles, ceiling fixtures or other fixtures shall be in
good condition and properly installed with appropriate covers. Flexible cords
shall not be used as a substitute for the fixed wiring of a dwelling.
      (5)   All fixtures, receptacles, equipment and wiring shall be maintained
in good repair, capable of being safely used in accordance with the state’s
Electrical Code.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.28 VENTILATION.
   (A)   Generally. Every habitable room shall have at least one window or
skylight facing directly to the outdoors. The minimum total window area,
measured between stops, for every habitable room shall be 10% of the floor area
of the room. Whenever walls or other portions of structures face a window of
any room and light obstructing structures are located less than five feet from
the window and extend to a level above that of the ceiling of the room, a
window shall not be deemed to face directly to the outdoors and shall not be
included as contributing to the required minimum total window area. Whenever
the only window in a room is a skylight-type window in the top of the room, the
total window area of the skylight shall equal at least 15% of the total floor
area of the room.
   (B)   Habitable rooms. Every habitable room shall have at least one window
or skylight that can be easily opened, or another device as will adequately
ventilate the room. The total openable window area in every habitable room
shall be equal to at least 45% of the minimum window area size or minimum
skylight-type window size as required, or shall have other approved, equivalent
ventilation.
   (C)   Bathrooms and water closet rooms. Every bathroom and water closet
compartment shall comply with the light and ventilation requirements for
habitable rooms except that no window or skylight shall be required in
adequately ventilated bathrooms and water closet rooms equipped with an
approved ventilation system.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.29 SPACE, USE AND LOCATION.
   (A)   Room sizes. Every dwelling unit shall contain at least the minimum
room size in each habitable room as required by the state’s Residential
Building Code or state’s Plumbing Code. In addition:
      (1)   Every dwelling unit shall contain at least 150 square feet of
habitable floor area for the first occupant, at least 100 square feet of
additional habitable area for each of the next three occupants, and at least 75
square feet of additional habitable floor area for each additional occupant;
and
      (2)   In every dwelling unit and in every rooming unit, every room
occupied for sleeping purposes by one occupant shall contain at least 70 square
feet of floor area, and every room occupied for sleeping purposes by more than
one occupant shall contain at least 50 square feet of floor area for each
occupant 12 years of age and over and at least 35 square feet of floor area for
each occupant under 12 years of age.
   (B)   Ceiling height. At least one-half of the required floor area of every
habitable room shall have a ceiling height of not less than seven feet, six
inches.
   (C)   Floor area calculation. Floor area shall be calculated on the basis of
habitable room area. However, closet area and wall area within the dwelling
unit may count for not more than 10% of the required habitable floor area. The
floor area of any part of any room where the ceiling height is less than four
and one-half feet shall not be considered as part of the floor area computing
the total area of the room to determine maximum permissible occupancy.
   (D)   Cellar. No cellar shall be used for living purposes.
   (E)   Basements. No basement shall be used for living purposes unless:
      (1)   The floor and walls are substantially watertight;
      (2)   The total window area, total open window area and ceiling height
are equal to those required for habitable rooms; and
      (3)   The required minimum window area of every habitable room is
entirely above the grade adjoining the window area, except where the windows
face a stairwell, window well or access.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.30 SAFE AND SANITARY MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Exterior foundation, walls and roofs. Every foundation wall, exterior
wall and exterior roof shall be substantially weathertight and rodentproof;
shall be kept in sound condition and good repair; shall be capable of affording
privacy; shall be safe to use and capable of supporting the load which normal
use may cause to be placed thereon. Every exterior wall shall be protected with
paint or other protective covering to prevent the entrance or penetration of
moisture or the weather.
   (B)   Interior floor, walls and ceilings. Every floor, interior wall and
ceiling shall be substantially rodentproof; shall be kept in sound condition
and good repair; and shall be safe to use and capable of supporting the load
which normal use may cause to be placed thereon.
   (C)   Windows and doors. Every window, exterior door, basement or cellar
door and hatchway shall be substantially weathertight, watertight and
rodentproof, and shall be kept in sound working condition and good repair.
   (D)   Stairs, porches and appurtenances. Every inside and outside stair,
porch and any appurtenance thereto shall be safe to use and capable of
supporting the load that normal use may cause to be placed thereon, and shall
be kept in sound condition and good repair. Stairwells and flights of stairs
more than five risers high shall have rails not less than two feet six inches
measured vertically from the nose of the threads at the top of the rail.
   (E)   Bathroom floors. Every bathroom floor surface and water closet
compartment floor surface shall be constructed and maintained so as to be
reasonably impervious to water and so as to permit the floor to be easily kept
in a clean and sanitary condition.
   (F)   Supplied facilities. Every supplied facility, piece of equipment or
utility which is required under this chapter shall be so constructed or
installed that it will function safely and effectively, and shall be maintained
in satisfactory working condition.
   (G)   Drainage. Every yard shall be properly graded so as to obtain thorough
drainage and so as to prevent the accumulation of stagnant water.
   (H)   Noxious weeds. Every yard and all exterior property areas shall be
kept free of species of weeds or plant growth which are noxious or detrimental
to health.
   (I)   Egress. Every dwelling unit shall be provided with adequate means of
egress as required.
   (J)   Underpinnings. The space between the ground and the first floor of
every dwelling shall be enclosed with a mason curtain wall which shall be
substantially weatherproof and rodentproof. Except for manufactured homes
located on land leased to the homeowner, manufactured homes shall be enclosed
with a curtain wall of masonry.
   (K)   Fences and accessory buildings. Fences and other accessory buildings
shall be maintained in safe and substantial condition, or be demolished.
(Ord. 21, passed - -; Ord. 22- , passed - -2022) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.31 CONTROL OF INSECTS, RODENTS AND INFESTATIONS.
   (A)   Screens. Every door, window or other device opening to outdoor space
and used or intended to be used for ventilation shall be provided with an
approved type screen for protection against mosquitoes, flies and other
insects.
   (B)   Rodent control. Every basement or cellar window used for or intended
to be used for ventilation, and every other opening to a basement which might
provide an entry for rodents, shall be supplied with screens installed or other
approved device as will effectively prevent their entrance.
   (C)   Infestation. Every occupant of a dwelling containing a single dwelling
unit shall be responsible for the extermination of any insects, rodents or
other pests therein or on the premises; and every occupant of a dwelling unit
in a dwelling containing more than one dwelling unit shall be responsible for
extermination whenever his or her dwelling unit is the only one infested.
Whenever infestation is caused by failure of the owner to maintain a dwelling
in rodentproof or reasonably insectproof condition, extermination shall be the
responsibility of the owner. Whenever infestation exists in two or more of the
dwelling units in any dwelling or in the shared or public parts of any dwelling
containing two or more dwelling units, extermination shall be the
responsibility of the owner.
   (D)   Rubbish storage and disposal. Every dwelling and every dwelling unit
shall be supplied with approved containers and covers for storage of rubbish as
required by town ordinances, and the occupant of the dwelling or dwelling unit
shall be responsible for the removal of rubbish.
   (E)   Garbage storage and disposal. Every dwelling and every dwelling unit
shall be supplied with approved outside garbage cans required by town
ordinances, or approved mechanical garbage disposal units.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.32 APPLICABLE TO ROOMINGHOUSES; EXCEPTIONS.
   All of the provisions of this chapter, and all of the minimum standards and
requirements of this chapter, shall be applicable to roominghouses, and to
every person who operates a roominghouse, or who occupies or lets to another
for occupancy any rooming unit in any roominghouse, except as provided in the
following divisions.
   (A)   Water closet, hand lavatory, bath facilities. At least one water
closet, lavatory basin and bathtub or shower, properly connected to an approved
water and sewer system and in good working condition, shall be supplied for
each four rooms within a roominghouse wherever facilities are shared. All
facilities shall be located within the residence building served and shall be
directly accessible from a common hall or passageway and shall be not more than
one story removed from any of the persons sharing facilities. Every lavatory
basin and bathtub or shower shall be supplied with hot and cold water at all
times. The required facilities shall not be located in a cellar.
   (B)   Minimum floor area for sleeping purposes. Every room occupied for
sleeping purposes by one occupant shall contain at least 70 square feet of
floor area, and every room occupied for sleeping purposes by more than one
occupant shall contain at least 50 square feet of floor area for each occupant
12 years of age and over and at least 35 square feet of floor area for each
occupant under 12 years of age.
   (C)   Sanitary conditions. The operator of every roominghouse shall be
responsible for the sanitary maintenance of all walls, floors and ceilings, and
for the sanitary maintenance of every other part of the roominghouse; and he or
she shall be further responsible for the sanitary maintenance of the entire
premises where the entire structure or building within which the roominghouse
is contained is leased or occupied by the operator.
   (D)   Sanitary facilities. Every water closet, flush urinal, lavatory basin
and bathtub or shower required by §
152.27(A) of this code shall be located within the roominghouse and within a
room which affords privacy and is separate from the habitable rooms, and which
is accessible from a common hall, without having to go outside the roominghouse
or through any other room therein.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.33 RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   Public areas. Every owner of a dwelling containing three or more
dwelling units shall be responsible for maintaining in a clean sanitary
condition the shared or public areas of the dwelling and premises thereof.
   (B)   Dwelling unit. Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall
keep in a clean and sanitary condition that part of the dwelling, dwelling unit
and premises thereof which he or she occupies and controls.
   (C)   Garbage. Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall dispose
of all his or her garbage, and any other organic waste which might provide food
for rodents, in a clean and sanitary manner, by placing it in the garbage
disposal facilities or garbage storage containers. In all cases the occupants
shall be responsible for the availability of the garbage storage containers.
   (D)   Rubbish. Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall dispose
of all his or her rubbish in a clean and sanitary manner by placing it in the
rubbish storage facilities. In all uses the occupant shall be responsible for
the availability of the rubbish storage facilities.
   (E)   Extermination. See §
152.31 of this code.
   (F)   Plumbing fixtures. Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall
keep all plumbing fixtures therein in a clean and sanitary condition and shall
be responsible for the exercise of reasonable care in the proper use and
operation thereof.
   (G)   Care of facilities, equipment, structure. No occupant shall willfully
destroy, deface or impair any of the facilities, equipment or any part of the
structure of a dwelling unit, dwelling, multi-dwelling or apartment.
   (H)   Care of premises.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of a residential
building, structure or property to utilize the premises of the residential
property for the open storage of any icebox, refrigerator, stove, glass,
building material, building rubbish or similar items.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of every owner or occupant to keep the
premises of the residential property clean and to remove from the premises all
abandoned items, as listed above, including but not limited to weeds, dead
trees, trash, garbage and the like, upon notice from the Inspector.
      (3)   Yards and courts shall be kept clean and free of physical hazards,
rubbish, trash, garbage, junked vehicles, vehicle parts and other similar
material.
      (4)   Every premises shall be provided with vehicular access to and from
the premises at all times by an abutting public and private street.
      (5)   No occupant shall obstruct in any manner means of egress from any
portion of the premises.
      (6)   No occupant shall place on the premises any material which causes a
fire hazard or otherwise endangers the health or safety of any occupants of a
building.
      (7)   No occupant shall place on the premises for use any oil or gas-
fired portable or unvented cook stove or heater.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The violation of any provision of this chapter is subject to the
penalties contained in §
10.99 of this code.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dwelling, dwelling unit or
abandoned structure to fail, neglect or refuse to repair, alter or improve the
same or to vacate and close and remove or demolish the same, an order of the
Inspector duly made and served as provided in this chapter, within the time
specified in the order, and each day that any failure, neglect or refusal to
comply with the order continues shall constitute a separate and distinct
violation. It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dwelling, dwelling unit or
abandoned structure, with respect to which an order has been issued pursuant to
§
152.07 of this code, to occupy or permit the occupancy of the same after the
time prescribed in closing, and each day that occupancy continues after the
prescribed time shall constitute a separate and distinct violation.
(Ord. 21, passed - -; Ord. 19- , passed 2-21-2019)
CHAPTER 153: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Authority and enactment
   
153.002   Title
   
153.003   Purpose
   
153.004   Jurisdiction
   
153.005   Definitions
   
153.006   Application of regulations
   
153.007   Interpretation of regulations
   
153.008   Exceptions and modifications
   
153.009   Visibility at intersections
   
153.010   Home occupations; regulations
   
153.011   Accessory uses
   
153.012   Buffer strips
   
153.013   Nonconformities
   
153.014   Commercial and industrial complexes
   
153.015   Lots on which principal buildings, structures and uses are
established must abut street
   
153.016   Zoning vested right
   
153.017   Approval procedures and approval authority
   
153.018   Duration of rights
   
153.019   Termination of rights
   
153.020   Voluntary annexation
   
153.021   Limitations
   
153.022   Legal status provisions
   
153.023   Conflicts of interest; meeting minutes; oath of office
Amendments
   
153.035   Initiation of amendments
   
153.036   Application
   
153.037   Procedure for amendments
   
153.038   Comprehensive land use plan
   
153.039   Protest petitions
   
153.040   Extraterritorial jurisdiction
Administrative Procedures
   
153.055   Zoning Administrator
   
153.056   Zoning permit
   
153.057   Certificate of occupancy/compliance
   
153.058   Conformance with plans
   
153.059   Appeals
   
153.060   Special uses and conditional zoning
   
153.061   Conditional rezoning; variances; special uses; application and
hearing
   
153.062   Conditions which must be met by special uses
Board of Adjustment
   
153.075   Creation; membership
   
153.076   Organization; rules of procedure
   
153.077   Decision; appeal
   
153.078   Powers and duties
District Regulations
   
153.090   Districts; establishment and purpose
   
153.091   Zoning map
   
153.092   Interpretation of boundaries
   
153.093   Official zoning map; amendments
   
153.094   True copy of map to be maintained
   
153.095   Replacement and preservation of official zoning map and true copy
   
153.096   Districts; regulations
   
153.097   Commercial and light industrial districts; regulations
Parking and Loading Requirements
   
153.110   Off-street parking requirements
   
153.111   Off-street loading requirement
Signs
   
153.125   Scope
   
153.126   General regulations
   
153.127   Prohibited signs
   
153.128   Off-site advertising signs
   
153.129   Nonconforming signs
   
153.130   Permitted signs
 
   
153.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001 AUTHORITY AND ENACTMENT.
   In pursuance of the authority granted by the G.S. Ch. 160D, Article 7, be it
ordained by the Board of Commissioners as follows in this chapter.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 153.002 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Zoning Code of the Town
of Littleton, North Carolina, and may be referred to as the Zoning Code.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 153.003 PURPOSE.
   (A)   For the purpose of promoting the health, safety, morals and general
welfare, this chapter is adopted by the Board of Commissioners to regulate and
restrict the height, number of stories and size of buildings and other
structures, the percentage of lots that may be occupied, the size of yards,
courts and other open spaces, the density of population and the location and
use of buildings, structures and land for trade, industry, residence or other
purposes.
   (B)   (1)   The zoning regulations in this chapter are in accordance with a
comprehensive plan and are designed to lessen congestion in the streets; to
secure safety from fire, panic and other dangers; to promote health and the
general welfare; to provide adequate light and air; to prevent the overcrowding
of land; to avoid undue concentration of population; and to facilitate the
adequate provision of transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks and other
public requirements.
      (2)   The regulations have been made with reasonable consideration, among
other things, as to the character of the jurisdiction and its areas and their
peculiar suitability for particular uses, and with a view to conserving the
value of buildings and encouraging the most appropriate use of land throughout
the jurisdiction.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 153.004 JURISDICTION.
   The area to which this chapter applies is shown on the official zoning map.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 153.005 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Except as
defined in this section or in other sections of this chapter, all words used in
this chapter shall have their customary dictionary definition.
   (A)   Interpretation of commonly used terms and words.
      LOT. Includes the words PLOT, PARCEL and TRACT.
      MAP, ZONING MAP or LITTLETON ZONING MAP. The official zoning map of
Littleton, North Carolina.
      STRUCTURE. Includes the word BUILDING.
      USED. As applied to any land or building, shall be construed to include
the words INTENDED, ARRANGED or DESIGNED TO BE USED.
   (B)   Definitions of commonly used terms and words.
      ABUTTING. The property directly touches another piece of property.
      ACCESSORY BUILDING, STRUCTURE OR USE. A building, structure or use on the
same lot with, or of a nature customarily incidental or subordinate to, and of
a character related to the principal use or structure.
      ADULT ESTABLISHMENT. Any business or enterprise that has as one of its
principal business purposes or as a significant portion of its business an
emphasis on matter and conduct depicting, describing or related to anatomical
areas and sexual activities specified in G.S. § 14-202.10, including but not
limited to an adult bookstore, adult motion picture theater, adult mini motion
picture theater, adult live entertainment businesses or massage businesses in
which a person performing the massage does so while exhibiting anatomical areas
specified in G.S. § 14-202.10 or in which the massage involves the intentional
stimulation of those specified anatomical areas.
      ALLEY. A strip of land, owned publicly or privately, set aside primarily
for vehicular service access to the back or side properties otherwise abutting
on a street.
      BUFFER STRIP. A strip which shall be a minimum of 16 feet in width, shall
be composed of evergreen bushes, shrubs and/or trees so that at least two rows
of coverage are provided from the ground to a height of six feet within six
years and foliage overlaps, or a barrier constructed of stone, block, brick or
other suitable building material, with a minimum height of five feet. The 16
feet required for the BUFFER STRIP shall be in addition to all normal yard
requirements this chapter.
      BUILDING. Any structure having a roof supported by columns or by walls,
and intended for shelter, housing or enclosure of persons, animals or chattels.
      BUILDING, HEIGHT OF. The vertical distance measured from the grade to the
highest point of the coping of a flat roof; to the deck line of a mansard roof;
or to the height level between the eaves and ridge of a gable, hip or gambrel
roof.
      COMMERCIAL ADULT AMUSEMENT BUILDING. Any building that includes more than
two commercial adult game machines, or which offers or provides any prize,
money or other thing of value to any commercial adult game machine user.
      COMMERCIAL ADULT GAME MACHINE. Any lawful electronic device used for
commercial purposes that is designed to simulate gambling or a game of chance
and which is marketed primarily for adults. Without limitation, common examples
include video poker, blackjack, Texas Hold ‘Em, 7-card Stud, Omaha and craps.
      COMMERCIAL CHILD GAME MACHINE. Any lawful electronic device used for
commercial purposes that is designed as an amusement game, marketed primarily
for children and young adults, involves skill or dexterity, is not a game of
chance, and which is commonly found in video arcades. Without limitation,
common examples include Pac-Man, Super Mario Brothers, Space Invaders and
Donkey Kong. Provided, that no money may be awarded to any user of a COMMERCIAL
CHILD GAME MACHINE.
      COMMUNITY SHELTER. A building used by a government agency or a nonprofit
organization to provide a temporary residence and related services to the
homeless, victims of domestic violence and others deprived of safe living
quarters. A COMMUNITY SHELTER also may be used for meetings, classes, workshops
or similar activities related to the shelter’s mission, and may serve as
offices and residence for individuals providing services related to the
shelter.
      CONDOMINIUM. A project meeting the requirements of G.S. §§ 47A-1 et seq.
The type of structure and use rather than condominium form of ownership shall
be the determining factor in deciding whether a use is permitted in a district.
      DISH ANTENNA (or EARTH STATION). An accessory structure and shall mean a
combination of antenna or dish antenna whose purpose is to receive
communication or other signals from orbiting satellites and other
extraterrestrial sources; a low-noise amplifier which is situated at the focal
point of the receiving component and whose purpose is to magnify and transfer
signals; and a coaxial cable whose purpose is to carry the signals into the
interior of the building.
      DISH ANTENNA (or EARTH STATION) HEIGHT. The distance as measured
vertically from the highest point of the antenna or dish, when positioned at
its lowest angle for operation, to ground level at the bottom of the base which
supports the antenna.
      DISH ANTENNA (or EARTH STATION) SETBACK. The distance measured from the
center mounting post supporting the antenna.
      DWELLING. As defined by G.S. § 160D-102(15).
      DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY. A building arranged to be occupied by more than
two families, the building having more than two dwelling units, but excluding
mobile homes and town houses.
      DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A building arranged to be occupied by one
family, the building housing only one dwelling unit, but excluding mobile homes
and town houses.
      DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building arranged to be occupied by two families,
the building having two dwelling units, but excluding mobile homes and town
houses.
      DWELLING UNIT. A building or portion thereof designed, arranged and/or
used as living quarters for one or more persons as a single family, with
cooking facilities, excluding units in rooming, boarding and tourist houses,
family or group care homes or hotels or motels or other buildings designed for
transient residence.
      FAMILY. One or more persons related by blood, adoption or marriage,
living together as a single housekeeping unit, exclusive of household servants.
A number of persons not exceeding five living together as a single housekeeping
unit though not related by blood, adoption or marriage, shall be deemed to
constitute a FAMILY, as shall a foster care home approved by the state.
      FLOOR AREA, GROSS. The number of square feet of total floor area bounded
by the exterior faces of a structure, plus the number of square feet of
unenclosed space devoted to the conduct of the use, excluding basement and
unenclosed porches, balconies and terraces, unless used in conjunction with the
use, such as for outdoor eating, merchandising, storage, assembly or similar
uses and excluding off-street parking and loading areas.
      HOME OCCUPATION. An incidental use of a dwelling unit for gainful
employment involving the manufacture, provision or sale of goods and/or
service. The term HOME OCCUPATION shall not be deemed to include a tourist
home.
      JUNKYARD. The use of more than 600 square feet of any lot or tract for
the outdoor storage and/or sale of waste paper, rags, scrap metal or other
junk, including the storage of automobiles or other vehicles or dismantling of
vehicles or machinery or parts thereof.
      KENNEL. An establishment for the keeping or breeding of dogs for profit.
      LOT. A single lot of record, or more than one contiguous lot of record in
the same ownership, which lot or lots of record are not divided by any street
or public alley, and excluding any part of a lot or lots of record which, when
severed from the contiguous land in the same ownership, creates a nonconformity
or a lot or parcel which does not meet the dimensional requirements of this
chapter.
      LOT, CORNER. A lot which occupies the interior angle at the intersection
of two or more right-of-way lines. A lot abutting on the right-of-way of a
curved street (or street) shall be considered a CORNER LOT if straight lines
drawn from the foremost points of the side lot lines to the foremost point of
the lot meet at an interior angle of less than 135 degrees.
      LOT COVERAGE, MAXIMUM IN PERCENT. The maximum percent of the lot which
may be covered with structures. All yard requirements must be met in addition
to lot coverage requirements.
      LOT DEPTH. The distance between the midpoints of straight lines
connecting the foremost points of the side lot lines in front and rearmost
points of the side lot lines in the rear. On lots having an access strip
extending from the front of the main portion of the lot in order to comply with
the requirements of §
153.015 of this code, the foremost points of the side lot lines shall be
measured at the place where the access strip joins the main portion of the lot.
      LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is part of a subdivision recorded in the
office of the Register of Deeds of the county or lot described by metes and
bounds the description of which has been so recorded.
      LOT WIDTH. The distance between straight lines connecting front and rear
lot lines at each side of the lot, measured across the rear of the required
front yard; provided however, that width between side lot lines at their
foremost points (where they intersect the right-of-way line, or for lots having
an access strip extending from the front of the main portion of the lot in
order to comply with the requirements of §
153.015 of this code, at the place where the access strip joins the main
portion of the lot) shall not be less than 80% of the required lot width,
except in the case of the turning circle of cul-de-sacs where the 80%
requirement shall not apply.
      MOBILE HOME. As defined by G.S. § 143-145(7). A dwelling meeting the
above definition shall be considered a MOBILE HOME, even if placed on a
permanent foundation. MOBILE HOMES less than 28 feet wide (commonly referred to
as single wide mobile homes) are prohibited.
      MOBILE HOME PARK. Any plot of ground upon which two or more mobile homes,
occupied for dwelling or sleeping purposes, are located, regardless of whether
or not a charge is made for these accommodations.
      MODULAR HOME. A factory-built structure that is designed to be used as a
dwelling, is manufactured in accordance with the specifications for modular
homes under the state’s Residential Building Code, and bears a seal or label as
provided in G.S. § 143-139.1.
      NET ACREAGE, ACRES, LAND AREA, SQUARE FOOTAGE OF LAND AREA. Land area
with streets, rights-of-way, driveways which serve as access to more than two
units or uses, and major transmission line easements not included in its
measurement.
      PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. As defined in §
153.062(C)(2) of this code.
      PRINCIPAL BUILDING, USE OR STRUCTURE. The main use of a lot or the
building or structure in or on which the main use of the lot takes place.
      PUBLIC USE. A public use is a building owned or operated by a public
entity, including but not limited to emergency services, government services
and public parks and recreation facilities.
      RESTAURANT. An establishment whose primary purpose is serving meals to
patrons. In order to qualify as a RESTAURANT, the establishment must provide
indoor dining room seating to accommodate at least 20 patrons, and must provide
indoor restrooms sufficient to accommodate its patrons.
      RESTAURANT, DRIVE-IN or TAKE-OUT. Any restaurant which makes provision
for curb service, outdoor service or a drive-in window, or any restaurant more
than 10% of whose average daily customers take their food or beverages out of
the restaurant.
      RESTAURANT, INDOOR. Any restaurant except a drive-in or take-out
restaurant.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY, STREET. Strip of land owned publicly or privately, which
affords the principal means of access to abutting property.
      ROOF LINE. The top edge of the roof or the top edge of the parapet,
whichever forms the top line of the building silhouette, but not including
penthouses or equipment structures.
      SHOPPING CENTER. Two or more commercial establishments planned and
constructed, as a single unit with off-street parking and loading facilities
provided on the property.
      SIGN. Any outdoor letter, symbol, number, trademark or other form of
publicity or combination of these as well as the surface on which they are
painted or to which they are attached, and any background material, coloring,
shapes or other trim shall be considered a SIGN, unless entirely enclosed by a
fence or wall so that the above items and any structure or lighting attached to
or accessory to them cannot be seen off the premises on which they are located.
Works of fine art which in no way identify or advertise a product or business
shall be excluded from this definition.
      SIGN AREA.
         (a)   The area of the smallest regular polygon composed of eight lines
or less, circle, half-circle, ellipse or combination thereof, which will
encompass the entire sign, excluding the base or apron, supports or other
structural members unless some part of the message appears on them, in which
case they shall be included.
         (b)   Where symbols, letters or numbers are attached separately to a
structure, including a sign structure or to separate surfaces, the area between
the separate items or letters, whether open or solid, shall be computed as part
of the sign area.
         (c)   The total SIGN AREA for a double-faced sign shall be measured on
the largest face of the sign. Where three-dimensional figures are used as
signs, the largest dimensions of the figure shall be projected on a vertical
plane and measured in the standard manner.
      SIGN, HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the adjacent street
grade or from the ground on which it rests, whichever allows the sign the
greatest height, to the top of the sign. Types of signs are as follows:
         (a)   GROUND SIGN. A sign erected on a freestanding frame, mast and/or
pole and not attached to any building, fence or wall.
         (b)   IDENTIFICATION SIGN. A sign which contains any or all of the
following: the name of the occupants, owner or establishment; the type of
establishment; the name of the franchise; the hours of operation; and house
number, when located on the site of the establishment.
         (c)   OFF-SITE ADVERTISING SIGN (BILLBOARD). A sign which contains
information about an establishment, business, commodity, activity or service
not conducted, sold or offered upon the premises where the sign is located and
not otherwise allowed in Table of Permitted Signs, §
153.130 of this code and which is not specifically regulated in Table of
Permitted Signs as a directional sign to churches, meeting halls, civic clubs
or garage sales, or as a temporary sign.
         (d)   ON-SITE ADVERTISING SIGN. A sign which contains information
about an establishment or the products or services that it offers, other than
that contained in an identification sign, when located on the same site as the
establishment to which it refers.
         (e)   PROJECTING SIGN. A sign which extends beyond and is attached to
a building wall and may extend over a public right-of-way.
         (f)   ROOF SIGN. A sign attached to and extending upward from the roof
of the structure.
         (g)   TEMPORARY SIGN. A sign which notifies the public of special
events, grand openings or other significant, temporary occurrences, not of a
recurring nature. A TEMPORARY SIGN may be constructed of any suitable material;
however, any sign constructed of other than a self-supporting material (i.e.,
wood, metal and the like) except as otherwise permitted in this chapter, shall
be considered temporary.
         (h)   WALL SIGN. A sign which is attached flat to the wall or facade
of a building, or to a fence or wall.
      SOLAR COLLECTION SYSTEM. One or more panels or other solar energy devices
principally used as an accessory use, the primary purpose of which is to
provide for the non-commercial collection, inversion, storage and distribution
of solar energy for electricity generation, space heating, space cooling or
water heating.
      STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected with a fixed location on the
ground, or attached to something having a fixed location on the ground. Among
other things, STRUCTURES include buildings, mobile homes, fences, signs and
swimming pools.
      TOWNHOUSE. A single-family dwelling unit constructed in a series or group
of attached units with property lines separating the units.
      VARIANCE. A relaxation of the terms of this chapter under the specific
conditions set forth in §
153.078(B) of this code.
      YARD. An open space on the same lot with a principal structure or use
unobstructed and unoccupied by any structure or portion thereof or parking or
loading area, except as provided in this chapter.
      YARD, FRONT. A yard extending the full width of the lot and situated
between the right-of-way line and the front line of the principal structure or
use projected to the side lines of the lot. Depth of required FRONT YARDS shall
be measured at right angles to a straight line joining the foremost points of
the side lot lines. The foremost point of the side lot lines in the case of
rounded property corners at street intersections shall be assumed to be the
point at which the side and front lines would have met without the rounding.
The foremost points of the side lot line in the case of lots having an access
strip extending from the front of the main portion of the lot in order to
comply with the requirements of §
153.015 of this code shall be measured at the place where the access strip
joins the main portion of the lot. However, nothing may be placed in the access
strip that is not permitted by this chapter to be placed in a FRONT YARD. Front
and rear yard lines shall be parallel.
      YARD, REAR. A yard extending the full width of the lot and situated
between the rear line of the lot and the principal structure or use projected
to the side lines of the lot.
      YARD, SIDE. A yard extending along either side of a lot measured from
front yard line to rear yard line and lying between the side lot line and the
principal structure or use on the lot.
      ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The official charged with the enforcement of this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-12-2004; Ord. passed 8-8-2005; Ord. 2009-05, passed 8-17-2009;
Ord. 2009-07, passed 8-17-2009; Ord. 2010-03, passed 7-19-2010; Ord. 2012-01,
passed 4-16-2012; Ord. 2013-02, passed 4-15-2013; Ord. 2013-08, passed 9-16-
2013; Ord. 21, passed - -)
§ 153.006 APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   The regulations set forth in this chapter shall affect all land, every
structure and every use of land and/or structure and shall apply as follows.
   (A)   No structure or land shall hereafter be used or occupied and no
structure or part thereof shall be erected, moved or structurally altered
except in compliance with the regulations of this chapter for the district in
which it is located.
   (B)   No structure shall hereafter be erected or altered so as to exceed the
height limit or density regulations of this chapter for the district in which
it is located.
   (C)   No lot, even though it may consist of one or more adjacent lots of
record in single ownership, shall be reduced in size so that the lot area per
dwelling unit, lot width, yard and lot coverage requirements and other
requirements of this chapter are not maintained. This prohibition shall not be
construed to prevent the purchase or condemnation of narrow strips of land for
public utilities or street right-of-way purposes.
   (D)   No part of a yard or other open space required about any structure or
used for the purpose of complying with provisions of this chapter shall be
included as a part of a yard or other open space similarly required for another
structure or use.
   (E)   In any district, no more than one principal building or use may be
erected on a single lot of record, except as specifically permitted in other
sections of this chapter.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.007 INTERPRETATION OF REGULATIONS.
   The regulations in this chapter shall be enforced and interpreted according
to the following rules.
   (A)   Uses not designated in the district regulations as permitted or
special uses shall be prohibited. Special uses are permitted according to the
additional regulations imposed. These special uses can be approved only by the
Board of Adjustment as specified in this chapter. Applications for conditional
zoning are approved by the Board of Commissioners. Additional uses may be added
to this chapter by amendment.
   (B)   Regulations set forth by this chapter shall be minimum regulations. If
the requirements set forth in this chapter are at variance with the
requirements of any other lawfully adopted uses, regulations or ordinances, the
more restrictive or higher standard shall govern.
   (C)   Unless restrictions established by covenants with the land are
prohibited by or contrary to the provisions of this chapter, nothing herein
contained shall be construed to render these covenants inoperative.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.008 EXCEPTIONS AND MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The minimum front yard requirements of this chapter for dwellings
shall not apply on any lot where the average front yard of existing dwellings
located wholly or in part within 100 feet on each side of the lot within the
same block and zoning district and fronting on the same side of the street is
less than the required front yard. In these cases, the front yard on the lot
may be less than the required front yard but not less than the adjacent
dwelling with the greatest front yard depth or the average front yard of
existing dwellings located wholly or in part within 100 feet on each side,
whichever is greater.
   (B)   In any residential district for corner lots, the side yard
requirements along the side street shall be increased by ten feet.
   (C)   The Board of Adjustment shall review as a special use, structures such
as church spires, belfries, cupolas and domes not intended for human occupancy,
monuments, water towers, observation towers, transmission towers, chimneys,
smokestacks, conveyors, flag poles, radio towers, masts, aerials and similar
structures, which exceed the height limitations of this chapter.
   (D)   Uncovered stairs, landings, terraces, porches, balconies and fire
escapes may project to any yard, but the projection may not exceed six feet and
may not be closer than ten feet to any lot line.
   (E)   Architectural projections, such as chimneys, flues, sills, eaves, belt
courses and ornaments, may project into any required yard, but the projection
shall not exceed three feet.
   (F)   The requirements of this chapter do not apply to roads, water, sewer,
gas, electric, telephone and similar utility lines except as specifically
mentioned.
   (G)   Lot width on lots which front on the turnaround circle of a cul-de-sac
may be measured at the line formed by connecting the midpoint of the side lot
line of the shorter side with a point on a longer side lot line which is the
same distance from the front lot line as the midpoint of the shorter side, or
if both side lot lines are the same length, at the line connecting the
midpoints of the lot lines. All yard requirements must be met on these lots. If
a lot has more than two sides, the side lot lines to be used are the two which
connect with the front lot line.
   (H)   Property that is located within the town’s extraterritorial
jurisdiction and that is used for bona fide farm purposes is exempt from this
chapter to the same extent bona fide farming activities are exempt from county
zoning pursuant to G.S. § 160D-903(c).
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.009 VISIBILITY AT INTERSECTIONS.
   On a corner lot, nothing shall be erected, placed, planted or allowed to
grow in a manner as materially to impede vision between a height of two and
one-half feet and ten feet in a triangular area formed by a diagonal line
between two points on the right-of-way lines, 20 feet from where they
intersect.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 153.010 HOME OCCUPATIONS; REGULATIONS.
   Home occupations are permitted in all districts only as an incidental use
and shall comply with the following regulations.
   (A)   No person other than a resident of the dwelling shall be engaged in
the occupation.
   (B)   Pedestrian and vehicle traffic at the businesses shall be subject to
regulation under other town ordinances, including nuisances and traffic
control. Any vehicles shall be parked off the street. The parking of any
vehicles on the property, other than an automobile, shall be in an enclosed
building as described in division (C) below, or shall be a special use subject
to approval by the Board of Adjustment.
   (C)   No more than 25% of the total actual floor area of the dwelling or 500
square feet, whichever is less, shall be used in the conduct of the home
occupation. In addition, one accessory building not exceeding 1,000 square
feet, shall be a special use in connection with the home occupation, to house
commercial vehicles and/or for storage of materials used in connection with the
home occupation. The accessory building may not be used for manufacturing,
process, instruction, sales, service or other work in connection with the home
occupation. All lot coverage, dimensional and other requirements of this
chapter must be met by the accessory building. The accessory building must
resemble a residential garage. A sketch of the proposed building and list of
the materials to be used on the outside must be submitted with the application
for a special use permit.
   (D)   A home greenhouse shall be permitted provided that the greenhouse
meets the requirements of §
153.011 of this code and that any sales in connection with the greenhouse meet
the requirements of this section.
   (E)   No outdoor sales or storage shall be permitted in connection with the
home occupation. This provision shall not apply to incidental residential yard
sales.
   (F)   The exterior appearance of the dwelling shall not be altered in a
manner nor shall the occupation in the residence be conducted in a way as to
cause the premises to differ from its residential character in exterior
appearance.
   (G)   The use may not emit smoke beyond that which normally occurs in the
applicable zoning district, nor shall it emit dust, vibration, odor, smoke,
fumes, glare, electrical interference, interference to radio and television
reception or other nuisance and shall not be volatile or present a fire hazard,
nor may the occupation discharge into any waterway, stream, lake or into the
ground or septic tank any waste which will be dangerous or a nuisance to
persons or animals, or which will damage plants or crops.
   (H)   No home occupation shall involve the use of electrical or mechanical
equipment that would change the fire rating of the structure in which the home
occupation is conducted.
   (I)   No customers, clients, patrons or employees other than the residents’
household may be on the premises in connection with the home occupation before
7:00 a.m. or after 9:00 p.m.
   (J)   The following are strictly prohibited as home occupations: car washes;
commercial automotive repair garages; truck terminals; slaughterhouses; paint,
petroleum and chemical plants; any occupation which involves the bulk storage
of liquid petroleum, gasoline, kerosene or other flammable liquids; funeral
homes and mortuaries; massage parlors; sale of reading or viewing material of a
pornographic nature; movie theaters; animal hospitals and kennels; and bottled
gas sales.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.011 ACCESSORY USES.
   Accessory uses are permitted in any zoning district in accordance with the
following regulations.
   (A)   An accessory building, structure or use is a permanent building,
structure or use on the same lot or site with, of a nature customarily
incidental and subordinate to and of a character related to the principal use
or structure. An accessory building, structure or use is one intended for
permanent location and is generally not used for shipping or repeated
transport. A portable on demand storage unit (POD) is a mobile shipping
container primarily used for storage and intended for temporary use. A POD is
generally intended for repeated, mobile transport.
   (B)   Accessory uses to single-family, two-family and multi-family dwellings
may not include commercial uses, except as permitted as home occupations in §
153.010 of this code or for multi-family dwellings, as allowed by the Board of
Adjustment in accordance with the provisions of §
153.062 of this code.
   (C)   Residences for watchmen and caretakers are permitted accessory uses to
research and industrial uses.
   (D)   No accessory building shall exceed 35 feet in height, nor shall any
accessory building exceed the principal building in height. No accessory
building shall exceed 1,500 square feet in area, or 20% of the area of the
principal building, whichever is less.
   (E)   An accessory building sharing one or more common walls with the
principal building shall be considered part of the principal building for
purposes of this chapter and must meet all yard requirements applied to the
principal building.
   (F)   No detached accessory building shall be located closer than ten feet
to any other building or mobile home.
   (G)   Accessory buildings or recreational structures or uses may be located
in the rear yard, or may be located in the buildable area on the side of a
structure, but the side yard shall not be encroached upon.
   (H)   No accessory building or recreational structure or use may extend
within three feet of a lot line, nor within 20 feet of a street right-of-way
line.
   (I)   Recreational uses and buildings accessory to apartment complexes shall
be in accordance with §
153.062 of this code.
   (J)   Fences and walls are permitted as accessory uses provided that they
comply with the following.
      (1)   For the purposes of this section, a fence is a barrier composed of
wire, wood, metal, plastic or a similar material and a wall is a barrier
composed of brick, stone, rock, concrete block or a similar masonry material.
      (2)   Fences may not exceed seven feet in height, except that in
commercial and industrial districts a fence may not exceed ten feet in height.
Fences greater than seven feet in height shall be of an open type similar to
woven wire or wrought iron. Fences and walls may exceed the height requirements
of this section if required or specifically authorized in another section of
this chapter.
      (3)   Fences and walls are exempt from the setback requirements of this
chapter.
      (4)   No fence or wall shall impede vision as regulated in §
153.015 of this code.
      (5)   Fences, if replaced, shall meet the requirements of this section.
   (K)   Satellite dish antennas (earth stations) are permitted as an accessory
use or structure to any principal use or structure so long as they are not
greater than 40 inches in diameter in any residential district or greater than
80 inches in diameter in any non-residential district. Satellite dish antennas
that are greater than 40 inches in diameter in any residential district or
greater than 80 inches in diameter in any non-residential district are
permitted as an accessory use or structure provided that they comply with the
following regulations. These standards shall not be interpreted or enforced in
any manner contrary to federal or state law.
      (1)   General requirements.
         (a)   A building permit is required when installing, moving or
substantially constructing or reconstructing a dish antenna.
         (b)   A dish antenna must be installed in compliance with the
manufacturer’s specifications as a minimum.
         (c)   In all residential districts, dish antennas must be installed on
the ground.
         (d)   In commercial and industrial districts, dish antennas may either
be installed on the ground or on the roof of the building. If installed on the
roof, the dish shall not be larger than 12 feet in diameter, shall not project
higher than ten feet above the maximum building height of the zoning district
or more than one-third the actual building height above the roof, whichever is
less, shall be set back from the front and sides of the building at least 18
feet, and shall not be used for any advertising purposes. A dish antenna may be
installed on the top of another part of the building which is lower than the
roof, such as a balcony or parking deck only if the location is at the rear or
side of the building and all other requirements are met.
         (e)   A dish antenna may be attached to an accessory building which is
permanently secured to the ground, but may not be attached to the principal
building except as provided for in division (K)(1)(d) above.
         (f)   If a dish antenna is repainted, the only permissible colors are
the original color used by the manufacturer or flat black. The paint must have
a dull (nonglossy) finish and no patterns, lettering or numerals shall be
permitted on either side of the dish surface.
         (g)   No dish antenna shall be installed in any public right-of-way or
in any drainage or utility easement.
      (2)   Location in yards.
         (a)   A dish antenna shall be installed in the rear or side yard only,
in all districts except as provided for in divisions (K)(1)(d) and (K)(2)(b)
above.
         (b)   In commercial districts only, a dealer selling dish antennas may
have a maximum of one antenna installed in the front or side yard for display
purposes providing all other requirements are met. If a dealer displays a dish
antenna in the front yard or side yard, his or her permissible sign area shall
be reduced by one-half.
      (3)   Setback requirements.
         (a)   The minimum required setback for dish antennas from the side lot
line shall be the same as for the principal building except on corner lots. On
the side abutting the street, the minimum required setback shall be the side
yard setback requirement plus ten feet.
         (b)   The minimum required setback for dish antennas from the rear lot
line shall be 11 feet or the same as accessory buildings, whichever is greater,
but in no case shall any part of the antenna come closer than five feet to the
property line.
         (c)   In districts where there are no side or rear yard requirements,
a minimum setback of 11 feet from the side and rear lot lines shall be required
of dish antennas, but in no case shall any part of the antenna come closer than
five feet to the property line.
         (d)   In all cases, no dish antenna shall be located within 15 feet of
any street right-of-way.
      (4)   Maximum height requirements.
         (a)   In all residential districts, the maximum height of dish
antennas shall be 15 feet or the height of the principal building, whichever is
less.
         (b)   In commercial and industrial districts, the maximum height of
dish antennas installed on the ground shall be 20 feet. Dish antennas mounted
on the roof of a building shall not project higher than ten feet above the
maximum building height.
   (L)   In addition to complying with the requirements provided in this
section, a person may place not more than one POD on an individual lot.
Notwithstanding division (G) above, a POD may be placed in the driveway of the
individual lot so long as it is not placed directly in front of the primary
structure. Before placing a POD on an individual lot, the owner(s) of the
property must apply for and receive a permit from the town authorizing the
placement of the POD at that location. No more than one permit shall be issued
per individual lot. The permit fee shall be $15. The permit shall authorize the
placement of the POD for not more than 180 days. No permit shall be issued
authorizing renewal beyond the 180-day period. Any POD not authorized by this
section shall be a nonconforming use in violation of this chapter.
   (M)   Solar collection systems are permitted as an accessory use provided
that they comply with the following regulations.
      (1)   No freestanding solar panels shall be permitted within the town.
      (2)   Roof-mounted solar panels installed on a building or structure with
a sloped roof shall not project vertically more than the height requirements
for the district in which they are located. The panels shall not be located
within three feet of any peak, eave or valley of the roof to maintain pathways
of accessibility.
      (3)   Systems located on the roof shall provide design review and
structural certification if the slope of the panel differs from the roof pitch.
All panels on commercial roofs shall provide this information regardless of
slopes, as well as any residential roof with greater than 50% coverage.
      (4)   The manufacturers’ or installers’ identification and appropriate
warning sign shall be posted on or near the panels in a clearly visible manner.
      (5)   No solar collection system shall be installed until evidence has
been given to the town’s Code Enforcement Office that the electric utility
company has been informed of the customer’s intent to install an interconnected
customer-owned generator, if applicable. Off-grid systems shall be exempt from
this requirement.
      (6)   Any panels installed to be used by someone other than the owner of
the property shall provide an affidavit or evidence of agreement between the
lot owner and facility’s owner or operator confirming the facility owner or
operator has permission of the property owner to install and utilize solar
panels.
      (7)   Solar panels shall be placed such that concentrated solar radiation
or glare shall not be directed onto nearby properties or roadways.
      (8)   In addition to the requirements listed above, all panels must
adhere to all local, state and federal requirements regulating solar collection
systems.
      (9)   Solar collection systems shall not be used for displaying any
advertising, except for reasonable identification of the manufacturer or
operator of the system. In no case shall any identification be visible from the
property line.
      (10)   The design of solar collection systems shall, to the extent
reasonably possible, use materials, colors, textures, screening and landscaping
that will blend the facility into the natural setting and existing environment.
      (11)   The following shall be met for decommissioning: solar collection
systems which have not been in active and continuous service for a period of
one year shall be removed from the property to a place of safe and legal
disposal.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 153.012 BUFFER STRIPS.
   Whenever a buffer strip is required by this chapter, the strip shall meet
the specifications of this section, unless different specifications are given
in the section where the buffer strip is required.
   (A)   (1)   A buffer strip shall consist of a planted strip which shall be a
minimum of 25 feet in width, shall be composed of evergreen bushes, shrubs and/
or trees so that at least two rows of coverage are provided from the ground to
a height of six feet within six years and foliage overlaps.
      (2)   A buffer strip may also be constructed of stone, block, brick or
other suitable building material, with a minimum height of five feet.
      (3)   The 25 feet required for the buffer strip shall be in addition to
all normal yard requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Buffer strips shall be required in the following situations, as well
as in any others specified in other sections of this chapter: whenever a
manufacturing, processing, retail, wholesale trade or warehousing use or public
utility installation is established, a buffer strip shall be provided wherever
the lot on which the use is established abuts or is across an easement or
right-of-way from land zoned for residential use.
   (C)   All buffer strips shall become part of the lot on which they are
located, or in the case of commonly owned land, shall belong to the homeowners
or property owners association.
   (D)   The buffer strip shall be maintained for the life of the development.
Maintenance shall be the responsibility of the property owner, or, if the
property is rented, the lessee.
   (E)   (1)   If a natural screen is already in place which will adequately
fulfill the purpose of the buffer strip, the Zoning Administrator may, in
writing, allow a substitution of all or part of this screen for the buffer
strip.
      (2)   Written permission of the Zoning Administrator shall be obtained
before removing an existing natural buffer in the location on the required
buffer strip.
   (F)   Where, because of intense shade or soil conditions, a planting screen
cannot be expected to thrive, the Zoning Administrator may, in writing, allow
substitution of a well-maintained wooden fence or masonry wall at least six
feet in height.
   (G)   Where it is clear that a smaller buffer will protect neighboring
property from harmful effects, the Board of Adjustment may reduce the buffer to
15 feet and one row of trees.
   (H)   The Board of Adjustment may require a maintenance bond for the
buffers, as a condition of approval.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 153.013 NONCONFORMITIES.
   A lawful preexisting use, structure or lot which does not meet the
requirements of this chapter is called a nonconformity. Special provisions
apply to nonconformities and these are listed in divisions (A) through (E)
below. In lieu of the provisions in this section, nonconforming signs shall
comply with the requirements in §§
153.125 through
153.130 of this code and nonconforming mobile home parks shall comply with
requirements in §§
153.060 through
153.062 of this code.
   (A)   Existing nonconforming structures.
      (1)   The conforming use of a structure as explained in division (D)
below, existing at the time of the adoption of this chapter, may be continued
although the structure’s size on location does not conform with the yard,
dimensional, height, parking, loading, access, lot area and lot coverage
provisions of this chapter. These structures are called substandard structures.
      (2)   Substandard structures with conforming uses may be added to or
enlarged provided that the enlargements comply with the yard, height, parking,
loading, access and all other applicable requirements of this chapter for the
district in which the structure is located.
      (3)   Substandard structures which are damaged or destroyed by fire,
explosion, flood or other calamity, may be reconstructed in accordance with
preexisting, nonconformities within one year of the disaster. The one-year
period begins the day after the disaster. To qualify under this exception, a
building permit must be applied for. Construction timing then reverts to
applicable building permit requirements. If construction has not begun within
the one-year time period, any subsequent construction shall comply with the
yard, height, parking, loading, access and all other applicable provisions of
this chapter for the district in which the structure is located unless the
structure is situated on a substandard lot of record, in which case the
provisions concerning substandard lots of record shall apply, or unless the
incomplete nature of the damage would make it more feasible to rebuild on the
same lot, in which case the Board of Adjustment is authorized to approve a
variance to allow the reconstruction or replacement.
      (4)   A substandard structure may not be moved off the lot on which it is
located unless when relocated it complies with the regulations for the district
in which it is to be relocated.
   (B)   Existing nonconforming uses. The lawful nonconforming use of a
structure, land or water existing at the time of adoption of this chapter may
be continued except that:
      (1)   Only that portion of the land or water in actual use may be so
continued and the nonconforming use may not be enlarged or extended, nor may
any additional structures be added to be occupied by the nonconforming use,
except that existing cemeteries can expand to the boundaries of the property
which they owned at the time they became nonconforming, provided that required
setbacks are met;
      (2)   Normal maintenance, repair and incidental alteration of a building
occupied by a nonconforming use is permitted provided it does not extend the
nonconforming use. A structure occupied by a nonconforming use may be changed
to make the structure more in character with the uses permitted in the district
in which it is located;
      (3)   If the nonconforming use is damaged by fire, explosion, flood or
other calamity to the extent of more than 75% of its current replacement value,
it shall not be restored except so as to comply with the use provisions of this
chapter, except that nonconforming single-family and two-family dwellings, and
mobile homes, may be restored in accordance with the provisions of division (A)
(3) above;
      (4)   If the nonconforming use is discontinued or terminated for a period
of more than 180 days, any future use of the structure, land or water shall
comply with the provisions of this chapter. However, upon application, the
Board of Adjustment may grant an additional 90-day extension if the applicant
can prove hardship;
      (5)   A nonconforming use may not be moved off the lot on which it is
located unless when relocated it complies with the regulations for the district
in which it is to be relocated;
      (6)   The Board of Adjustment may permit as a special use a change in
nonconforming use provided that the requirements of divisions (B)(1) through
(B)(5) above are met and the Board of Adjustment finds that the new use would
be more in character with the uses permitted in the district than the previous
use. In permitting the change, the Board of Adjustment may require appropriate
conditions and safeguards in accordance with the provisions of this chapter;
and
      (7)   Once a nonconforming use has been changed or altered so as to
comply with the provisions of this chapter, it shall not revert back to a
nonconforming use. Once the Board of Adjustment has permitted the substitution
of a more restrictive nonconforming use for an existing nonconforming use, the
substituted use shall lose its status as a legal nonconforming use and become
subject to all the conditions required by the Board. If the structure occupied
by a nonconforming use is changed so as to be more in character with the uses
permitted in the district in which it is located, it shall not subsequently be
changed to be less in character.
   (C)   Existing vacant substandard lots.
      (1)   Where the owner of a lot at the time of adoption of this chapter or
successor in title thereto does not own sufficient land to enable him or her to
conform to the lot area or lot width requirements of this chapter, the lot may
be used as a building site for a single-family residence in a district in which
residences are permitted, provided that the lot width and lot area are not more
than 20% below the minimum specified in this chapter, and further provided that
the county’s Health Department approves the reduction if on-site water or
wastewater facilities are involved. In cases where the lot area and lot width
are more than 20% below the minimum specified in this chapter or other
requirements cannot be met, the Board of Adjustment is authorized to approve as
a variance the dimensions as shall conform as closely as possible to the
required dimensions if the county’s Health Department submits a letter of
approval if on-site water or wastewater facilities are involved. If the
preexisting substandard lot is not in a district where single-family residences
are permitted, the Board of Adjustment may issue a variance to allow some
reasonable use.
      (2)   If two or more adjoining and vacant lots are in one ownership when
this chapter is adopted, or at any time after the adoption of this chapter and
the lots individually do not meet the minimum dimensional requirements of this
chapter for the district in which the lots are located, then the group of lots
shall be considered as a single lot or several lots of minimum permitted width
and area for the district in which located, and therefore, the provisions of
division (C)(1) above do not apply. Further, if the lots are joined into one or
more standard lots to meet the requirements of this chapter, the new lots must
be recorded with the county’s Recorder of Deeds and cannot be subdivided in the
future without appropriate application.
   (D)   Conforming uses and structures.
      (1)   Any use or structure existing prior to the effective date of this
chapter which conforms to the regulations of this chapter for permitted uses
and satisfies the dimensional requirements and any other applicable regulations
of the district in which it is located, may be continued, provided any changes
in use or structural or other changes shall comply with the provisions of this
chapter.
      (2)   Any structure or use existing prior to the effective date of this
chapter which would be permitted by this chapter as a special use in the
district in which it is located, may be continued as if a special use permit
had been applied for and issued, provided that any changes in use or structural
or other changes shall comply with the provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   Effect of amendments. If subsequent amendments to this chapter or the
official zoning map result in the creation of additional nonconformities or
conformities, the nonconformities or conformities shall be governed by the
provisions of this section unless otherwise stated in the amendment.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.014 COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL COMPLEXES.
   Office centers, institutional and industrial and similar complexes may have
more than one principal building on a single lot provided that the following
requirements are met.
   (A)   Uses in complexes shall be limited to those permitted within the
zoning district in which the project is located.
   (B)   The overall intensity of land use shall be no higher, and the standard
of open space no lower, than that permitted in the district in which the
project is located.
   (C)   The distance of every building from the nearest property line shall
meet the front yard setback and side yard requirements of the district in which
the project is located or 50 feet, whichever is greater.
   (D)   The building heights shall not exceed the height limits permitted in
the district in which the project is located.
   (E)   The building shall be located so as to provide access for emergency
vehicles.
   (F)   The minimum spacing between buildings in a complex shall be in
accordance with the yard requirements of the district in which the project is
located.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 153.015 LOTS ON WHICH PRINCIPAL BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND USES ARE
ESTABLISHED MUST ABUT STREET.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, no principal building,
structure or use may be erected or established on any lot which does not abut
at least 20 feet on one of the following:
      (1)   A public street dedicated to and maintained by the town or the
state’s Department of Transportation; or
      (2)   A street constructed to the standards of the town, or the state’s
Department of Transportation, with a written agreement concerning maintenance
of the street.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners may authorize, as a conditional rezoning,
the erection or establishment of a principal building, structure or use on a
lot not meeting these requirements if it is clear that adequate provision for
access for the type and intensity of use proposed has been or will be provided,
and there are special circumstances, such as the rural nature of the lot and
area, which make the application of these requirements to the proposed use
infeasible or undesirable.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 153.016 ZONING VESTED RIGHT.
   (A)   A zoning vested right shall be deemed established upon the valid
approval, or conditional approval, of a site specific development plan,
following notice and public hearing.
   (B)   The approving authority may approve a site specific development plan
upon the terms and conditions as may reasonably be necessary to protect the
public health, safety and welfare.
   (C)   Notwithstanding divisions (A) and (B) above, approval of a site
specific development plan with the condition that a variance be obtained shall
not confer a zoning vested right unless and until the necessary variance is
obtained.
   (D)   A site specific development plan shall be deemed approved upon the
effective date of the approval authority’s action or ordinance relating
thereto.
   (E)   The establishment of a zoning vested right shall not preclude the
application of overlay zoning that imposes additional requirements but does not
affect the allowable type or intensity of use, or ordinances or regulations
that are general in nature and are applicable to all property subject to land
use regulation by the town, including, but not limited to, building, fire,
plumbing, electrical and mechanical codes. Otherwise applicable new or amended
regulations shall become effective with respect to property that is subject to
a site specific development plan upon the expiration or termination of the
vested right in accordance with this chapter.
   (F)   A zoning vested right is not a personal right, but shall attach to and
run with the applicable property. After approval of a site specific development
plan, all successors to the original landowner shall be entitled to exercise
the right while applicable.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 153.017 APPROVAL PROCEDURES AND APPROVAL AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Development approvals and determinations, as defined by G.S. § 160D-
102, subject to this chapter are governed by G.S. § 160D-403. Development
approvals attach to and run with the land as provided by G.S. § 160D-104.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, an application for site
specific development plan approval shall be processed in accordance with the
procedures established in this chapter for a conditional rezoning or special
use permit, as applicable. The Board of Commissioners or Board of Adjustment,
as applicable, shall be the final approval authority.
   (C)   If the use for which a vested right is sought would not normally be an
allowable use under the code, in order to obtain a zoning vested right, the
applicant must request in writing at the time of application that the
application be considered and acted on by the Board of Commissioners as a
conditional zoning district and follow all procedures in the code for obtaining
approval.
   (D)   In order for a zoning vested right to be established upon approval of
a site specific development, the applicant must indicate at the time of
application, on a form to be provided by the town, that a zoning vested right
is being sought.
   (E)   Each map, plat, site plan or other document evidencing a site specific
development plan shall contain the following notation:
 
Approval of this plan establishes a zoning vested right under G.S. § 160D-108.
Unless terminated at an earlier date, the zoning vested right shall be valid
until __________.
 
   (F)   Should the town choose to extend vested rights, they shall be vested
for a period of more than two years, but not more than five years.
   (G)   Following approval or conditional approval of a site specific
development plan, nothing in this chapter shall exempt a plan from subsequent
reviews and approvals to ensure compliance with the terms and conditions of the
original approval, provided that the reviews and approvals are not inconsistent
with the original approval.
   (H)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the revocation of the original
approval or other remedies for failure to comply with applicable terms and
conditions of the approval or this chapter. Revocation of any development
approval authorized in this chapter shall be in accordance with G.S. § 160D-403
(f).
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.018 DURATION OF RIGHTS.
   (A)   (1)   A zoning right that has been vested as provided in this section
shall remain vested for a period of two years unless specifically and
unambiguously provided otherwise pursuant to division (B) below, except that a
multi-phase development vests for the period of time provided by G.S. § 160D-
108.
      (2)   This vesting shall not be extended by any amendments or
modifications to a site specific development plan unless expressly provided by
the approval authority at the time the amendment or modification is approved.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (A) above, the approval
authority may provide that rights shall be vested for a period exceeding two
years but not exceeding five years where warranted in light of all relevant
circumstances, including, but not limited to, the size of the development, the
level of investment, the need for or desirability of the development, economic
cycles and market conditions. These determinations shall be in the sound
discretion of the approval authority at the time the site specific development
plan is approved.
   (C)   Upon issuance of a building permit, the expiration provision of G.S. §
160D-1111 and the revocation provisions of G.S. § 160D-1115 shall apply, except
that a building permit shall not expire or be revoked because of the running of
time while a zoning vested right under this section is outstanding.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 153.019 TERMINATION OF RIGHTS.
   A zoning right that has been vested as provided in this chapter shall
terminate:
   (A)   At the end of the applicable vesting period with respect to buildings
and uses for which no valid building permit applications have been filed;
   (B)   With the written consent of the affected landowner;
   (C)   Upon findings by the Board of Commissioners, by ordinance after notice
and a public hearing, that natural or human-made hazards on or in the immediate
vicinity of the property, if uncorrected, would pose a serious threat to the
public health, safety and welfare if the project were to proceed as
contemplated in the site specific development plan;
   (D)   Upon payment to the affected landowner of compensation for all costs,
expenses and other losses incurred by the landowner, including, but not limited
to, all fees paid in consideration of financing, and all architectural,
planning, marketing, legal and other consultant’s fees incurred after approval
by the town, together with interest thereon at the legal rate until paid.
Compensation shall not include any diminution in the value of the property
which is caused by that action;
   (E)   Upon findings by the Zoning Administrator or Board of Commissioners,
as appropriate, after notice and a hearing, that the landowner or his or her
representative intentionally supplied inaccurate information or made material
misrepresentations which made a difference in the approval by the approval
authority of the site specific development plan; or
   (F)   Upon the enactment of promulgation of a state or federal law or
regulation that precludes development as contemplated in the site specific
development plan, in which cases the approval authority may modify the affected
provisions, upon a finding that the change in state or federal law has a
fundamental effect on the plan, by ordinance after notice and a hearing.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 153.020 VOLUNTARY ANNEXATION.
   (A)   A petition for annexation filed with the town under G.S. § 160A-31 or
G.S. § 160A-58.1 shall contain a signed statement declaring whether or not any
zoning vested right with respect to the properties subject to the petition has
been established under G.S. § 160D-108.
   (B)   A statement that declares that no zoning vested right has been
established under G.S. § 160D-108, or the failure to sign a statement declaring
whether or not a zoning vested right has been established, shall be binding on
the landowner and any zoning vested right shall be terminated.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 153.021 LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter is intended or shall be deemed to create any
vested right other than those established pursuant to G.S. § 160D-108.
   (B)   If G.S. § 160D-108 is repealed, this section shall be deemed repealed
and the provisions hereof no longer effective.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 153.022 LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Interpretation and application; severability.
      (1)   In its interpretation and application, the provisions of this
chapter shall be held to be minimum requirements, adopted for the promotion of
the public health, safety and general welfare.
      (2)   Wherever the requirements of lawfully adopted rules, regulations,
ordinances, deed restrictions or covenants are at variance with the
requirements of this chapter, the most restrictive, or that imposing the
highest standards, shall govern.
      (3)   This chapter and the various parts, sections, divisions and clauses
hereof are hereby declared to be severable.
      (4)   If any part, sentence, paragraph, division or clause is adjudged
unconstitutional or invalid, it is hereby provided that the remainder of this
chapter shall not be affected thereby.
      (5)   If any part, sentence, paragraph, division, section or clause is
adjudged unconstitutional or invalid as applied to a particular property,
buildings or structures the remainder of this chapter shall not be affected
hereby.
      (6)   Whenever any condition or limitation is included in an order
authorizing a zoning permit, special use permit, variance, certificate of
zoning compliance, certificate of occupancy or site plan approval, it shall be
conclusively presumed that the authorizing officer or body considered the
condition or limitation necessary to carry out the spirit and purpose of this
chapter, of the requirements of some provisions hereof, and to protect the
public health, safety and welfare, and that the officer or Board would not have
granted the authorization to which the condition or limitation pertains except
in the belief that the condition or limitation was lawful.
   (B)   Statute of limitations. In accordance with G.S. § 160D-1405, a cause
of action as to the validity of this chapter, or amendment thereto, shall
accrue upon the adoption of this chapter or amendment thereto, and shall be
brought within nine months as provided in G.S. § 1-54.1.
   (C)   Administrator. The Zoning Administrator shall be appointed by the
Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 153.023 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST; MEETING MINUTES; OATH OF OFFICE.
   (A)   Conflicts of interest. No employee or official of the town, including
but not limited to any member of the Board of Commissioners, Board of
Adjustment, Planning Board and the Zoning Administrator, may participate in,
deliberate over, make a recommendation or final decision or vote on any
development regulation in violation of the conflict of interest provisions
contained in G.S. § 160D-109.
   (B)   Meeting minutes. The Board of Commissioners, Planning Board, Board of
Adjustment and any other appointed board or committee shall keep meeting
minutes as provided by G.S. § 160D-308.
   (C)   Oath of office. Each member of the Board of Commissioners, Planning
Board, Board of Adjustment and any other appointed board or committee shall
take an oath of office before starting his or her duties as provided by G.S. §
160D-309.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
AMENDMENTS
§ 153.035 INITIATION OF AMENDMENTS.
   This chapter, including the official zoning map, may be amended only by the
Board of Commissioners, according to the procedures of this subchapter.
Proposed amendments may be initiated by the Board of Commissioners, Planning
Board, or Board of Adjustment of the town. Proposed amendments to the text of
this chapter may also be initiated by any resident or property owner within the
jurisdiction covered by this chapter, and any property owner within the
jurisdiction covered by this chapter may initiate a request for a change in the
zoning classification of his or her property.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 153.036 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Except for amendments initiated by the Board of Commissioners,
Planning Board or Board of Adjustment, no proposed amendment shall be
considered by the Board of Commissioners nor a public hearing held until an
application containing the following information is submitted by the applicant:
a statement of the present zoning regulations or district boundary; the name
and signature of the applicant; and if an amendment to the zoning map is
proposed, the tax parcel number of the lot proposed to be rezoned; the names
and addresses of the owners of the lot in question; and the use of each
adjacent property.
   (B)   The applicant shall provide any additional information related to the
proposed amendment requested in writing by the Zoning Administrator, Planning
Board, or Board of Commissioners. The Zoning Administrator shall transmit the
original application to the Board of Commissioners and a copy to the Planning
Board. The original application shall be filed in the office of the Zoning
Administrator after consideration by the Board of Commissioners. A fee of $50
shall be paid to the town for each application not initiated by an agency of
the town.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 153.037 PROCEDURE FOR AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   No amendment shall be adopted by the Board of Commissioners until it
has received a written recommendation from the Planning Board and the Board of
Commissioners has held a public hearing on the amendment. The Planning Board
shall consider whether the proposed action is consistent with the current
comprehensive land use plan when making a comment or recommendation on plan
consistency. If no written recommendation or report is provided by the Planning
Board within 30 days of referral of the amendment to that board, the Board of
Commissioners may proceed in its consideration of the amendment without the
Planning Board recommendation or report.
   (B)   An amendment to this chapter may be adopted by the Board of
Commissioners only by ordinance and only after the notice and public hearing
requirements contained in G.S. § 160D-601 have been satisfied. A simple
majority of voting Board members present at the meeting upon which the
amendment is presented is required to adopt any amendment to this chapter as
provided by G.S. § 160A-75. When adopting or rejecting any zoning text or map
amendment, the Board of Commissioners shall approve a brief statement
describing whether its action is consistent or inconsistent with the current
comprehensive land use plan. The requirement for a plan consistency statement
may also be met by a clear indication in the minutes of the Board of
Commissioners that at the time of action on the amendment the Board was aware
of and considered the Planning Board’s recommendations and any relevant
portions of the comprehensive land use plan. A plan amendment and a zoning
amendment may be considered concurrently. The plan consistency statement is not
subject to judicial review.
   (C)   (1)   In addition to division (B) above, a zoning map amendment may be
adopted by the Board of Commissioners only after notice has been provided to
affected property owners as provided by G.S. § 160D-602. If a zoning map
amendment is adopted and the action was deemed inconsistent with the current
comprehensive land use plan, the zoning amendment shall have the effect of also
amending any future land use map in the comprehensive plan, and no additional
request or application for a plan amendment shall be required. When this
occurs, the Zoning Administrator shall note on the current comprehensive land
use plan map any zoning map amendment that is approved that is not consistent
with the comprehensive land use plan map.
      (2)   In addition to the consistency statement required in division (B)
above, the Board of Commissioners shall also adopt a statement analyzing the
reasonableness of any proposed map amendment as provided by G.S. § 160D-605(b).
The statement of reasonableness and the plan consistency statement required by
this section may be approved as a single statement.
   (D)   An amendment to zoning regulations or a zoning map that down-zones
property shall be as provided by G.S. § 160D-601(d).
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 153.038 COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN.
   The Board of Commissioners shall reasonably maintain a comprehensive land
use plan that sets forth goals, policies and programs intended to guide the
present and future physical, social and economic development of the town’s
planning jurisdiction. Comprehensive land use plans are governed by G.S. §
160D-501.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 153.039 PROTEST PETITIONS.
   In cases of a protest against any proposed amendments, signed by the owners
of 20% or more either of the area of the lots included in the proposed change,
or of those adjacent thereto either in the rear thereof or on either side
thereof, extending 100 feet therefrom or of those directly opposite thereof
extending 100 feet from the street frontage of the opposite lots, the amendment
shall not become effective except by favorable vote of three-fourths of all
members of the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 153.040 EXTRATERRITORIAL JURISDICTION.
   The Zoning Administrator shall follow the notification requirements
contained in G.S. § 160D-202(d) in the event of a proposed modification to the
boundary of the extraterritorial jurisdiction.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES
§ 153.055 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Zoning Administrator who shall be appointed by the Board of
Commissioners is duly charged with the enforcement of the provisions of this
chapter. If the Zoning Administrator finds that any of the provisions of this
chapter are being violated, he or she shall notify in writing the person
responsible for the violations, indicating the nature of the violation and
ordering the action necessary to correct it. He or she shall also take any
other action authorized by this chapter to ensure compliance with or to prevent
violation of its provisions. The Zoning Administrator or his or her designee
shall have all powers and duties authorized by G.S. Ch. 160D, Article 4.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.056 ZONING PERMIT.
   (A)   Generally. No building or structure or any part thereof shall be
erected, extended, enlarged or structurally altered or moved until a zoning
permit has been issued by the Zoning Administrator or his or her authorized
representative, except that signs shall require a zoning permit only if
required in §
153.126 of this code. A fee shall be charged for the issuance of each zoning
permit in accordance with the fee structure established with the annual budget.
   (B)   Application for permit. All applications for permits shall be in the
form prescribed by the Zoning Administrator and shall include a plat or site
plan drawn to scale which shall clearly show:
      (1)   The actual shape and dimensions of the lot to be built upon or used
and total acreage in the lot;
      (2)   The location of the proposed structure or use on the lot;
      (3)   The exact location and size of existing structures and uses;
      (4)   The existing and intended use of each structure or part of
structure;
      (5)   The number of dwelling units the building is designed to
accommodate, if applicable;
      (6)   The height and number of stories of the structure;
      (7)   The location and design of any off-street parking and/or loading;
      (8)   The location and dimensions of driveways. Driveway approval
procedures as required by the state’s Department of Transportation shall be
initiated;
      (9)   Date of plan preparation;
      (10)   Location and descriptions of landscaping, buffering and signs; and
      (11)   Any other information as may be necessary for determining whether
the provisions of this chapter are being met.
   (C)   Additional information. In addition to the information required in
division (B) above, any use which involves the grouping of more than one
principal building or use on the same lot shall include the following
information:
      (1)   A vicinity map showing the relationship of the proposed development
to the surrounding area;
      (2)   North arrow and declination;
      (3)   Detailed layouts for all utilities, rights-of-way and roads and
other improvements;
      (4)   Railroads, bridges, culverts, storm drains, wooded areas, marshes,
swamps, rock outcrops, ponds or lakes, streams or stream beds and any other
similar features affecting the site;
      (5)   A copy of any proposed deed restrictions or similar covenants;
      (6)   For projects over an acre in size, or if otherwise required by the
Zoning Administrator, a topographic map showing vertical contours every two
feet; and
      (7)   The names, addresses and telephone numbers of owners, mortgagees,
registered surveyors, land planners, architects, landscape architects and
professional engineer responsible for the development.
   (D)   Zoning Administrator action. The Zoning Administrator may, in writing,
exempt the applicant from meeting any plan requirement which is clearly
inapplicable to the proposed use.
   (E)   Mobile home parks and shopping centers. Mobile home parks and shopping
centers shall comply with the requirements in §
153.062 of this code in lieu of the requirements in this section.
   (F)   Cancellation of permit. Any permit issued shall become invalid unless
the work authorized by it shall have been commenced within six months of its
date of issue, or if the work authorized by it is suspended or abandoned for a
period in excess of one year.
   (G)   Revocation of permit. Revocation of any development approval
authorized in this chapter shall be in accordance with G.S. § 160D-403(f).
   (H)   Reservation of additional remedies. The town reserves the right to
implement any general enforcement remedies as provided by G.S. § 160D-404(c).
   (I)   Stop work order. Whenever any work or activity subject to regulation
pursuant to this chapter or other applicable local development regulation or
any state law delegated to the town for enforcement purposes in lieu of the
state is undertaken in substantial violation of any state or local law, or in a
manner that endangers life or property, the Zoning Administrator or other
designee may order the specific part of the work or activity that is in
violation or presents such a hazard to be immediately stopped pursuant to G.S.
§ 160D-404(b).
   (J)   Record of zoning permits. A record of all zoning permits shall be kept
on file and open to the public, subject to state law.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.057 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY/COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   No land shall be used or occupied, and no building or structure
erected or altered shall be used or changed in use until a certificate of
occupancy/compliance has been issued by the Zoning Administrator stating that
the building and/or the proposed use complies with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   A certificate of the same shall be required for the purpose of
changing any existing use; as well as for maintaining, reviewing, changing or
extending any nonconforming use. The aforementioned certificate shall be
applied for coincidentally with the application for a zoning permit and shall
be issued within ten working days after the erection or alteration of the
building or part shall have been completed in conformity with the provisions of
this chapter.
   (C)   A record of all the certificates shall be kept on file and open to the
public, subject to state law.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.058 CONFORMANCE WITH PLANS.
   Permits or certificates issued on the basis of plans and applications shall
authorize only the use, arrangement and construction set forth in the approved
plans and applications and no other use, arrangement or construction.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 153.059 APPEALS.
   The Board of Adjustment shall hear all administrative appeals of the Zoning
Administrator arising under this chapter in accordance with G.S. §§ 160D-302,
160D-405, 160D-406, 160D-705 and other applicable laws, as may be amended.
Appeals from the Board of Adjustment shall be made to Superior Court as
provided by applicable law.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 153.060 SPECIAL USES AND CONDITIONAL ZONING.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter permit some uses to be established by
right in the appropriate district while other uses are listed which require a
special use permit from the Board of Adjustment or conditional zoning and
approval from the Board of Commissioners. Those which require a special use
permit from the Board of Adjustment are termed special uses by this chapter.
Development that involves broader policy considerations requires approval from
the Board of Commissioners and is referred to as conditional zoning. Both types
of uses, in some circumstances, may be compatible with and desirable in the
districts in which they are designated, but they may also have characteristics
which could have detrimental effects on adjacent properties, or even the entire
town area, if not properly designed and controlled. Special uses shall be in
accordance with the requirements in §
153.062 of this code as well as all other applicable requirements of this
chapter. Conditional zoning may include a development agreement pursuant to
G.S. §§ 160D-1001 et seq. Pursuant to G.S. § 160D-703, property may be placed
in a special use district or conditional zoning district only in response to a
petition by the owners of all of the property to be included.
   (B)   Specific conditions applicable to these districts may be proposed by
the applicant or the town, but only those conditions approved by the town and
consented to by the applicant in writing may be incorporated into the zoning
regulations or permit requirements. The town may not impose conditions on
special use permits that it does not otherwise have the statutory authority to
implement.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 153.061 CONDITIONAL REZONING; VARIANCES; SPECIAL USES; APPLICATION AND
HEARING
   (A)   An applicant shall submit the appropriate documents and complete the
appropriate forms to appeal an administrative decision of the Zoning
Administrator, for a variance, or for a special use permit accompanied by a
site plan prepared in accordance with §
153.056 of this code along with any other information required by the Zoning
Administrator for proper review of the application.
   (B)   The Board of Adjustment shall hear all administrative appeals,
requests for variances and applications for a special use permit in accordance
with G.S. §§ 160D-302, 160D-406, 160D-705 and other applicable laws, as may be
amended. Appeals from the Board of Adjustment shall be made to Superior Court
as provided by applicable law.
   (C)   The Board of Commissioners shall hear all applications for conditional
zoning district in accordance with G.S. § 160D-703(b) and other applicable
laws, as may be amended. The Planning Board shall be given 30 days to review
the application for a conditional zoning district before the hearing. The
hearing shall not be held until a Planning Board recommendation has been
received or 30 days has elapsed. The Planning Board shall give due notice to
the applicant of any meetings at which the application will be considered. The
hearings shall be conducted in accordance with the general law and court
decisions of this state.
   (D)   The Clerk of the Board or his or her designee shall keep minutes of
quasi-judicial proceedings of the Board of Adjustment and public hearings of
the Board of Commissioners, showing the vote of each member upon every
question, or if absent or failing to vote, indicating that fact. A fee of $50
shall be paid to the town for each application for an administrative review,
variance, special use permit or for a conditional zoning district not initiated
by an officer or agency of the town, to cover the costs of advertising and
other administrative expenses involved. No application will be processed until
the above fee has been paid.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 153.062 CONDITIONS WHICH MUST BE MET BY SPECIAL USES.
   (A)   General conditions. In order for any special use to be granted, the
applicant, at the hearing, shall present sufficient evidence to enable the
Board of Adjustment to find that the following conditions exist where
applicable.
      (1)   All applicable specific conditions pertaining to the proposed use
have been or will be satisfied.
      (2)   Access roads or entrance and exit drives are or will be sufficient
in size and properly located to ensure automotive and pedestrian safety and
convenience, traffic flow and control and access in case of fire or other
emergency.
      (3)   Off-street parking, loading, refuse and other services areas are
located so as to be safe, convenient, allow for access in case of emergency and
to minimize economic, glare, odor and other impacts on adjoining properties and
properties in the general neighborhood.
      (4)   Utilities, schools, fire, police and other necessary public and
private facilities and services will be adequate to handle the proposed use.
      (5)   The location and arrangement of the use on the site, screening,
buffering, landscaping and pedestrian ways harmonize with adjoining properties
and the general area and minimize adverse impacts.
      (6)   The type, size and intensity of the proposed use, including the
considerations as the hours of operation and number of people who are likely to
utilize or be attracted to the use, will not have significant adverse impacts
on adjoining properties or the neighborhood.
   (B)   Additional conditions. If the Board of Adjustment approves a special
use, it may, as part of the terms of the approval, impose any additional
reasonable conditions and safeguards as may be necessary to ensure that the
criteria for the granting of a permit will be complied with and to reduce or
minimize any potentially injurious effect of the use on adjoining properties,
the character of the neighborhood, or the health, safety, morals or general
welfare of the community. Where appropriate, the conditions may include
requirements that street and utility right-of-way be dedicated to the public
and that provision be made for recreational space and facilities.
   (C)   Specific conditions. In addition to the general conditions in division
(B) above, special uses shall meet specific conditions for the type of use as
indicated in the following requirements.
      (1)   Multi-family dwellings and complexes.
         (a)   Maximum density shall be as indicated in §
153.096 of this code.
         (b)   Where more than one building is to be located on the site,
building separation shall be determined as follows.
            1.   The minimum horizontal distance between the vertical
projections of any points on two adjacent buildings shall be determined
according to the following table.
            2.   The vertical projections for each building shall be drawn from
that point on each building which is horizontally closest to the other
building.
 
Height of Taller Building  Minimum Horizontal Distance Between Vertical
                           Projections
20 feet or less            16 feet
Between 20.1 and 25.0 feet 25 feet
Between 25.1 and 30.0 feet 30 feet
Between 30.1 and 35.0 feet 40 feet
 
         (c)   The minimum distance between the centers of facing windows of
different dwelling units shall be 20 feet.
         (d)   A yard of at least 50 feet shall be provided around the entire
perimeter of the site, with the exception of driveways. Parking spaces and
accessory buildings shall not be allowed in the required yard.
         (e)   Access for emergency vehicles to all parts of the complex and to
each dwelling unit shall be provided.
         (f)   Accessory buildings and uses for multi-family dwellings shall be
placed in the 50-foot yard around the perimeter of the site.
         (g)   The Board of Adjustment may approve the inclusion of leasing
offices, and of coin-operated laundry facilities, swimming pool snack bars and
similar service uses for residents of the multi-family dwelling provided that
they are intended to serve residents of the dwelling or complex only, and will
not attract outside traffic to the site.
      (2)   Planned unit developments. A planned unit development is a project
which is at least two gross acres in size to be located on land under unified
control, planned as a whole and developed in a single development operation or
in a definitely programmed series of units or stages of development according
to comprehensive and detailed plans, with a program for the provision,
operation and maintenance of any areas, improvements and facilities provided
for the common use of the occupants or users of the development. Planned unit
developments require conditional zoning approval by the Board of Commissioners.
         (a)   A site plan showing the proposed development of the area shall
be drawn to a scale of not less than one inch equals 50 feet and shall bear the
seal of a registered state engineer or surveyor.
         (b)   The plan shall show, at a minimum, the following features with
approximate dimensions:
            1.   Location, arrangements and dimensions of automobile parking
spaces, width of aisles, width of bays, angle of parking;
            2.   Location, arrangements and dimensions of truck loading and
unloading spaces and docks;
            3.   Location and dimensions of vehicular entrances, exits and
drives;
            4.   General drainage system;
            5.   Location and materials of walls and fences;
            6.   Ground cover, topography, slopes, banks and ditches;
            7.   The location and general exterior dimensions of main and
accessory buildings;
            8.   Architectural plans for proposed buildings;
            9.   The location, dimensions and arrangements of areas to be
devoted to planting lawns, trees and other plants;
            10.   The plans for proposed utility layouts, including sanitary
sewers, storm sewers, water distribution lines, natural gas, telephone and
electric service, all to be constructed in accordance with town standards;
            11.   An analysis of anticipated traffic volume;
            12.   Sediment control plan approved by the county’s Soil and Water
Conservation Service;
            13.   Evidence that the state’s Department of Transportation has
been made aware of the proposed development and that the developer will
coordinate planning for the development with this agency;
            14.   Plans for refuse disposal equipment and method of refuse
disposal such as compactors or dumpsters; and/or
            15.   Delineation of areas to be constructed in phases and
sequential order. If the development is to be carried out in progressive
stages, each stage shall be complete with all necessary parking areas and other
supporting facilities completed to serve that portion of the development.
      (3)   Public buildings, uses, utilities as a conditional rezoning. In
addition to other considerations of the rezoning application, the Board of
Commissioners shall review each application carefully and shall deny the permit
if the benefits to the public will not outweigh any adverse effects the use
might have.
      (4)   Radio and television stations and transmission towers as a special
use in RA districts.
         (a)   Any person that proposes to construct a new wireless support
structure or substantially modify a wireless support structure within the
planning and land-use jurisdiction of the town must:
            1.   Submit a completed application on a form provided by the town
or as otherwise requested by the town with the necessary copies and attachments
to the Board of Adjustment;
            2.   Tender a nonrefundable payment of $1,000 to the town at the
time of the application, which shall be used to offset the town’s reasonable
costs in connection with its regulatory review; and
            3.   Comply with any local ordinances concerning land use and any
applicable permitting processes. The Board of Adjustment shall issue a written
decision approving or denying an application under this section within a
reasonable period of time consistent with the issuance of other land-use
permits in the case of other applications, each as measured from the time the
application is deemed complete.
         (b)   Telecommunications facilities not exceeding 150 feet in height
are permitted in the RA district. Lattice towers are specifically prohibited.
Telecommunications facilities meeting the requirements of this section must be
designed with breakpoint technology to minimize the structure’s fall radius and
must comply with all federal, state and local laws, including but not limited
to those promulgated by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and the
state’s Building Code.
         (c)   The following additional conditions and considerations shall be
reviewed when processing any application.
            1.   The minimum distance from the center of the transmission tower
to the nearest property line shall be two times the height of the tower or the
height of the tower plus 200 feet, whichever is greater.
            2.   Off-street parking shall be provided at the rate of one space
for each employee.
            3.   Public safety, land use or zoning issues shall be properly
addressed and considered, including aesthetics, landscaping, land-use based
location priorities, structural design, setbacks and fall zones.
            4.   Information or materials directly related to an identified
public safety, land development or zoning consideration including:
            a.   Whether an existing or previously approved wireless support
structure can reasonably be used for the wireless facility placement instead of
the construction of a new wireless support structure;
            b.    Whether residential, historic and designated scenic areas
cannot be served from outside the area;
            c.   The proposed height of a new wireless support structure or
initial wireless facility placement or a proposed height increase of a
substantially modified wireless support structure; and
            d.   Whether replacement wireless support structure is necessary to
provide the applicant’s designed service.
         (d)   The Board of Adjustment shall require applicants for new
wireless facilities to evaluate the reasonable feasibility of collocating new
antennas and equipment on an existing wireless support structure or structures
within the applicant’s search ring. Collocation on an existing wireless support
structure is not reasonably feasible if collocation is technically or
commercially impractical or if the owner of the existing wireless support
structure is unwilling to enter into a contract for such use at fair market
value. The Board of Adjustment may require information necessary to determine
whether collocation on existing wireless support structures is reasonably
feasible.
         (e)   The Board of Adjustment may condition approval of an application
for a new wireless support structure on the provision of documentation prior to
the issuance of a building permit establishing the existence of one or more
parties, including the owner of the wireless support structure, who intend to
locate wireless facilities on the wireless support structure. The Board of
Adjustment shall not deny an initial land-use or zoning permit based on such
documentation but may condition a permit on a requirement to construct
facilities within a reasonable period of time, which shall be no less than 24
months.
         (f)   This division (C)(4) shall not be construed to limit the
provisions or requirements of any historic district or landmark regulation.
Government-owned telecommunication facilities erected for the purposes of
installing equipment necessary to provide communications for public health and
safety are exempt from this division (C)(4).
         (g)   The following list indicates the town’s hierarchy of preferences
for telecommunications facilities, in descending order of preference, with
division (C)(4)(g)1. below being the most preferred and division (C)(4)(g)6.
below being the least preferred. When an applicant proposes a lower ranked
preference, the applicant must establish by clear and convincing evidence that
despite diligent efforts to adhere to the established hierarchy within the
geographic search area, a higher ranked preference is not technically
practicable and/or economically feasible:
            1.   Concealed attached antenna;
            2.   Collocation or combination antenna on existing
telecommunication towers;
            3.   Non-concealed attached antenna in private utility easement (on
an existing transmission tower structure);
            4.   Telecommunication facilities on town-owned property,
preferably concealed (e.g. faux tree, flagpole, banner pole and the like);
            5.   Dual-function telecommunication facilities in private utility
easement (within an existing transmission tower structure); or
            6.   New telecommunication facilities on private property,
preferably concealed (faux tree, flagpole, banner pole and the like), then
monopole, then other design. Lattice towers are specifically prohibited.
         (h)   Telecommunications facilities subject to this division (C)(4)
shall be removed, at the owner’s expense, within 180 days of cessation of use.
If such facilities are not removed within this timeframe, the town may give
notice that it will contract for removal within 30 days following written
notice to the owner. Thereafter, the town may cause removal of the facilities
with costs levied upon the owner as provided by applicable law. Upon removal of
the facilities, the development area shall be returned to its natural state,
topography and vegetation consistent with the natural surroundings.
      (5)   Community centers, private clubs as a special use.
         (a)   Noise from a public address system shall not be heard beyond the
property.
         (b)   The use will not be located in an area where traffic congestion
will be a problem for neighboring residential uses.
      (6)   Fraternal organizations not open to the public as special use.
         (a)   The use shall be located where there shall be no disturbance to
residences and shall be adequately designed for its size and purpose.
         (b)   Noise from the public address system shall not be heard beyond
the property where the use is located.
         (c)   The use shall not be located in an area where traffic congestion
will be a problem for neighboring residential uses.
      (7)   Townhouses as a special use.
         (a)   Minimum lot area, width, depth and lot coverage requirements
shall be as indicated in §
153.096 of this code.
         (b)   The yard requirements around the perimeter of townhouse projects
with more than two attached townhouses shall be increased to 50 feet.
         (c)   The minimum number of townhouses attached to each other shall be
two and the maximum shall be eight.
         (d)   Any common areas and common open space shall be deeded to a
homeowners association and the developer or owner shall file with the Zoning
Administrator and record in the county’s Register of Deeds office a declaration
of covenants and restrictions as well as regulations and bylaws that will
govern the open space. Provisions shall include but not be limited to the
following:
            1.   The association shall be established before the homes,
buildings or uses are sold;
            2.   Membership shall be mandatory for each buyer and all
successive buyers, unless another arrangement is approved by the Board of
Commissioners which adequately protects the interests of the town and the
owners;
            3.   The association shall be responsible for the liability
insurance, local taxes and maintenance of recreation and other facilities;
            4.   Any sums levied by the association that remain unpaid shall
become a lien on the individual owner’s property which shall be subordinate
only to tax and mortgagee liens unless another arrangement is approved by the
Board which adequately protects the interest of the town and the owners;
            5.   An owner of each dwelling unit or each homeowner or other
building owner shall have voting rights in the association;
            6.   Uses of common property shall be appropriately limited; and/or
            7.   The following information shall also be provided:
               a.   The name of the association;
               b.   The manner in which directors of the association are to be
selected;
               c.   The post office address of the initial registered office;
               d.   The name of the city and county in which the registered
office is located; and
               e.   The number of directors constituting the initial Board of
Directors.
      (8)   Commercial amusements. The use shall comply with the town’s
ordinance licensing and regulating game rooms and electronic gaming operations,
including but not limited to those outlined in
Ch. 111 of this code.
      (9)   Manufacturing, processing, warehousing or transportation use, or
public use or utility, which involves outdoor storage, service, operations,
emits or will emit smoke, odor, dust, fumes, glare, noise or vibration from the
building in which it is located, or involves storage of combustible materials
or is among the uses listed as exceptions in HI districts. Conditional zoning
district approval required by Board of Commissioners.
      (10)   Mobile home parks in RMH districts. Conditional zoning district
approval required by Board of Commissioners.
      (11)   Community shelter as a special use in residential districts.
         (a)   A minimum floor space of 50 square feet shall be provided for
each individual sheltered per bedroom.
         (b)   No facility shall be located within one-quarter mile of an
existing community shelter.
         (c)   The facility operator shall provide continuous on-site
supervision by an employee or volunteer during the hours of operation.
         (d)   The facility shall provide shelter for no more than two
temporary adult residents at one time per bedroom.
      (12)   Mobile homes on individual lots.
         (a)   Except for mobile homes located on land leased to the homeowner,
the mobile home must be placed on a permanent, brick foundation.
         (b)   Running lights, wheels and axles must be removed. All
regulations from the state’s Department of Motor Vehicles must be followed to
convert the home to real estate.
         (c)   A covered porch of no less than 192 square feet (a minimum of
eight feet deep by 24 feet wide) constructed of brick to match the foundation
must be affixed to the front of the home.
         (d)   The pitch of the roof shall be no less than five feet rise for
every 12 feet of run.
         (e)   The front door of the mobile home must face the front of the
lot. This requirement does not preclude placing a mobile home specifically
designed with the front door on the end of the home on the lot, provided that
the front door faces the front of the lot and the home includes the required
front porch.
         (f)   The exterior materials, including but not limited to the siding
and roofing materials used on the home, shall be compatible in composition,
appearance and durability to the exterior materials commonly used in standard
residential construction.
         (g)   Exterior finishes shall be in good repair and in no case shall
the degree of reflectivity of the exterior siding, and roofing exceed that of
gloss white paint.
         (h)   Permanent or precast steps shall be constructed or placed at all
exterior doors as necessary.
         (i)   At least two off-street parking spaces shall be provided.
         (j)   All areas not used for parking, the mobile home or required
porches shall be grassed or otherwise suitably landscaped to prevent erosion.
         (k)   All county and town standards and conditions for approval must
be met before a certificate of occupancy is issued.
         (l)   All requirements for the location of a single-family dwelling on
an individual lot shall be met. Any mobile home constructed before July 1, 1976
must be approved by Underwriters Laboratories and any mobile home constructed
after that time must meet all applicable state and federal standards.
         (m)   All mobile homes shall be tied down in accordance with the
state’s Regulations for Mobile Homes and Modular Housing.
         (n)   All the appropriate County Health Department requirements shall
be met.
      (13)   Modular homes.
         (a)   The modular home must be placed on a permanent, brick
foundation.
         (b)   A covered porch of no less than 192 square feet (a minimum of
eight feet deep by 24 feet wide) constructed of brick to match the foundation
must be affixed to the front of the home.
         (c)   The pitch of the roof shall be no less than five feet rise for
every 12 feet of run.
         (d)   The front door of the modular home must face the front of the
lot. This requirement does not preclude placing a modular home specifically
designed with the front door on the end of the home on the lot, provided that
the front door faces the front of the lot and the home includes the required
front porch.
         (e)   The exterior materials, including but not limited to the siding
and roofing materials used on the home, shall be compatible in composition,
appearance and durability to the exterior materials commonly used in standard
residential construction.
         (f)   No unit may be placed on a lot that was manufactured more than
five years before its placement.
         (g)   Exterior finishes shall be in good repair and in no case shall
the degree of reflectivity of the exterior siding and roofing exceed that of
gloss white paint.
         (h)   Permanent or precast steps shall be constructed or placed at all
exterior doors as necessary.
         (i)   At least two off-street parking spaces shall be provided.
         (j)   All areas not used for parking, the modular home or required
porches shall be grassed or otherwise suitably landscaped to prevent erosion.
         (k)   All county and town standards and conditions for approval must
be met before a certificate of occupancy is issued.
      (14)   Adult establishments. Conditional zoning district approval
required by Board of Commissioners.
      (15)   Retail or wholesale businesses, service establishments, public
uses or utilities other than those specifically listed which emit smoke, odor,
dust, fumes or noise from the building in which they are located or involve
possible fire hazards.
         (a)   No vibration or noise shall emit from any building or other use
between the hours of 8:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m. if the property located in a CH or
LI district is adjacent to a property zoned for residential use.
         (b)   There shall be a minimum 100 feet landscape and/or architectural
buffer between property located in a CH or LI district and any adjacent
property zoned for residential use.
      (16)   Professional offices and sales offices for items not delivered
from or stored on the premises as a special use.
      (1)   Offices shall be for persons engaged in the professions where the
services offered are personal to one’s being and are of an intangible nature,
and where the profession is one in which a person is required to successfully
pass a required competency or skills test administered by a governmental
authority to engage in such profession.
      (2)   Sales offices shall be for sales of real estate and other such
items that are not delivered from or stored on the premises used as a sales
office, or where the item delivered is an intangible item.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021) Penalty, see §
153.999
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
§ 153.075 CREATION; MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners shall create a Board of Adjustment
consisting of five members, which shall consist of residents of the town and
the extraterritorial jurisdiction proportionate to their population as provided
in G.S. § 160D-307. The in town members shall be appointed by the Board of
Commissioners. The extraterritorial members shall be appointed by the county’s
Board of Commissioners in accordance with G.S. § 160D-307.
   (B)   Members shall be appointed to staggered three-year terms. Terms shall
expire on June 30. Members shall serve until the expiration of their terms or
until their successors have been appointed.
   (C)   Vacancies occurring for reasons other than expiration of terms shall
be filled for the period of the unexpired term by the Board of Commissioners
for in town members, and by the county’s Board of Commissioners for
extraterritorial members.
   (D)   Faithful attendance at the meetings of the Board of Adjustment is
considered a prerequisite for the maintenance of membership on the Board.
Unexcused absence from three consecutive meetings shall be deemed adequate
reason for termination of membership on the Board of Adjustment by the Board of
Commissioners.
   (E)   The Board of Commissioners shall also select two alternate members to
serve in the absence of regular members. One alternate member who resides in
the town shall be appointed by the Board of Commissioners and one who resides
within the extraterritorial area shall be appointed by the county’s Board of
Commissioners. Both the initial appointment and new terms shall be for three
years, and alternate members may be reappointed. Each alternate member, while
attending any regular or special meeting of the Board of Adjustment and serving
in the absence of any regular member, shall have and may exercise all the
powers and duties of a regular member.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 153.076 ORGANIZATION; RULES OF PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustment shall elect a Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson
from its regular members, who shall serve for one year or until reelected or
until their successors are elected. The Board shall adopt rules and bylaws in
accordance with the provisions of this code and G.S. § 160D-302. Meetings of
the Board of Adjustment shall be held at the call of the Chairperson and at
other times as the Board of Adjustment may determine. The Chairperson, or in
his or her absence, the Vice-Chairperson, may administer oaths and compel the
attendance of witnesses by subpoena. All meetings of the Board of Adjustment
shall be open to the public.
   (B)   Hearings by the Board in connection with Board of Adjustment duties
shall be conducted in accordance with §
153.061 of this code.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 153.077 DECISION; APPEAL.
   Every decision of the Board of Adjustment shall be filed in the office of
the Zoning Administrator and a written copy thereof shall be delivered to the
appellant by personal service or registered mail. Every decision by the Board
of Adjustment shall be subject to review by Superior Court by proceeding in the
nature of certiorari. Any appeal to the Superior Court shall be taken within 30
days after the decision of the Board of Adjustment is filed in the office of
the Zoning Administrator, or after a written copy thereof is delivered to the
appellant by personal service receipt requested, whichever is later. If the
decision is mailed to the appellant, it is deemed to have been received on the
third business day after it is sent pursuant to G.S. § 160D-405(c).
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 153.078 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Board of Adjustment shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   Administrative review. To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged
that there is error in any order, requirement, decision or determination made
by the Zoning Administrator in the enforcement of this chapter. An appeal may
be taken by any person aggrieved or by an officer, department or board of the
town. Appeals shall be taken within times prescribed by the Board of Adjustment
by general rule, by filing with the officer from whom the appeal is taken, and
with the Board of Adjustment, a notice of appeal, specifying the grounds
thereof. The officer from whom the appeal is taken shall forthwith transmit to
the Board of Adjustment all the papers constituting the record upon which the
action appealed from was taken. An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance
of the action appealed from, unless the officer from whom the appeal is taken
certifies to the Board of Adjustment, after notice of appeal has been filed
with him or her, that because of facts stated in the certificate, a stay would,
in his or her opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property or that because
the violation charged is transitory in nature, a stay would seriously interfere
with enforcement of this chapter. In that case, proceedings shall not be stayed
except by a restraining order, which may be granted by the Board of Adjustment
or by a court of record on application, on notice to the officer from whom the
appeal is taken and on due cause shown. The Board of Adjustment shall fix a
reasonable time for the hearing of the appeal, give due notice thereof to the
parties, and decide it within a reasonable time. The Board of Adjustment may
reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the order, requirement,
decision or determination appealed from, and shall make any order, requirement,
decision or determination that, in its opinion, ought to be made in the
premises. To this end, the Board of Adjustment shall have all the powers of the
officer from whom the appeal is taken.
   (B)   Variances. To authorize upon appeal in specific cases, the variance
from the terms of this chapter as will not be contrary to the public interest,
where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the provisions of
this chapter will, in an individual case, result in practical difficulty, or
unnecessary hardship, so that the spirit of this chapter shall be observed,
public safety and welfare secured and substantial justice done. The existence
of a nonconforming use of neighboring land, building or structure in the same
district, or of permitted or nonconforming uses in other districts, shall not
constitute a reason for the requested variance. The variance may be granted in
individual cases of unnecessary hardship upon a finding by the Board of
Adjustment that the following conditions exist.
      (1)   There are exceptional conditions pertaining to the particular piece
of property in question because of its shape, size or topography, that are not
applicable to other lands or structures in the same district, or there is a
peculiar characteristic of an establishment which makes the parking and/or
loading requirements of this chapter unrealistic.
      (2)   Granting the variance requested will not confer upon the applicant
any special privileges that are denied to other residents of the district in
which the property is located. However, pursuant to G.S. § 160D-705(d)(2), a
variance may be granted when necessary and appropriate to make a reasonable
accommodation under the Federal Fair Housing Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 3601 et
seq., for a person with a disability.
      (3)   A literal interpretation of the provisions of this chapter would
deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other residents of the
district in which the property is located.
      (4)   The requested variance will be in harmony with the purpose and
intent of this chapter and will not be injurious to the neighborhood or to the
general welfare.
      (5)   The special circumstances are not the result of the actions of the
applicant.
      (6)   The variance is not a request to permit a use which is not a
permitted use in the district involved.
   (C)   Conditions imposed on variances. In granting any variance, the Board
of Adjustment may prescribe appropriate conditions and safeguards to ensure
that substantial justice has been done and that the public safety and welfare
has been assured. These conditions may be imposed by the Board of Adjustment
regarding the location, character and other features of the proposed building,
structure or use as may be deemed by the Board of Adjustment to protect
property values and general welfare of the neighborhood. Nonconformance with
the conditions and safeguards, when part of the terms under which the variance
is granted, shall be deemed a violation of this chapter.
   (D)   Special uses. To hear and decide whether to allow specific special
uses to be established in the districts indicated; to decide the questions as
are involved in determining whether a special use should be granted; to grant
special uses with the conditions and safeguards as are appropriate under this
chapter, or to deny special uses when not in harmony with the purpose and
intent of this chapter. Application for special uses shall be decided in
accordance with the provisions in §§
153.060,
153.061 and
153.062 of this code.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021) Penalty, see §
153.999
DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 153.090 DISTRICTS; ESTABLISHMENT AND PURPOSE.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the zoning jurisdiction of the town is
divided into the following districts.
   (A)   Residential-agricultural district (RA). The purpose of this district
is to provide areas for low-density residential development and agriculture in
areas outside the corporate limits of the town.
   (B)   Residential district (R-15). The purpose of this district is to
provide for existing residential subdivisions and the establishment of new
subdivisions.
   (C)   Single-family and multi-family residential district (R-10). The
purpose of this district is to provide for a compatible mixture of single-
family dwellings and multi-family buildings and complexes.
   (D)   Mobile home residential district (RMH). The purpose of this district
is to provide areas for the location of mobile homes.
   (E)   Commercial (C). The purpose of this district shall be to provide areas
for offices, services and businesses.
   (F)   Light industrial district (LI). The purpose of this district is to
provide locations for manufacturing, wholesaling and warehousing uses which can
be conducted without producing harmful effects on the citizens of the town’s
area.
   (G)   Heavy industrial district (HI). The purpose of this district is to
provide locations for manufacturing, wholesaling and warehousing uses which are
more intense than the light industrial district (LI).
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 153.091 ZONING MAP.
   (A)   The boundaries of the districts are hereby established as shown upon
the map accompanying this chapter and made a part hereof. The zoning map and
all the notations, references and all amendments thereto, and other information
shown thereon is hereby made a part of this chapter and the same as if the
information set forth on the map were all fully described and set out in this
chapter. The zoning map properly attested is on file in the office of the
Zoning Administrator and is available for inspection by the public. The zoning
map and any other land development map may be maintained in paper or digital
format.
   (B)   In creation, by this chapter, of the respective districts, the Board
of Commissioners has given due and careful consideration to the peculiar
suitability of each and every district for the particular regulations applied
thereto, and the necessary, proper and comprehensive groupings and arrangements
of the various uses and densities of population in accordance with a well-
considered plan for the development of the town and its extraterritorial area.
   (C)   Development regulations adopted pursuant to this chapter may reference
or incorporate by reference flood insurance rate maps, watershed boundary maps
or other maps officially adopted or promulgated by state and federal agencies,
as further provided by G.S. § 160D-105. For these maps a regulation text or
zoning map may reference a specific officially adopted map or may incorporate
by reference the most recent officially adopted version of such maps. When
zoning district boundaries are based on maps that reference a specific
officially adopted map or incorporate by reference the most recent officially
adopted version of such maps, the zoning district boundaries are automatically
amended to remain consistent with changes in the officially promulgated state
or federal maps, provided a copy of the currently effective version of any
incorporated map shall be maintained for public inspection.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 153.092 INTERPRETATION OF BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   The boundaries of the districts as are shown upon the map adopted by
this chapter are hereby adopted, and the provisions of this chapter governing
the use of land and buildings, the height of buildings, the sizes of yards
about buildings and other matters as hereinafter set forth, are hereby
established and declared to be in effect upon all land included within the
boundaries of each and every zone shown upon the map.
   (B)   If uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of the use districts shown
on the official zoning map which is not resolved by the ordinances establishing
and amending the boundaries, the following rules shall apply:
      (1)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerline of
streets, highways or alleys shall be construed to follow the centerline.
      (2)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot lines
shall be construed as following the lot lines.
      (3)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following governmental
incorporation or extraterritorial jurisdiction boundaries shall be construed as
following the jurisdictional boundaries.
      (4)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the center of
railroad lines shall be construed to be midway between the main tracks.
      (5)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerline of
streams, rivers, lakes or other bodies of water shall be construed as following
the centerline.
      (6)   Boundaries indicated as following shorelines shall be construed to
follow the shorelines, and if the shoreline is changed either naturally or as
permitted by law, the boundary shall be construed as moving with the actual
shoreline.
      (7)   Boundaries indicated as following the contours of certain
elevations or soils of a particular type shall be construed as following the
actual height or soil contour as determined by accepted surveying practices.
      (8)   Boundaries indicated as parallel to or extensions of natural or
human-made features indicated in divisions (B) through (B)(7) above shall be so
construed.
      (9)   Distances not specifically indicated shall be determined by the
scale of the official zoning map. Where uncertainties continue to exist after
application of the above rules, appeal may be taken to the Board of Adjustment
as provided in §§
153.055 through
153.062 of this code.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 153.093 OFFICIAL ZONING MAP; AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Amendments to the official zoning map shall be adopted by ordinance as
provided in §§
153.035 through
153.040 of this code.
   (B)   Promptly after the adoption of an amendment, the Zoning Administrator
shall alter or cause to be altered, the official zoning map to indicate the
amendment.
   (C)   The Clerk shall enter in writing upon the face of the map a
certification indicating the alteration and citing the date of adoption and
effective date of the amendment, as well as the book and page of record of the
ordinance amending the map.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 153.094 TRUE COPY OF MAP TO BE MAINTAINED.
   (A)   The Chairperson of the Planning Board shall also maintain a true copy
of the official zoning map which shall include thereon all matters shown on the
official zoning map.
   (B)   The true copy shall have no legal effect except as provided in §
153.095 of this code.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 153.095 REPLACEMENT AND PRESERVATION OF OFFICIAL ZONING MAP AND TRUE COPY.
   (A)   If the official zoning map is damaged, lost or destroyed in whole or
in part, the governing body may, by resolution, adopt the true copy in whole or
in part as the official zoning map, and the Zoning Administrator and Clerk
shall promptly prepare or cause to be prepared a new true copy of the official
zoning map. From time to time, the Board of Commissioners may by resolution
adopt a new official zoning map if the prior map becomes difficult to interpret
due to the number of amendments or other matters shown thereon, or if the Board
of Commissioners desires to replace the map for other reasons, provided that
the new map is an exact copy of the prior map.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator and Clerk shall preserve any and all
remaining parts of all prior official zoning maps and true copies thereof
pursuant to G.S. § 160D-105, together with all available records pertaining to
their adoption, amendment or repeal.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 153.096 DISTRICTS; REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Table of permitted uses. Uses allowed in the districts named in this
chapter shall be in accordance with the following table in which “x” signifies
that the use is permitted as of right, “s” indicates that the use is a special
use which requires approval of the Board of Adjustment, “c” indicates that the
use requires conditional zoning and approval of the Board of Commissioners and
a blank indicates that the use is not permitted in that zoning district.
   (B)   Residential districts.
Use Districts
    RA R-15 R-10 RMH
Use                                                            Districts
                                                               RA R-15 R-10 RMH
Any agricultural or horticultural use except commercial
nurseries, commercial chicken house, yard or hatchery, dairy,
livestock pen or yard, horse or mule stable, pigpen or hog pen
or any other use of land for keeping and raising animals or    x
fowls for commercial purposes. Non-commercial buildings or
structures used for keeping of livestock, fowls or other non-
commercial use permitted shall be located in the rear yard
Bed and breakfast facility                                             x
Cemeteries                                                     x  x    x    x
Churches, temples, synagogues                                  x  x    x    x
Community centers                                              x  s    s    s
Commercial plant nurseries and greenhouses                     x
Community shelter                                              s  s    s    s
Day nurseries                                                  x  x    x    x
Family care homes for disabled persons as defined in G.S. Ch.
168 Article 3, provided that no home may be located within a   x  x    x    x
one-half mile radius of an existing family care home
Farming, including sale of products on property where produced x
Fraternal organizations not opened to the public               s  s    s    s
Golf courses, excluding carpet or miniature                    x  x         x
Hospitals, clinics (except animal hospitals), nursing homes,   x       x    x
rest homes
Kindergartens                                                  x  x    x    x
Libraries                                                      x  x    x    x
Mobile homes on individual lots (double-wides or greater)      s            x
Mobile home parks                                                           c
Modular homes                                                  s  s    s
Multi-family dwellings and complexes                                   s
Museums                                                        x  x    x    x
Parks                                                          x  x    x    x
Planned unit development                                       c  c    c    c
Playgrounds                                                    x  x    x    x
Private clubs                                                  s  s    s    s
Professional offices and sales offices for items not delivered s  s    s    s
from or stored on the premises
Public buildings; uses and utilities                           c  c    c    c
Public education institutions and private schools having a     x  x    x    x
curriculum the same as ordinary given in public schools
Radio and television stations and transmission towers          s
Single-family dwelling on individual lot                       x  x    x    x
Temporary uses that are not sponsored by the town such as      c  c    c    c
circuses, carnivals, fairs and the like
Three or four family dwelling in one building                          x
Townhouses                                                             s
Two-family dwelling                                            x  x    x    x
 
   (C)   Dimensional requirements. Where there is no public water and/or sewer,
lots must meet the requirements of the county’s Health Department as well as
the requirements of this section.
Use Minimum Lot Area (square feet)
    RA R-15 R-10 RMH
Use                         Minimum Lot Area (square feet)
                            RA     R-15   R-10                           RMH
Multi-family dwelling                     20,000 for three units plus
                                          5,000 for each additional unit
Other proposed building or  20,000 20,000 15,000                         15,000
use
Single-family dwelling      20,000 15,000 10,000                         10,000
Two-family dwelling or two  20,000 25,000 15,000                         12,000
town house units
Minimum depth (feet)        150    150    100                            100
Multi-family dwelling       100    100    100                            100
Other principal building or 100    100    100                            100
use
Single-family dwelling      100    75     80                             80
Townhouse*                  100    100    100                            100
Two-family dwelling         100    100    100                            100
Minimum Required Yards (Setback) (feet)
Front                       30     30     30                             30
Maximum height (feet)       35     35     35                             35
Maximum lot coverage        40     40     40                             40
(percent)
Rear                        25     25     25                             25
Side (eachside)             15     15     15                             15
* Refers to site on which townhouse is built, not individual townhouse lots.
 
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 153.097 COMMERCIAL AND LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS; REGULATIONS
   (A)   Table of permitted uses. Uses allowed in the districts named in this
section shall be in accordance with the following table in which “x” signifies
that the use is permitted as the right, “s” indicates that the use is a special
use which requires approval of the Board of Adjustment, “c” indicates that the
use requires conditional zoning and approval of the Board of Commissioners and
blank indicates that the use is not permitted in that zoning district.
   (B)   Commercial and industrial districts.
Use Districts
    C LI HI
Use                                                                   Districts
                                                                      C LI HI
Adult establishment                                                   c
Any agricultural or horticultural use in accordance with the animal   x x
and livestock ordinances of the town
Any manufacturing, processing or warehousing use or public use or
public use or utility which is enclosed in a building and does not
emit smoke, odor, dust, fumes, glare, noise or vibration from the
building in which it is located, except acid manufacture, cement,
lime, gypsum or plaster of paris, manufacture, distillation of bones,   x
explosives manufacture or storage, fat rending, fish and/or
fertilizer, plant, garbage, waste parts or dead animal reduction or
dumping, gas manufacture, glue manufacture, stockyards or slaughter
of animals, tannery or pulp manufacture
Any manufacturing, processing, warehousing or transportation use or
public use or utility which involves outdoor storage, service,
operations, emits or will emit smoke, odor, dust, fumes, glare, noise
or vibration from the building in which it is located, or involves
storage of combustible materials or is among the uses listed as
exceptions in the list immediately above
Any retail or wholesale businesses, service establishments, public
uses or utility other than those specifically listed which have
outdoor sales, service or storage areas; emit smoke, odor, dust,      s
fumes or noise from the building in which they are located; or
involve possible fire hazards
Any retail or wholesale business, service establishment, public use
or utility which is enclosed in a building and does not emit smoke
(other than restaurants), odor, dust, fumes, glare, noise or          x
vibration from the building in which it is located and does not
involve bulk storage of volatile materials or other fire hazards,
except commercial amusements
Assembly halls, including churches                                    x x
Automobile service stations and repair shops                          x
Cafeterias and snack bars for plant employees and offices of plants
shall be considered an accessory use
Car washes                                                            x
Commercial Amusements, including electronic gaming operations (as
defined in §                                                         c
111.01 of this code), arcades or similar forms of amusement and
entertainment within the establishment
Financial institutions                                                x
Hotels and motels, including short-term residential rental units      x
Offices-business, professional and public                             x
Restaurants                                                           x
Shopping centers                                                      x
 
   (C)   Dimensional requirements.
Use Districts
    C LI HI
Use                              Districts
                                 C                               LI     HI
Maximum lot coverage after
required setbacks, landscape     40                              40     40
buffering and the like (percent)
Maximum permitted height (feet)  50                              50     50
                                 20,000 per site; more than one
Minimum lot area (square feet)   use can be grouped on a site or 20,000 20,000
                                 in a building
Minimum lot depth (feet)         150                             150    200
Minimum lot width (feet)         100                             100    100
Minimum yards/setback (feet)
   Front                      *                               50     50
   Side (each side)           *                               20     20
   Rear                       *                               25     40
* No yards are required where a lot abuts commercially or industrially zoned
property.
 
      (1)   Where the front of a commercial lot abuts upon a residentially
zoned lot without being separated by a street, there shall be a minimum
required front yard of 30 feet.
      (2)   Where the side of a commercial lot abuts upon a residentially zoned
lot without being separated by a street, there shall be a minimum required side
yard of 15 feet.
      (3)   Where the rear of a commercial lot abuts upon a residentially zoned
lot without being separated by a street, there shall be a minimum required rear
yard of 25 feet.
(Ord. 21-009, passed 7-26-2021; Ord. 21, passed - -; Ord. 20-010, passed 11-24-
2020)
PARKING AND LOADING REQUIREMENTS
§ 153.110 OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   There shall be provided at the time of the erection of any building or
the establishment of any use or at the time any principal building or use is
enlarged or increased in capacity by adding dwelling units, guest rooms, seats,
floor, storage or sales area, or before conversion from one type of use or
occupancy to another, permanent off-street parking in the amount specified by
this section. The parking space may be provided in a parking garage or properly
graded open space.
   (B)   The following regulations concerning required parking shall apply.
      (1)   Each zoning permit application filed with the Zoning Administrator
shall include information as to the location and dimensions of off-street
parking space and the means of ingress and egress to the space. This
information shall be in sufficient detail to enable the Zoning Administrator to
determine whether or not the requirements of this section are met. No
certificate of occupancy shall be issued until the parking requirements and
regulations are fully met.
      (2)   The required parking space for any number of separate uses may be
combined in one lot, but the required space assigned to one use may not be
assigned to another use, except that one-half of the parking space required for
churches, theaters or assembly halls whose peak attendance will be at night or
on Sundays may be assigned to a use which will be closed at night and on
Sundays.
      (3)   If the off-street parking space required by this chapter cannot be
reasonably provided on the same lot which the principal use is located, the
space may be provided on any land within 400 feet of the main entrance to the
principal use.
      (4)   Parking space sizes shall be governed by the following dimensions:
         (a)   Parallel stall: 20 feet by nine feet;
         (b)   Angle stall: 19 feet by eight and one-half feet; and
         (c)   90-degree stall: 19 feet by nine feet.
      (5)   Minimum aisle widths shall be:
 
Aisle Width in Feet
Parking Angle    One-Way Traffic Two-Way Traffic
0 to 15 degrees  12              24 (0 degrees only)
16 to 37 degrees 11              -
38 to 57 degrees 13              -
58 to 74 degrees 18              -
75 to 90 degrees 24              24
 
      (6)   A safe means of ingress and egress shall be provided for all
parking spaces and driveways for uses other than single-family and two-family
residential and shall be at least 24 feet wide.
      (7)   When off-street parking for more than 20 vehicles is provided, the
following regulations shall apply, excluding churches, in addition to all other
regulations in this subchapter.
         (a)   Surfacing. All parking lots shall be graded and surfaced with
six inches of crushed stone, blacktop or concrete to ensure a dustless surface
condition.
         (b)   Markings. Each parking stall shall be marked off and maintained
so as to be distinguishable.
         (c)   Lighting. Any lighting shall be so arranged as to direct the
light and glare away from streets and adjacent property.
         (d)   Yards. All parking lots shall observe a minimum front yard of
not less than five feet and a side yard or a corner lot of not less than five
feet. Parking lots in residential-agricultural and residential districts shall
have front yards of not less than 15 feet and side and rear yards of not less
than five feet. Yards surrounding parking lots shall be planted and maintained
in lawn or other appropriate planting or shall be improved otherwise keeping
with the character of adjacent property. When a parking lot is adjacent to
residential-agricultural or residential zoned or used property, and buffer as
defined in §
153.012 of this code is not required, natural planting, hedge or a decorative
fence to a height of at least six feet shall screen the residential property.
         (e)   Curbs or bumpers. The required yards shall be set off from
parking areas by either continuous curb or one noncontinuous stationary bumper
for each parking space abutting on a yard, which curb or bumper shall not be
less than five inches or more than two feet high.
         (f)   Drainage. Parking lots shall not drain onto or across public
sidewalk, or into adjacent property except into a natural watercourse or a
drainage easement. In already developed areas where this condition would be
impossible to meet, the Zoning Administrator may exempt the developer from this
requirement provided that adequate provision is made for drainage.
         (g)   Separation of bumper and walkways. If any parking stall abuts
upon a walkway, there shall be a space of three and one-half feet between the
wheel bumper or curb and the edge of the walkway.
         (h)   Entrances and exits. On all corner lots, all vehicular openings
shall be located at least 20 feet from the point of intersection of the
established street right-of-way lines. No entrance or exit, whether on a corner
lot or not, shall exceed 30 feet in width at the property line or 40 feet at
the curbline. There shall be a minimum distance between driveways of 25 feet
measured along the curbline unless the driveways are less than five feet apart.
         (i)   Internal circulation. Sufficient area shall be provided within
the property lines of the parking lot, exclusive of required yards, so that all
vehicles may enter and leave the lot in forward motion.
      (8)   (a)   The Zoning Administrator may withhold a permit or certificate
of occupancy if a parking layout not specifically prohibited by this section
would be likely to cause safety or traffic congestion problems until
modification is made. The applicant may appeal the Zoning Administrator’s
decision to the Board of Adjustment under the normal procedure for an appeal.
         (b)   If a peculiar characteristic of an establishment makes the
requirements in this section clearly unrealistic, the Board of Adjustment may
grant the applicant a parking modification.
         (c)   In the central business district, the Zoning Administrator may
allow a new use to be established in an existing building even if all parking
requirements of this subchapter cannot be met for the new use, provided that as
much off-street parking as can reasonably be provided is provided by the use,
and no foreseeable traffic congestion problems will be created.
      (9)   (a)   The minimum number of required off-street parking spaces
shall be calculated as provided in division (B)(10) below. In the case of a
building or use not expressly provided for, the number of off-street spaces
shall be the same as for a similar use or inclusive category which is provided
for.
         (b)   Where there is more than one use in a single structure, or on a
single tract, or two or more instances of the same use, the minimum number of
required off-street parking spaces shall be equal to the sum of the
requirements of the various uses, except for shopping centers which are
expressly provided for. Where there is more than one use in a single structure,
or on a single tract, or two or more instances of the same use, the minimum
number of required off-street parking spaces shall be equal to the sum of the
requirements of the various uses, except for shopping centers which are
expressly provided for.
      (10)   The following shall be the minimum number of off-street parking
spaces which shall be provided:
Use Number of Required Off-Street Parking Spaces
                                                                              Number of
Use                                                                           Required Off-
                                                                              Street Parking
                                                                              Spaces
Commercial Uses:
                                                                              One for each
                                                                              200 square
                                                                              feet of gross
All other commercial uses such as retail stores, wholesale outlet stores,     floor area or
department stores, discount stores, drug stores, coin-operated laundries,     fraction
variety stores, convenience stores                                            thereof,
                                                                              including
                                                                              outdoor sales
                                                                              area
Bowling alley                                                                 Five per lane
Car wash                                                                      Five per wash
                                                                              lane
Golf course (not including putting greens accessory to multi-family dwelling  Four per hole
or hotels or motels)
                                                                              One for each
                                                                              500 square
Low generator retail and service establishments such as furniture, appliance, feet of gross
household equipment, carpet and hardware stores, repair shops including shoe  floor area or
repair, contractors’ showrooms, drapery, paint and wallpaper, upholstery,   fraction
interior decorator, motor vehicle sales, plant nurseries                      thereof,
                                                                              including any
                                                                              outdoor sales
                                                                              area
                                                                              Drive-in or
                                                                              take-out:
                                                                              Minimum of 15
                                                                              spaces plus
                                                                              one additional
                                                                              for each 50
                                                                              square feet of
                                                                              gross floor
                                                                              area or
Restaurants                                                                   fraction
                                                                              thereof
                                                                               
                                                                              Other: One and
                                                                              two-tenths for
                                                                              each 100
                                                                              square feet of
                                                                              gross floor
                                                                              area or
                                                                              fraction
                                                                              thereof
                                                                              Two for each
                                                                              gas pump, plus
Service stations                                                              three for each
                                                                              grease rack or
                                                                              similar
                                                                              facility
                                                                              Five and one-
                                                                              half per 1,000
                                                                              square feet of
Shopping centers (in lieu of individual store parking requirements)           gross leasable
                                                                              area or
                                                                              fraction
                                                                              thereof
Industrial Uses:
                                                                              One for each
Industrial and research uses, warehousing and very low customer volume        employee on
wholesaling operations                                                        premises at
                                                                              any one time
Office and Institutional Uses:
                                                                              Six for each
                                                                              doctor or
Doctor or dentist office                                                      dentist plus
                                                                              one for each
                                                                              other employee
                                                                              One for each
                                                                              150 square
                                                                              feet of gross
                                                                              floor area or
                                                                              fraction
                                                                              thereof, plus
                                                                              safe
                                                                              facilities to
Financial institutions                                                        accommodate
                                                                              passengers
                                                                              waiting in
                                                                              line for
                                                                              drive-in
                                                                              windows and
                                                                              banking
                                                                              machines, if
                                                                              any
                                                                              One space for
                                                                              each 150
                                                                              square feet of
Hospitals                                                                     gross floor
                                                                              area or
                                                                              fraction
                                                                              thereof
                                                                              One space for
                                                                              each 200
                                                                              square feet
Libraries                                                                     for use by the
                                                                              public or
                                                                              fraction
                                                                              thereof
                                                                              One space for
                                                                              each 800
                                                                              square feet of
Museums and art galleries                                                     gross floor
                                                                              area or
                                                                              fraction
                                                                              thereof
                                                                              Four times the
Nursing homes, family care homes and similar institutions                     maximum lawful
                                                                              number of
                                                                              occupants
                                                                              One for each
                                                                              300 square
Other office                                                                  feet or gross
                                                                              floor area or
                                                                              fraction
                                                                              thereof
                                                                              One for each
                                                                              three seats,
                                                                              plus one for
                                                                              each 100
                                                                              square feet of
Places of assembly, including clubs, lodges, churches, funeral parlors,       floor area
auditoriums, gymnasiums, amusement parks and similar places                   used for
                                                                              assembly, but
                                                                              not containing
                                                                              fixed seats,
                                                                              or fraction
                                                                              thereof
Residential Uses:
                                                                              Two spaces for
                                                                              each dwelling
Dwellings, multi-family                                                       unit plus one
                                                                              visitor space
                                                                              for each four
                                                                              dwelling units
Dwellings, single-family and two-family                                       Two per
                                                                              dwelling unit
                                                                              One and two-
                                                                              tenths for
Group housing, such as boarding houses, dormitories and similar               each bedroom
establishments                                                                houses,
                                                                              dormitories
                                                                              and similar
                                                                              establishments
Mobile homes on individual lots                                               Two per mobile
                                                                              home
                                                                              Two spaces for
                                                                              each mobile
                                                                              home plus one
Mobile home parks                                                             visitor
                                                                              parking space
                                                                              for each four
                                                                              mobile homes
                                                                              Two spaces for
                                                                              each dwelling
Townhouses                                                                    unit plus one
                                                                              visitor space
                                                                              for each four
                                                                              dwelling units
Schools and Colleges:
                                                                              Ten for each
                                                                              750 square
                                                                              feet of
                                                                              classroom area
                                                                              or fraction
Colleges, trade, vocational without dormitories                               thereof, plus
                                                                              auditorium/
                                                                              gymnasium
                                                                              parking
                                                                              requirement,
                                                                              if applicable
                                                                              Two for each
                                                                              750 square
                                                                              feet of
                                                                              classroom
                                                                              floor area or
                                                                              floor area or
                                                                              fraction
Day nurseries, kindergartens, elementary and junior highs                     thereof, plus
                                                                              one for each
                                                                              administrative
                                                                              office, plus
                                                                              auditorium/
                                                                              gymnasium
                                                                              parking, if
                                                                              applicable
                                                                              Five for each
                                                                              750 square
                                                                              feet of
                                                                              classroom
                                                                              vocational
                                                                              with floor
                                                                              area or
                                                                              fraction
Senior highs, and colleges, trade, with dormitories                           thereof, plus
                                                                              one for each
                                                                              administrative
                                                                              office, plus
                                                                              auditorium/
                                                                              gymnasium/
                                                                              dormitory
                                                                              parking
                                                                              requirement,
                                                                              if applicable
 
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.111 OFF-STREET LOADING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Every building or structure used for business, trade, industry or
office and institutional purposes, shall provide loading space as indicated in
this section. Each loading space shall be no less than 15 feet in width, and 30
feet in depth. Each space shall also be no less than 15 feet in height if the
space is covered. It shall have access driveways to public streets or alleys
which driveways shall be at least 24 feet wide and with adequate turning radii
for the delivery vehicles customarily associated with the particular use. If
there is not more than one delivery and pickup during the hours when a retail
trade, office or institutional establishment is open to patrons, the space may
be combined with the existing parking space on the premises. Loading space
shall be provided in accordance with the following schedule:
      (1)   Retail business. One space for each 20,000 square feet of gross
floor area or fraction thereof;
      (2)   Wholesale trade and industry. One space for each 10,000 square feet
of gross floor space or fraction thereof;
      (3)   Office and institutional uses including hotels and motels. One
space for each 50,000 square feet of gross floor area or fraction thereof; and
      (4)   Additional requirements. As well as meeting the requirements of
division (A)(3) above, elementary, junior high, high schools, kindergartens,
nurseries and day care centers shall also provide a safe place off the street
for the loading and unloading of children from automobiles and buses.
   (B)   (1)   If a peculiar characteristic of an establishment makes the
requirements in this section clearly unrealistic, the Board of Adjustment may
grant the modification of the loading requirements in regard to that particular
establishment.
      (2)   In the central business district, the Zoning Administrator may
allow a new use to be established in an existing building even if all loading
requirements of this section cannot be met for the new use provided that as
much loading space as can reasonably be provided is provided by the use and
traffic or safety hazards will not be created.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
SIGNS
§ 153.125 SCOPE.
   No sign or sign structure may be erected, posted, hung, painted, rehung,
repainted, repaired, replaced, changed or maintained in any district except in
compliance with this subchapter.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.126 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   General sign regulations are as follows.
   (A)   No sign or sign structure shall be erected or constructed to interfere
with vision clearance as defined in §
153.009 of this code.
   (B)   No ground sign structure may be placed in the right-of-way.
   (C)   Individual stores in a shopping center may not have separate ground
sign structures. The shopping center as a whole may display signs in accordance
with this division (C).
   (D)   Signs and sign structures shall meet all requirements of the state’s
Building Code. Signs do not require separate zoning permits unless a building
permit is required for the sign or unless otherwise noted in §§
153.128 or
153.130 of this code.
   (E)   Signs and sign structures shall be maintained at all times in a state
of proper repair, with all braces, bolts, clips, guys, anchors, supporting
frames and fastening free from deterioration, insect infestation, rot, rust or
loosening. All signs shall be kept neatly finished, with lettering intact and
if of a type which requires painting, free from visible peeling or chipping.
If, in the opinion of the Zoning Administrator, a sign’s general overall
condition is not satisfactory, it shall be found to be in violation of this
subchapter.
   (F)   Any sign which becomes a safety hazard or which is not kept in good
general condition and a reasonably good state of repair and is not, after 60
days’ written notice to the owner of the premises or the permittee, put in a
safe and good state of repair, is hereby declared a public and private nuisance
and may be removed, obliterated or abated by the Zoning Administrator of the
town. Any sign which, in the opinion of the Zoning Administrator, constitutes
an immediate or imminent danger to life or property, may be caused to be
removed or put in a safe condition by him or her immediately. In either case,
the costs of the removal/repair may be charged to the owner of the premises
where he or she has been afforded reasonable notice. Any charge so levied shall
be collected as a tax, and any charge having been assessed and which remains
unpaid shall constitute a lien against the property as provided in G.S. § 160A-
193.
   (G)   Obsolete signs and their supporting structures shall be removed within
90 days after they have been made obsolete by reason of the activity, business,
product or usage which the sign identifies or advertises being abandoned at the
location to which the sign refers. This provision does not refer to billboards,
until the commercial use of the billboard for rent has ceased. An extension of
the 90-day time limit for removal may be granted by the Zoning Administrator
for reasonable cause.
   (H)   Illuminated signs shall be limited to those lighted from behind to
silhouette letters and internally illuminated, digital signs and spotlighted
signs. All illuminated and spotlighted signs shall be placed so as to prevent
the light ray, illumination or glare from being cast directly on any building
or on traffic.
   (I)   Temporary strings of light bulbs (i.e., not permanently installed in
accordance with the state’s Electrical Code) used in connection with commercial
premises for commercial purposes shall not cause glare on traffic or adjoining
premises. These lights may be erected for no longer than 60 days.
(Ord. 21, passed - -; Ord. 20-010, passed 11-24-2020) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.127 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   The following types of signs are expressly prohibited.
   (A)   Signs with moving, revolving or rotating parts or any sign which moves
or gives an illusion of movement, except for time and temperature units and
traditional barber poles, shall be prohibited in all districts.
   (B)   Signs which obstruct the view of or could be confused with any
authorized traffic sign, signal or device or make usage of the words “stop,”
“look,” “danger” or any other word, phrase, symbol or character in a manner as
to interfere with, mislead or confuse traffic.
   (C)   Signs which obstruct openings required to be left uncovered or
unobstructed by building codes, the housing code or other laws relating to
buildings.
(Ord. 21, passed - -; Ord. 20-010, passed 11-24-2020) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.128 OFF-SITE ADVERTISING SIGNS.
   (A)   Off-site advertising signs (billboards) shall be permitted only as a
special use in the C and LI districts. The conditions in §
153.062 of this code are not applicable to off-site advertising signs.
   (B)   A special use permit shall be granted provided the following
conditions are met.
      (1)   The property on which the sign is to be located must be adjacent to
an interstate or federal aid primary highway.
      (2)   The sign must be located within 660 feet of the edge of the right-
of-way of the highway.
      (3)   The sign shall comply with all regulations of the state’s
Department of Transportation and General Statutes.
      (4)   No two structures shall be placed less than 500 feet apart.
Distance shall be measured as specified in the state’s Administrative Code
Title 19A, Ch. 2E, § 200.
      (5)   The sign will be compatible with the general neighborhood in which
it is located and will not have a detrimental effect on adjoining properties.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.129 NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   Nonconforming signs, when removed for other than normal maintenance, may not
be erected again, or may any sign be replaced with another nonconforming sign.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.130 PERMITTED SIGNS.
   Signs shall be permitted as follows:
Type of Sign Maximum Area (Square Maximum Height  District Other Requirements
             Feet)                (Feet)
               Maximum  Maximum
Type of Sign   Area     Height   District    Other Requirements
               (Square  (Feet)
               Feet)
Advertising,                     Special use Maximum height of structure is 35 feet; see §
off-site       50       12       in LI       153.128 of this code
(billboards)
Agricultural,
advertising                      Permitted
products       32       8        use in RA    
produced on                      and LI
premises
Awning, silk
screened or                      Permitted
sewn on the    NA       NA       use in C     
front of                         and LI
awning
Bulletin                         Permitted
board, church  32       8        use in all   
or public                        districts
Canopy signs                                 Identification only; one per entranceway; bottom of
(may also be                     Permitted   sign must be seven feet above sidewalk level,
placed on non- 4        NA       use in C    moreover public right-of-way if required by town
raising                          and LI      regulations
marques)
Construction                     Permitted
site placards  64       12       use in all  Must be removed when construction has been completed
                                 districts
Directional Signs Containing No Advertising Matter:
A sign may be
painted on the
inside and
outside front                    Permitted
door face of   NA       NA       use in C     
the closed                       and LI
tire rack, but
shall not be
painted on the
sides or rear
Entrance or             Signs
monument-type           and
signs to                pillars
subdivisions,           may not  Permitted
neighborhoods, 32       exceed   use in all  No more than two per entrance allowed
public,                 eight    districts
commercial,             feet in
institutional           height
establishments
                                 Permitted   Must be at least 30 feet from any other ground sign;
Ground signs   60       20       use in C    must meet vision clearance of §
                                             153.009 of this code
                                 Permitted   No more than one per street frontage containing
Ground signs   150      35       use in LI   entrance to use; may be used only for identification
                                             or on-site advertising
                                 Permitted
House numbers  4        NA       use in all  May contain no advertising matter
                                 districts
Memorial
signs,                           Permitted
tablets, name  NA       NA       use in all  Must be cut into a masonry surface or cast of metal
of building                      districts   and affixed flat against a surface
and date of
construction
Name of                          Permitted
occupant of    2        NA       use in all   
residential                      districts
premises
Newspaper                        Permitted
names on       NA       NA       use in all   
newspaper                        districts
tubes
                                 Permitted
No trespassing NA       NA       use in all   
                                 districts
No vacancy/                      Permitted
vacancy signs  NA       NA       use in all   
                                 districts
Off-site
directional to                   Permitted
churches,      12       NA       use in all   
meeting halls,                   districts
civic clubs
One double-
faced on-site
advertising
sign per
street
frontage
showing the                      Permitted
current price  20       5        use in C     
of fuel sold                     and LI
on the
premises; sign
shall be
located off
the right-of-
way
Pedestrian,                      Permitted
public         NA       NA       use in all   
                                 districts
Political                        Permitted   Must be removed within 15 days after last election
signs          4        NA       use in all  to which they pertain
                                 districts
                                             Nonrenewable permit from Zoning Administrator
Portable                                     required; ten-day time limit; no more than one sign
signs,                                       per establishment per street frontage; same
including                        Permitted   establishment may not have temporary sign(s) again
signs mounted  32       10       use in C    for 30 days after removal of sign(s); signs shall
on a vehicle                     and LI      not have colored or flashing lights or lights which
or a trailer                                 cause glare on traffic or adjacent properties; signs
or trailer-                                  shall not be located on the public right-of-way nor
type device                                  obstruct vision clearance as indicated in §
                                             153.126(A) of this code
Professional                     Permitted
or             4        NA       use in all  One per establishment
announcement                     districts
signs
                                             Signs may be no more than nine feet from wall at
                                             farthest point; one sign per face on street, or two
Projecting                       Permitted   per establishment, whichever is less; the sign may
signs          20       NA       use in C    be hung on corner of building but shall count
                                 and LI      against the maximum allowed above; establishments
                                             may not have a wall or roof sign on same face as
                                             projecting sign; corner sign shall count as one face
Real estate                      Permitted
signs          32       NA       use in C     
                                 and LI
                                 Permitted
Real estate    6        NA       use in       
signs                            residential
                                 districts
Religious                        Permitted
symbols at     NA       NA       use in all   
formal places                    districts
of worship
Roof signs-see                               
wall signs
                                 Permitted
                                 use in all
Service                          districts
station signs, NA       NA       when         
automobile or                    accessory
truck                            to a
                                 service
                                 station
Signs on pumps
and/or pump                      Permitted
islands        NA       NA       use in C     
concerning the                   and LI
type and price
of fuel
Signs on open
portable tire                    Permitted
racks provided NA       NA       use in C     
the signs are                    and LI
no longer than
the rack
Signs or racks
for the
orderly                          Permitted
display of     NA       NA       use in C     
engine oil,                      and LI
provided signs
are no longer
than the rack
Temporary
banners,
pennants,                        Permitted
streamers,     NA       NA       use in C    Only for opening of new business; may remain for no
excluding                        and LI      more than four weeks
portable
commercial
signs
Temporary
directional to
garage sales
and similar
events in                        Permitted
residential    4        NA       use in all   
area,                            districts
excluding
portable
commercial
signs
Temporary      20 (off-                      Off-site: no more than one per lot
signs relating site)
to farm
auctions,
agricultural
production
sales, annual                    Permitted
charitable,    32 (on-  NA       use in all  On-site: no more than three per lot; may remain for
civic or       site)             districts   no more than 45 days in all
fraternal
events,
excluding
portable
commercial
signs
The flag,
pennant or
insignia of
any nation or
organization
of nations,
state, county,
city,
religious,                                   In RA, R-15, R-10 and RMH districts, wall and
civic or                                     projecting insignia may not exceed ten square feet
fraternal                                    in area nor may the project be more than nine feet
organization                     Permitted   from wall at farthest point; in business and
or educational NA       NA       use in all  industrial districts, insignia may be placed on
institution                      districts   signs permitted in those districts. In any district
when not used                                flags or pennants shall not exceed 15 square feet
in connection                                or, if on a pole, one-fourth the height of the pole,
with a                                       whichever is greater.
commercial
promotion, or
as an
advertising
device or as
an integral
part of
another sign
Traffic and                      Permitted
pedestrian,    NA       NA       use in all   
private                          districts
Traffic,
safety,                          Permitted
utility        NA       NA       use in all   
warning,                         districts
public
Vending
machine signs
painted or
mounted on the
machine
related to the
products in                      Permitted
the machine;   NA       NA       use in all   
bank machine                     districts
or book
depository
signs which
instruct
customers or
patrons
               One and  Signs
               one-     shall                Wall signs must be mounted on area of wall free of
               quarter  not                  window, doors or other architectural detail; may not
               square   project              interrupt or cover major architectural features;
               feet of  over the             only one wall, roof or projecting sign per
Wall or roof   sign     roof     Permitted   establishment per street frontage is permitted other
signs          area per line of  use in C    than those specifically mentioned elsewhere in this
               running  the                  table; signs may be used only for identification or
               foot of  building             on-site advertising, and at least 80% of sign face
               building to which             shall be for identification
               frontage they are
                        attached
                                 Permitted
Window signs   NA       NA       use in C    Shall not exceed 20% of window area
                                 and LI
 
(Ord. 21, passed - -; Ord. 20-010, passed 11-24-2020) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter shall be subject
to §
10.99 of this code. Each day a violation continues shall be deemed a separate
offense.   
   (B)   In case any building or structure is erected, constructed,
reconstructed, repaired, converted or any building, structure or land is used
in violation of this chapter, the Zoning Administrator or any other appropriate
town authority, or any person who would be damaged by the violation, in
addition to other remedies, may institute injunction, mandamus or other
appropriate action in proceeding to prevent the violation.
   (C)   Any notice of violation shall be in writing and shall be issued
pursuant to G.S. § 160D-404(a).
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
CHAPTER 154: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
Purpose; Objectives; Definitions
   
154.001   Statutory authorization
   
154.002   Findings of fact
   
154.003   Statement of purpose
   
154.004   Objectives
   
154.005   Definitions
General Provisions
   
154.020   Amendments
   
154.021   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
154.022   Special flood hazard areas
   
154.023   Floodplain development permit
   
154.024   Compliance
   
154.025   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
154.026   Interpretation
   
154.027   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Administration
   
154.040   Floodplain Administrator; designation
   
154.041   Floodplain development application, permit and certification
requirements
   
154.042   Floodplain Administrator; duties and responsibilities
   
154.043   Corrective procedures
   
154.044   Variance procedures
   
154.045   Reservation of additional remedies
Flood Hazard Reduction
   
154.060   General standards
   
154.061   Specific standards
   
154.062   Standards for floodplains without established base flood elevations
   
154.063   Standards for riverine floodplains with BFE but without established
floodways or non-encroachment areas
   
154.064   Floodways and non-encroachment areas
   
154.065   Areas of shallow flooding (Zone AO); standards
Legal Status Provisions
   
154.080   Effect on rights and liabilities under the existing flood damage
prevention ordinance
   
154.081   Effect upon outstanding floodplain development permits
 
   
154.999   Penalty
PURPOSE, OBJECTIVES; DEFINITIONS
§ 154.001 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The state legislature has in G.S.§ 143-211; G.S. Ch. 160D, Article 11; and
G.S. § 160D-923, delegated to local governmental units the responsibility to
adopt regulations designed to promote the public health, safety and general
welfare.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 154.002 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood prone areas within the jurisdiction of the town are subject
to periodic inundation which results in loss of life, property, health and
safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary
public expenditures of flood protection and relief and impairment of the tax
base, all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general
welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities and by the
occupancy in flood prone areas of uses vulnerable to floods or other hazards.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 154.003 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions within flood prone areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety and
property due to water or erosion hazards or that result in damaging increases
in erosion, flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities that
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging and all other development that may
increase erosion or flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers that will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 154.004 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are to:
   (A)   Protect human life, safety and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business losses and interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities (i.e. water and gas
mains, electric, telephone, cable and sewer lines, streets and bridges) that
are located in flood prone areas;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas; and
   (G)   Ensure that potential buyers are aware that property is in a special
flood hazard area.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 154.005 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure located on the same
parcel of property as the principal structure and the use of which is
incidental to the use of the principal structure. Garages, carports and storage
sheds are common urban accessory structures. Pole barns, hay sheds and the like
qualify as ACCESSORY STRUCTURES on farms, and may or may not be located on the
same parcel as the farm dwelling or shop building.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING BUILDING). An extension or increase in the floor
area or height of a building or structure.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated Zone AO on a community’s Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with base flood depths determined to be from one to
three feet. These areas are located where a clearly defined channel does not
exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate and where
velocity flow may be evident.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. See SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA).
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). A determination of the water surface elevations
of the base flood as published in the Flood Insurance Study. When the BFE has
not been provided in a special flood hazard area, it may be obtained from
engineering studies available from a federal, state or other source using FEMA
approved engineering methodologies. This elevation, when combined with the
Freeboard, establishes the Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   CHEMICAL STORAGE FACILITY. A building, portion of a building or exterior
area adjacent to a building used for the storage of any chemical or chemically
reactive products.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
   DISPOSAL. As defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(6), the discharge, deposit,
injection, dumping, spilling, leaking or placing of any solid waste into or on
any land or water so that the solid waste or any constituent part of the solid
waste may enter the environment or be emitted into the air or discharged into
any waters, including groundwaters.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. A non-basement building which has its lowest elevated
floor raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear walls, posts, piers,
pilings or columns.
   ENCROACHMENT. The advance or infringement of uses, fill, excavation,
buildings, structures or development into a floodplain, which may impede or
alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION. A
manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities
for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) was
completed before the initial effective date of the floodplain management
regulations adopted by the community.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). An official map of a community,
issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, on which the special flood
hazard areas and the floodways are delineated. This official map is a
supplement to and shall be used in conjunction with the Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM).
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). An official map of a community, issued by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency, where the boundaries of the special
flood hazard areas have been defined as Zone A.
   FLOOD INSURANCE. The insurance coverage provided under the National Flood
Insurance Program.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, issued by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency, on which both the special flood hazard
areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community are delineated.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). An examination, evaluation and determination of
flood hazards, corresponding water surface elevations (if appropriate), flood
hazard risk zones and other flood data in a community issued by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The Flood Insurance Study report includes Flood
Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMs) and Flood Boundary and Floodway Maps (FBFMs), if
published.
   FLOOD PRONE AREA. See FLOODPLAIN.
   FLOODPLAIN. Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any
source.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. The individual appointed to administer and enforce
the floodplain management regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. Any type of permit that is required in
conformance with the provisions of this chapter, prior to the commencement of
any development activity.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including, but not limited
to, emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances and other applications of police power. This term describes federal,
state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards
for preventing and reducing flood loss and damage.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitation facilities,
structures and their contents.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
   FLOOD ZONE. A geographical area shown on a Flood Hazard Boundary Map or
Flood Insurance Rate Map that reflects the severity or type of flooding in the
area.
   FREEBOARD. The height added to the base flood elevation (BFE) to account for
the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater that
the height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such
as wave action, blockage of bridge openings and the hydrological effect of
urbanization of the watershed. The base flood elevation plus the FREEBOARD
establishes the Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT FACILITY. A facility which cannot be used for its
intended purpose unless it is located in close proximity to water, limited to a
docking or port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or
passengers, shipbuilding or ship repair. The term does not include long-term
storage, manufacture, sales or service facilities.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT FACILITY. As defined in G.S. Ch. 130A, Article 9,
a facility for the collection, storage, processing, treatment, recycling,
recovery or disposal of hazardous waste.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE (HAG). The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface, prior to construction, immediately next to the proposed walls of the
structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the U.S. Department of the Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic landmarks in
communities with a Certified Local Government (CLG) Program;
      (4)   Certified as contributing to the historical significance of a
historic district designated by a community with a Certified Local Government
(CLG) Program; or
      (5)   Certified Local Government (CLG) Programs are approved by the U.S.
Department of the Interior in cooperation with the state’s Department of
Cultural Resources through the state’s Historic Preservation Officer as having
met the requirements of the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, being
16 U.S.C. §§ 470 et seq., as amended in 1980.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE (LAG). The elevation of the ground, sidewalk or patio
slab immediately next to the building or deck support, after completion of the
building.
   LOWEST FLOOR. Lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including basement).
An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking of
vehicles, building access or limited storage in an area other than a basement
area is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR, provided that such an
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a recreational vehicle.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MARKET VALUE. The building value, not including the land value and that of
any accessory structures or other improvements on the lot. MARKET VALUE may be
established by independent certified appraisal; replacement cost depreciated
for age of building and quality of construction (Actual Cash Value); or
adjusted tax assessed values.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. For purposes of this chapter, the National Geodetic Vertical
Datum (NGVD) as corrected in 1929, the North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) as
corrected in 1988, or other vertical control datum used as a reference for
establishing varying elevations within the floodplain, to which base flood
elevations (BFEs) shown on a FIRM are referenced. Refer to each FIRM panel to
determine datum used.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of the initial floodplain management regulations
and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NON-ENCROACHMENT AREA. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot
as designated in the Flood Insurance Study report.
   POST-FIRM. Construction or other development for which the start of
construction occurred on or after the effective date of the initial Flood
Insurance Rate Map.
   PRE-FIRM. Construction or other development for which the start of
construction occurred before the effective date of the initial Flood Insurance
Rate Map.
   PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND. Means that at least 51% of the actual cash value
of the structure is above ground.
   PUBLIC SAFETY and/or NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to the safety or
health of an entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of
persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV). A vehicle, which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REFERENCE LEVEL. The top of the lowest floor for structures within special
flood hazard areas designated as Zone A1-A30, AE, A, A99 or AO.
   REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION. The base flood elevation plus the
Freeboard. In special flood hazard areas where base flood elevations (BFEs)
have been determined, this elevation shall be the BFE plus two feet of
freeboard. In special flood hazard areas where no BFE has been established,
this elevation shall be at least two feet above the highest adjacent grade.
   REMEDY A VIOLATION. To bring the structure or other development into
compliance with state and community floodplain management regulations, or, if
this is not possible, to reduce the impacts of its noncompliance. Ways that
impacts may be reduced include protecting the structure or other affected
development from flood damages, implementing the enforcement provisions of the
chapter or otherwise deterring future similar violations, or reducing federal
financial exposure with regard to the structure or other development.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook and the like.
   SALVAGE YARD. Any non-residential property used for the storage, collection
and/or recycling of any type of equipment, and including but not limited to
vehicles, appliances and related machinery.
   SHEAR WALL. Walls used for structural support but not structurally joined or
enclosed at the end (except by breakaway walls). SHEAR WALLS are parallel or
nearly parallel to the flow of the water.
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITY. Any facility involved in the disposal of
solid waste, as defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(35).
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL SITE. As defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(36), any place
at which solid wastes are disposed of by incineration, sanitary landfill or any
other method.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). The land in the floodplain subject to a 1%
or greater chance of being flooded in any given year, as determined in §
154.022 of this code.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement or other improvement
was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual START means either the first
placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the
pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns or any work beyond the stage of excavation or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the
installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a
basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of temporary forms;
nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings,
such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION
means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part
of the building, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions
of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, a manufactured home or a gas,
liquid or liquefied gas storage tank that is principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure during any
one-year period whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before
damaged condition would equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the
structure before the damage occurred. See definition of SUBSTANTIAL
IMPROVEMENT. SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE also means flood-related damage sustained by a
structure on two separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost
of repairs at the time of each such flood event, on the average, equals or
exceeds 25% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any combination of repairs, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition or other improvement of a structure, taking place
during any one-year period for which the cost equals or exceeds 50% of the
market value of the structure before the start of construction of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred substantial
damage, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
      (1)   Any correction of existing violations of state or community health,
sanitary or safety code specifications which have been identified by the
community code enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure.
   VARIANCE. Is a grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications or
other evidence of compliance required in §§
154.040 through
154.044 and §§
154.060 through
154.065 of this code is presumed to be in VIOLATION until such time as that
documentation is provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION (WSE). The height, in relation to mean sea level, of
floods of various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of riverine
areas.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.020 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   An amendment to this chapter may be adopted by the Board of
Commissioners only by ordinance and only after the notice and public hearing
requirements contained in G.S. § 160D-601 have been satisfied.
   (B)   A simple majority of voting Board members present at the meeting upon
which the amendment is presented is required to adopt any amendment to this
chapter as provided by G.S. § 160A-75. The Mayor or Board of Commissioners may
refer any amendment to the Planning Board for review and comment.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 154.021 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all special flood hazard areas within the
jurisdiction, including Extra-Territorial Jurisdictions (ETJs) if applicable,
of the town and within the jurisdiction of any other community whose governing
body agrees, by resolution, to such applicability.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 154.022 SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   (A)   The special flood hazard areas are those identified under the
Cooperating Technical State (CTS) agreement between the state and FEMA in its
Flood Insurance Study (FIS) and its accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Maps
(FIRM), for the county dated July 3, 2007, which are adopted by reference and
declared to be a part of this chapter.
   (B)   The initial Flood Insurance Rate Maps are as follows for the
jurisdictional areas at the initial date: Halifax County Unincorporated Area,
dated May 18, 1988.
   (C)   A copy of the currently effective version of any map incorporated by
reference in this chapter shall be maintained for public inspection in either
paper or digital form, as provided in G.S. § 160D-105.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 154.023 FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities within special flood hazard areas determined in accordance with the
provisions of §
154.022 of this code.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 154.024 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted,
altered or developed in any way without full compliance with the terms of this
chapter and other applicable regulations.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.025 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions
shall prevail.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 154.026 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 154.027 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
consideration. Larger floods can and will occur. Actual flood heights may be
increased by human-made or natural causes. This chapter does not imply that
land outside the special flood hazard areas or uses permitted within such areas
will be free from flooding or flood damages.
   (B)   This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the town or by
any officer or employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance
on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 154.040 FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR; DESIGNATION.
   The County Building Inspector, hereinafter referred to as the Floodplain
Administrator, is appointed to administer and implement the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 154.041 FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT APPLICATION, PERMIT AND CERTIFICATION
REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   General. Development approvals and determinations, as defined by G.S.
§ 160D-102, subject to this chapter are governed by G.S. § 160D-403.
Development approvals attach to and run with the land as provided by G.S. §
160D-104.
   (B)   Application requirements. Application for a floodplain development
permit shall be made to the Floodplain Administrator prior to any development
activities located within special flood hazard areas. The following items shall
be presented to the Floodplain Administrator to apply for a floodplain
development permit:
      (1)   A plot plan drawn to scale which shall include, but shall not be
limited to, the following specific details of the proposed floodplain
development:
         (a)   The nature, location, dimensions and elevations of the area of
development/disturbance; existing and proposed structures, utility systems,
grading/pavement areas, fill materials, storage areas, drainage facilities and
other development;
         (b)   The boundary of the special flood hazard area as delineated on
the FIRM or other flood map as determined in §
154.022 of this code, or a statement that the entire lot is within the special
flood hazard area;
         (c)   Flood zone(s) designation of the proposed development area as
determined on the FIRM or other flood map as determined in §
154.022 of this code;
         (d)   The boundary of the floodway(s) or non-encroachment area(s) as
determined in §
154.022 of this code;
         (e)   The base flood elevation (BFE) where provided as set forth in §§
154.022,
154.042 or
154.063 of this code; and
         (f)   The old and new location of any watercourse that will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development.
      (2)   Proposed elevation and method thereof, of all development within a
special flood hazard area including but not limited to:
         (a)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the proposed
reference level (including basement) of all structures;
         (b)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any non-
residential structure in Zone AE, A or AO will be floodproofed; and
         (c)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any proposed
utility systems will be elevated or floodproofed.
      (3)   If floodproofing, a Floodproofing Certificate (FEMA Form 81-65)
with supporting data and an operational plan that includes, but is not limited
to, installation, exercise and maintenance of floodproofing measures;
      (4)   A Foundation Plan, drawn to scale, which shall include details of
the proposed foundation system to ensure all provisions of this chapter are
met. These details include but are not limited to:
         (a)   The proposed method of elevation, if applicable (i.e., fill,
solid foundation perimeter wall, solid backfilled foundation, open foundation
on columns/posts/piers/piles/shear walls); and/or
         (b)   Openings to facilitate automatic equalization of hydrostatic
flood forces on walls in accordance with §
154.061(D)(4) of this code when solid foundation perimeter walls are used in
Zones A, AO, AE and A1-30.
      (5)   Usage details of any enclosed areas below the lowest floor;
      (6)   Plans and/or details for the protection of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems to be located and
constructed to minimize flood damage;
      (7)   Copies of all other local, state and federal permits required prior
to floodplain development permit issuance (wetlands, endangered species,
erosion and sedimentation control, riparian buffers, mining and the like);
      (8)   Documentation for placement of recreational vehicles and/or
temporary structures, when applicable, to ensure that the provisions of §
154.061(F) and (G) of this code are met; and
      (9)   A description of proposed watercourse alteration or relocation,
when applicable, including an engineering report on the effects of the proposed
project on the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse and the effects to
properties located both upstream and downstream; and a map (if not shown on
plot plan) showing the location of the proposed watercourse alteration or
relocation.
   (C)   Permit requirements. The floodplain development permit shall include,
but not be limited to:
      (1)   A description of the development to be permitted under the
floodplain development permit;
      (2)   The special flood hazard area determination for the proposed
development in accordance with available data specified in §
154.022 of this code;
      (3)   The regulatory flood protection elevation required for the
reference level and all attendant utilities;
      (4)   The regulatory flood protection elevation required for the
protection of all public utilities;
      (5)   All certification submittal requirements with timelines;
      (6)   A statement that no fill material or other development shall
encroach into the floodway or non-encroachment area of any watercourse, as
applicable; and
      (7)   The flood openings requirements, if in Zones A, AO, AE or A1-30.
   (D)   Certification requirements.
      (1)   Elevation certificates.
         (a)   A final as-built Elevation Certificate (FEMA Form 81-31) is
required after construction is completed and prior to Certificate of
Compliance/Occupancy issuance.
         (b)   It shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to the
Floodplain Administrator a certification of final as-built construction of the
elevation of the reference level and all attendant utilities. The Floodplain
Administrator shall review the certificate data submitted. Deficiencies
detected by such review shall be corrected by the permit holder immediately and
prior to Certificate of Compliance/Occupancy issuance. In some instances,
another certification may be required to certify corrected as-built
construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure to make required
corrections shall be cause to withhold the issuance of a Certificate of
Compliance/Occupancy.
      (2)   Floodproofing certificate.
         (a)   If non-residential floodproofing is used to meet the regulatory
flood protection elevation requirements, a Floodproofing Certificate (FEMA Form
81-65), with supporting data, an operational plan and an inspection and
maintenance plan are required prior to the actual start of any new
construction.
         (b)   It shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to the
Floodplain Administrator a certification of the floodproofed design elevation
of the reference level and all attendant utilities, in relation to mean sea
level. Floodproofing certification shall be prepared by or under the direct
supervision of a professional engineer or architect and certified by same. The
Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data, the operational
plan and the inspection and maintenance plan. Deficiencies detected by such
review shall be corrected by the applicant prior to permit approval. Failure to
submit the certification or failure to make required corrections shall be cause
to deny a floodplain development permit. Failure to construct in accordance
with the certified design shall be cause to withhold the issuance of a
Certificate of Compliance/Occupancy.
      (3)   Manufactured homes. If a manufactured home is placed within Zone A,
AO, AE or A1-30 and the elevation of the chassis is more than 36 inches in
height above grade, an engineered foundation certification is required in
accordance with the provisions of §
154.061(C)(2) of this code.
      (4)   Watercourses. If a watercourse is to be altered or relocated, a
description of the extent of watercourse alteration or relocation; a
professional engineer’s certified report on the effects of the proposed project
on the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse and the effects to properties
located both upstream and downstream; and a map showing the location of the
proposed watercourse alteration or relocation shall all be submitted by the
permit applicant prior to issuance of a floodplain development permit.
      (5)   Certification exemptions. The following structures, if located
within Zone A, AO, AE or A1-30, are exempt from the elevation/floodproofing
certification requirements specified in divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2) above:
         (a)   Recreational vehicles meeting requirements of §
154.061(F)(1) of this code;
         (b)   Temporary structures meeting requirements of §
154.061(G) of this code; and
         (c)   Accessory structures less than 150 square feet meeting
requirements of §
154.061(H) of this code.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 154.042 FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR; DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The Floodplain Administrator shall perform, but not be limited to, the
following duties:
   (A)   Review all floodplain development applications and issue permits for
all proposed development within special flood hazard areas to assure that the
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
   (B)   Advise permittee if additional federal or state permits (wetlands,
endangered species, erosion and sedimentation control, riparian buffers, mining
and the like) are required and assure that copies of such permits are provided
and maintained on file with the floodplain development permit;
   (C)   Notify adjacent communities and the state’s Department of Crime
Control and Public Safety, Division of Emergency Management, State Coordinator
for the National Flood Insurance Program prior to any alteration or relocation
of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification to the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA);
   (D)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of the watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is maintained;
   (E)   Prevent encroachments into floodways and non-encroachment areas unless
the certification and flood hazard reduction provisions of §
154.064 of this code are met;
   (F)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the
reference level (including basement) and all attendant utilities of all new and
substantially improved structures, in accordance with §
154.041(C) of this code;
   (G)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which all
new and substantially improved structures and utilities have been floodproofed,
in accordance with the provisions of §
154.041(C) of this code;
   (H)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of all public
utilities in accordance with the provisions of §
154.041(C) of this code;
   (I)   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, obtain
certifications from a registered professional engineer or architect in
accordance with the provisions of §
154.041(C) and §
154.061(B) of this code;
   (J)   (1)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of
boundaries of the special flood hazard areas, floodways or non-encroachment
areas (for example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped
boundary and actual field conditions), make the necessary interpretation;
      (2)   The person contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a
reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation as provided in this
chapter;
   (K)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data has not been provided in
accordance with §
154.022 of this code, obtain, review and reasonably utilize any base flood
elevation (BFE) data, along with floodway data or non-encroachment area data
available from a federal, state or other source, including data developed
pursuant to §
154.063(B)(2) of this code, in order to administer the provisions of this
chapter;
   (L)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is provided but no floodway or
non-encroachment area data has been provided in accordance with §
154.022 of this code, obtain, review and reasonably utilize any floodway data
or non-encroachment area data available from a federal, state or other source
in order to administer the provisions of this chapter;
   (M)   (1)   When the lowest floor and the lowest adjacent grade of a
structure or the lowest ground elevation of a parcel in a special flood hazard
area is above the base flood elevation, advise the property owner of the option
to apply for a Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA) from FEMA;
      (2)   Maintain a copy of the Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA) issued by
FEMA in the floodplain development permit file;
   (N)   Permanently maintain all records that pertain to the administration of
this chapter and make these records available for public inspection,
recognizing that such information may be subject to the Privacy Act of 1974,
being 5 U.S.C. § 552a, as amended;
   (O)   (1)   Make on-site inspections of work in progress. As the work
pursuant to a floodplain development permit progresses, the Floodplain
Administrator shall make as many inspections of the work as may be necessary to
ensure that the work is being done according to the provisions of the local
chapter and the terms of the permit;
      (2)   In exercising this power, the Floodplain Administrator has a right,
upon presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises within the
jurisdiction of the community at any reasonable hour for the purposes of
inspection or other enforcement action. Inspections shall be conducted pursuant
to G.S. § 160D-403(e);
   (P)   (1)   Issue stop-work orders as required. Whenever a building or part
thereof is being constructed, reconstructed, altered or repaired in violation
of this chapter, the Floodplain Administrator may order the work to be
immediately stopped;
      (2)   The stop-work order shall be in writing and directed to the person
doing or in charge of the work. The stop-work order shall state the specific
work to be stopped, the specific reason(s) for the stoppage and the condition
(s) under which the work may be resumed. Violation of a stop-work order
constitutes a misdemeanor. Stop-work orders are subject to G.S. § 160D-404(b);
   (Q)   Revoke floodplain development permits as required. The Floodplain
Administrator may revoke and require the return of the floodplain development
permit by notifying the permit holder in writing stating the reason(s) for the
revocation in accordance with G.S. § 160D-403(f). Permits shall be revoked for
any substantial departure from the approved application, plans and
specifications; for refusal or failure to comply with the requirements of state
or local laws; or for false statements or misrepresentations made in securing
the permit. Any floodplain development permit mistakenly issued in violation of
an applicable state or local law may also be revoked;
   (R)   Make periodic inspections throughout the special flood hazard areas
within the jurisdiction of the community. The Floodplain Administrator and each
member of his or her inspections department shall have a right, upon
presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises within the
territorial jurisdiction of the department at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action. Inspections shall be
conducted pursuant to G.S. § 160D-403(e);
   (S)   Follow through with corrective procedures of §
154.043 of this code;
   (T)   Review, provide input and make recommendations for variance requests;
   (U)   Maintain a current map repository to include, but not limited to, the
FIS Report, FIRM and other official flood maps and studies adopted in
accordance with §
154.022 of this code, including any revisions thereto including Letters of Map
Change, issued by FEMA. Notify state and FEMA of mapping needs; and
   (V)   Coordinate revisions to FIS reports and FIRMs, including Letters of
Map Revision Based on Fill (LOMR-F) and Letters of Map Revision (LOMR).
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.043 CORRECTIVE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Violations to be corrected. When the Floodplain Administrator finds
violations of applicable state and local laws, it shall be his or her duty to
notify the owner or occupant of the building of the violation. The owner or
occupant shall immediately remedy each of the violations of law cited in such
notification.
   (B)   Actions in event of failure to take corrective action. If the owner of
a building or property shall fail to take prompt corrective action, the
Floodplain Administrator shall give the owner written notice, by certified or
registered mail to the owner’s last known address or by personal service,
stating:
      (1)   That the building or property is in violation of the floodplain
management regulations;
      (2)   That a hearing will be held before the Floodplain Administrator at
a designated place and time, not later than ten days after the date of the
notice, at which time the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or by
counsel and to present arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter; and
      (3)   That following the hearing, the Floodplain Administrator may issue
an order to alter, vacate or demolish the building, or to remove fill as
applicable.
   (C)   Order to take corrective action. If, upon a hearing held pursuant to
the notice prescribed above, the Floodplain Administrator shall find that the
building or development is in violation of this chapter, he or she shall issue
an order in writing to the owner, requiring the owner to remedy the violation
within a specified time period, not less than 60 calendar days, nor more than
120 calendar days. Where the Floodplain Administrator finds that there is
imminent danger to life or other property, he or she may order that corrective
action be taken in such lesser period as may be feasible.
   (D)   Appeal. Any owner who has received an order to take corrective action
may appeal the order to the Board of Adjustment by giving notice of appeal in
writing to the Floodplain Administrator and the clerk within ten days following
issuance of the final order. In the absence of an appeal, the order of the
Floodplain Administrator shall be final. The Board of Adjustment shall hear all
administrative appeals under this chapter in accordance with G.S. §§ 160D-302,
160D-405, 160D-406, 160D-705 and other applicable laws, as may be amended.
Appeals from the Board of Adjustment shall be made to Superior Court as
provided by applicable law.
   (E)   Failure to comply with order. If the owner of a building or property
fails to comply with an order to take corrective action for which no appeal has
been made or fails to comply with an order of the Board of Adjustment following
an appeal, the owner shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished at
the discretion of the court.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.044 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide requests for variances
from the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Board of Adjustment may
appeal such decision to Superior Court.
   (C)   Variances may be issued for:
      (1)   The repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon the
determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the
structure’s continued designation as a historic structure and that the variance
is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the
structure;
      (2)   Functionally dependent facilities if determined to meet the
definition as stated in §
154.005 of this code, provided provisions of divisions (I)(2), (I)(3) and (I)
(5) below have been satisfied, and such facilities are protected by methods
that minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional
threats to public safety; and
      (3)   Any other type of development, provided it meets the requirements
of this section.
   (D)   In passing upon variances, the Board of Adjustment shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other
sections of this chapter and:
      (1)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (2)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location as defined
under §
154.005 of this code as a functionally dependent facility, where applicable;
      (6)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
      (7)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (10)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
      (11)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems and streets and
bridges.
   (E)   A written report addressing each of the above factors shall be
submitted with the application for a variance.
   (F)   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of
this chapter, the Board of Adjustment may attach such conditions to the
granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes and
objectives of this chapter.
   (G)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation (BFE) and the
elevation to which the structure is to be built and that such construction
below the base flood elevation increases risks to life and property, and that
the issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the base flood
elevation will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to $25
per $100 of insurance coverage. Such notification shall be maintained with a
record of all variance actions, including justification for their issuance.
   (H)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency and
the state upon request.
   (I)   Conditions for variances:
      (1)   Variances shall not be issued when the variance will make the
structure in violation of other federal, state or local laws, regulations or
chapters.
      (2)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway or
non-encroachment area if the variance would result in any increase in flood
levels during the base flood discharge.
      (3)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (4)   Variances shall only be issued prior to development permit
approval.
      (5)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety or
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public or conflict with existing local laws or chapters.
   (J)   A variance may be issued for solid waste disposal facilities or sites,
hazardous waste management facilities, salvage yards and chemical storage
facilities that are located in special flood hazard areas provided that all of
the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The use serves a critical need in the community;
      (2)   No feasible location exists for the use outside the special flood
hazard area;
      (3)   The reference level of any structure is elevated or floodproofed to
at least the regulatory flood protection elevation;
      (4)   The use complies with all other applicable federal, state and local
laws; and
      (5)   The town has notified the Secretary of the state’s Department of
Crime Control and Public Safety of its intention to grant a variance at least
30 calendar days prior to granting the variance.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.045 RESERVATION OF ADDITIONAL REMEDIES.
   The town reserves the right to implement any general enforcement remedy as
provided by G.S. § 160D-404(c).
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 154.060 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be designed
(or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse and
lateral movement of the structure.
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
   (C)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damages.
   (D)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding to the Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation. These include, but are
not limited to, HVAC equipment, water softener units, bath/kitchen fixtures,
ductwork, electric/gas meter panels/boxes, utility/cable boxes, hot water
heaters and electric outlets/switches.
   (E)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
   (F)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into floodwaters.
   (G)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (H)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvements to a structure,
which is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, shall meet the
requirements of “new construction” as contained in this chapter.
   (I)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the repair, reconstruction or
replacement of a building or structure existing on the effective date of this
chapter and located totally or partially within the floodway, non-encroachment
area or stream setback, provided there is no additional encroachment below the
regulatory flood protection elevation in the floodway, non-encroachment area or
stream setback, and provided that such repair, reconstruction or replacement
meets all of the other requirements of this chapter.
   (J)   New solid waste disposal facilities and sites, hazardous waste
management facilities, salvage yards and chemical storage facilities shall not
be permitted, except by variance as specified in §
154.044(J) of this code. A structure or tank for chemical or fuel storage
incidental to an allowed use or to the operation of a water treatment plant or
wastewater treatment facility may be located in a special flood hazard area
only if the structure or tank is either elevated or floodproofed to at least
the regulatory flood protection elevation and certified in accordance with the
provisions of §
154.041(C) of this code.
   (K)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall be
consistent with the need to minimize flood damage.
   (L)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water
systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage.
   (M)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (N)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
received all necessary permits from those governmental agencies for which
approval is required by federal or state law, including § 404 of the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. § 1334.
   (O)   When a structure is partially located in a special flood hazard area,
the entire structure shall meet the requirements for new construction and
substantial improvements.
   (P)   When a structure is located in multiple flood hazard zones or in a
flood hazard risk zone with multiple base flood elevations, the provisions for
the more restrictive flood hazard risk zone and the highest base flood
elevation shall apply.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.061 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas where base flood elevation (BFE) data has
been provided, as set forth in §§
154.022 or
154.063 of this code, the following provisions, in addition to the provisions
of §
154.060 of this code, are required.
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure (including manufactured homes) shall have the
reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the regulatory
flood protection elevation, as defined in §
154.005 of this code.
   (B)   Non-Residential construction. New construction and substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or other non-residential structure
shall have the reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the
regulatory flood protection elevation, as defined in §
154.005 of this code. Structures located in A, AE, AO and A1-30 Zones may be
floodproofed to the regulatory flood protection elevation in lieu of elevation
provided that all areas of the structure, together with attendant utility and
sanitary facilities, below the regulatory flood protection elevation are
watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water, using
structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and the effect of buoyancy. For AO Zones, the floodproofing
elevation shall be in accordance with §§
154.060 through
154.065 of this code. A registered professional engineer or architect shall
certify that the standards of this division (B) are satisfied. Such
certification shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator as set forth in
§
154.041(C) of this code, along with the operational and maintenance plans.
   (C)   Manufactured homes.
      (1)   New and replacement manufactured homes shall be elevated so that
the reference level of the manufactured home is no lower than the regulatory
flood protection elevation, as defined in §
154.005 of this code.   
      (2)   Manufactured homes shall be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement, either
by certified engineered foundation system, or in accordance with the most
current edition of the state’s Regulations for Manufactured Homes adopted by
the Commissioner of Insurance pursuant to G.S. § 143-143.15. Additionally, when
the elevation would be met by an elevation of the chassis 36 inches or less
above the grade at the site, the chassis shall be supported by reinforced piers
or engineered foundation. When the elevation of the chassis is above 36 inches
in height, an engineering certification is required.
      (3)   All enclosures or skirting below the lowest floor shall meet the
requirements of §
154.061(D).
      (4)   An evacuation plan must be developed for evacuation of all
residents of all new, substantially improved or substantially damaged
manufactured home parks or subdivisions located within flood prone areas. This
plan shall be filed with and approved by the Floodplain Administrator and the
local Emergency Management Coordinator.
   (D)   Elevated buildings. Fully enclosed area, of new construction and
substantially improved structures, which is below the lowest floor:
      (1)   Shall not be designed or used for human habitation, but shall only
be used for parking of vehicles, building access or limited storage of
maintenance equipment used in connection with the premises. Access to the
enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow for parking of vehicles
(garage door) or limited storage of maintenance equipment (standard exterior
door), or entry to the living area (stairway or elevator). The interior portion
of such enclosed area shall not be finished or partitioned into separate rooms,
except to enclose storage areas;
      (2)   Shall be constructed entirely of flood resistant materials at least
to the regulatory flood protection elevation;
      (3)   Shall include, in Zones A, AO, AE and A1-30, flood openings to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on walls by allowing for the
entry and exit of floodwaters. To meet this requirement, the openings must
either be certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed
the following minimum design criteria:
         (a)   A minimum of two flood openings on different sides of each
enclosed area subject to flooding;
         (b)   The total net area of all flood openings must be at least one
square inch for each square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding;
         (c)   If a building has more than one enclosed area, each enclosed
area must have flood openings to allow floodwaters to automatically enter and
exit;
         (d)   The bottom of all required flood openings shall be no higher
than one foot above the adjacent grade;
         (e)   Flood openings may be equipped with screens, louvers or other
coverings or devices, provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions; and
         (f)   Enclosures made of flexible skirting are not considered
enclosures for regulatory purposes, and, therefore, do not require flood
openings. Masonry or wood underpinning, regardless of structural status, is
considered an enclosure and requires flood openings as outlined above.
   (E)   Additions/improvements.
      (1)   Additions and/or improvements to pre-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
         (a)   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or improvements
must be designed to minimize flood damages and must not be any more non-
conforming than the existing structure; and/or
         (b)   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and the
addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
      (2)   Additions to post-FIRM structures with no modifications to the
existing structure other than a standard door in the common wall shall require
only the addition to comply with the standards for new construction.
      (3)   Additions and/or improvements to post-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
         (a)   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or improvements
only must comply with the standards for new construction; and/or
         (b)   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and the
addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
   (F)   Recreational vehicles. Recreational vehicles shall either:
      (1)   Be on site for fewer than 180 consecutive days and be fully
licensed and ready for highway use (a recreational vehicle is ready for highway
use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by
quick disconnect type utilities and has no permanently attached additions); or
      (2)   Meet all the requirements for new construction.
   (G)   Temporary non-residential structures. Prior to the issuance of a
floodplain development permit for a temporary structure, the applicant must
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a plan for the removal of such structure
(s) in the event of a hurricane, flash flood or other type of flood warning
notification. The following information shall be submitted in writing to the
Floodplain Administrator for review and written approval:
      (1)   A specified time period for which the temporary use will be
permitted. Time specified may not exceed three months, renewable up to one
year;
      (2)   The name, address and phone number of the individual responsible
for the removal of the temporary structure;
      (3)   The time frame prior to the event at which a structure will be
removed (i.e., minimum of 72 hours before landfall of a hurricane or
immediately upon flood warning notification);
      (4)   A copy of the contract or other suitable instrument with the entity
responsible for physical removal of the structure; and
      (5)   Designation, accompanied by documentation, of a location outside
the special flood hazard area, to which the temporary structure will be moved.
   (H)   Accessory structures. When accessory structures (sheds, detached
garages and the like) are to be placed within a special flood hazard area, the
following criteria shall be met.
      (1)   Accessory structures shall not be used for human habitation
(including working, sleeping, living, cooking or restroom areas).
      (2)   Accessory structures shall not be temperature-controlled.
      (3)   Accessory structures shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential.
      (4)   Accessory structures shall be constructed and placed on the
building site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters.
      (5)   Accessory structures shall be firmly anchored in accordance with
the provisions of §
154.060(A).
      (6)   All service facilities such as electrical shall be installed in
accordance with the provisions of §
154.060(D).
      (7)   Flood openings to facilitate automatic equalization of hydrostatic
flood forces shall be provided below regulatory flood protection elevation in
conformance with the provisions of §
154.061(D)(3) of this code.
      (8)   An accessory structure with a footprint less than 150 square feet
that satisfies the criteria outlined above does not require an elevation or
floodproofing certificate. Elevation or floodproofing certifications are
required for all other accessory structures in accordance with §
154.041(C) of this code.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.062 STANDARDS FOR FLOODPLAINS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS.
   Within the special flood hazard areas designated as Approximate Zone A and
established in §
154.022 of this code, where no base flood elevation (BFE) data has been
provided by FEMA, the following provisions, in addition to the provisions of §§
154.060 and
154.061, shall apply.
   (A)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements or new development shall be permitted within a distance of 20 feet
each side from top of bank or five times the width of the stream, whichever is
greater, unless certification with supporting technical data by a registered
professional engineer is provided demonstrating that such encroachments shall
not result in any increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the base
flood discharge.
   (B)   The BFE used in determining the regulatory flood protection elevation
shall be determined based on the following criteria.
      (1)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is available from other
sources, all new construction and substantial improvements within such areas
shall also comply with all applicable provisions of this chapter and shall be
elevated or floodproofed in accordance with standards in §§
154.060 and
154.061 of this code.
      (2)   All subdivision, manufactured home park and other development
proposals shall provide base flood elevation (BFE) data if development is
greater than five acres or has more than 50 lots/manufactured home sites. Such
base flood elevation (BFE) data shall be adopted by reference in accordance
with §
154.022 of this code and utilized in implementing this chapter.
      (3)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is not available from a
federal, state or other source as outlined above, the reference level shall be
elevated to or above the regulatory flood protection elevation, as defined in §
154.005 of this code.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.063 STANDARDS FOR RIVERINE FLOODPLAINS WITH BFE BUT WITHOUT ESTABLISHED
FLOODWAYS OR NON-ENCROACHMENT AREAS.
   Along rivers and streams where BFE data is provided by FEMA or is available
from another source but neither floodway nor non-encroachment areas are
identified for a special flood hazard area on the FIRM or in the FIS report,
the following requirements shall apply to all development within such areas:
   (A)   Standards of §§
154.060 and
154.061 of this code; and
   (B)   Until a regulatory floodway or non-encroachment area is designated, no
encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial improvements or
other development, shall be permitted unless certification with supporting
technical data by a registered professional engineer is provided demonstrating
that the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined with all
other existing and anticipated development, will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point within the
community.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.064 FLOODWAYS AND NON-ENCROACHMENT AREAS.
   (A)   Areas designated as floodways or non-encroachment areas are located
within the special flood hazard areas established in §
154.022 of this code. The floodways and non-encroachment areas are extremely
hazardous areas due to the velocity of floodwaters that have erosion potential
and carry debris and potential projectiles.
   (B)   The following provisions, in addition to standards outlined in §§
154.060 and
154.061 of this code, shall apply to all development within such areas.
      (1)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements and other developments shall be permitted unless:
         (a)   It is demonstrated that the proposed encroachment would not
result in any increase in the flood levels during the occurrence of the base
flood, based on hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with
standard engineering practice and presented to the Floodplain Administrator
prior to issuance of floodplain development permit; or
         (b)   A Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR) has been approved
by FEMA. A Letter of Map Revision (LOMR) must also be obtained upon completion
of the proposed encroachment.
      (2)   If §
154.065(A) of this code is satisfied, all development shall comply with all
applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   No manufactured homes shall be permitted, except replacement
manufactured homes in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision,
provided the following provisions are met:
         (a)   The anchoring and the elevation standards of §
154.061(C) of this code; and
         (b)   The no encroachment standard of §
154.065(B)(1) of this code.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.065 AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING (ZONE AO); STANDARDS.
   (A)   (1)   Located within the special flood hazard areas established in §
154.022 of this code, are areas designated as shallow flooding areas.
      (2)   These areas have special flood hazards associated with base flood
depths of one to three feet where a clearly defined channel does not exist and
where the path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate.
   (B)   In addition to §§
154.060 and
154.061 of this code, all new construction and substantial improvements shall
meet the following requirements.
      (1)   The reference level shall be elevated at least as high as the depth
number specified on the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), in feet, plus a
freeboard of four feet, above the highest adjacent grade, or at least four feet
above the highest adjacent grade if no depth number is specified.
      (2)   (a)   Non-residential structures may, in lieu of elevation, be
floodproofed to the same level as required in §§
154.060 through
154.065 of this code so that the structure, together with attendant utility and
sanitary facilities, below that level shall be watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads and effects of buoyancy.
         (b)   Certification is required in accordance with §§
154.041(C) and
154.061(B) of this code.
      (3)   Adequate drainage paths shall be provided around structures on
slopes, to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed structures.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS
§ 154.080 EFFECT ON RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES UNDER THE EXISTING FLOOD DAMAGE
PREVENTION ORDINANCE.
   This chapter in part comes forward by re-enactment of some of the provisions
of the Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance enacted May 18, 1988 as amended, and
it is not the intention to repeal but rather to re-enact and continue to
enforce without interruption of such existing provisions, so that all rights
and
liabilities that have accrued thereunder are reserved and may be enforced. The
enactment of this chapter shall not affect any action, suit or proceeding
instituted or pending. All provisions of the Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance
of town enacted on May 18, 1988, as amended, which are not reenacted herein are
repealed.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 154.081 EFFECT UPON OUTSTANDING FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMITS.
   Nothing herein contained shall require any change in the plans,
construction, size or designated use of any development or any part thereof for
which a floodplain development permit has been granted by the Floodplain
Administrator or his or her authorized agents before the time of passage of
this chapter; provided, however, that when construction is not begun under such
outstanding permit within a period of six months subsequent to the date of
issuance of the outstanding permit, construction or use shall be in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
§ 154.999 PENALTY.
   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
its requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with grants of variance or other approved exceptions, shall
constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to
comply with any of its requirements shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code. Each day such violation continues shall be considered a
separate offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the town from taking
such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
Any notice of violation shall be in writing and shall be issued pursuant to
G.S. § 160D-404(a).
(Ord. 21- , passed - -2021)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ZONING
TABLE I: ZONING
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./ Date
Res.  Passed Description
No.
ZO-   8-7-
17-   2017   Rezone parcel 07-04172 from RS to C.
001
ZO-   11-2-
17-   2017   Rezone parcel 07-04165 from LI to C.
002
ZO-   3-7-
18-   2018   Rezone parcel 07-00111 from LI to C.
001
ZO-   9-5-
18-   2018   Rezone parcel 07-04825 from RS to C.
001
-     7-26-  Rezone parcel 0704175 from RS to C.
      2021
21-   11-22- Subdivide property identified as “Warren County NEWPIN 3917638164, MAPN L6
016   2021   18” into Parcel A, Parcel B and Parcel C. Rezone parcels A and B from RA to
             R-10. Rezone parcel C from RA to LI.
            
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to North Carolina General Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUTES
G.S. Cites Code Section
G.S. Cites                    Code Section
1-54.1                        153.022
1-597                         51.03
                              72.31,
                              72.32,
14-4                          90.35,
                              132.02,
                              132.03,
                              152.11
14-4(a)                       10.99
14-4(b)                       70.99
Ch. 14, Art. 37, pt. 1        111.01
14-159.12                     130.09
14-202.10                     153.005
18B-1001                      110.09
20-63                         71.072
20-111                        71.075
20-127                        71.073
20-128                        71.077
20-129                        71.074
20-130                        71.078
20-135.2A                     71.071
20-137.1                      71.070
20-137.4A                     71.076
20-154                        71.053
20-219.11                     94.09,
                              94.17
20-219-11                     94.17
Ch. 29                        151.02
44A                           94.11
47A-1 et seq.                 153.005
47-30                         151.33 –
                              151.35
62-103(k)                     112.01
Ch. 90, Art. 5                132.03
105-375 et seq.               152.09
Ch. 113A, Art. 4              151.55
130A-290(a)(6)                154.005
130A-290(a)(35)               154.005
130A-290(a)(36)               154.005
Ch. 130A, Art. 9              154.005
136-44.14                     151.54
136-102.6                     151.54
136-141 et seq.               94.14
136-143                       94.14
143-128 et seq.               33.06
143-129                       96.01
143-129(a)                    33.07
143-129(e)                    33.03
143-129(g)                    33.03
143-138(e)                    150.01
143-139.1                     152.01,
                              153.005
143-143.15                    154.061
143-145(7)                    153.005
143-211                       154.001
143-213(18)                   50.002
                              50.002,
143-215.1                     50.107,
                              50.109
143-215.1(b)                  50.108
143-215.3(a)(14)              50.002
143-215.6B                    50.152
143-215.33 through 143-215.37 151.55
143-318.9 et seq.             32.22
143-34.12                     151.55
150B                          50.107
160A                          50.001
160A-31                       153.020
160A-58.1                     153.020
                              150.08,
                              151.14,
160A-75                       152.13,
                              153.037,
                              154.020
160A-174                      132.02
160A-175                      10.99
160A-193                      153.126
160A-265 through 160A-279     33.21
160A-266(c)                   33.23
160A-303                      94.02
160A-303.2                    94.02
Ch. 160D, Art. 4              153.055
Ch. 160D, Art. 7              153.001
Ch. 160D, Art. 11             150.06,
                              154.001
                              151.01,
                              152.02,
160D-102                      152.25,
                              153.017,
                              154.041
160D-102(15)                  152.01,
                              153.002
                              151.01,
                              152.02,
160D-104                      152.25,
                              153.017,
                              154.041
                              153.091,
160D-105                      153.095,
                              154.022
                              153.018,
160D-108                      153.020,
                              153.021
160D-108.1                    150.01
160D-108(d)(2)                150.02
160D-108(d)(3)                151.01
160D-109                      153.023
160D-202(d)                   153.040
160D-301                      32.20
                              150.09,
                              152.12,
160D-302                      153.059,
                              153.061,
                              153.076,
                              154.043
160D-307                      32.21,
                              153.075
160D-308                      153.023
160D-309                      153.023
                              151.01,
                              152.02,
160D-403                      152.25,
                              153.017,
                              154.041
                              150.04,
                              151.57,
160D-403(e)                   152.04,
                              152.05,
                              154.042
                              153.017,
160D-403(f)                   153.056,
                              154.042
                              150.04,
                              150.99,
160D-404(a)                   152.06,
                              152.07,
                              153.999,
                              154.999
                              150.05,
160D-404(b)                   151.17,
                              153.056,
                              154.042
                              150.07,
                              151.18,
160D-404(c)                   152.11,
                              153.056,
                              154.045
                              150.09,
160D-405                      152.12,
                              153.059,
                              154.043
160D-405(c)                   153.077
                              150.09,
                              152.12,
160D-406                      153.059,
                              153.061,
                              154.043
160D-501                      153.038
                              150.08,
                              151.14,
160D-601                      152.13,
                              153.037,
                              153.038,
                              154.020
160D-601(d)                   153.037
160D-602                      153.037
160D-605(b)                   153.037
160D-703                      153.060
160D-703(b)                   153.061
                              150.09,
                              152.12,
160D-705                      153.059,
                              153.061,
                              154.043
160D-705(d)(2)                153.078
160D-801 et seq.              151.03
160D-803                      151.31
160D-804                      151.30
160D-804.1                    151.33
160D-806                      151.12
160D-903(c)                   153.008
160D-923                      154.001
160D-1001 et seq.             153.060
160D-1111                     150.01,
                              153.018
160D-1114                     150.06
160D-1115                     153.018
160D-1201                     152.02
160D-1201 et seq.             152.01
160D-1203                     152.06
160D-1203(6)                  152.06
160D-1205                     152.02
160D-1207                     152.05
160D-1405                     153.022
Ch. 168, Art. 3               153.096
                              
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2022 Code
Prior Code 2022 Code
10.01      10.01
10.02      10.02
10.03      10.03
10.04      10.04
10.05      10.05
10.06      10.06
10.07      10.07
10.08      10.08
10.09      10.09
10.10      10.10
10.11      10.11
10.12      10.12
10.13      10.13
10.14      10.14
10.15      10.15
10.16      10.16
10.17      10.17
10.18      10.18
10.99      10.99
30.01      30.01
30.02      30.02
30.03      30.03
30.15      30.15
30.16      30.16
30.17      30.17
31.01      31.01
31.02      31.02
31.03      31.03
31.04      31.04
32.01      32.01
32.02      32.02
32.03      32.03
32.04      32.04
32.05      32.05
32.15      32.20
32.16      32.21
32.17      32.22
32.18      32.23
32.19      32.24
32.20      32.25
33.01      33.01
33.02      33.02
33.03      33.03
33.04      33.04
33.05      33.05
33.06      33.06
33.07      33.07
33.20      33.20
33.21      33.21
33.22      33.22
33.23      33.23
50.001     50.001
50.002     50.002
50.003     50.003
50.004     50.004
50.005     50.005
50.015     50.020
50.016     50.021
50.017     50.022
50.018     50.023
50.019     50.024
50.020     50.025
50.021     50.026
50.022     50.027
50.023     50.028
50.024     50.029
50.025     50.030
50.035     50.045
50.036     50.046
50.037     50.047
50.038     50.048
50.039     50.049
50.040     50.050
50.050     50.065
50.051     50.066
50.052     50.067
50.053     50.068
50.054     50.069
50.055     50.070
50.056     50.071
50.070     50.085
50.071     50.086
50.072     50.087
50.073     50.088
50.074     50.089
50.075     50.090
50.076     50.091
50.077     50.092
50.078     50.093
50.079     50.094
50.090     50.105
50.091     50.106
50.092     50.107
50.093     50.108
50.094     50.109
50.095     50.110
50.096     50.111
50.097     50.112
50.110     50.125
50.111     50.126
50.112     50.127
50.113     50.128
50.114     50.129
50.115     50.130
50.116     50.131
50.117     50.132
50.118     50.133
50.119     50.134
50.120     50.135
50.121     50.136
50.122     50.137
50.123     50.138
50.124     50.139
50.135     50.150
50.136     50.151
50.137     50.152
50.138     50.153
50.139     50.154
50.140     50.155
50.141     50.156
50.142     50.157
50.999     50.999
52.01      52.01
52.02      52.02
52.03      52.03
52.04      52.04
52.05      52.05
52.06      52.06
52.07      52.07
70.01      70.01
70.02      70.02
70.99      70.99
71.001     71.001
71.002     71.002
71.003     71.003
71.004     71.004
71.005     71.005
71.006     71.006
71.020     71.020
71.021     71.021
71.022     71.022
71.035     71.035
71.036     71.036
71.037     71.037
71.038     71.038
71.050     71.050
71.051     71.051
71.052     71.052
71.065     71.065
71.066     71.066
71.067     71.067
71.068     71.068
71.069     71.069
71.080     71.090
71.081     71.091
71.082     71.092
71.083     71.093
71.084     71.094
71.085     71.095
71.086     71.096
71.087     71.097
71.100     71.110
71.101     71.111
71.102     71.112
71.103     71.113
72.01      72.01
72.02      72.02
72.03      72.03
72.04      72.04
72.05      72.05
72.06      72.06
72.07      72.07
72.08      72.08
72.09      72.09
72.10      72.10
72.20      72.25
72.21      72.26
72.22      72.27
72.23      72.28
72.24      72.29
72.25      72.30
72.26      72.31
72.27      72.32
90.01      90.01
90.02      90.02
90.03      90.03
90.04      90.04
90.05      90.05
90.06      90.06
90.20      90.20
90.21      90.21
90.22      90.22
90.23      90.23
90.35      90.35
90.36      90.36
90.37      90.37
90.38      90.38
90.39      90.39
90.50      90.50
90.51      90.51
90.52      90.52
91.01      91.01
91.02      91.02
91.15      91.15
91.16      91.16
91.17      91.17
91.18      91.18
91.19      91.19
91.20      91.20
91.21      91.21
91.22      91.22
91.23      91.23
92.01      92.01
92.02      92.02
92.03      92.03
92.04      92.04
92.15      92.15
92.16      92.16
92.17      92.17
92.18      92.18
92.30      92.30
92.31      92.31
92.32      92.32
92.33      92.33
92.34      92.34
92.99      92.99
93.01      93.01
93.02      93.02
93.03      93.03
93.04      93.04
93.05      93.05
93.06      93.06
93.20      93.20
93.21      93.21
93.22      93.22
93.23      93.23
93.35      93.35
93.36      93.36
93.37      93.37
95.01      95.01
95.02      95.02
95.15      95.15
95.16      95.16
95.17      95.17
95.18      95.18
95.19      95.19
95.20      95.20
95.21      95.21
95.35      95.35
95.36      95.36
95.37      95.37
95.38      95.38
95.50      95.50
95.51      95.51
95.99      95.99
110.01     110.01
110.02     110.02
110.03     110.03
110.04     110.04
110.05     110.05
110.06     110.06
110.07     110.07
110.08     110.08
111.01     111.01
111.02     111.02
111.03     111.03
111.04     111.04
111.05     111.05
111.06     111.07
112.01     112.01
112.15     112.15
112.16     112.16
112.17     112.17
112.18     112.18
112.19     112.19
112.20     112.20
112.21     112.21
112.22     112.22
112.23     130.01
130.01     130.01
130.02     130.02
130.03     130.03
130.04     130.04
130.05     130.05
130.06     130.06
130.07     130.07
130.08     130.08
130.99     130.99
131.01     131.01
131.02     131.02
131.03     131.03
131.04     131.04
131.05     131.05
131.06     131.06
131.07     131.07
131.08     131.08
131.99     131.99
132.01     132.01
132.02     132.02
132.03     132.03
           
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.  Date Passed Code Section
-         6-5-1961    70.99
O-61-001  6-5-1961    70.02
                      131.01 –
O-63-002  9-6-1963    131.08,
                      131.99
-         11-3-1969   130.07
-         7-1-1974    130.06,
                      130.99
1974-10   - -1974     95.16
O-80-003  9-8-1980    32.20 –
                      32.25
                      111.01 –
O-82-003  12-6-1982   111.05,
                      111.07
O-83-002  3-7-1983    90.36
                      95.01,
                      95.02,
                      95.15 –
                      95.21,
O-86-003  10-6-1986   95.35 –
                      95.38,
                      95.50,
                      95.51,
                      95.99
                      92.30 –
O-94-006  8-1-1994    92.34,
                      92.99
O-98-004  2-23-1998   33.01 –
                      33.07
O-98-005  2-23-1998   33.20 –
                      33.23
O-98-001  3-2-1998    150.02
O-98-002  3-2-1998    90.36
O-99-01   10-4-1999   132.02
                      50.001 –
                      50.005,
                      50.020 –
                      50.030,
                      50.045 –
                      50.050,
                      50.065 –
                      50.071,
O-00-001  2-24-2000   50.085 –
                      50.094,
                      50.105 –
                      50.112,
                      50.125 –
                      50.139,
                      50.150 –
                      50.157,
                      50.999
-         7-12-2004   152.02,
                      153.005
-         8-8-2005    153.005
                      51.01 –
O-07-002  7-2-2007    51.11,
                      51.99
                      94.01 –
O-07-003  1-7-2008    94.17,
                      94.99
2009-05   8-17-2009   153.005
2009-07   8-17-2009   153.005
2010-03   7-19-2010   153.005
2012-01   4-16-2012   153.005
2013-02   4-15-2013   153.005
2013-08   9-16-2013   153.005
ZO-17-001 8-7-2017    TSO Table I
                      111.01,
17-       9-7-2017    111.02,
                      111.04 –
                      111.06
ZO-17-002 11-2-2017   TSO Table I
18-       - -2018     30.01
18-02     8-1-2018    71.098
ZO-18-001 3-7-2018    TSO Table I
ZO-18-001 9-5-2018    TSO Table I
                      71.070 –
19-006    1-9-2019    71.078,
                      130.09
                      10.99,
                      50.999,
                      51.99,
                      70.99,
                      92.99,
19-       2-21-2019   94.99,
                      95.99,
                      130.99,
                      131.99,
                      151.99,
                      152.99
20-       2- -2020    94.02,
                      94.05
-         3-16-2020   96.01
                      153.092,
20-010    11-24-2020  153.126,
                      153.127,
                      153.130
21-       - -2021     32.20 –
                      32.25
-         2-8-2021    132.04
21-       1-25-2021   30.01
2021-005  5-10-2021   50.157
                      32.20 –
                      32.25,
                      150.01 –
                      150.09,
                      150.30,
                      150.99,
                      151.01 –
                      151.18,
                      151.30 –
                      151.38,
                      151.50 –
                      151.60,
                      151.99,
                      152.01 –
                      152.13,
                      152.25 –
                      152.33,
                      152.99,
                      153.001 –
                      153.023,
21-       - -2021     153.035 –
                      153.062,
                      153.075 –
                      153.078,
                      153.090 –
                      153.097,
                      153.110,
                      153.111,
                      153.125 –
                      153.130,
                      153.999,
                      154.001 –
                      154.005,
                      154.020 –
                      154.027,
                      154.040 –
                      154.045,
                      154.060 –
                      154.065,
                      154.080,
                      154.081,
                      154.999
21-007    5-24-2021   10.99
-         7-26-2021   TSO Table I
21-009    7-26-2021   153.097
21-012    10-11-2021  71.053,
                      71.054
21-       10-25-2021  110.09
21-016    11-22-2021  TSO Table I
                     
 
