LOWELL, NORTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2019 S-2 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. passed 5-3-2019; and
State legislation current through 2018 North Carolina Legislative Service
Pamphlet #6
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
One West Fourth Street, Third Floor
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Internet:  http://www.amlegal.com
THE CHARTER OF THE CITY OF LOWELL
Section
Article I:  Incorporation, Corporate Powers and Boundaries
   
1.1   Charter revised and consolidated
   
1.2   Incorporation
   
1.3   Powers
   
1.4   Corporate limits
Article II:  Governing Body
   
2.1   Mayor and City Council
   
2.2   Council Members; Terms of Office
   
2.3   Mayor; Term of Office; Duties
   
2.4   Mayor Pro Tempore
   
2.5   Meetings
   
2.6   Voting Requirements; Quorum
   
2.7   Compensation; Qualifications for Office; Vacancies
Article III:  Elections
   
3.1   Regular Municipal Elections
   
3.2   Election of Mayor
   
3.3   Election of Council
   
3.4   Special Elections and Referendums
Article IV:  Organization and Administration
   
4.1   Form of Government
   
4.2   City Manager
   
4.3   City Clerk
   
4.4   Tax Collector
   
4.5   City Attorney
   
4.6   Other Administrative Officers and Employees
Article V:  Additional Provisions
   
5.1   Police Power
   
5.2   Purpose of Revision
   
5.3   Effect of Revision
   
5.4   Acts Repealed
   
5.5   Terms of Mayor and Council Members on Date of Ratification
   
5.6   Effect of Rights or Interests Which Arose Under Any Provision Repealed by
this Act
   
5.7   Existing Ordinances, Resolutions and Other Provisions in Effect
   
5.8   Action or Proceeding Pending Against City Affected by this Act
   
5.9   Invalid Provision or Application
   
5.10   Reference Made to Particular Provision of General Statutes
   
5.11   Act Effective Upon Ratification
ARTICLE I:  INCORPORATION, CORPORATE POWERS AND BOUNDARIES
§ 1.1  CHARTER REVISED AND CONSOLIDATED.
   The Charter of the City of Lowell is revised and consolidated as follows:
§ 1.2  INCORPORATION.
   The City of Lowell, North Carolina in Gaston County and the inhabitants
thereof shall continue to be a municipal body politic and corporate, under the
name of the “City of Lowell,” hereinafter at times referred to as the “City.”
§ 1.3  POWERS.
   The City shall have and may exercise all the powers, duties, rights,
privileges and immunities conferred upon the City of Lowell specifically by
this Charter or upon municipal corporations by general law. The term “general
law” is employed herein as defined in G.S. 160A-1.
§ 1.4  CORPORATE LIMITS.
   The corporate limits shall be those existing at the time of ratification of
this Charter, as set forth on the official map of the City and as they may be
altered from time to time in accordance with law. An official map of the City,
showing the current boundaries, shall be maintained permanently in the office
of the City Clerk and shall be available for public inspection. Immediately
upon alteration of the corporate limits made pursuant to law, the appropriate
changes of the official map shall be made and copies shall be filed in the
office of the Secretary of State, the Gaston County Register of Deeds and the
appropriate board of elections.
ARTICLE II:  GOVERNING BODY
§ 2.1  MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL.
   The Mayor and the City Council, hereafter referred to as the “Council,”
shall be the governing body of the City.
§ 2.2  COUNCIL MEMBERS; TERMS OF OFFICE.
   The Council shall be composed of five members elected at large by all the
qualified voters of the City for terms of four years on a staggered basis.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2019)
§ 2.3  MAYOR; TERM OF OFFICE; DUTIES.
   The Mayor shall be elected by all the qualified voters of the City for a
term of four years or until his or her successor is elected and qualified. The
Mayor shall be the official head of the City government and preside at meetings
of the Council, shall have the right to vote only when there is an equal
division on any question or matter before the Council, and shall exercise the
powers and duties conferred by law or as directed by Council.
(Ord. passed 4-9-2019)
§ 2.4  MAYOR PRO TEMPORE.
   The Council shall elect one of its members as Mayor Pro Tempore to perform
the duties of the Mayor during his or her absence or disability, in accordance
with general law. The Mayor Pro Tempore shall serve in such capacity at the
pleasure of the Council.
§ 2.5  MEETINGS.
   In accordance with general law, the Council shall establish a suitable time
and place for its regular meetings. Special and emergency meetings may be held
as provided by general law.
§ 2.6  VOTING REQUIREMENTS; QUORUM.
   Official actions of the Council and all votes shall be taken in accordance
with the applicable provisions of general law, particularly G.S.160A-75. The
quorum provisions of G.S. 160A-74 shall apply.
§ 2.7  COMPENSATION; QUALIFICATIONS FOR OFFICE; VACANCIES.
   The compensation and qualifications of the Mayor and Council shall be fixed
in accordance with general law. Vacancies that occur in any elective office of
the City shall be filled by appointment as provided in G.S. 160A-63.
ARTICLE III:  ELECTIONS
§ 3.1  REGULAR MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS.
   Regular municipal elections shall be held in each odd-numbered year in
accordance with the uniform municipal election laws of North Carolina.
Elections shall be conducted on a nonpartisan basis and the results determined
using the nonpartisan plurality method as provided in G.S. 163-292.
§ 3.2  ELECTION OF MAYOR.
   A Mayor shall be elected in each regular municipal election.
§ 3.3  ELECTION OF COUNCIL.
   Council members shall be elected in each regular municipal election, as
their terms expire.
§ 3.4  SPECIAL ELECTIONS AND REFERENDUMS.
   Special elections and referendums may be held only as provided by general
law or applicable local acts of the General Assembly.
ARTICLE IV:  ORGANIZATION AND ADMINISTRATION
§ 4.1  FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The City shall operate under the council-manager form of government, in
accordance with G.S. Chapter 160A, Article 7, Part 2.
§ 4.2  CITY MANAGER.
   The Council shall appoint a City Manager who shall be responsible for the
administration of all departments of the City government. The City Manager
shall have all the powers and duties conferred by general law, except as
expressly limited by the provisions of this Charter, and the additional powers
and duties conferred by the Council, so far as authorized by general law.
§ 4.3  CITY CLERK.
   The Council shall appoint a City Clerk to keep a journal of the proceedings
of the Council, to maintain official records and documents, to give notice of
meetings, and to perform such other duties required by law or as the Council
may direct.
§ 4.4  TAX COLLECTOR.
   The Council shall appoint a Tax Collector to collect all taxes owed to the
City, subject to general law, this Charter and City ordinances.
§ 4.5  CITY ATTORNEY.
   The Council shall appoint a City Attorney licensed to practice law in North
Carolina. It shall be the duty of the City Attorney to represent the City,
advise City officials and perform other duties required by law or as the
Council may direct.
§ 4.6  OTHER ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   The Council may authorize other positions to be filled by appointment by the
City Manager, and may organize the City Government as deemed appropriate,
subject to the requirements of general law.
ARTICLE V:  ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS
§ 5.1  POLICE POWER.
   The City may adopt and enforce within its corporate limits and within one
mile thereof police power regulations not inconsistent with the General
Statutes of North Carolina and all amendments thereto.
§ 5.2  PURPOSE OF REVISION.
   The purpose of this act is to revise the Charter of the City of Lowell and
to consolidate certain acts concerning the property, affairs and government of
the City. It is intended to continue without interruption those provisions of
prior acts which are expressly consolidated into this act, so that all rights
and liabilities which have accrued are preserved and may be enforced.
§ 5.3  EFFECT OF REVISION.
   This act does not repeal or affect any acts validating official actions,
proceedings, contracts or obligations of any kind.
§ 5.4  ACTS REPEALED.
   The following acts, having served the purposes for which they were enacted
or having been consolidated into this act, are expressly repealed:
Chapter 62, Private Laws of 1879
Chapter 166, Private Laws of 1889
Chapter 64, Private Laws of 1909
Chapter 212, Private Laws of 1927
Chapter 194, Private Laws of 1929
Chapter 283, Session Laws of 1955
Chapter 359, Section 1, Session Laws of 1955
Chapter 340, Session Laws of 1961
Chapter 497, Session Laws of 1963
 
§ 5.5  TERMS OF MAYOR AND COUNCIL MEMBERS ON DATE OF RATIFICATION.
   The Mayor and Council members serving on the date of ratification of this
act shall serve until the expiration of their terms. Thereafter those offices
shall be filled as provided in Article II and III of the Charter.
§ 5.6  EFFECT OF RIGHTS OR INTERESTS WHICH AROSE UNDER ANY PROVISION REPEALED
BY THIS ACT.
   This act does not affect any rights or interests which arose under any
provisions repealed by this act.
§ 5.7  EXISTING ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS AND OTHER PROVISIONS IN EFFECT.
   All existing ordinances, resolutions and other provisions of the City of
Lowell not inconsistent with the provisions of this act shall continue in
effect until repealed or amended.
§ 5.8  ACTION OR PROCEEDING PENDING AGAINST CITY AFFECTED BY THIS ACT.
   No action or proceeding pending on the effective date of this act by or
against the City or any of its departments or agencies shall be abated or
otherwise affected by this action.
§ 5.9  INVALID PROVISION OR APPLICATION.
   If any provision or application of this act is held invalid, such invalidity
shall not affect other provisions or applications of this act which can be
given effect with the invalid provision or application, and to this end the
provisions of this act are declared to be serverable.
§ 5.10  REFERENCE MADE TO PARTICULAR PROVISION OF GENERAL STATUTES.
   Whenever a reference is made in this act to a particular provision of the
General Statutes, and such provision is later amended, superseded or
recodified, the reference shall be deemed amended to refer to the amended
General Statute, or to the General Statute which most clearly corresponds to
the statutory provision which is superseded or recodified.
§ 5.11  ACT EFFECTIVE UPON RATIFICATION.
   This act is effective upon ratification.
(Adopted 3-4-93)
TITLE I:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10:  GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time; computing time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinances
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend code; effect of new ordinances
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.19   Filing of technical codes
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01  TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the City of Lowell shall be
designated as the Code of Lowell, North Carolina and may be so cited.
(1995 Code, § 1-1)  (Ord. passed 11-12-1984)
Statutory reference:
   As to admission of code into evidence, see G.S. § 160A-79
§ 10.02  INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03  APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04  CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
(1995 Code, § 1-4)
§ 10.05  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CHARTER. The Charter of the City of Lowell, North Carolina.
      CITY. The City of Lowell, North Carolina.
      CITY COUNCIL. The Mayor and Council, or governing body, of the City of
Lowell, North Carolina.
      CITY MANAGER. The City Manager of the City of Lowell.
      CODE,THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or
sections.
      COMPUTATION OF TIME. The time within which an act is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first and the last day; and if the last day is
Saturday, Sunday or a legal holiday, that day shall be excluded.
      COUNTY. The County of Gaston, North Carolina.
      G.S. or GENERAL STATUTES. The latest edition of the GENERAL STATUTES of
North Carolina, as amended.
      GENDER. Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine
and neuter.
      GOVERNOR. The Governor of North Carolina.
      JOINT AUTHORITY. All words giving a joint authority to three or more
persons or officers shall be construed as giving the authority to a majority of
persons or officers.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MAYOR. The Mayor of the city.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      NUMBER. Words used in the singular include the plural, and the plural
includes the singular number.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in those cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of this municipality unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
      OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD. Whenever certain hours are named in this code,
they shall mean standard time or daylight saving time as may be in current use
in this city.
      OWNER. Applied to any property, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety, of the whole
or a part of the property.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Every species of property except real property.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      PROPERTY. Includes real and personal property.
      REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIDEWALK. Any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of North Carolina.
      STREET. Any public way, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard,
parkway, dedicated alley, lane, viaduct, bridge and the approaches thereto
within the city and shall mean the entire width of the right-of-way between
abutting property lines.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      TENANT or OCCUPANT. When applied to a building or land, shall include any
person who occupies the whole or a part of the building or land, whether alone
or with others.
      TENSE. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well
as the past and present.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
      ZONING ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. One designated by the Council.
(1995 Code, § 1-2)  (Ord. passed 11-12-1984)
Statutory reference:
   Computation of time, see G.S. § 1-593
   Rules of construction, see G.S. § 12-3
§ 10.06  RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this city shall be by the following
rules, unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of an act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07  SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
(1995 Code, § 1-7)
§ 10.08  REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09  REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10  ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, that spelling shall be corrected and the word
or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11  OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this city for the transaction of all
municipal business.
§ 10.12  REASONABLE TIME; COMPUTING TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13  ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14  ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   (A)   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other
ordinances pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in
full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary
implication.
   (B)   Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code shall be
construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
      (1)   Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture
incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective
date of this code;
      (2)   Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment
of money for the city or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the city or
any evidence of the city’s indebtedness;
      (3)   Any contract or obligation assumed by the city;
      (4)   Any ordinance fixing the salary of any city officer or employee;
      (5)   Any right or franchise granted by the city;
      (6)   Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating,
relocating, opening, widening, paving and the like, any street or public way in
the city;
      (7)   Any appropriation ordinance;
      (8)   Any ordinance which, by its own terms, is effective for a stated or
limited term;
      (9)   Any ordinance providing for local improvements and assessing taxes
therefor;
      (10)   Any zoning ordinance or zoning map amendment;
      (11)   Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any subdivision plat;
      (12)   Any ordinance describing or altering the boundaries of the city;
      (13)   The administrative ordinances or resolutions of the city not in
conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this code;
      (14)   Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes not included herein;
      (15)   Any ordinance establishing or prescribing street grades in the
city; and/or
      (16)   Any personnel ordinance.
   (C)   Nor shall any ordinance be construed to revive any ordinance or part
thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance which is repealed by
this chapter; and all ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full
force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length herein.
Statutory reference:
   Statutes not repealed by General Statutes, see G.S. § 164-7
§ 10.15  EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from
their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16  REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
(1995 Code, § 1-5)
§ 10.17  ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND CODE; EFFECT OF NEW ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal or
in any way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering
system hereof and printed for inclusion herein. When subsequent ordinances
repeal any chapter, section or division, or any portion thereof, the repealed
portions may be excluded from this code by omission from reprinted pages. The
subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted in the case of
repeal, shall be prima facie evidence that the subsequent ordinances numbered
or omitted are readopted as a new code by the city.
   (B)   Amendments to any of the provisions of the code shall be made by
amending provisions by specific reference to the section number of this code in
language substantially similar to the following: “Section                of the
Code of Ordinances, City of Lowell, North Carolina, is hereby amended as
follows....” The new provisions shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (C)   If a new section not heretofore existing in the code is to be added,
language substantially similar to the following shall be used: “The Code of
Ordinances, City of Lowell, North Carolina, is hereby amended by adding a
section, to be numbered               , which section shall read as
follows:....” The new section shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (D)   All sections, articles, chapters or provisions desired to be repealed
must be specifically repealed by section, article or chapter number, as the
case may be.
(1995 Code, § 1-8)
§ 10.18  SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance and any and all amending ordinances, if any, are
listed following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-
1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-
1985)
   (B)   (1)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text
of the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example: (G.S. §
160A-11)  (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1985)
      (2)   A statutory cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
         § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection
or copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
            Inspection of public records, see G.S. §§ 132-1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the prior code of ordinances
of the city, the prior code section number shall be indicated in the history by
“(1995 Code, §       ).” The history notes following sections and the
references scattered throughout the code are not part of the code, but are
merely for the benefit for the user of the code.
§ 10.19  FILING OF TECHNICAL CODES.
   At least one copy of any technical code adopted in this code by reference
shall be kept on file for public inspection in the office of the City Manager.
(1995 Code, § 1-9)
§ 10.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of any
section or division of this code of ordinances for which no other penalty is
provided, or failing or neglecting or refusing to comply with same, shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor and subject to a fine not to
exceed
$50 or imprisonment not to exceed 30 days, and each day that any of the
provisions of this code of ordinances are violated shall constitute a separate
offense.
(G.S. § 14-4(a))  (1995 Code, § 1-6)
Statutory reference:
   For provisions concerning enforcement of ordinances, see G.S. § 160A-175
TITLE III:  ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   RULES OF PROCEDURE
      
31.   MAYOR AND COUNCIL
      
32.   ADMINISTRATIVE ORGANIZATION
      
33.   DEPARTMENTAL OPERATING ORGANIZATION
      
34.   FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION
      
35.   PUBLIC SAFETY
      
36.   CITY POLICIES
CHAPTER 30:  RULES OF PROCEDURE
Section
Meetings
   
30.01   Regular meetings
   
30.02   Special, emergency and recessed (or adjourned) meetings
   
30.03   Organizational meeting
   
30.04   Agenda
   
30.05   Scheduled public comments
   
30.06   Order of business
   
30.07   When the presiding officer is in active debate
   
30.08   Action by the Council
   
30.09   Second not required
   
30.10   One motion at a time
   
30.11   Substantive motions
   
30.12   Adoption by majority vote
   
30.13   Voting by written ballot
   
30.14   Debate
   
30.15   Ratification of actions
   
30.16   Procedural motions
   
30.17   Renewal of motion
   
30.18   Withdrawal of motion
   
30.19   Duty to vote
   
30.20   Special rules of procedure
   
30.21   Closed sessions
   
30.22   Quorum
   
30.23   Public hearings
   
30.24   Quorum at public hearings
   
30.25   Minutes
   
30.26   Appointments
   
30.27   Amendment of the Rules
   
30.28   Reference to Robert’s Rules of Order Newly Revised
Ordinances
   
30.40   Introduction of ordinances
   
30.41   Adoption of ordinances and approval of contracts
   
30.42   Adoption of the budget ordinance
City Officials
   
30.55   Office of Mayor
   
30.56   Office of Mayor Pro Tempore
MEETINGS
§ 30.01  REGULAR MEETINGS.
   The City Council shall annually adopt a schedule of regular meetings for the
calendar year. Regular meetings shall be held on the second Tuesday of each
month except that if a regular meeting day is a legal holiday, the meeting
shall be held the next business day. Nothing in this section shall prohibit the
City Council from altering meeting dates as needed due to particular
circumstances, or to cancel a regularly scheduled meeting.
(Ord. passed 12-9-2013; Ord. passed 8-20-2018)
§ 30.02  SPECIAL, EMERGENCY AND RECESSED (OR ADJOURNED) MEETINGS.
   (A)   Special meetings.
      (1)   (a)   The Mayor, the Mayor Pro Tempore, or any two members of the
Council may at any time call a special Council meeting by signing a written
notice stating the time and place of the meeting and the subjects to be
considered.
         (b)   At least 48 hours before a special meeting called in this
manner, written notice of the meeting stating its time and place and the
subjects to be considered shall be:
            1.   Delivered to the Mayor and each Council member or left at his
or her usual dwelling place;
            2.   Posted on the Council’s principal bulletin board, or if none,
at the door of the Council’s usual meeting room; and
            3.   Mailed or delivered to each newspaper, wire service, radio
station, television station and person who has filed a written request for
notice with the City Clerk.
         (c)   Only those items of business specified in the notice may be
transacted at a special meeting called in this manner, unless all members are
present or have signed a written waiver of notice. Even in such a case, the
Council shall only discuss or transact items of business not specified in the
notice if it determines in good faith at the meeting that it is essential to
discuss or act on the item immediately.
      (2)   (a)   A special meeting may also be called or scheduled by vote of
the Council in open session during another duly called meeting. The motion or
resolution calling or scheduling the special meeting shall specify its time,
place and purpose.
         (b)   At least 48 hours before a special meeting called in this
manner, notice of the time, place and purpose of the meeting shall be:
            1.   Posted on the Council’s principal bulletin board, or if none,
at the door of the Council’s usual meeting room; and
            2.   Mailed or delivered to each newspaper, wire service, radio
station, television station and person who has filed a written request for
notice with the City Clerk.
         (c)   Such notice shall also be mailed or delivered at least 48 hours
before the meeting to each Council member, and to the Mayor if he or she was
not present at that meeting. Only those items of business specified in the
notice may be discussed or transacted at a special meeting called in this
manner, unless all members are present or those not present have signed a
written waiver of notice, and the Council determines in good faith at the
meeting that it is essential to discuss or act on the item immediately.
   (B)   Emergency meetings. Emergency meetings of the City Council may be
called only because of generally unexpected circumstances that require
immediate consideration by the Council. Only business connected with the
emergency may be considered at an emergency meeting. One of the following two
procedures must be followed to call an emergency meeting of the Council.
      (1)   The Mayor, the Mayor Pro Tempore or any two members of the Council
may at any time call an emergency Council meeting by signing a written notice
stating the time and place of the meeting and the subjects to be considered.
The notice shall be delivered to the Mayor and each Council member or left at
his or her usual dwelling place at least six hours before the meeting.
      (2)   (a)   An emergency meeting may be held at any time when the Mayor
and all members of the Council are present and consent thereto, or when those
not present have signed a written waiver of
notice, but only in either case if the Council complies with the notice
provisions of division (B)(2)(b) below.
         (b)   Notice of an emergency meeting under division (B)(1) or (B)(2)
shall be given to each local newspaper, local wire service, local radio station
and local television station that has filed a written emergency meeting notice
request, which includes the newspaper’s, wire service’s or station’s telephone
number, with the City Clerk. This notice shall be given either by telephone or
by the same method used to notify the Mayor and the Council members and shall
be given at the expense of the party notified.
   (C)   Recessed or adjourned meetings. A properly called regular, special or
emergency meeting may be recessed or adjourned to a time and place certain by a
procedural motion made and adopted as provided in §
30.16, Motion 2, in open session during the regular, special or emergency
meeting. The motion shall state the time and place when the meeting will
reconvene. No further notice need be given of a recessed or adjourned session
of a properly called regular, special or emergency meeting.
(Ord. passed 12-9-2013)
§ 30.03  ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING.
   On the date and at the time of the first regular meeting in December
following a general election in which Council members are elected, or at an
earlier date, if any, set by the incumbent Council, the newly elected members
shall take and subscribe the oath of office as the first order of business. As
the second order of business, the Council shall elect a Mayor Pro Tempore. This
organizational meeting shall not be held before the municipal election results
are officially determined, certified and published in accordance with G.S. Ch.
163, Subch. IX.
(Ord. passed 12-9-2013)
§ 30.04  AGENDA.
   (A)   Proposed agenda.
      (1)   The City Manager shall prepare a proposed agenda for each meeting.
Any Council member may, by a timely written request, have an item placed on the
proposed agenda. A request to have an item of business placed on the agenda
must be received at least four working days before the meeting. In submitting a
request to add an item to the agenda, Council members shall include a full and
complete explanation of the item and reasonable supporting material for
inclusion in the agenda packet.
      (2)   An agenda packet shall be prepared that includes, for each item of
business placed on the proposed agenda, as much background information on the
subject as is reasonable and available. Each Council member shall receive a
copy of the proposed agenda and the agenda packet and they shall be available
for public inspection and distribution or copying when they are distributed to
the Council members.
   (B)   Adoption of the agenda.
      (1)   As its first order of business at each meeting, the Council shall,
as specified in §
30.06, discuss and revise the proposed agenda and adopt an agenda for the
meeting. If items are proposed to be added to the agenda of a meeting, the
Council may, by majority vote, require that written copies of particular
documents connected with the items be made available at the meeting to all
Council members.
      (2)   (a)   The Council may by majority vote add items to or subtract
items from the proposed agenda, except that:
            1.   The Council may not subtract items from the proposed agenda
stated in the notice of a special meeting called by the Mayor, Mayor Pro
Tempore or two Council members, unless those calling the meeting consent to the
deletion;
            2.   The Council may not add items to the proposed agenda stated in
the notice of a special meeting called by the Mayor, Mayor Pro Tempore or two
Council members, unless all members are present, or those who are absent sign a
written waiver of notice; and
            3.   Only business connected with the emergency may be considered
at an emergency meeting.
         (b)   The Council may add items to the proposed agenda of a special
meeting only if it determines in good faith at the meeting that it is essential
to discuss or act on the item immediately.
      (3)   The Council may designate certain agenda items “for discussion and
possible action.” Such designation means that the Council intends to discuss
the general subject area of that agenda item before making any motion
concerning that item.
   (C)   Consent agenda. The Council may designate a part of the agenda as the
“consent agenda.” Items shall be placed on the consent agenda by those
preparing the proposed agenda if they are judged to be noncontroversial and
routine. Any member may remove an item from the consent agenda and place it on
the regular agenda while the agenda is being discussed and revised prior to its
adoption at the beginning of the meeting. All items on the consent agenda shall
be voted on and adopted by a single motion, with the minutes reflecting the
motion and vote on each item.
   (D)   Open meetings requirements. The Council shall not deliberate, vote or
otherwise take action on any matter by reference to a letter, number or other
designation, or other secret device or method, with the intention of making it
impossible for persons attending a meeting of the Council to understand what is
being deliberated, voted or acted on. The Council may, however, deliberate,
vote or otherwise take action by reference to an agenda, if copies of the
agenda, sufficiently worded to enable the public to understand what is being
deliberated, voted or acted on, are available for public inspection at the
meeting.
(Ord. passed 12-9-2013)
§ 30.05  SCHEDULED PUBLIC COMMENTS.
   Any individual or group who wishes to address the Council shall make a
written request to be on the agenda to the City Clerk or City Manager. The
request must state, in reasonable specificity, the purpose for addressing the
Council. In adopting the agenda the Council shall determine whether it will
hear the individual or group. Individuals or groups addressing the Council
under scheduled public comments or unscheduled public comments shall be
provided five minutes in which to speak unless the Council votes to extend the
five-minute period for a specific individual or group. Comments from an
individual or group addressing the Council shall not request or solicit an
immediate response by the Council nor contain any personal attack or breach of
decorum.
(Ord. passed 12-9-2013)
§ 30.06  ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   Items shall be placed on the agenda according to the order of
business.
   (B)   The order of business for each regular meeting shall be as follows:
      (1)   Adoption of agenda (includes confirmation or setting of the consent
agenda);
      (2)   Approval of the minutes;
      (3)   Scheduled public comments;
      (4)   Public hearings;
      (5)   Administrative reports/presentations;
      (6)   Unfinished business;
      (7)   New business;
      (8)   Unscheduled public comments;
      (9)   Closed session;
      (10)   City Attorney report;
      (11)   City Manager reports;
      (12)   Council reports; and
      (13)   Adjourn.
   (C)   By general consent of the Council, items may be considered out of
order.
(Ord. passed 12-9-2013; Ord. passed 5-9-2014)
§ 30.07  WHEN THE PRESIDING OFFICER IS IN ACTIVE DEBATE.
   If the Mayor or other presiding officer becomes actively engaged in debate
on a particular proposal, he or she shall designate another Council member to
preside over the debate. The Mayor or other presiding officer shall resume
presiding as soon as action on the matter is concluded.
(Ord. passed 12-9-2013)
§ 30.08  ACTION BY THE COUNCIL.
   The Council shall proceed by motion, except as otherwise provided for in §
30.04 and in §
30.26. Any member may make a motion.
(Ord. passed 12-9-2013)
§ 30.09  SECOND NOT REQUIRED.
   A motion shall not require a second.
(Ord. passed 12-9-2013)
§ 30.10  ONE MOTION AT A TIME.
   A member may make only one motion at a time.
(Ord. passed 12-9-2013)
§ 30.11  SUBSTANTIVE MOTIONS.
   A substantive motion is out of order while another substantive motion is
pending.
(Ord. passed 12-9-2013)
§ 30.12  ADOPTION BY MAJORITY VOTE.
   A motion shall be adopted by a majority of the votes cast, a quorum as
defined in §
30.24 being present, unless otherwise required by these rules or the laws of
the state. A majority is more than half.
(Ord. passed 12-9-2013)
§ 30.13  VOTING BY WRITTEN BALLOT.
   (A)   The Council may choose by majority vote to use written ballots in
voting on a motion. Such ballots shall be signed, and the minutes of the
Council shall show the vote of each member voting.
   (B)   The ballots shall be available for public inspection in the office of
the City Clerk immediately following the meeting at which the vote took place
and until the minutes of that meeting are approved, at which time the ballots
may be destroyed.
(Ord. passed 12-9-2013)
§ 30.14  DEBATE.
   (A)   The Mayor shall state the motion and then open the floor to debate on
it.
   (B)   The Mayor shall preside over the debate according to the following
general principles:
      (1)   The maker of the motion is entitled to speak first;
      (2)   A member who has not spoken on the issue shall be recognized before
someone who has already spoken; and
      (3)   To the extent possible, the debate shall alternate between
proponents and opponents of the measure.
(Ord. passed 12-9-2013)
§ 30.15  RATIFICATION OF ACTIONS.
   To the extent permitted by law, the Council may ratify actions taken on its
behalf but without its prior approval. A motion to ratify is a substantive
motion.
(Ord. passed 12-9-2013)
§ 30.16  PROCEDURAL MOTIONS.
   (A)   Certain motions allowed. In addition to substantive proposals, only
the following procedural motions, and no others, are in order. Unless otherwise
noted, each motion is debatable, may be amended, and requires a majority of the
votes cast, a quorum being present, for adoption. Procedural motions are in
order while a substantive motion is pending and at other times, except as
otherwise noted.
   (B)   Order of priority of motions. In order of priority (if applicable),
the procedural motions are:
      (1)   Motion 1: to appeal a procedural ruling of the presiding officer. A
decision of the presiding officer ruling a motion in or out of order,
determining whether a speaker has gone beyond reasonable standards of courtesy
in his or her remarks, or entertaining and answering a question of
parliamentary law or procedure may be appealed to the Council, as specified in
§
30.07. This appeal is in order immediately after such a decision is announced
and at no other time. The member making the motion need not be recognized by
the presiding officer and the motion, if timely made, may not be ruled out of
order;
      (2)   Motion 2: to adjourn. This motion may be made only at the
conclusion of Council consideration of a pending substantive matter; it may not
interrupt deliberation of a pending matter. A motion to recess (or adjourn) to
a time and place certain shall also comply with the requirements of §
30.02(C);
      (3)   Motion 3: to take a brief recess;
      (4)   Motion 4: call to follow the agenda. The motion must be made at the
first reasonable opportunity, or the right to make it is waived for the out-of-
order item in question;
      (5)   Motion 5: to suspend the rules. The Council may not suspend
provisions of the rules that state requirements imposed by law on the Council.
For adoption, the motion requires a vote equal to two-thirds of the actual
membership of the Council, excluding the Mayor, unless he or she may vote in
all cases, and vacant seats;
      (6)   Motion 6: to go into closed session. The Council may go into closed
session only for one or more of the permissible purposes listed in G.S. § 143-
318.11(a). The motion to go into closed session shall cite one or more of these
purposes and shall be adopted at an open meeting. A motion based on G.S. § 143-
318.11(a)(1) shall also state the name or citation of the law that renders the
information to be discussed privileged or confidential. A motion based on G.S.
§ 143-318.11(a)(3) shall identify the parties in each existing lawsuit
concerning which the Council expects to receive advice during the closed
session, if in fact such advice is to be received;
      (7)   Motion 7: to leave closed session;
      (8)   Motion 8: to divide a complex motion and consider it by paragraph.
The motion is in order whenever a member wishes to consider and vote on
subparts of a complex motion separately;
      (9)   Motion 9: to defer consideration. The Council may defer a
substantive motion for later consideration at an unspecified time. A
substantive motion the consideration of which has been deferred expires 100
days thereafter unless a motion to revive consideration is adopted. If
consideration of a motion has been deferred, a new motion with the same effect
cannot be introduced while the deferred
motion remains pending (has not expired). A member who wishes to revisit the
matter during that time must take action to revive consideration of the
original motion (division (B)(14) below), or else move to suspend the rules
(division (B)(5) above;
      (10)   Motion 10: motion for the previous question. The motion is not in
order until there have been at least ten minutes of debate, and every member
has had an opportunity to speak once;
      (11)   Motion 11: to postpone to a certain time or day. If consideration
of a motion has been postponed, a new motion with the same effect cannot be
introduced while the postponed motion remains pending. A member who wishes to
revisit the matter must either wait until the specified time, or move to
suspend the titles (division (B)(5) above).
      (12)   Motion 12: to refer a motion to a committee. The Council may vote
to refer a substantive motion to a committee for its study and recommendations.
Sixty days or more after a substantive motion has been referred to a committee,
the introducer of the substantive motion may compel consideration of the
measure by the entire Council, whether or not the committee has reported the
matter to the Council.
      (13)   Motion 13: to amend.
            (a)   An amendment to a motion must be pertinent to the subject
matter of the motion. An amendment is improper if adoption of the motion with
that amendment added would have the same effect as rejection of the original
motion. A proposal to substitute completely different wording for a motion or
an amendment shall be treated as a motion to amend.
         (b)   A motion may be amended, and that amendment may be amended, but
no further amendments may be made until the last-offered amendment is disposed
of by a vote.
         (c)   Any amendment to a proposed ordinance or policy shall be reduced
to writing before the vote on the amendment.
      (14)   Motion 14: to revive consideration. The Council may vote to revive
consideration of any substantive motion earlier deferred by adoption of
division (B)(9) above. The motion is in order at any time within 100 days after
the day of a vote to defer consideration. A substantive motion on which
consideration has been deferred expires 100 days after the deferral unless a
motion to revive consideration is adopted;
      (15)   Motion 15: to reconsider. The Council may vote to reconsider its
action on a matter. The motion to do so must be made by a member who voted with
the prevailing side (the majority side except in the case of a tie; in that
case the “nos” prevail) and at the meeting during which the original vote was
taken, including any continuation of that meeting through recess (or
adjournment) to a time and place certain. The motion cannot interrupt
deliberation on a pending matter, but is in order at any time before final
adjournment of the meeting;
      (16)   Motion 16: to rescind or repeal. The Council may vote to rescind
actions it has previously taken or to repeal items that it has previously
adopted. The motion is not in order if rescission or repeal of an action is
forbidden by law; and
      (17)   Motion 17: to prevent reintroduction for six months. The motion
shall be in order immediately following the defeat of a substantive motion and
at no other time. The motion requires for adoption a vote equal to two-thirds
of the actual membership of the Council excluding the Mayor, unless he or she
may vote in all cases, and vacant seats. If adopted, the restriction imposed by
the motion remains in effect for six months or until the next organizational
meeting of the Council, whichever occurs first.
(Ord. passed 12-9-2013)
§ 30.17  RENEWAL OF MOTION.
   A motion that is defeated may be renewed at any later meeting unless a
motion to prevent reintroduction has been adopted.
(Ord. passed 12-9-2013)
§ 30.18  WITHDRAWAL OF MOTION.
   A motion may be withdrawn by the introducer at any time before it is amended
or before the presiding officer puts the motion to a vote, whichever occurs
first.
(Ord. passed 12-9-2013)
§ 30.19  DUTY TO VOTE.
   Every member must vote unless excused by the remaining members according to
law. A member who wishes to be excused from voting shall so inform the
presiding officer, who shall take a vote of the remaining members. No member
shall be excused from voting except upon matters involving the consideration of
his or her own financial interest or official conduct. In all other cases, a
failure to vote by a member who is physically present in the Council chamber,
or who has withdrawn without being excused by a majority vote of the remaining
members present, shall be recorded as an affirmative vote.
(Ord. passed 12-9-2013)
§ 30.20  SPECIAL RULES OF PROCEDURE.
   The Council may adopt its own special rules of procedure, to be specified
here.
(Ord. passed 12-9-2013)
§ 30.21  CLOSED SESSIONS.
   (A)   The Council may hold closed sessions as provided by law. The Council
shall only commence a closed session after a motion to go into closed session
has been made and adopted during an open meeting. The motion shall state the
purpose of the closed session. If the motion is based on G.S. § 143-318.11(a)
(1) (closed session to prevent the disclosure of privileged or confidential
information or information that is not considered a public record), it must
also state the name or citation of the law that renders the information to be
discussed privileged or confidential. If the motion is based on G.S. § 143-
318.11(a)(3) (consultation with attorney; handling or settlement of claims,
judicial actions or administrative procedures), it must identify the parties in
any existing lawsuits concerning which the public body expects to receive
advice during the closed session. The motion to go into closed session must be
approved by the vote of a majority of those present and voting. The Council
shall terminate the closed session by a majority vote.
   (B)   Only those actions authorized by statute may be taken in closed
session. A motion to adjourn or recess shall not be in order during a closed
session.
(Ord. passed 12-9-2013)
§ 30.22  QUORUM.
   A majority of the actual membership of the Council plus the Mayor, excluding
vacant seats, shall constitute a quorum. A majority is more than half. A member
who has withdrawn from a meeting without being excused by majority vote of the
remaining members present shall be counted as present for purposes of
determining whether or not a quorum is present.
(Ord. passed 12-9-2013)
§ 30.23  PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   (A)   (1)   Public hearings required by law or deemed advisable by the
Council shall be organized by a special order (adopted by a majority vote) that
sets forth the subject, date, place and time of the hearing as well as any
rules regarding the length of time allotted for each speaker, and other
pertinent matters.
      (2)   The rules may include, but are not limited to, rules:
         (a)   Fixing the maximum time allotted to each speaker;
         (b)   Providing for the designation of spokespersons for groups of
persons supporting or opposing the same positions;
         (c)   Providing for the selection of delegates from groups of persons
supporting or opposing the same positions when the number of persons wishing to
attend the hearing exceeds the capacity of the hall (so long as arrangements
are made, in the case of hearings subject to the open meetings law, for those
excluded from the hall to listen to the hearing); and
         (d)   Providing for the maintenance of order and decorum in the
conduct of the hearing.
   (B)   All notice and other requirements of the open meetings law applicable
to Council meetings shall also apply to public hearings at which a majority of
the Council is present; such a hearing is considered to be part of a regular or
special meeting of the Council. These requirements also apply to hearings
conducted by appointed or elected committees of the Council, if a majority of
the committee is present. A public hearing for which any notices required by
the open meetings law or other provisions of law have been given may be
continued to a time and place certain without further advertisement. The
requirements of §
30.02(C) shall be followed in continuing a hearing at which a majority of the
Council is present.
   (C)   The Council may vote to delegate to city staff members, as
appropriate, the authority to schedule, call and give notice of public hearings
required by law or the Council. The Council shall provide adequate guidelines
to assist staff members in fulfilling this responsibility, and it shall not
delegate the responsibility in cases where the Council itself is required by
law to call, schedule or give notice of the hearing.
   (D)   At the time appointed for the hearing, the Mayor or his or her
designee shall call the hearing to order and then preside over it. When the
allotted time expires or when no one wishes to speak who has not done so, the
presiding officer shall entertain or make a motion to end the hearing.
(Ord. passed 12-9-2013)
§ 30.24  QUORUM AT PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   A quorum of the Council shall be required at all public hearings required by
state law. If a quorum is not present at such a hearing, the hearing shall be
continued until the next regular Council meeting without further advertisement.
(Ord. passed 12-9-2013)
§ 30.25  MINUTES.
   (A)   Full and accurate minutes of the Council proceedings, including closed
sessions, shall be kept. The Council shall also keep a general account of any
closed session so that a person not in attendance would have a reasonable
understanding of what transpired. These minutes and general accounts shall be
open to inspection of the public, except as otherwise provided in this rule.
The exact wording of each motion and the results of each vote shall be recorded
in the minutes, and on the request of any member of the Council, the “ayes” and
“nos” upon any question shall be taken. Members’ and other persons’ comments
may be included in the minutes if the Council approves.
   (B)   Minutes and general accounts of closed sessions may be sealed by
action of the Council. Such sealed minutes and general accounts may be withheld
from public inspection so long as public inspection would frustrate the purpose
of the closed session.
(Ord. passed 12-9-2013)
§ 30.26  APPOINTMENTS.
   (A)   The Council may consider and make appointments to other bodies,
including its own committees, if any, only in open session. The Council may not
consider or fill a vacancy among its own membership except in open session.
   (B)   The Mayor shall not have a right to vote on appointments that come
before the Council.
   (C)   Rather than proceeding by motion, the Council shall use the following
procedure to make appointments to various other boards and offices. The Mayor
shall open the floor for nominations, whereupon the names of possible
appointees may be put forward by the Council members. The names submitted by
individual Council members shall be debated. When the debate ends, the Mayor
shall call the roll of the members, and each member shall cast his or her vote.
   (D)   The voting shall continue until one nominee receives a majority of the
votes cast, whereupon he or she shall be appointed. If more than one appointee
is to be selected, then each member shall have as many votes in each balloting
as there are slots to be filled, and votes from a majority of the members
voting shall be required for appointment. During each balloting, a member may
cast all of his or her votes or fewer than all of them, but he or she shall not
cast more than one vote for a single candidate.
(Ord. passed 12-9-2013)
§ 30.27  AMENDMENT OF THE RULES.
   These rules may be amended at any regular meeting or at any properly called
special meeting that includes amendment of the rules as one of the stated
purposes of the meeting, so long as the amendment is consistent with the City
Charter, general law and generally accepted principles of parliamentary
procedure. Adoption of an amendment shall require an affirmative vote equal to
or greater than two-thirds of all the actual membership of the Council,
excluding vacant seats, and not including the Mayor unless he or she has the
right to vote on all questions before the Council.
(Ord. passed 12-9-2013)
§ 30.28  REFERENCE TO ROBERT’S RULES OF ORDER NEWLY REVISED.
   To the extent not provided for in these rules, and to the extent it does not
conflict with state law or with the spirit of these rules, the Council shall
refer to Robert’s Rules of Order Newly Revised, to answer unresolved procedural
questions.
(Ord. passed 12-9-2013)
ORDINANCES
§ 30.40  INTRODUCTION OF ORDINANCES.
   A proposed ordinance shall be deemed to be introduced on the date the
subject matter is first voted on by the Council.
(Ord. passed 12-9-2013)
§ 30.41  ADOPTION OF ORDINANCES AND APPROVAL OF CONTRACTS.
   (A)   Generally. An affirmative vote equal to a majority of all the members
of the Council not excused from voting on the question in issue (including the
Mayor’s vote in case of an equal division) shall be required to adopt an
ordinance, to take any action that has the effect of an ordinance, or to make,
ratify or authorize any contract on behalf of the city.
      (1)   In addition, no ordinance or action that has the effect of an
ordinance may be finally adopted on the date on which it is introduced except
by an affirmative vote equal to or greater than two-thirds of all the actual
membership of the Council, excluding vacant seats, and not including the Mayor
unless he or she has the right to vote on all questions before the Council.
      (2)   No ordinance shall be adopted unless it has been reduced to writing
before a vote on adoption is taken.
   (B)   Zoning protest petitions. An affirmative vote equal to three-fourths
of all the members of the City Council shall be required for an ordinance
making a change in a zoning regulation, restriction or boundary to become
effective, if a valid protest petition is received in accordance with the
requirements set out in G.S. § 160A-385(a) and G.S. § 160A-386. This rule shall
not apply in those cases excepted by G.S. § 160A-385(a).
(Ord. passed 12-9-2013)
§ 30.42  ADOPTION OF THE BUDGET ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Notwithstanding the provisions of any City Charter, general law or
local act:
      (1)   Any action with respect to the adoption or amendment of the budget
ordinance may be taken at any regular or special meeting of the Council by a
simple majority of those present and voting, a quorum being present;
      (2)   No action taken with respect to the adoption or amendment of the
budget ordinance need be published or is subject to any other procedural
requirement governing the adoption of ordinances or resolutions by the Council;
and
      (3)   The adoption and amendment of the budget ordinance and the levy of
taxes in the budget ordinance are not subject to the provisions of any City
Charter or local act concerning initiative or referendum.
   (B)   (1)   During the period beginning with the submission of the budget to
the Council and ending with the adoption of the budget ordinance, the Council
may hold any special meetings that may be necessary to complete its work on the
budget ordinance.
      (2)   Except for the notice requirements of the open meetings law, which
continue to apply, no provision of law concerning the call of special meetings
applies during that period so long as:
         (a)   Each member of the Council has actual notice of each special
meeting called for the purpose of considering the budget; and
         (b)   No business other than consideration of the budget is taken up.
This rule does not allow, and may not be construed to allow, the holding of
closed meetings or executive sessions by the Council if it is otherwise
prohibited by law from holding such a meeting or session.
(Ord. passed 12-9-2013)
CITY OFFICIALS
§ 30.55  OFFICE OF MAYOR.
   (A)   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the Council but shall have
the right to vote only when there is a tie. In order to address the Council, a
member must be recognized by the Mayor.
   (B)   The Mayor or other presiding officer shall have the following powers:
      (1)   To rule motions in or out of order, including any motion patently
offered for obstructive or dilatory purposes;
      (2)   To determine whether a speaker has gone beyond reasonable standards
of courtesy in his or her remarks and to entertain and rule on objections from
other members on this ground;
      (3)   To entertain and answer questions of parliamentary law or
procedure;
      (4)   To call a brief recess at any time; and
      (5)   To adjourn in an emergency.
   (C)   A decision by the presiding officer under division (B)(1), (B)(2) or
(B)(3) above may be appealed to the Council upon motion of any member, pursuant
to §
30.16, Motion 1. Such a motion is in order immediately after a decision under
division (B)(1), (B)(2) or (B)(3) above is announced and at no other time. The
member making the motion need not be recognized by the presiding officer, and
the motion if timely made may not be ruled out of order.
(Ord. passed 12-9-2013)
§ 30.56  OFFICE OF MAYOR PRO TEMPORE.
   At the organizational meeting, the Council shall elect from among its
members a Mayor Pro Tempore to serve at the Council’s pleasure. A Council
member who serves as Mayor Pro Tempore shall be entitled to vote on all matters
and shall be considered a Council member for all purposes, including the
determination of whether a quorum is present. In the Mayor’s absence, the
Council may confer on the Mayor Pro Tempore any of the Mayor’s powers and
duties. If the Mayor should become physically or mentally unable to perform the
duties of his or her office, the Council may by unanimous vote declare that the
Mayor is incapacitated and confer any of the Mayor’s powers and duties on the
Mayor Pro Tempore. When a Mayor declares that he or she is no longer
incapacitated, and a majority of the Council concurs, the Mayor shall resume
the exercise of his or her powers and duties. If both the Mayor and Mayor Pro
Tempore are absent from a meeting, the Council may elect from among its members
a temporary Chairperson to preside at the meeting.
(Ord. passed 12-9-2013)
CHAPTER 31:  MAYOR AND COUNCIL
Section
   
31.01   Powers and duties generally
   
31.02   Mayor; duties
   
31.03   Selection and duties of the Mayor Pro Tempore
   
31.04   Compensation
§ 31.01  POWERS AND DUTIES GENERALLY.
   The powers and duties of the governing body shall be set out in the General
Statutes of North Carolina, the City Charter and the ordinances of the city.
(1995 Code, § 2-1)
§ 31.02  MAYOR; DUTIES.
   The Mayor shall be the chief executive officer of the city, and as such,
shall perform the following duties:
   (A)   Keep himself or herself informed as to the city’s business;
   (B)   Preside over the meetings of the City Council;
   (C)   Sign all contracts, ordinances, resolutions, franchises and all other
documents as authorized by the City Council;
   (D)   Make recommendations to the City Council concerning the affairs of the
city, as he or she deems necessary;
   (E)   Represent the city at ceremonies and other official occasions; and
   (F)   Perform other duties as authorized by the General Statutes, the City
Charter and this code.
(1995 Code, § 2-2)
Cross-reference:
   Office of Mayor, see §
30.55
Statutory reference:
   Duties of the Mayor, see G.S. § 160A-69
§ 31.03  SELECTION AND DUTIES OF THE MAYOR PRO TEMPORE.
   At the first meeting after its election, the City Council shall select one
of its number to act as Mayor Pro Tempore. The Mayor Pro Tempore shall have no
fixed term of office, but shall perform all the duties of the Mayor in the
Mayor’s absence or disability.
(1995 Code, § 2-3)
Cross-reference:
   Office of Mayor Pro Tempore, see §
30.56
Statutory reference:
   Mayor Pro Tempore, see G.S. § 160A-70
§ 31.04  COMPENSATION.
   The compensation of the Mayor and City Council members shall be as provided
in the annual budget ordinance, and as the same may be amended from time to
time.
(1995 Code, § 2-5)
Statutory reference:
   Compensation of Mayor and City Council members, see G.S. § 160A-64
CHAPTER 32:  ADMINISTRATIVE ORGANIZATION
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   City motto
   
32.02   City emblem
City Officials
   
32.15   City Clerk; duties
   
32.16   City Attorney
   
32.17   Tax Collector; duties
City Manager
   
32.30   City Manager; duties
   
32.31   Appointment of personnel
   
32.32   Council not to interfere in appointments, removals or duties
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01  CITY MOTTO.
   The words “A Patriotic City” are adopted as the official motto of this city,
and as such shall be declared to be the official motto for the city. The use of
this city motto on any city property or articles is permissive and
discretionary but not directory.
(1995 Code, § 2-22)  (Ord. passed 4-9-1985)
§ 32.02  CITY EMBLEM.
   The official emblem or crest of the city shall be circular in form,
containing in the center thereof four soldiers raising an American flag, and a
raised hand holding a lighted torch. The hand and torch shall be positioned
above the soldiers and to the right of the flag. Above this large center design
there shall be in semicircular form the following letters: “PATRIOTIC CITY;”
and below this center design there shall be in semicircular form the following
letters and punctuation: “LOWELL, N.C.” This design is adopted as the official
emblem or crest of the city. The use of this city emblem on any city property
or articles is permissive and discretionary but not directory.
(1995 Code, § 2-23)  (Ord. passed 4-9-1985)
CITY OFFICIALS
§ 32.15  CITY CLERK; DUTIES.
   (A)   The Council shall appoint a City Clerk.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Clerk to:
      (1)   Act as Secretary to the City Council;
      (2)   Keep a true record of all proceedings of the City Council;
      (3)   Keep the original for all ordinances in a book especially provided
for that purpose;
      (4)   Act as custodian for all the books, papers, records and journals of
the City Council; and
      (5)   Perform other duties as may be required of him or her by law or by
the City Council.
(1995 Code, § 2-19)
Statutory reference:
   Duties of the Clerk specified, see G.S. § 160A-171
   Minutes to be kept, see G.S. § 160A-72
§ 32.16  CITY ATTORNEY.
   The City Council shall appoint a City Attorney whose duties shall be to:
   (A)   Prosecute or defend any and all suits or actions at law or equity to
which the city may be a part, or in which it may be interested, or which may be
brought against, or by, any officer of the city or in the capacity of the
person as an officer of the city. Notwithstanding the above, the city may
secure through its liability insurance carrier or through independent contract
other counsel to prosecute or defend suits or actions at law or equity as
above-referenced. In such instances the City Attorney shall monitor such
actions and provide to the city status reports on a regular basis;
   (B)   See to the full enforcement of all judgments or decrees rendered or
entered in favor of the city;
   (C)   See to the completion of all special assessment proceedings and
condemnation proceedings;
   (D)   Draft or review any contract, lease or other document or instrument to
which the city may be a party, and approve all ordinances and resolutions of
the City Council as to form;
   (E)   At the request of the City Council, draft ordinances governing any
subject within the power of the city;
   (F)   Attend meetings of the City Council upon request; and
   (G)   Perform any other duties required of him or her by other laws and
ordinances or as otherwise directed by the City Council or the City Manager.
(1995 Code, § 2-20)
Statutory reference:
   Duties of the attorney, see G.S. 160A-173
§ 32.17  TAX COLLECTOR; DUTIES.
   The City Council shall provide for the appointment of a Tax Collector, whose
duties shall be to:
   (A)   Collect all taxes and assessments due to the city;
   (B)   Supply the Mayor and City Council with any information as they may
require of him or her relative to the performance of his or her duties;
   (C)   Make periodic reports to the City Council listing therein all funds
collected by him or her; and
   (D)   Perform other duties required by law, or as the City Council may
direct.
(1995 Code, § 2-21)
Statutory reference:
   Duties of tax collector, see G.S. §§ 105-349, 105-350
CITY MANAGER
§ 32.30  CITY MANAGER; DUTIES.
   In addition to any other duties imposed by state law, it shall be the duty
of the City Manager:
   (A)   To act as chief conservator of the peace within the city;
   (B)   To supervise the administration of the affairs of the city;
   (C)   To see that the ordinances of the city and the laws of the state are
enforced;
   (D)   To make such recommendations to the Council concerning the affairs of
the city as may seem to him or her desirable;
   (E)   To keep the Council advised of the financial condition and future
needs of the city;
   (F)   To prepare and submit to the Council such reports as may be required
by that body; and
   (G)   To perform such other duties as may be required of him or her by
ordinance or resolution of the Council.
(1995 Code, § 2-16)
Statutory reference:
   City manager generally, see G.S. §§ 160A-147 and 160A-152
§ 32.31  APPOINTMENT OF PERSONNEL.
   Appointments made by, or under the authority of, the City Manager shall be
on the basis of executive and administrative ability and of the training and
experience of the appointees in the work which they are to perform. All the
appointments shall be for an indefinite term and shall hold their office unless
for provisional, temporary or emergency service.
(1995 Code, § 2-17)
§ 32.32  COUNCIL NOT TO INTERFERE IN APPOINTMENTS, REMOVALS OR DUTIES.
   Neither the Council nor any of its committees or members shall direct or
request the appointment of any person to, or his or her removal from, office by
the City Manager or any of his or her subordinates, or in any manner take part
in the appointment or removal of officers and employees in the administrative
service of the city. Except for the purpose of inquiry, the Council and its
members shall deal with the administrative service solely through the Manager,
and neither the Council nor any member thereof shall give orders to any
subordinate of the City Manager either publicly or privately.
(1995 Code, § 2-18)
CHAPTER 33:  DEPARTMENTAL OPERATING ORGANIZATION
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Departments enumerated
Planning Board
   
33.15   Creation
   
33.16   Membership and vacancies; attendance
   
33.17   Organization, rules, meetings and records
   
33.18   Jurisdiction and voting
   
33.19   General powers and duties
   
33.20   Basic studies
   
33.21   Comprehensive plans
   
33.22   Zoning amendments
   
33.23   Subdivision regulations
   
33.24   Public facilities
   
33.25   Miscellaneous powers and duties
   
33.26   Annual report, analysis of expenditures and budget request
Parks and Recreation Advisory Committee
   
33.40   Parks and Recreation Advisory Committee created; membership
   
33.41   Meetings
   
33.42   Officers and duties
   
33.43   Powers and duties
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01  DEPARTMENTS ENUMERATED.
   The administrative organization of the city may be divided into the
following departments:
   (A)   Administration;
   (B)   Police;
   (C)   Streets;
   (D)   Sanitation;
   (E)   Parks and Recreation;
   (F)   Water and Sewer; and
   (G)   Wastewater Treatment.
(1995 Code, § 2-24)
PLANNING BOARD
§ 33.15  CREATION.
   Pursuant to G.S. §§ 160A-361 and 160A-362, there is hereby created a
Planning Board of the city to perform the functions and the duties herein
prescribed.
(1995 Code, § 2-28)
§ 33.16  MEMBERSHIP AND VACANCIES; ATTENDANCE.
   The Planning Board shall consist of eight members. Five members shall be
citizens and residents of the city, and shall be appointed by the City Council;
three members shall be citizens of Gaston County who reside outside the city
but within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city as specified by an
extraterritorial boundary ordinance adopted pursuant to G.S. § 160A-360(b), and
shall be appointed by the Board of Commissioners of the county. The members of
the Planning Board shall serve for terms of three years. Vacancies occurring
for reasons other than expiration of term shall be filled as they occur for the
unexpired remainder of the term. Faithful attendance at meetings of the
Planning Board is to be considered a prerequisite to continued membership, and
the City Council may remove and replace any member continually delinquent in
his or her duty to attend.
(1995 Code, § 2-29)
§ 33.17  ORGANIZATION, RULES, MEETINGS AND RECORDS.
   The Planning Board shall elect a Chairperson and create and fill such other
offices as it may determine. The term of the Chairperson and other officers
shall be one year, with eligibility for reelection. The Board shall adopt rules
for transaction of its business and shall keep a record of its members’
attendance and of its resolutions, discussions, finding and recommendations,
which record shall be a public record. The Board shall hold at least one
meeting monthly, and all of its meetings shall be open to the public.
(1995 Code, § 2-30)
§ 33.18  JURISDICTION AND VOTING.
   The members appointed to the Planning Board by the Board of County
Commissioners as representatives of the extraterritorial area outside the city
shall have equal rights, privileges and duties with the other members of the
Planning Board, both in preparation of original regulations and in
consideration of any proposed amendments to such regulations. For taking action
on any matter before the Planning Board, there shall be present a quorum of
five members.
(1995 Code, § 2-31)  (Ord. passed 7-21-1992)
§ 33.19  GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   It shall be the duty of the Planning Board, in general:
   (A)   To make studies of the area within its jurisdiction and surrounding
areas;
   (B)   To determine objectives to be sought in the development of the study
area;
   (C)   To prepare and adopt plans for achieving these objectives;
   (D)   To develop and recommend policies, ordinances, administrative
procedures and other means for carrying out plans that the City Council may
direct;
   (E)   To advise the City Council concerning the use and amendment of means
for carrying out plans;
   (F)   To exercise any functions in the administration and enforcement of
various means for carrying out plans that the City Council may direct; and
   (G)   To perform any other related duties that the City Council may direct.
(1995 Code, § 2-32)
§ 33.20  BASIC STUDIES.
   As background for its comprehensive plans and any ordinances it may prepare,
the Planning Board may gather maps and aerial photographs of human-made and
natural physical features of the area, statistics on past trends and present
conditions with respect to population, property values, the economics base of
the community, land use and such other information as is important or likely to
be important in determining the amount, direction and kind of development to be
expected in the area and its various parts. In addition, the Planning Board may
make, cause to be made or obtain special studies on the location, condition and
adequacy of specific facilities, which may include, but are not limited to,
studies of housing, commercial and industrial facilities, parks, playgrounds
and recreational facilities, public and private utilities, and traffic,
transportation and parking facilities. All officials of the city shall, upon
request, furnish to the Planning Board such available records or information as
it may require in its work. The Board or its agents may, in the performance of
its official duties, enter upon lands and make examinations or surveys and
maintain necessary monuments thereon.
(1995 Code, § 2-33)
§ 33.21  COMPREHENSIVE PLANS.
   (A)   The comprehensive plans, with the accompanying maps, plats, charts and
descriptive matter, shall be and show the Planning Board’s recommendations to
the City Council for the development of the area, including, among other things
the general location, character and extent of streets, bridges, boulevards,
parkways, playgrounds, squares, parks, aviation fields and other public ways,
grounds and open spaces; the general location and extent of public utilities
and terminals, whether publicly or privately owned or operated, for water,
power, gas, sanitation, transportation, communication and other purposes; and
the removal, relocation, widening, narrowing, vacating, abandonment, charge of
use or extension of any of the foregoing ways, buildings, grounds, open spaces,
properties, utilities or terminals.
   (B)   The comprehensive plans and any ordinances or other measures to
effectuate the plans shall be made with the general purpose of guiding and
accomplishing a coordinated, adjusted and harmonious development of the city
and its environs which will, in accordance with present and future needs, best
promote health, safety, morals and the general welfare, as well as efficiency
and economy in the process of development, including, among other things,
adequate provision for traffic, the promotion of safety from fire and other
dangers, adequate safety from fire and other dangers, adequate provision for
light and air, the promotion of the healthful and convenient distribution of
population, the promotion of good civic design and arrangement, the wise and
efficient expenditure of public funds, and the adequate provision of public
utilities, services and other public requirements.
(1995 Code, § 2-34)
§ 33.22  ZONING AMENDMENTS.
   The Planning Board may initiate from time to time proposals for amendment of
the zoning ordinance and map, based upon its studies and plans. In addition, it
shall review and make recommendations to the City Council concerning all
proposed amendments to the zoning ordinance and map.
(1995 Code, § 2-35)
§ 33.23  SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Planning Board shall review from time to time, the existing
regulations for the control of land subdivision in the area and submit to the
City Council its recommendations, if any, for the revision of said regulations.
   (B)   The Planning Board shall review and make recommendations to the City
Council concerning all proposed plats of land subdivision.
(1995 Code, § 2-36)
§ 33.24  PUBLIC FACILITIES.
   The Planning Board shall review with the City Manager and other city
officials and report its recommendations to the City Council upon the extent,
location and design of all public structures and facilities, on the acquisition
and disposal of public properties, on the establishment of building lines,
mapped street lines and proposals to change existing street lines. However,
whether or not there is a recommendation from the Planning Board, the City
Council may, if it deems wise, take final action on any such matter at any
time.
(1995 Code, § 2-37)
§ 33.25  MISCELLANEOUS POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Planning Board may conduct such public hearings as may be required
to gather information necessary for the drafting, establishment and maintenance
of the plans. Before recommending any such plans to the City Council, the
Planning Board shall hold at least one public hearing thereon.
   (B)   The Planning Board shall have power to promote public interest and
understanding of its recommendations, and to that end, it may publish and
distribute copies of its recommendations and may employ such other means of
publicity and education as it may determine.
(1995 Code, § 2-38)
§ 33.26  ANNUAL REPORT, ANALYSIS OF EXPENDITURES AND BUDGET REQUEST.
   The Planning Board shall, in May of each year, submit in writing to the City
Council a report of its activities, and an analysis of the expenditures to date
for the current fiscal year; and shall submit to the City Council for budget
consideration its requested budget of funds needed for operation during the
ensuing fiscal year.
(1995 Code, § 2-39)
PARKS AND RECREATION ADVISORY COMMITTEE
§ 33.40  PARKS AND RECREATION ADVISORY COMMITTEE CREATED; MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   There shall be a Parks and Recreation Committee which shall consist of
seven members of which five shall be voting members and two shall be alternates
each appointed to three year terms. Three members’ terms expire each year, so
that the staggered terms provide for continuity of leadership and experience
while allowing for new members with fresh ideas. Terms shall run from January 1
in the year appointed to December 31 of the expiration year. All members shall
be current residents of Lowell or City of Lowell business owners and will apply
to the City Council. Any member seeking reappointment must submit an updated
application that addresses the willingness to serve an additional term. The
Parks and Recreation Director, or a designee appointed by the City Manager,
will serve as City Staff Liaison, and one member of the City Council will be
appointed annually to serve as Committee Liaison to the Parks and Recreation
Advisory Committee. If a Committee member resigns during their term, the
alternate with the longest service will finish out the term of that member and
a new alternate will be appointed by the City Council to finish out the
alternate position’s term.
   (B)   Committee members shall serve without monetary compensation but shall
be entitled to reimbursement for expenses incurred in the performance of
official duties relating to professional meetings, conferences, and workshops,
with such reimbursement made to the same extent as according to the policies
applicable to city employees.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 33.41  MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Committee shall hold regular meetings each month of the year. The
City Manager, the Chairperson or the Vice-Chair may call special or emergency
meetings, provided that notice is given to all members, the press and other
persons in accordance with the Open Meetings Law.
   (B)   A quorum for the Committee shall consist of the number of members
equal to a majority of the non-vacant seats on the Committee.
   (C)   All official actions of the Parks and Recreation Committee shall be
taken by majority vote, a quorum being present.
   (D)   Minutes shall be kept of all Committee meetings and a copy thereof
shall be made available to City Hall within 15 days after the date of the
meeting for which the minutes are finished.
   (E)   Attendance shall be kept at all held meetings. Any member missing more
than two successive meetings automatically loses their status as a Committee
member until reappointed or replaced by the City Council.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 33.42  OFFICERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Officers of the Committee shall be a Chairperson, a Vice-Chair, and a
Secretary.
   (B)   The Chairperson shall be selected annually by a majority vote from the
Committee members. Once selected, a Chairperson is eligible to be reappointed
for up to two additional consecutive year terms.
   (C)   The Committee shall annually select a Vice-Chair, who is eligible for
reappointment in the same manner as the Chairperson. The Vice-Chair shall
perform the duties of the Chairperson if he or she is absent. When both the
Chairperson and Vice-Chair are absent, those members present shall select a
temporary Chairperson.
   (D)   The Secretary shall record minutes of meetings and be responsible to
deliver copies of official reports and minutes to all members. Minutes shall be
kept of all Committee meetings and a copy thereof shall be made available to
City Hall within 15 days after the date of the meeting for which the minutes
are furnished.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 33.43  POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The purpose of the Parks and Recreation Advisory Committee is to make
recommendations on recreation policy and grant activities, and to offer advice
and assistance to the Parks and Recreation Department and others, as necessary.
These duties will include:
   (A)   To determine the needs, interests and goals of the community for
recreation facilities and programs and make recommendations to the City Council
to meet those needs and goals.
   (B)   To assist in public education and outreach regarding the importance
and need for park and recreation programs, greenways, facilities and services.
   (C)   To make recommendations to the City Council on acceptance of public
dedication of land or fee in lieu of the dedication of land for park,
recreation and open space as required by the city Land development code.
   (D)   To seek and make recommendations on the acceptance of grants, gifts,
bequests, donations and personal or real property for park, greenway, and
recreation purposes.
   (E)   To assist the city in recruiting voluntary leadership staff to work
with park/recreation facilities, programs and activities.
   (F)   To assist in matters relating to maintaining the highest standards in
park development and operation, park/recreation leadership and in well-balanced
programs.
   (G)   To assist in developing a comprehensive master plan to meet the
present and future needs for programs, services, park facilities, open spaces
and trails and to advise in developing priorities for each of these.
   (H)   Upon request, recommend approval of rules and procedures pertaining to
the use of public parks and facilities including suggested fees and charges.
   (I)   To be active participants in fundraising efforts for city festivals
and events.
   (J)   For capable Committee members to volunteer time at city festivals and
events to assist the parks and recreation staff if needed.
(Ord. passed - - )
CHAPTER 34:  FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
34.01   Disbursement of funds
   
34.02   Purchasing agent
   
34.03   Purchase order
Cross-reference:
   Fiscal Policy, see
Ch. 36
§ 34.01  DISBURSEMENT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   In accordance with the North Carolina Local Government Budget and
Fiscal Control Act, being G.S. Ch. 159, Art. 3, no bill or claim against the
city may be paid unless it has been approved by the officer or employee
responsible for the function or agency to which the expense is charged. No
check or draft of the city shall be valid unless it bears on its face the
certificate of the Finance Officer as follows: “This disbursement has been
approved as required by the Local Government Budget and Fiscal Control Act.”
   (B)   No contract, agreement or purchase order shall be valid unless it
bears the Finance Officer’s certificate as follows: “This instrument has been
preaudited in the manner required by the Local Government Budget and Fiscal
Control Act.”
(1995 Code, § 2-25)
Statutory reference:
   Preaudit of disbursement required, see G.S. § 159-28
§ 34.02  PURCHASING AGENT.
   The Finance Officer shall serve as purchasing agent and as such shall:
   (A)   Make or approve all purchases of material, equipment and supplies
authorized by the Council;
   (B)   Establish sets of standards and specifications to control purchases by
the city;
   (C)   Prepare and publish specifications and notices to bidders;
   (D)   Advise the Council as to anticipated needs for purchases and make
purchases in advance of needs as authorized by the Council;
   (E)   Store material, equipment and supplies in advance of actual need;
   (F)   Keep records of all purchases made by him or her and of the
destination or ultimate use of the material, equipment and supplies; and
   (G)   Cause to be kept an inventory of all municipal property in his or her
custody and of all municipal property in the custody of the other officers and
employees of the city.
(1995 Code, § 2-26)
§ 34.03  PURCHASE ORDER.
   (A)   Before any order is given for items to be paid by the city or any
purchase made by any city employee, a purchase order must first be obtained
from the Finance Officer, except as otherwise provided in this section.
   (B)   Any city employee purchasing goods without a purchase order will be
held responsible for the cost of the goods, unless the emergency provisions of
division (C) below apply.
   (C)   It will not be necessary to obtain a purchase order prior to the
purchase if it is an emergency purchase necessary for parts or supplies for
equipment repairs and the total purchase does not exceed $100.
(1995 Code, § 2-27)
CHAPTER 35:  PUBLIC SAFETY
Section
Law Enforcement
   
35.01   Police Department; creation
   
35.02   Composition of Department
   
35.03   Police officers’ duties, generally
   
35.04   Personnel
   
35.05   Control and supervision over the Department
   
35.06   Conditions of employment
   
35.07   Requirements of employment
   
35.08   Specific duties of the Chief
   
35.09   Auxiliary police
Fire Protection and Prevention
   
35.20   Permit required
   
35.21   Obstructing, crowding or interfering at a fire site
   
35.22   Open burning
   
35.23   Fire Department right-of-way
   
35.24   Containers for gasoline or kerosene
Emergency and Rescue
   
35.35   State of emergency; curfew authorized
LAW ENFORCEMENT
§ 35.01  POLICE DEPARTMENT; CREATION.
   The City Police Department is hereby created subject to the terms, authority
and conditions set out in this subchapter.
(1995 Code, § 3-1)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal law enforcement in general, see G.S. §§ 160A-281 et seq.
§ 35.02  COMPOSITION OF DEPARTMENT.
   The Police Department of the city shall consist of police and officers,
patrol officers and police officers of designated grade as the City Manager
deems necessary.
(1995 Code, § 3-2)
§ 35.03  POLICE OFFICERS’ DUTIES, GENERALLY.
   (A)   The Chief of Police and the members of the Police Department shall
have the duty of enforcing all the ordinances of the city and the laws of this
state within the city, and other duties as may be prescribed by ordinance.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of each member of the police force, upon
information furnished him or her, or upon his or her knowledge of any violation
of the ordinances of the city or the laws of this state, to secure proper
warrants for the arrest and trial of any and all offenders against any
ordinances or laws.
(1995 Code, § 3-3)
§ 35.04  PERSONNEL.
   The City Manager shall have the duty of hiring persons as may be necessary
to man the police force of the city and to provide the city with adequate
police protection.
(1995 Code, § 3-4)
§ 35.05  CONTROL AND SUPERVISION OVER THE DEPARTMENT.
   The Chief of Police, subject to the general supervision of the City Manager,
is held responsible for the discipline, good order and proper conduct of the
Department.
(1995 Code, § 3-5)
§ 35.06  CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   Members of the Police Department shall be appointed by the City
Manager after due examination, and based upon the results of the examination,
together with the recommendations of the Chief of Police.
   (B)   An appointee shall serve 12 months probation.
(1995 Code, § 3-6)
§ 35.07  REQUIREMENTS OF EMPLOYMENT.
   Every person appointed as a law enforcement officer shall:
   (A)   Be a citizen of the United States;
   (B)   Be at least 20 years of age;
   (C)   Be of good moral character;
   (D)   Be fingerprinted and a search made of local, state and federal
fingerprint files;
   (E)   Not have been convicted of a felony or an offense involving moral
turpitude;
   (F)   Have a high school diploma or its equivalent;
   (G)   Pass an examination conducted by a physician employed by the city;
   (H)   Be interviewed and approved by the City Manager;
   (I)   Be certified in accordance with state law; and
   (J)   Meet all other requirements of state law, if any.
(1995 Code, § 3-7)
§ 35.08  SPECIFIC DUTIES OF THE CHIEF.
   (A)   The Police Chief shall command the force under his or her order, and
shall be responsible for its discipline and efficiency. Further, he or she
shall recommend to the City Manager the reforms and changes in the Police
Department which practical experience shows should be instituted. Periodically
the Chief may be required to make out a statement of conduct of the affairs of
the Department, and shall include therein any suggestions for the improvement
in the service or personnel of the Department.
   (B)   Additional, specific functions of the Chief of Police are:
      (1)   To issue to the force under his or her command, subject to the City
Manager’s direction, such orders and directives as may be necessary to preserve
the public peace, to prevent crime, to arrest offenders and to protect public
and private property and persons in city;
      (2)   To enforce the laws, ordinances, police regulations and executive
orders applicable to the jurisdiction;
      (3)   To suspend from duty, pending a hearing before the City Manager,
any members of the Department for just cause; and
      (4)   To require the proper submission and handling of the necessary and
required reports.
(1995 Code, § 3-8)
§ 35.09  AUXILIARY POLICE.
   There is hereby established within the City Police Department, as a division
thereof, an auxiliary police division. The auxiliary police division shall be a
volunteer organization, whose members shall serve without compensation,
composed of as many members as may from time to time be determined by the Chief
of Police and approved by the City Manager.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2004)
FIRE PROTECTION AND PREVENTION
§ 35.20  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   In accordance with the detailed requirements of the city, a permit
shall be obtained to conduct the following operations, or to store, handle or
use those hazardous materials which are considered to present an extra or
unusual fire hazard to life or property:
      (1)   The storage, use or handling of explosive materials;
      (2)   The storage, use or handling of flammable or combustible liquids;
      (3)   Flammable finishing;
      (4)   The storage, use or handling of compressed or liquefied gases;
      (5)   Welding, cutting and other hot work operations;
      (6)   Combustible dust-producing operations;
      (7)   The storage, use or handling of hazardous materials;
      (8)   Aerial display of fireworks;
      (9)   Special uses (permit valid only for the specified event or
occurrence and separate permits required for each such event or occurrence);
and
      (10)   Multi-uses.
   (B)   Each person, firm or corporation conducting any of the above
operations, or storing or using any of the above materials shall be responsible
for obtaining permits before operations begin. Permits are not transferable to
other locations or to other persons, firms or corporations.
   (C)   All occupancies existing at the time this code is adopted where
hazardous materials are used, stored or handled, or where operations using
hazardous materials are conducted, must meet Applicable Fire Code regulations
before a permit will be issued or reissued.
(1995 Code, § 3-9)  (Ord. passed 9-10-1991)
§ 35.21  OBSTRUCTING, CROWDING OR INTERFERING AT A FIRE SITE.
   It shall be unlawful for persons to congregate on the streets, sidewalks,
alleys or other areas adjacent to a fire so as to interfere with the operations
of the Fire Department.
(1995 Code, § 3-10)  (Ord. passed 9-10-1991)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 35.22  OPEN BURNING.
   No person may burn or cause to be burned any material outside of a building
within the corporate limits subject to the following exceptions:
   (A)   A city employee in the lawful performance of his or her duties;
   (B)   Small fires kindled in or upon the ground or in a barbecue pit,
exterior fireplace, cook-out device or other similar outdoor eating or cooking
device, when required for entertainment or necessity; and
   (C)   Any person having obtained a special use permit from the Chief of the
City Volunteer Fire Department. Issuance of this permit shall not protect the
person from any harm or damage caused by the open burning.
(1995 Code, § 3-11)  (Ord. passed 9-10-1991)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 35.23  FIRE DEPARTMENT RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   It shall be the duty of all railroads and railway companies, and the
engineers and employees of the same, when any engine, car or train of cars is
across or on any street, to disconnect or move the cars or trains upon the
approach of fire apparatus and to clear the street crossing immediately so as
to allow the firefighters and vehicles to pass without delay.
(1995 Code, § 3-12)  (Ord. passed 9-10-1991)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 35.24  CONTAINERS FOR GASOLINE OR KEROSENE.
   No person may sell, place, dispense, keep in his or her possession, or store
on his or her premises any kerosene or gasoline except in containers approved
by the Fire Marshal.
(1995 Code, § 3-13)  (Ord. passed 9-10-1991)  Penalty, see §
10.99
EMERGENCY AND RESCUE
§ 35.35  STATE OF EMERGENCY; CURFEW AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   A state of emergency shall be deemed to exist whenever, during times
of great public crises, disaster, rioting, catastrophe or similar public
emergency, for any reason municipal public safety authorities are unable to
maintain public order or afford adequate protection for lives, safety or
property.
   (B)   In the event of an existing or threatened state of emergency
endangering the lives, safety, health and welfare of the people within the city
or threatening damage to or destruction of property, the Mayor is hereby
authorized and empowered to issue a public proclamation declaring to all
persons the existence of a state of emergency and in order more effectively to
protect the lives, safety and property of people within the city, to define and
impose a curfew applicable to all persons within the jurisdiction of the city.
   (C)   The Mayor is hereby authorized and empowered to limit the application
of the curfew to any area specifically designated and described within the
corporate limits of the city and to specific hours of the day or night; and to
exempt from the curfew police officers, firefighters, doctors, nurses and other
such classes of persons as may be essential to the preservation of public order
and immediately necessary to serve the safety, health and welfare needs of the
people within the city.
   (D)   The Mayor shall proclaim the end of the state of emergency and curfew
as soon as circumstances warrant, or when directed to do so by the City
Council.
   (E)   During the existence of a proclaimed state of emergency when a curfew
has been imposed, it shall be unlawful for anyone subject to the curfew:
      (1)   To be or travel upon any public street, alley or roadway or upon
public property, unless in search of medical assistance, food or other
commodity or service necessary to sustain the well-being of himself or herself
or his or her family or some member thereof;
      (2)   To possess off one’s own premises, buy, sell, give away or
otherwise transfer or dispose of any explosive, firearms, ammunition or
dangerous weapons of any kinds;
      (3)   To sell beer, wines or intoxicating beverages of any kind; or to
possess or consume same off one’s own premises; or
      (4)   To sell gasoline or any other similar petroleum products or any
other inflammable substance except as expressly authorized by the provisions of
the curfew imposed.
(1995 Code, § 3-14)  (Ord. passed 1-8-1968)
CHAPTER 36:  CITY POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
36.01   Anti-idling policy
Code of Ethics
   
36.15   Purpose
   
36.16   Obedience to laws
   
36.17   Integrity, independence from improper influence and respect for others
   
36.18   Avoid impropriety
   
36.19   Council members
   
36.20   Council affairs conducted in an open and public manner
   
36.21   Censure procedures
Fiscal Policy
   
36.30   Introduction
   
36.31   Objectives
   
36.32   Operating budget
   
36.33   Accounting/financial reporting
   
36.34   Cash management
   
36.35   Long-term debt management
   
36.36   Purchases for general operations
   
36.37   Purchase of vehicles
   
36.38   Credit card purchases
   
36.39   Contracts
   
36.40   Surplus property
   
36.41   Forms, tables and other information
Utility Billing Policy
   
36.50   Forward
   
36.51   Utility service connection
   
36.52   Billing and collections
   
36.53   Service disconnection
   
36.54   Collection of delinquent accounts
   
36.55   Meter information
   
36.56   Meter tampering
   
36.57   Returned check policy
   
36.58   Termination of services
   
36.59   Adjustments and errors
   
36.60   City’s right to suspend service
   
36.61   Profane, indecent, and threatening call
   
36.62   Equalized payments
Traffic Calming Policy
   
36.70   Mission statement
   
36.71   Purpose
   
36.72   Initiation of request
   
36.73   Analysis
   
36.74   Findings
   
36.75   Actions
   
36.76   Traffic calming policy overview flow chart
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 36.01  ANTI-IDLING POLICY.
   (A)   Reduce vehicle idling.
      (1)   Vehicle idling gets zero miles per gallon; unnecessary idling
wastes fuel and pollutes. Running an engine at low speed (idling) also causes
twice the wear and tear on internal parts compared to driving at regular
speeds. The breakeven point for shutting off and restarting gasoline engines or
leaving it to idle is 30 seconds, from the point of view of both emissions and
fuel consumption.
      (2)   Over the past several years, parts of the Greater Charlotte Area
including Gaston County and the City of Lowell have been made aware of the
region’s air quality and have taken steps in lessening the impact of pollutants
such as nitrogen oxide, carbon dioxide, particulate matter and volatile organic
compounds. However, the region is still in an ozone non-attainment status.
      (3)   Idling of vehicles consumes approximately 17% of the fuel that a
vehicle has on board.
      (4)   Effective immediately, unless exempted in division (B) below, no
city vehicle or piece of equipment is to be idled in a non-emergency situation.
The operator of the vehicle/equipment is to turn-off the unit and the keys are
to be removed from the ignition.
   (B)   Exemptions. The following situations will allow idling, as needed:
      (1)   Emergency vehicles at scenes where lights, PTOs and/or other
accessories are needed to accomplish the mission;
      (2)   Police Department vehicles working traffic enforcement details;
      (3)   Public Works Department and Recreation Department vehicles at job
sites requiring the use of emergency lights, PTOs and/or other accessories to
accomplish their mission; and
      (4)   Inclement weather situations.
   (C)   Note.
      (1)   Operators of vehicle/equipment and supervisors will be judicious in
the idling of units at emergency scenes and job sites. If not all the units at
the scene/site need to be idling, those units must be turned-off and the keys
removed from the ignition.
      (2)   Each vehicle/equipment operator will be responsible for the idling
operation of their unit and will have the unit keys in their possession to
ensure that crew members do not arbitrarily violate the policy without the
operator’s knowledge.
      (3)   Supervisors in each department will be responsible for the
adherence and enforcement of the idling policy. Violations of the policy will
be documented as to the vehicle/equipment operator, vehicle identification,
location, date and time, weather conditions, and circumstances of the
violation.
      (4)   The vehicle/equipment operator will be informed of the violation by
the supervisor at the time of the infraction.
      (5)   The department head of each department/or the City Manager will be
responsible for the discipline of employees found to be in violation of the
policy. Discipline will be per the city disciplinary procedures and in a
progressive manner.
(Ord. passed 12-8-2008)
CODE OF ETHICS
§ 36.15  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this Code of Ethics is to establish guidelines for ethical
standards of conduct for the Mayor and City Council of the city and all
references to the City Council shall be understood to include the Mayor. The
Code of Ethics is intended to help to determine what conduct is appropriate in
particular cases, but it should not be considered a substitute for the law or
for a Council member’s best judgment.
(Ord. passed 12-9-2013)
§ 36.16  OBEDIENCE TO LAWS.
   (A)   Council members should obey all laws applicable to their official
actions as members of the City Council. Council members should be guided by the
spirit as well as the letter of the law in whatever they do.
   (B)   At the same time, Council members should feel free to assert policy
positions and opinions without fear of reprisal from fellow Council members or
citizens. To declare that a Council member is behaving unethically because one
disagrees with another Council member on a question of policy (and not because
of the Council member’s behavior) is unfair, dishonest, irresponsible and
itself unethical.
(Ord. passed 12-9-2013)
§ 36.17  INTEGRITY, INDEPENDENCE FROM IMPROPER INFLUENCE AND RESPECT FOR
OTHERS.
   (A)   Council members should act with integrity, independent from improper
influence and respect for others as they exercise the duties of their offices.
   (B)   Characteristics and behaviors consistent with this standard include
the following:
      (1)   Adhering firmly to a code of sound values;
      (2)   Behaving consistently and with respect toward everyone with whom
they interact;
      (3)   Exhibiting trustworthiness;
      (4)   Living as if they are on duty as elected officials regardless of
where they are or what they are doing;
      (5)   Using their best independent judgment to pursue the common good as
they see it, presenting their opinions to all in a reasonable, forthright,
consistent manner;
      (6)   Remaining incorruptible, self-governing and unaffected by improper
influence while at the same time being able to consider the opinions and ideas
of others;
      (7)   Disclosing contacts and information about issues that they receive
outside of public meetings and refraining from seeking or receiving information
about quasi-judicial matters outside of the quasi-judicial proceedings
themselves;
      (8)   Treating other Council members, staff and the public with respect
and honoring the opinions of others even when the Council member disagrees with
those opinions;
      (9)   Not directing or interfering with staff in the performance of their
duties recognizing that staff performs their roles under general direction from
the governing board;
      (10)   Understanding and respecting the role of Council members, citizens
and staff in governance and operations;
      (11)   Not reaching conclusions on issues until all sides have been
heard;
      (12)   Showing respect for their offices and not behaving in ways that
reflect badly on those offices;
      (13)   Recognizing that they are part of a larger group and acting
accordingly;
      (14)   Recognizing that individual Council members are not generally
allowed to act on behalf of the Council, but may only do so if the Council
specifically authorizes it, and that the Council must take official action as a
body; and
      (15)   Avoiding conflicts of interest.
(Ord. passed 12-9-2013)
§ 36.18  AVOID IMPROPRIETY.
   (A)   Council members should avoid impropriety in the exercise of their
official duties. Their official actions should be above reproach. Although
opinions may vary about what behavior is inappropriate, this City Council will
consider impropriety in terms of whether a reasonable person who is aware of
all of the relevant facts and circumstances surrounding the Council member’s
action would conclude that the action was inappropriate.
   (B)   If a Council member believes that his or her actions, while legal and
ethical, may be misunderstood, the member should seek the advice of the city’s
Attorney and should consider publicly disclosing the facts of the situation and
the steps taken to resolve it.
(Ord. passed 12-9-2013)
§ 36.19  COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   (A)   City Council members should faithfully perform the duties of their
offices. They should act as especially responsible citizens whom others can
trust and respect. They should set a good example for others in the community,
keeping in mind that trust and respect must continually be earned.
   (B)   Council members should faithfully attend and prepare for meetings.
They should carefully analyze all credible information properly submitted to
them, mindful of the need not to engage in communications outside the meeting
in quasi-judicial matters. They should demand full accountability from those
over whom the Council has authority.
   (C)   Council members should be willing to bear their fair share of the
Council’s workload. To the extent appropriate, they should be willing to put
the Council’s interests ahead of their own.
(Ord. passed 12-9-2013)
§ 36.20  COUNCIL AFFAIRS CONDUCTED IN AN OPEN AND PUBLIC MANNER.
   (A)   Council members should conduct the affairs of the Council in an open
and public manner. They should comply with all applicable laws governing open
meetings and public records, recognizing that doing so is an important way to
be worthy of the public’s trust. They should remember when they meet that they
are conducting the public’s business. They should also remember that local
government records belong to the public and not to Council members or their
employees.
   (B)   In order to ensure strict compliance with the laws concerning
openness, Council members should make clear that an environment of transparency
and candor is to be maintained at all times in the governmental unit. They
should prohibit unjustified delay in fulfilling public records requests. They
should take deliberate steps to make certain that any closed sessions held by
the Council are lawfully conducted and that such sessions do not stray from the
purposes for which they are called.
(Ord. passed 12-9-2013)
§ 36.21  CENSURE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   If a majority of the Council has reason to believe that one of its
members has violated a provision of the Code of Ethics, it may open an
investigation into the matter to determine whether probable cause exists to
initiate censure proceedings against the member. All information compiled,
including the grounds for any finding of probable cause, shall be shared with
the member when it is received. All information pertaining to the case shall be
open to public inspection and copying pursuant to the state public records
statutes. If upon investigation the Council concludes that a violation of a
criminal law may have occurred, it shall refer the matter to the local district
attorney.
   (B)   Should the Council determine that it wishes to proceed further with
censure proceedings, it shall call for a hearing, to be held at a regular
meeting or at a special meeting convened for that purpose. Notice of the
hearing stating its time, place and purpose shall be given once a week for two
successive calendar weeks in a newspaper having general circulation in the
jurisdiction. The notice shall be published the first time not less than ten
days or more than 25 days before the date fixed for the hearing. In computing
such period, the day of publication is not to be included but advertised on the
jurisdiction’s website for the same period of time, up to and including the
date of the hearing. The notice shall state that a detailing list of the
allegation against the member is available for public inspection and copying in
the office of the Clerk or Secretary to the Council.
   (C)   The hearing shall be convened at the time and place specified. The
hearing and any deliberations shall be conducted in open session in accordance
with the state open meetings statutes.
   (D)   The accused Council member shall have the right to have counsel
present, to present and cross-examine expert and other witnesses, and to offer
evidence, including evidence of the bias of any other Council member or the
presiding officer. An audio or video and audio tape of the proceedings shall be
prepared. Any and all votes during the hearing shall be taken by the ayes and
noes and recorded in the Council’s minutes.
   (E)   Once the hearing is concluded, it shall be closed by vote of the
Council. The presiding officer shall next entertain a motion to adopt a
nonbinding resolution censuring the member based on specified violations of the
Code of Ethics. Any motion made must be an affirmative one in favor of adopting
a nonbinding resolution of censure. If the motion or resolutions does not state
particular grounds for censure under the Code of Ethics, the presiding officer
shall rule it out of order. The accused member shall be allowed to participate
in the debate but shall not vote on the motion to adopt the resolution.
   (F)   At the conclusion of the debate, the Council shall vote on the
resolution. If the motion to adopt the nonbinding resolution of censure is
approved by a majority vote of those present and voting, a quorum being
present, the motion passes and the nonbinding resolution of censure is adopted.
   (G)   The text of the nonbinding resolution of censure shall be made a part
of the minutes of the Council. Any recording of the Council’s proceedings shall
be approved by the Council as a permanent part of the minutes. The proceedings
shall then be considered concluded; the Council having done all it legally can
with respect to the matter in question.
(Ord. passed 12-9-2013)
FISCAL POLICY
§ 36.30  INTRODUCTION.
   The Fiscal Procedures Policy is the foundation for fiscal management of the
City of Lowell's resources guiding the City Council, hereinafter ("Council"),
and staff in making sound financial decisions and in maintaining the fiscal
stability of the city.
(Ord. passed 11-14-2016)
§ 36.31  OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives in development and maintenance of this Fiscal Procedures
Policy are as follows:
   (A)   To maintain good internal controls in the financial management of the
city;
   (B)   To link long-term financial planning with short-term daily operations;
   (C)   Enable the city to obtain needed materials, equipment, supplies and
services efficiently and economically; and
   (D)   To ensure that all legal requirements are followed by strict adherence
to the policy.
(Ord. passed 11-14-2016)
§ 36.32  OPERATING BUDGET.
   The city's annual budget shall be prepared in accordance with North Carolina
General Statutes, the operating budget shall cover a fiscal year beginning July
1 and ending June 30 and shall be consistent with the North Carolina Local
Government Budget and Fiscal Control Act. The City Council shall approve the
budget before July 1 of the applicable fiscal year.
   (A)   Expenditures.
      (1)   Budget management. Expenditures are monitored continually
throughout the fiscal year. Budgeted funds by department will only be spent for
departmental purposes for which they were intended. The annual operating budget
ordinance defines staff authorization for operating budget adjustments.
      (2)   Monthly reporting. In accordance with G.S. § 159-25(a)(3) as often
as may be requested financial statements will be provided to the City Manager
and Council. These reports shall include, but are not limited to, an analysis
of fiscal year to date budgeted and actual revenues and expenditures.
      (3)   Fund transfers.
         (a)   The Finance Officer shall transfer funds to enable the timely
completion of the position's mandated responsibilities consistent with adopted
budget authorization and as may be amended from time to time.
         (b)   Transfers between operating departments and from general fund to
capital projects shall be accomplished only by Council authorization. Copies of
budget amendments as approved by the Council shall be documented within minutes
maintained by the City Clerk.
      (4)   Payroll. Payroll preparation shall be the responsibility of the
Finance Officer and administered by city personnel to provide separation of
duties required by prudent internal control procedures. Payroll will be
administered in accordance with the Personnel Policy of the city.
   (B)   Reserve funds.
      (1)   Fund balance. Funds not appropriated for expenditures in a fiscal
year are part of the fund balance. Such funds will be invested in accordance
with the city's Investment Policy found in §
36.34(E). In the governmental fund, the financial statement of fund balance is
composed of five classifications designed to disclose the hierarchy of
constraints placed on how the fund balance can be spent and are as follows:
         (a)   Non-spendable fund balance. This classification includes amounts
that cannot be spent because they are either:
            1.   Not in spendable form; or
            2.   Legally or contractually required to be maintained intact.
         (b)   Restricted fund balance. This classification includes amounts
constrained for a specific purpose by external parties such as creditors,
constitutional provision or enabling legislation. Restrictions are to be listed
by purpose.
         (c)   Committed fund balance. This classification includes amounts
that can only be used for specific purposes approved by a majority vote of the
Council. Any changes or removal of specific purpose requires majority action by
the Council. Action to constrain financial resources must occur prior to year-
end, however, the amount can be determined in the subsequent period.
         (d)   Assigned fund balance. For the general fund, a portion of fund
balance that the Council intends to use for specific purposes. Any amount to be
appropriated for subsequent year's expenditures shall be approved during the
annual budget adoption process.
         (e)   Unassigned fund balance. For the general fund, amounts not
classified as non-spendable, restricted, committed or assigned.
      (2)   Minimum fund balance policy.
         (a)   For the general fund, management shall conduct the business of
the city in such a manner that available fund balance is at least equal to or
greater than 16% of budgeted expenditures for the succeeding fiscal year.
         (b)   The Council may appropriate fund balances that will reduce
available fund balance below the percentage established above for the purposes
of a declared fiscal emergency or other such global purpose as to protect the
long-term fiscal security of the city. In such circumstances the Council will
adopt a plan to restore the available fund balances to the policy level within
36 months from the date of appropriation. If restoration cannot be accomplished
within such time without severe hardship to the city, then the Council will
establish a different but appropriate time period.
      (3)   Capital reserve fund. The Council may establish a capital reserve
fund for the purpose of providing capital for substantial improvements in city
infrastructure and/or significant planned asset acquisitions. Monies from this
fund shall be expended only for the purpose and to the extent designated by
Council authorization.
   (C)   Budget preparation.
      (1)   Annual budget. The Budget Officer or his or her designee shall
prepare annually a budget schedule for submission to the Council setting forth
components of the budget process and deadlines for each leading to budget
adoption.
      (2)   Budget schedule. Deadlines in the budget schedule are to include
but are not limited to distribution of the budget calendar, departmental budget
requests, budget retreat, submission of the draft budget, submission of draft
budget with message, public hearing on the budget and adoption of the budget
ordinance. The Budget Officer shall formally present the city's budgets,
including budget message at a regular Council meeting. Public hearings and
Council adoption shall be accomplished in accordance with the North Carolina
General Statutes.
(Ord. passed 11-14-2016)
§ 36.33  ACCOUNTING/FINANCIAL REPORTING.
   (A)   Accounting system.
      (1)   The city will establish and maintain its accounting systems per the
North Carolina Local Budget and Fiscal Control Act. Financial systems will be
maintained to monitor revenues and expenses monthly.
      (2)   The city will place emphasis on maintenance of an accounting system
which provides strong budgetary and accounting controls. The system will be
designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding both the safeguarding of
assets against loss from unauthorized use or disposition, reliability of
financial records for preparing financial statements and reports, and
maintenance of accountability of assets.
   (B)   Basis of accounting. All records and reporting will be in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles and as follows for:
      (1)   Governmental funds. Governmental funds are reported using the
modified accrual basis of accounting. Revenue is recognized when it becomes
available and measurable. Expenditures are typically recognized in the period
in which the liability is incurred except for:
         (a)   Significant inventories of materials and supplies that may be
considered expenditures either when bought or used;
         (b)   Interest on general and special assessment long-term debt that
is recognized on the date due; and
         (c)   Use of encumbrances.
      (2)   Enterprise funds. Enterprise funds are reported using the full
accrual basis of accounting.
   (C)   Annual audit. An independent public accounting firm will perform an
annual audit and issue an opinion on the annual financial statements and, if
required, a management letter detailing areas within the financial process that
need improvement. Auditing services and the auditor relationship will be
evaluated annually.
   (D)   Fixed asset capitalization policy.
      (1)   The city will establish and maintain an inventory of fixed assets
to account for the city's property. A fixed asset shall be any item with a
useful life of at least two years and an acquisition cost equal to or greater
than $5,000. Reporting of these assets and depreciation of all fixed assets
will be made in accordance with current governmental accounting standards.
      (2)   Any items not meeting the criteria of a fixed asset shall be
considered as non-capital equipment and consumable. Consumables are budgeted as
departmental expenditures and will be purchased, managed and used by the
respective city departments until their useful life expires. The Council shall
be informed during the annual budget process of significant intended
expenditures for non-capital equipment.
(Ord. passed 11-14-2016)
§ 36.34  CASH MANAGEMENT.
   The city's cash management procedures provide guidelines to maximize the use
of public funds in the best interest of the public.
   (A)   Collected funds.
      (1)   Cash collections. Cash received will be processed daily as received
to provide an expedient and as reasonably possible secure handling of incoming
cash. Copies of checks are available from our banking institution.
      (2)   Cash deposits. Funds shall be deposited in designated financial
institution account(s) daily in accordance with G.S. § 159-32.
      (3)   Cash drawer; City Hall. A cash drawer shall be maintained in the
Finance Department to assist in the collection of funds. The cash drawer will
be reconciled at the time each deposit is made. The cash drawer shall maintain
a balance of $100 in change and currency. The cash drawer will be secured
overnight in the safe.
      (4)   Cash drawers; recreation complex. A separate cash fund of $100
shall be maintained by the Parks and Recreation Department for use with
collection of program fees and concession activities. Collected funds will
remain intact and deposited in accordance with cash deposit procedures. All
vendor payments and program refunds must be processed through the established
accounts payable process.
      (5)   Returned checks. A service fee of $25 or, if greater, as allowed by
State statute, will be assessed whenever a check issued to the city is returned
for insufficient funds. The issuer will be asked to make the check good with
cash and may be required to use cash with any future financial transactions
with the city.
   (B)   Receipts.
      (1)   Cash receipts. Receipts generated and recorded by the accounting
system, pre-numbered duplicate forms or cash register tape documentation will
be provided for all funds received by any representative of the city.
   (C)   Cash disbursements. The city's objective is to retain funds for
investment for the longest appropriate period while maintaining an efficient
policy for procurement and payment of goods and services required by city
operations.
      (1)   Purchase orders. Purchase order forms will be required to purchase
goods or services as detailed in subsequent divisions. Purchase orders shall be
signed by the Finance Officer.
      (2)   Credit card purchase requests. Credit card purchase requests are
subject to purchase authorization as detailed in §
36.38 and shall be signed by the Finance Director or City Manager.
      (3)   Check disbursements. Accounts payable disbursements will be made in
advance of invoice due dates to take advantage of payment discounts, if any,
but more importantly to avoid unnecessary late payment fees. Invoices processed
through close of business on Wednesday will be included in a weekly check
processing typically on Thursday. Invoices requiring expedited payment will be
handled on an individual basis.
      (4)   Check signatures. City checks shall be signed by two of three
different individuals to include the City Manager, Finance Director, and City
Clerk.
      (5)   Pre-audit certification. City checks will bear the following pre-
audit certification: "This disbursement has been approved as required by the
Local Government Budget and Fiscal Control Act."
      (6)   General petty cash fund. Petty cash shall be maintained for non-
recurring expenditures requiring a prompter payment than can be efficiently
effected by issuance of a single check. For this purpose, a petty cash fund of
$100 will be maintained. At all times the combination of receipts and cash
should balance to $100. The City Clerk shall be the custodian of petty cash and
is responsible for replenishing these funds when the reconciled cash balance
falls below $20. Petty cash transactions shall be recorded as funds are
replenished during the fiscal year and specifically at June 30 if the fund is
not fully funded by cash. Periodic audits of petty cash shall be conducted by
the Finance Director.
   (D)   Banking relations.
      (1)   Bank selection. Banking service providers will be evaluated and
selected by the Council through a competitive proposal process.
      (2)   Review of banking relationship. The Council will review the banking
relationship(s) at their discretion, but at least every five years.
      (3)   Bank accounts. The city will maintain a minimum number of bank
accounts to facilitate the movement and investment of funds and for efficient
operations.
      (4)   Account security. Collateralization for deposits will be in
accordance with Title 20, Chapter 7 of the North Carolina Administrative Code.
   (E)   Investments.
      (1)   Responsible party. G.S. § 159-30 places responsibility for the
city's investment program with the Finance Director at the direction of the
City Council. The daily operation of the cash management and investment
functions will be the responsibility of the Finance Director who is authorized
to purchase, sell and exchange securities on behalf of the city and may make
transfers between city bank accounts as deemed appropriate in the management of
city funds.
      (2)   Investment objective. The city will preserve capital and invest
public funds in a manner which provides the highest investment return with the
maximum security while meeting the daily cash flow demands of the city while
doing so in compliance with all State statutes and other applicable laws
governing the investment of public funds. The city's investment portfolio will
be designed with the objective of attaining a market rate of return while
minimizing risk and retaining liquidity.
      (3)   Investment risk. The standard of prudence to be used in managing
the overall investment portfolio shall be the "prudent investor" rule which
states "Investments shall be made with judgment and care, under circumstances
then prevailing, which persons of prudence, discretion, and intelligence
exercise in the management of their own affairs, not for speculation, but for
investment, considering the probable safety of their capital as well as the
probable income to be derived." The Finance Director, acting in accordance with
North Carolina General Statutes, this policy, and exercising due diligence in
the scope of his or her duties, shall be relieved of personal responsibility
for an investment credit risk or market price changes, provided that these
deviations are reported immediately upon knowledge and that appropriate action
is taken to control adverse developments.
      (4)   Permitted investments. The city shall conform to the listed types
of investments permitted by local governments in G.S. § 159-30(b), and (c). See
§
36.41 for detail of authorized investments.
      (5)   Investment deposits. Certificates of deposit and demand deposit
arrangements shall be limited to institutions participating in the pooling
method of collateralizing local unit funds established by the North Carolina
State Treasurer. No certificates of deposit or demand deposit shall be placed
with an institution unless it is a member of the FDIC or FSLIC.
      (6)   Investment earnings. All monies earned and collected from
investments will be allocated monthly to the general fund, or any additional
permanent fund that may be established.
      (7)   Investment report. The Finance Director is charged with the
responsibility of preparing a monthly cash report for the City Manager and
Council which shall include investment account balances.
(Ord. passed 11-14-2016)
§ 36.35  LONG-TERM DEBT MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   General debt policy. The city will confine long-term borrowing, other
than for vehicles and capital equipment acquisitions/leases, to capital
improvements or projects that cannot be financed from current revenues except
where approved justification is provided. A balanced approach to capital
funding that uses a combination of debt financing, draws on capital reserves
and/or fund balances in excess of fund balance policy targets, and current-year
(pay-as-you-go) appropriations will be undertaken.
   (B)   Authorization for debt. All long-term borrowing shall be authorized by
the Council. Any two of three individuals including the City Manager, Mayor and
Finance Director may execute properly authorized debt instruments on behalf of
the city. While the city may have access to other types of debt instruments, it
is contemplated that the need for long-term funding can be satisfied by use of
either capital lease arrangements or installment financing.
   (C)   Debt term limits. The city will not finance capital improvements,
vehicles, capital equipment acquisition/leases, or other projects for terms
exceeding the expected useful life of the improvement, vehicle or project.
   (D)   Financial restrictions on outstanding debt.
      (1)   Direct net debt, defined by G.S. § 159-55 as any and all debt that
is tax supported, is statutorily limited to 8% of the assessed valuation of the
taxable property within the city. Total general fund debt service will not
exceed any limits imposed by the North Carolina Local Government Commission
(LGC). As a matter of prudent debt management, direct net debt of the city
should not exceed 5% of total assessed value of taxable property.
      (2)   Annual debt service expenditures will be targeted to remain at or
below 10% of total general fund expenditures but in any case should not exceed
12% with an aggregate direct debt ten-year principal payout not to exceed 50%.
(Ord. passed 11-14-2016)
§ 36.36  PURCHASES FOR GENERAL OPERATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   This section of the Fiscal Policy is intended to serve as a
guide for all departments in obtaining supplies, materials, equipment,
apparatus, construction, and repair work. The city's purchasing program is
based on the principal of competitive bidding. Where it is not sought, or
obtained, the reason must be valid or permitted by North Carolina General
Statute. In public purchasing and contracting, utmost fairness is required in
expending public funds. The practice of favoritism, whether to the user,
department, or to the seller, is not permissible. The primary purchasing
obligation in a governmental environment is commitment and adherence to fair
and open competition.
      (2)   The city's purchasing operations are governed by North Carolina
General Statutes and, therefore, must seek competitive offers from qualified
sources of supply unless the items can be obtained through existing contracts
established by the North Carolina Department of Administration Division of
Purchase and Contract or are covered by other statutory exceptions. The city
will participate in the State contract program whenever possible. Items
required by city departments should be substituted for "acceptable" equivalents
that are included in these contracts. Where items cannot be substituted, they
will be obtained through standard purchase procedures.
      (3)   Local government purchasing is recommended by the North Carolina
Department of State Treasurer to be a centralized function to ensure legal
compliance and to obtain the most competitive pricing. As a general rule, the
department heads are responsible for purchasing all supplies, services,
materials, and equipment for their respective departments. The city does not
employ a full-time purchasing agent, and must rely on departmental staff to
identify their needs, obtain competitive pricing, and follow sound and legal
purchasing practices. The Finance Director and the City Manager will provide
assistance to departments heads. Purchasing is a shared authority with the
final legal responsibility resting with the city Finance Director.
      (4)   It is recommended that the following steps be taken:
         (a)   All department heads should read and understand purchasing
policies of the city;
         (b)   All employees involved in the purchasing process should become
thoroughly familiar with the purchase and contracting procedures outlined in
this policy;
         (c)   This policy should be kept where it is easily accessible for
reference; and
         (d)   Comments concerning this policy or clarification of its contents
should be directed to the Finance Director and City Manager.
   (B)   General rules and procedures for purchasing.
      (1)   Purchases under $500. Purchases of small, single items where the
total cost is less than $500 may be authorized by the department head without
use of a purchase order. However, employees must obtain either a copy of the
invoice or other type of receipt and submit for processing to the department
head. The responsible department head must indicate approval, vendor number and
account number to be charged and thereafter submit the invoice or sales
receipt, to the Finance Director within five calendar days following the
purchase, or may face disciplinary action per the city personnel policy.
      (2)   Purchases of $500 to $1,000. All purchases of $500 to less than
$1,000 (individually or in total) must be made with the use of a purchase order
issued by the Finance Director from a purchase requisition. The department
wishing to make the purchase will prepare a purchase requisition and present it
to the Finance Director. Department Heads should seek competitive pricing for
items to be purchased where there are multiple available vendors.
      (3)   Purchases of $1,000 to $5,000. Purchases of $1,000 to less than
$5,000 are to be handled in accordance with division (B)(2)  however, the City
Manager must approve all expenditures in this cost category.
      (4)   Purchases of $5,000 to $30,000.
         (a)   In accordance with G.S. § 143-131, purchases of less than
$30,000 will be made in the open market with or without necessary resort to
formal invitation for bids or request for quotations. However, every effort
should be given to obtain at least three written quotes. The method used to
receive quotes is at the discretion of the requesting department director, but
all quote documentation should be included and attached to electronic purchase
requisition. Justification for not soliciting quotes should also be included in
requisition. Purchases made using state contract or other cooperative purchase
agreement should include the cooperative contract document.
         (b)   If deemed to be in the public interest, the City Council may not
follow competitive bidding in cases of emergency and other statutory
exceptions, which are listed below:
         (c)   Exceptions that apply to purchase contracts:
            1.   Purchase from other government agencies;
            2.   Competitive group purchasing;
            3.   Gasoline, diesel fuel, alcohol fuel, motor oil, fuel oil, or
natural gas;
            4.   Sole sources (specified criteria must be met and Council
approval required);
            5.   Information technology goods or services purchased through the
North Carolina State Office of Information Technology or under request for
proposals procedures authorized under G.S. § 143-129.8;
            6.   State contract purchases;
            7.   Used apparatus, supplies, materials, or equipment (does not
include remanufactured, re-fabricated, or demo items);
            8.   Previously bid or "piggybacking" contracts (requires governing
Council approval at a regular meeting upon ten days public notice); and
            9.   Purchase of goods and services from nonprofit work centers for
the blind and severely disabled.
         (d)   Exceptions that apply to construction or repair contracts only:
            1.   Change order work;
            2.   Construction management at risk projects (per North Carolina
General Statutes);
            3.   Force account work; note dollar limitations and bidding
requirements for materials purchased for these projects;
            4.   Projects using unemployment-relief labor paid for in whole or
in part with state or federal funds;
            5.   Contracts with North Carolina Department of Transportation for
street construction and repair; and
            6.   All other North Carolina State contracts allowed by North
Carolina General Statutes.
         (e)   Exceptions that apply to both construction and purchase
contracts:
            1.   Special emergency involving the health and safety of the
people or their property;
            2.   Guaranteed energy savings contracts (as per North Carolina
General Statutes); and
            3.   Solid waste management facilities. Exceptions to competitive
bidding are permitted where provided by North Carolina General Statutes. The
above exceptions shall be amended automatically in accord with any changes to
the State Statutes. In cases where the exception to competitive bidding is
anticipated, all reasons for taking such action must be documented and the City
Manager must approve the exception requested.
      (5)   Capital asset inventory record. All department heads are
responsible for notifying the Finance Director of capital purchases over
$5,000. This procedure is in place to keep a running inventory of capital
assets per department for the annual audit and for insurance purposes.
      (6)   No purchase order required.
         (a)   The following purchases do not require a purchase order:
            1.   Advertising for required public notices, employment and city
promotion;
            2.   Recurring dues and subscriptions as budgeted;
            3.   Recurring utilities;
            4.   General insurance and worker’s compensation premiums;
            5.   Postage and postage meter rental;
            6.   Recurring service contracts (copier, computer support,
landscaping, waste disposal);
            7.   Uniform rentals and related cleaning services;
            8.   Motor fuels obtained by use of fleet purchase cards;
            9.   Salaries and payments for withholdings or contributions from
salaries; and
            10.   Professional services (accounting, physicals, drug testing).
         (b)   A purchase order should be used for the above items only if the
department has a need for tracking historical data. If a purchase order is
requested for an item or service that requires a contract, a copy of the
completed contract must be attached to the purchase requisition.
   (C)   Purchase specifications.
      (1)   Preparation of specifications.
         (a)   When goods or services are procured under the formal or informal
bidding process, specifications must be prepared. All specifications should do
at least four things:
            1.   Identify minimum requirements;
            2.   Encourage competitive bids;
            3.   Be capable of objective review; and
            4.   Provide for an equitable award at the lowest possible cost.
         (b)   Specifications should be as simple as possible while maintaining
the degree of exactness required to assure that bidders are offering the
quality of goods and services required. Such exactness also prevents bidders
from taking advantage of their competitors by not offering the quality of goods
and level of service required by the city.
         (c)   All specifications utilizing a name brand must include the term
"or approved equal" to avoid being restrictive and eliminating fair competition
from the bidding process.
         (d)   Different methods of structuring specifications include:
            1.   Qualified products on an acceptable vendor list;
            2.   Specification by blueprint or dimension sheet;
            3.   Specification by chemical analysis or physical properties;
            4.   Specification by performance, purpose, or use;
            5.   Specification by identification with industry standards; and
            6.   Specification by samples.
   (D)   Purchase requisitions.
      (1)   Requisitions. Any supplies, equipment, etc., to be purchased by
city departments are to be requisitioned, if required, through the Finance
Director. The department head must sign all requisitions and provide the
necessary information on this document in order for the Finance Director to
consider approval and prepare a purchase order. The Finance Director can
approve requisitions up to $1,000. All requisitions over $1,000 must be
approved by the City Manager.
      (2)   Preparation of a purchase requisition. The requisition should be
sent to the Finance Director when completed. All requisitions must contain the
following information or the Finance Director or City Manager will return them
to the sending department:
         (a)   Account code - the general ledger account to be charged with the
expenditure;
         (b)   Date of request;
         (c)   Requesting employee signature;
         (d)   Department head signature;
         (e)   Complete item description including quantity - stock or item
number, correct name of item if known, color, any specifications and the
quantity and unit of the item requested;
         (f)   Vendor number; the department’s choice should be listed under
“Vendor A.” A new vendor’s complete mailing address must be included on the
form;
         (g)   Date item or service is needed; and
         (h)   Provide the vendor quote documents if available or otherwise
when required.
   (E)   Purchase orders.
      (1)   Purpose of purchase orders. The purchase order serves as
authorization to a vendor to furnish a service or product to the city at the
prices shown thereon. It also serves as the basis for encumbering departmental
funds and assures the supplier that funds are available for the purchase. As a
medium for encumbering funds, it represents a means for providing management
with a more accurate and complete statement of financial position and is
instrumental in preventing departments from over-spending their budgets. If
there are not sufficient funds remaining in the requisitioned expense line item
the order cannot be placed until a budget amendment or departmental fund
transfer has been prepared and approved to provide necessary funds.
      (2)   Purchase order preparation. All purchase orders are to be prepared
by the Finance Director. Confirming orders will not be issued to suppliers by
any department once an order has been placed, unless prior authorization is
obtained from the City Manager or unless it falls under the category of an
emergency purchase. Any purchase made which is not in accordance with the
procedures as explained in this subchapter will require approval by the City
Manager. Any such purchases otherwise made or committed for will not be paid
until a written explanation, with the approval of the City Manager, is
available. If approval is not obtained, the employee may face disciplinary
action per the city personnel policy.
      (3)   Changes to purchase orders. If the vendor and/or the department
head fail to notify the Finance Director of any changes or additions to the
purchase order, only the original cost of the purchase order will be paid. Any
increase in the price of the merchandise or service must be fully justified by
the department head and approved by the City Manager.
      (4)   Purchase order distribution.
         (a)   The Finance Director will forward system generated original
purchase orders to the requesting department head. Completed purchase orders
should be transmitted to the vendor as deemed appropriate by the requesting
department head and in accordance with procedures established for the vendor.
Use of fax and/or e-mail is encouraged.
         (b)   A copy of each purchase order along with the approved
requisition request and supporting documentation will be maintained by the
Office Technician for subsequent matching to the resultant invoice.
   (F)   Blanket purchase orders; blanket purchase order preparation. This
procedure is to provide an additional purchasing tool for obtaining items when
the amount of paper work involved or the nature of the purchase makes it
impractical or impossible to use regular purchasing channels. The Finance
Director and departments shall work together to use this procedure when it
appears to be in the city's best interest. The City Manager must approve
blanket purchase orders. The procedure for use of a blanket purchase order is
as follows:
      (1)   The department must make a request to the Finance Director (by
requisition) giving the following information:
         (a)   Account code -  the general ledger account to be charged with
the expenditure;
         (b)   Date;
         (c)   Requesting employee signature;
         (d)   Department head signature;
         (e)   Complete item description including quantity - stock or item
number, correct name of item if known, color, any specifications and the
quantity and unit of the item requested;
         (f)   Period of the request (dates);
         (g)   Maximum amount anticipated to be purchased in a month; and
         (h)   Suggested vendors - the department's choice should be listed
under "Vendor." The requesting department should make every effort to provide
two or three vendors for the requested item(s). The vendor's complete mailing
address will be included on the form.
      (2)   The Finance Director will review all requests.
      (3)   Maximum monthly expenditures will be provided on the blanket
purchase order. Such maximums will be worked out with the individual
department.
      (4)   Blanket purchase orders are usually issued twice a year and are
good for six months.
      (5)   The maximum amount of the blanket purchase order will be encumbered
until the encumbrance is liquidated. Departments are not to exceed the total
amount in funds encumbered for the period of the order. It will be the
responsibility of each department to ensure that purchases made against all
blanket purchase orders do not exceed the total dollar amount of the purchase
order. Each department will monitor purchases against purchase orders for their
department to insure compliance.
      (6)   The vendor will invoice the city at the end of each month.
      (7)   The total amount specified on the purchase order shall not be
exceeded.
      (8)   Blanket purchase orders are intended for items that the vendor has
in stock only. Items that the vendor must order should be handled through
regular purchasing procedures. This eliminates paying shipping costs or special
order costs from the vendor.
      (9)   No blanket purchase orders will be issued for items that can be
purchased more effectively and economically through normal purchasing
procedures.
      (10)   In cases where a department has verified repetitive use of the
same items, blanket purchase orders can be established with vendors to supply
these items for a predetermined time period at a set cost. The advantage to
this is that it provides the vendor with expected usage; thus, they can keep
certain amounts available for immediate shipment, which in turn greatly aids
the using department. Using departments should review their needs to identify
such items.
   (G)   Small purchases (petty cash).
      (1)   Purpose. Sufficient controls must be established to insure proper
protection of funds, provide an adequate audit trail, and insure that small
purchase authorizations are not used to circumvent normal purchasing practices.
Small purchase procedures may be utilized to procure supplies and services
within the dollar limitations and other constraints prescribed by policy. They
can be appropriately used to obtain small quantities not available under
existing contracts, and/or to buy very limited quantities where the value of
goods is immaterial. Persons other than department heads authorized to make
purchases shall be designated in writing and be held personally liable for
unauthorized purchases or improper practices.
      (2)   Small purchase procedures. There are two basic methods authorized
for handling small purchases, petty cash and blanket purchase orders, as
described in §
36.36. Blanket purchase orders are the preferred method; the use of petty cash
should be kept to a minimum. Examples include the following:
         (a)   Office supplies;
         (b)   Postage and other post office expenditures;
         (c)   Reimbursements under $20 for meals, gas, etc.; and
         (d)   Purchases for city functions (ice, water, drinks, food).
   (H)   Emergency purchases.
      (1)   Emergency defined. Per the North Carolina General Statutes, an
emergency is defined as an immediate and present condition involving the health
and safety of people or their property and not one, which may or may not arise
in the future or one that is apt to arise or may be expected to arise. This
subchapter applies only to the city's purchase order policies. The Mayor has
the authority to declare a state of emergency and approve purchases without
bidding per the North Carolina General Statutes.
      (2)   Emergency purchase procedures.
         (a)   When an emergency does arise, and can be rectified only by
immediate purchase or rental of equipment, supplies, materials or services, the
following procedures must be followed:
            1.   Secure a purchase order from the Finance Director or the City
Manager by telephone. If the emergency occurs when offices are closed, the
department should proceed to acquire only the materials or services necessary
to meet the emergency.
            2.   On the next working day, the Department Head must submit a
requisition to the Finance Director with the following information:
               a.   Nature of the emergency;
               b.   Itemized list of the purchases made;
               c.   Cost per item;
               d.   Vendor's name and address;
               e.   Account number;
               f.   Authorizing signature of the department head; and
               g.   Purchase order number - if one was given.
            3.   The Finance Director will prepare a confirming purchase order
for distribution in accordance with §
36.36(E)(4) above.
         (b)   No emergency purchase orders will be given unless it is an
emergency as described above. North Carolina General Statutes govern this
procedure.
      (3)   Telephone purchase order procedures. In certain emergency or
special situations, the Finance Director will issue a purchase order number
over the telephone to the requesting department. In such cases, the requesting
department will be required to submit a supporting requisition to the Finance
Director within two business days. The requisition is to include the vendor,
complete item description, quantity, price, and the purchase order number that
was issued.
   (I)   Miscellaneous purchasing provisions.
      (1)   Cancellation of purchase orders. All purchase order cancellations
are to be handled by the Finance Director. If a department desires to cancel a
purchase order, the request should be made directly to the Finance Director.
The request should contain the reason for cancellation and carry appropriate
authorization signature. Cancellations can be conducted over the phone provided
that the Department Head is the person who requests the cancellation. The
Finance Director will notify the vendor of the cancellation and the reason.
Outstanding purchase orders will be reviewed periodically and those over three
months old will be cancelled.
      (2)   Purchase returns. To insure proper credit is obtained for items
being returned to vendors, it is important that the proper procedures be
followed.
         (a)   In all cases the user department should send written notice to
the Finance Director indicating which items are being returned, the date the
return was affected and the signature of the appropriate employee.
Acknowledgment of the returned items should be obtained from the vendor with
appropriate documentation provided to the Finance Director.
      (3)   Partial payment procedures. The purpose of this procedure is to
provide a method for making partial payments on a purchase order when, for
reasons beyond the control of the supplier, all items requested cannot be
delivered at the same time. It shall be a policy to make partial payments
whenever partial shipments are made providing the goods are received in proper
condition.
      (4)   Federal and state funds. When purchases of equipment, supplies and
materials are to be made with funds obtained from federal and state government,
the exact source of funding must be noted on the requisition form. This is
necessary because there are often inconsistencies between federal regulations
and state statutes with respect to purchasing. If a purchase is made with
federal or state government funds, and upon auditing it is determined that the
purchase was not in compliance with federal regulations, the city may have to
repay the granting government for the amount of the purchase. For that reason,
North Carolina General Statutes and federal regulations need to be compared to
insure purchase is made in compliance with state and federal regulations.
      (5)   Charge accounts. Charge accounts may not be established without the
approval of the Finance Director. The Finance Director must sign all
applications for credit. Vendors should mail invoices addressed to the city.
All vendor open charge account payments will be made only by reference to
invoices.
(Ord. passed 11-14-2016)
§ 36.37  PURCHASE OF VEHICLES.
   Purchase from local distributors.
   (A)   Department heads shall be responsible for the preparation of vehicle
specifications and preliminary negotiations with vendors. The purchase of
vehicles, as with all equipment, shall be handled by the Finance Director and
City Manager. They will conduct informal bidding as provided in G.S. § 143-131
for vehicles between $30,000 and $90,000 and the City Council will approve a
formal bid for vehicles over $90,000 unless a statutory exception applies.
   (B)   All vehicles purchased must be approved by the City Manager in writing
before the Finance Director takes any action.
(Ord. passed 11-14-2016)
§ 36.38  CREDIT CARD PURCHASES.
   (A)   Purpose. To implement procedures to encourage and promote responsible,
efficient, ethical and legal utilization of city authorized credit cards.
   (B)   Procedures. Steps for using city authorized credit cards:
      (1)   Purchase requisition procedures apply to all credit card purchases
$500 and over, and must be completed before purchase is made.
      (2)   Department heads shall authorize use of assigned or general use
cards. General use cards are to be signed out for use and signed back in when
use is completed. A credit card log is to be maintained in the finance office
for this purpose.
         (a)   Department head will be responsible for credit card use in their
department including sufficient information as to the account coding for
expense accounts to be charged.
      (3)   Department heads shall have the responsibility of immediately
reporting to the Finance Director any lost or stolen credit card or any
fraudulent use of credit cards coming to their attention.
      (4)   Receipts must be placed on file immediately after use for all
credit card purchases. Receipts should be coded for expense accounts to be
charged. Employee may face disciplinary action per the city personnel policy
for failure to submit receipts for credit card purchases. Department heads are
responsible for securing any missing receipts.
      (5)   Receipts placed on file will be reconciled to the associated
monthly statement. Department heads that do not have receipts placed on file in
time for payment may face disciplinary action per the city personnel policy.
      (6)   Failure to comply with these procedures will result in losing your
department's use of credit cards and possible disciplinary action.
(Ord. passed 11-14-2016)
§ 36.39  CONTRACTS.
   (A)   Contracts.
      (1)   Establishment of contracts. Contracts may be established for, but
not limited to, maintenance contracts, employment contracts, janitorial/
beautification service contracts, landscaping, etc. The need for such contracts
is based upon the requirements of the department and must have the approval of
the department head and ultimately must be approved by the City Manager.
      (2)   State contracts (general). When possible, the city will purchase
items from North Carolina State Contract vendors. Department heads should check
with the Finance Director or City Manager for state contract vendors in the
area.
      (3)   Authorizing authority. The City Manager is authorized to sign
contracts committing city funds when authorized or delegated to do so by the
majority vote of the City Council or as otherwise allowed by State Statute. Any
contract that pledges the faith and credit of the city, in any form, is neither
acceptable nor permissible unless signed by the City Manager. The original copy
of the executed contract must be filed with the Finance Director. No funds may
be expended for a contract until the Finance Director pre-audits the contract
for availability of sufficient appropriated funds and certifies the same.
      (4)   Real property. All leases and/or contracts for real property,
purchase, lease or rental shall be negotiated through the City Manager in
conjunction with the City Attorney and approved by the City Council.
      (5)   Form and approval of contract content. The city will consider use
of vendor contract documentation for purchase, construction and service
contracts if prepared for the intended contract and having terms acceptable to
the city. Vendor documentation shall be reviewed initially by the responsible
Department Head, Finance Director or City Manager. Absent a vendor contract
document, the city will use the approved city contractor agreement, or if
deemed acceptable and agreeable by both parties, a city purchase order as the
basis for contracted services. All significant contracts will be reviewed by
the City Attorney prior to execution by the City Manager.
      (6)   Statutory compliance. All contracts will be pre-audited in
accordance with the North Carolina Local Government Budget and Fiscal Control
Act and will comply with immigration verification/certification and E-Verify
provisions contained in State Statutes.
   (B)   Competitive bidding.
      (1)   Soliciting bids. The purpose of soliciting bids is both to seek and
to obtain competition; the responsibility is dual. Where only a single bid or
single acceptable bid is received, or otherwise where reasonable and available
competition is not obtained, the reason shall be ascertained and made a matter
of record.
      (2)   Bid format. In preparing and issuing solicitations for proposals or
bids, and in issuing contract and purchase orders, the Finance Director is
authorized to employ such terms and conditions as deemed advantageous and which
are not inconsistent with statutory provisions and these rules and regulations.
All applicable North Carolina General Statutes on informal and formal bidding
will be followed.
      (3)   Prospective bidders. The city will maintain a file of prospective
bidders for soliciting bids on various categories of equipment, supplies and
construction services. Prospective bidders may be included on or removed from
this list after taking into consideration financial standing and
responsibility; facilities for production, distribution and services,
historical relationship with the city, length of time successfully in business;
responsiveness as a bidder; performance as a supplier; and other factors deemed
pertinent and reasonable. Bid packages will be circulated by U.S. Postal
Service, e-mail, or made available for pick up at a designated location. Bids
will be accepted in the form of response dictated by the bid specifications.
      (4)   Bid error clarifications. Where a bid appears to contain an obvious
error or where an error is suspected, the circumstances may be investigated,
and then may be considered and acted upon under the procedure for canvassing
bids and awarding contracts. Any action taken shall not prejudice the rights of
the public or the bidders. Where bids are submitted substantially in accordance
with the invitation but are not entirely clear as to the intent or to some fact
or other ambiguities, clarification may be sought and accepted; provided that
in doing so, changes, which would improve the competitive position of a bid,
shall not be permitted.
      (5)   Bid awards. In determining the award of contracts, bona fide
proposals will be considered and evaluated as provided by North Carolina
General Statute and by these rules and regulations. Non-acceptance of the
proposal is not to be construed as outright rejection or that it lacks merit,
but that another is deemed more advantageous.
      (6)   Bid public information. Recognizing the lack of personnel and time,
requests for preparation of detailed or written tabulations and abstracts of
bids cannot be honored but will be produced as public records if they are
already prepared in writing. However, the name of the low or successful bidder
and price and similar basic information will be supplied to the general public
and other interested parties upon request after contract has been awarded.
      (7)   Employee private gain prohibited. Purchases from or through
employees of the city or purchases from or through companies in which city
employees have financial interest, either directly or indirectly is not
permitted. The purchasing power of the city shall not be used for private
advantage or gain.
   (C)   Bidding procedures.
      (1)   Informal bid procedures for equipment and supplies.
         (a)   Informal proposals involve the solicitation of informal bids,
either verbal or written, from qualified sources of supply. Informal proposal
procedures must be utilized for purchases of apparatus, supplies, materials, or
equipment expected to require an expenditure equal to or greater than $30,000
but less than $90,000. Requests for informal proposals do not have to be
advertised. Informal bids do not have to be publicly opened. Whenever possible,
the Finance Director will solicit three or more proposals from representative
suppliers based on previous experience and knowledge of the market. It is not
permissible to divide a proposal in order to avoid formal bid requirements in
favor of informal bids.
         (b)   Where bids are unsatisfactory or under conditions where
effective competition is not available, purchases or leases may be made by
direct negotiation with responsible suppliers.
      (2)   Formal bid procedures for equipment and supplies.
         (a)   Formal bid procedures involve solicitation of sealed bids from
qualified sources of supply. Formal bid procedures must be utilized for
purchases of apparatus, supplies, materials, or equipment expected to require
an expenditure equal to or greater than $90,000. Requests for formal bids must
be legally advertised. Formal bid procedures may be used for purchases totaling
less than $90,000 where advantages as to price or conditions of the purchase
may be obtained. It is the responsibility of the Finance Director or the city's
designee to open and read bids publicly prior to the award of the contract. The
Finance Director or the city's designee will also make known to any interested
person the names of the bidders, the manufacturers and catalog numbers of the
items the bidders have offered, and the prices, delivery schedules and terms
specified in the bids. After the bids have been opened, they are analyzed and
compared with respect to compliance with specifications, quality and
suitability of the products, time of delivery and any other pertinent factors.
         (b)   During the period of evaluation and prior to the award,
possession of the bids and accompanying information is limited to city
personnel or the city's designee directly involved in the project and to those
in user agencies who are responsible for participating in the evaluation.
Vendor participation, or furnishing information to vendors on the status of bid
evaluation, is not permitted.
         (c)   After award of the contract, the complete bid file with the
exception of trade secrets, test information or similar proprietary information
as provided by North Carolina General Statutes and procedures will be available
to any interested person(s).
      (3)   Bids for construction, renovation, or repairs. If a proposal
involves construction, renovation, or repairs, the following guidelines apply:
         (a)   $30,000 - $500,000;
            1.   Informal bids (G.S. § 143-131);
            2.   Written proposals or quotes;
         (b)   $500,000 +;
            1.   Formal bids (G.S. § 143-129);
            2.   Separate specifications (G.S. § 143-128);
            3.   HVAC, plumbing, electrical, general - if the cost of
subdivision is less than $25,000, then it may be incorporated into one of the
other subdivisions;
         (c)   G.S. § 143-135 - Exempts the competitive bidding requirements on
construction and labor that involves less than $125,000, or if the total cost
of labor on the project does not exceed $50,000, when the work is to be done by
employees and officers of a government agency;
         (d)   G.S. § 133-1.1- Requires that repairs exceeding $300,000 for the
repair of any building not including major structural change, or $100,000 for
the repair of public building affecting life safety systems, or $135,000 for
the repair of public buildings where such repairs includes major structural
change in framing or foundation support systems, or $135,000 for the
construction of, or additions to, public buildings or State-owned and operated
utilities; be designed by an architect or engineer; and
         (e)   In certain cases, when the city employs the services of an
architect, engineer, firm, corporation or individual to provide design and/or
specifications services on certain projects that involve the construction,
additions or renovations of/to buildings, G.S. §§ 133-1; 133-1.1; 133-2; 133-3;
dictate certain procedures to be followed. To ensure fair competition, it will
be the position of the city not to allow any architect, engineer, firm,
corporation or individual providing design and/or specifications services for
any project, to submit a proposal to provide materials, supplies, equipment,
etc., on that project to which said design and/or specification services were
rendered unless the project has been designated by the Council as a design
build project as permitted by State statute.
      (4)   Procedure for letting public contracts.
         (a)   G.S. § 143-129 states that "No construction or repair work
requiring the estimated expenditure of public money in an amount equal to or
more than $500,000 or purchase of apparatus, supplies, materials or equipment
requiring an estimated expenditure of public money in an amount equal to or
more than $90,000 may be performed, nor shall any contract be awarded therefore
by any Council or governing body of the State or of any political subdivision
of the State, unless the provisions of this section are complied with."
         (b)   "Where the contract is to be let by a political subdivision of
the State, proposal shall be invited by advertisement in newspapers having
general circulation in the political subdivision or by electronic means or
both."
      (5)   Minimum number of bids for public contracts.
         (a)   G.S. § 143-132 states that "No contract to which G.S. § 143-129
applies for construction or repairs shall be awarded by any Council or
governing body of the State, or any subdivision thereof, unless at least three
competitive bids have been received from reputable and qualified contractors
regularly engaged in their respective lines of endeavor."
         (b)   G.S. § 143-132(a) provides procedures if not as many as three
competitive bids are received. These procedures require a second advertisement
for bids and thereafter if three bids are not received, then award of the
contract to the lowest responsible bidder even though only one bid may have
been received.
      (6)   Contracts for informal bids. G.S. § 143-131 states that "All
contracts for construction or repair work or for the purchase of apparatus,
supplies, materials or equipment, involving the expenditure of public money in
the amount of $30,000 or more, but less than the limits prescribed in G.S. §
143-129, made by any officer, department, Council, local school administrative
unit, or commission of any county, city, or other subdivision of this State
shall be made after informal bids have been secured."
      (7)   Rejection of bids. In requesting proposals all offers received may
be rejected in whole or in part. Consistent with G.S. § 143-129 governing such
purchases, the city will accept and make award to the lowest, responsible
bidder. Basis for rejection shall include, but not be limited to:
         (a)   The proposal being deemed unsatisfactory as to quantity,
quality, delivery, price or service offered;
         (b)   The proposal not complying with the conditions of the invitation
or with the intent of the proposed contract;
         (c)   Lack of competitiveness, by reason of collusion or otherwise, or
knowledge that reasonably available competition was not received;
         (d)   Errors in specifications or indication that revision would be to
the city's advantage;
         (e)   Cancellation of or changes in the intended project or other
determination that the proposed requirement is no longer needed;
         (f)   Limitation or lack of available funds;
         (g)   Circumstances, which prevent determination of the lowest
responsible or most advantageous bid; and
         (h)   A determination that rejection would be for the best interest of
the city.
(Ord. passed 11-14-2016)
§ 36.40  SURPLUS PROPERTY.
   (A)   Finance Director notified. Department heads are to notify the Finance
Director of surplus property that needs to be disposed. Departments may
transfer property to other departments if the Finance Director and the City
Manager have been notified and the City Manager has approved the transfer. The
Council (except as delegated otherwise to the City Manager) shall declare any
identified property as surplus.
   (B)   Sale of personal property (less than $30,000).
      (1)   The City Manager is authorized by the Council, pursuant to G.S. §
160A-266(c), to dispose of any surplus personal property owned by the city
whenever he or she determines, in his or her discretion, that:
         (a)   The item or group has a fair market value of less than $30,000;
         (b)   The personal property is no longer necessary for the conduct of
public business; and
         (c)   Sound property management principles and financial consideration
indicate that the interests of the city would best be served by disposing of
the personal property.
      (2)   The City Manager may dispose of any such surplus personal property
by any means, which are judged responsibly calculated to yield the highest
attainable sale price in money or other consideration, including but not
limited to the methods of sale provided in Article 12 of G.S. §§ 160A-267,
160A-268, and 160A-270. Such sale may be public or private, and with or without
notice and minimum waiting period.
      (3)   The surplus property shall be sold to the party who tenders the
highest offer, or exchanged for any property or services useful to the city if
greater value may be obtained in that manner, and the City Manager is hereby
authorized to execute and deliver any applicable title documents. If no offers
are received within a reasonable time, the City Manager may retain the
property, obtain any reasonable salvage value, or cause it to be disposed of as
waste material. No surplus may be donated to any individual or organization
except by resolution of the City Council.
      (4)   The City Manager shall, on or before the first day of February,
report in writing to the City Council on any property disposed of under these
provisions from January 1 through December 31 of the previous year. The written
report shall generally describe the property sold or exchanged, to whom it was
sold, or with whom exchanged, and the amount of money or other consideration
received for sale or exchange since the last such report was submitted.
   (C)   Sale of real property or personal property (greater than $30,000).
      (1)   The City Manager, with the authorization of the City Council, may
dispose of any surplus real property or surplus personal property valued at
greater than $30,000 owned by the city. Private negotiation and sale may be
used only with regards to personal property valued at less than $30,000 for any
one item or group of similar items. Real property, of any value, and personal
property valued at $30,000 or more for any one item or group of similar items
may be sold as permitted by any method in the disposal statutes other than
private negotiation and sale or exchanged as provided in G.S. § 160A-271.
Procedures for sale of land to volunteer fire departments, volunteer rescue
squads or other entities carrying out a public purpose are specified in G.S. §
160A-277 and G.S. § 160A-279 respectively.
      (2)   The sale of property by advertisement for sealed bids shall be
conducted in the manner prescribed for the purchase of property except that
real property bids must be advertised 30 days in advance. See G.S. § 160A-268
for further details. Other methods for disposition of personal property are
through private negotiation and sale as directed in G.S. § 160A-267 and public
auction as directed in G.S. § 160A-270.
   (D)   Property declared surplus. Property subject to disposal under the
procedures mentioned above must be recommended by the Finance Director and
declared surplus by the City Council or City Manager (personal property under
$30,000). Officials selling such property must obtain their market value in
exchange for the property and must provide to the City Manager in writing, a
report that generally describes the property sold or exchanged and to whom it
was sold or exchanged.
   (E)   Employee purchases/sales. The city will not purchase items and/or
services from its governing Council members or employees. Likewise, when the
city has surplus property to be sold, the practice of selling such property to
employees by private negotiation is prohibited. Employees can participate in
sale of surplus property where the manner of sale is through the use of public
auction or sealed bids.
   (F)   Donation of property. In accordance with G.S. § 160-280 the city may
donate to another governmental unit within the United States or a nonprofit
organization, incorporated within any of the United States, any personal
property, including supplies, materials and equipment that the Council deems to
be surplus, obsolete or unused. The Council shall post a public notice at least
five days prior to the adoption of a resolution approving the donation. The
resolution shall be adopted prior to making any donation of surplus, obsolete,
or unused personal property.
(Ord. passed 11-14-2016)
§ 36.41  FORMS, TABLES AND OTHER INFORMATION.
   (A)   Table One - Dollar Threshold Table.
Requirement Threshold
Requirement                                                                     Threshold
                                                                                 
Formal Bids                                                                     $500,000
   Construction or repair contracts                                          and above
   (G.S. § 143-129)                                                         (estimated
   Purchase of apparatus, supplies, materials, and equipment                 cost of
   (G.S. § 143-129)                                                         contract)
   Exception: Previously bid or “piggybacking” contracts                 $90,000
   Requires governing Council approval at a regular meeting                  and above
   Upon 10 days public notice (G.S. § 143-129(g))                           (estimated
                                                                                cost of
                                                                                contract)
                                                                                 
Informal Bids                                                                   $30,000 to
   Construction or repair contracts                                          formal
   (G.S. § 143-131)                                                         limit
   Purchase of apparatus, supplies, materials, and equipment                  
   (G.S. § 143-131)                                                         $30,000 to
                                                                                formal
                                                                                limit
                                                                                 
                                                                                $100,000
Historically Underutilized Business (HUB) requirements                          or more
   Building projects with state funding (verifiable 10% goal  required)     $300,000
   Locally funded projects (formal HUB requirements)                         or more
   Projects in informal bidding range (informal HUB  requirements) (G.S. § $30,000 to
128.2(a), (j) and G.S. § 143-131(b))                                           $500,000
                                                                                (estimated
                                                                                cost of
                                                                                project)
                                                                                 
                                                                                Not to
                                                                                exceed
Limit on use of own forces                                                      $125,000
   Construction or repair projects                                           (total
   (G.S. § 143-135)                                                         project)
                                                                                or $50,000
                                                                                (labor
                                                                                only)
                                                                                 
Bid bond or deposit                                                             Formal
   Construction or repair contracts (at least 5% of bid amount)              bids
   Purchase contracts                                                        ($500,000
   (G.S. § 143-129(b))                                                      and above)
                                                                                Not
                                                                                required
                                                                                 
                                                                                Projects
                                                                                over
Performance/payment bonds                                                       $300,000,
   Construction or repair contracts                                          for each
   (G.S. § 143-129(c); G.S. § 44A-26)                                      contract
   Purchase contracts                                                        over
                                                                                $50,000
                                                                                Not
                                                                                required
General contractor’s license                                                  $30,000
   (G.S. § 87-1)                                                            and above
                                                                                 
Use of licensed architect or engineer required                                  $300,000
   Nonstructural work                                                        and above
   Structural repair, additions or new construction                          $135,000
   Repair work affecting life safety systems                                 and above
   (G.S. § 133-1.1(a))                                                      $100,000
                                                                                and above
                                                                                 
                                                                                All
Selection of architect, engineer, or surveyor, construction manager, or design- contracts
build contractor                                                                unless
   Qualification-Based Selection procedure (QSB)                             exempted
   (G.S. § 143-64.31)                                                       Projects
   Exemption authorized                                                      where
   (G.S. § 143-64.32)                                                       estimated
                                                                                fee is
                                                                                less than
                                                                                $50,000
 
   (B)   North Carolina General Statute 159-30; Permitted Investments.
      (1)   A local government or public authority may deposit at interest or
invest all or part of the cash balance of any fund. The Finance Officer shall
manage investments subject to whatever restrictions and directions the
governing Council may impose. The Finance Officer shall have the power to
purchase, sell, and exchange securities on behalf of the governing Council. The
investment program shall be so managed that investments and deposits can be
converted into cash when needed.
      (2)   Moneys may be deposited at interest in any bank, savings and loan
association, or trust company in this state in the form of certificates of
deposit or such other forms of time deposit as the Commission may approve.
Investment deposits, including investment deposits of the mutual fund for local
government investment created by G.S. § 159-30(c)(6a), shall be secured as
provided in G.S. § 159-30(c)(6a).
      (3)   Moneys may be invested in the following classes of securities, and
no others:
         (a)   Obligations of the United States or obligations fully guaranteed
both as to principal and interest by the United States.
         (b)   Obligations of the Federal Financing Bank, the Federal Farm
Credit Bank, the Bank for Cooperatives, the Federal Intermediate Credit Bank,
the Federal Land Banks, the Federal Mortgage Association, the Government
National Mortgage Association, the Federal Housing Administration, Farmers Home
Administration, the United States Postal Service.
         (c)   Obligations of the State of North Carolina.
         (d)   Bonds and notes of any North Carolina local government or public
authority, subject to such restrictions as the secretary may impose.
         (e)   Savings certificates issued by any savings and loan association
organized under the laws of the State of North Carolina or by any federal
savings and loan association having its principal office in North Carolina;
provided that any principal amount of such certificate in excess of the amount
insured by the federal government or any agency thereof, or by a mutual deposit
guaranty association authorized by the Administrator of the Savings
Institutions Division of the Department of Economic and Community Development
of the State of North Carolina, be fully collateralized.
         (f)   Prime quality commercial paper bearing the highest rating of at
least one nationally recognized rating service and not bearing a rating below
the highest by any nationally recognized rating service which rates the
particular obligation.
         (g)   Bills of exchange or time drafts drawn on and accepted by a
commercial bank and eligible for use as collateral by member banks in borrowing
from a federal reserve bank, provided that the accepting bank or its holding
company is either:
            1.   Incorporated in the State of North Carolina; or
            2.   Has outstanding publicly held obligations bearing the highest
rating of at least one nationally recognized rating service and not bearing a
rating below the highest by any nationally recognized rating service which
rates the particular obligations.
         (h)   Participating shares in a mutual fund for local government
investment; provided that the investments of the fund are limited to those
qualifying for investment under this division (3) and that said fund is
certified by the Local Government Commission. The Local Government Commission
shall have the authority to issue rules and regulations concerning the
establishment and qualifications of any mutual fund for local government
investment.
         (i)   A commingled investment pool established and administered by the
State Treasurer pursuant to G.S. § 147-69.3.
         (j)   A commingled investment pool established by interlocal agreement
by two or more units of local government pursuant G.S. §§ 160A-460 through G.S.
160A-464, if the investments of the pool are limited to those qualifying for
investment under this division (3).
         (k)   Evidences of ownership of, or fractional undivided interests in,
future interest and principal payments on either direct obligations of the
United States government or obligations the principal of and the interest on
which are guaranteed by the United States, which obligations are held by a bank
or trust company organized and existing under the laws of the United States or
any state in the capacity of custodian.
         (l)   Repurchase agreements with respect to either direct obligations
of the United States or obligations the principal of and the interest on which
are guaranteed by the United States if entered into with a broker or dealer, as
defined by the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which is a dealer recognized as
a primary dealer by a Federal Reserve Bank, or any commercial bank, trust
company or national banking association, the deposits of which are insured by
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or any successor thereof if:
            1.   Such obligations that are subject to such repurchase agreement
are delivered (in physical or in book entry form) to the local government or
public authority, or any financial institution serving either as trustee for
the local government or public authority or as fiscal agent for the local
government or public authority or are supported by a safekeeping receipt issued
by a depository satisfactory to the local government or public authority,
provided that such repurchase agreement must provide that the value of the
underlying obligations shall be maintained at a current market value,
calculated at least daily, of not less than 100% of the repurchase price, and,
provided further, that the financial institution serving either as trustee or
as fiscal agent for the local government or public authority holding the
obligations subject to the repurchase agreement hereunder or the depository
issuing the safekeeping receipt shall not be the provider of the repurchase
agreement;
            2.   A valid and perfected first security interest in the
obligations which are the subject of such repurchase agreement has been granted
to the local government or public authority or its assignee or book entry
procedures, conforming, to the extent practicable, with federal regulations and
satisfactory to the local government or public authority have been established
for the benefit of the local government or public authority or its assignee;
            3.   Such securities are free and clear of any adverse third party
claims; and
            4.   Such repurchase agreement is in a form satisfactory to the
local government or public authority.
         (m)   In connection with funds held by or on behalf of a local
government or public authority, which funds are subject to the arbitrage and
rebate provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended,
participating shares in tax-exempt mutual funds, to the extent such
participation, in whole or in part, is not subject to such rebate provisions,
and taxable mutual funds, to the extent such fund provides services in
connection with the calculation of arbitrage rebate requirements under federal
income tax law; provided, the investments of any such fund are limited to those
bearing one of the two highest ratings of at least one nationally recognized
rating service and not bearing a rating below one of the two highest ratings by
any nationally recognized rating service which rates the particular fund.
      (4)   Investment securities may be bought, sold, and traded by private
negotiation, and local governments and public authorities may pay all
incidental costs thereof and all reasonable costs of administering the
investment and deposit program. Securities and deposit certificates shall be in
the custody of the Finance Officer who shall be responsible for their
safekeeping and for keeping accurate investment accounts and records.
      (5)   Interest earned on deposits and investments shall be credited to
the fund whose cash is deposited or invested. Cash of several funds may be
combined for deposit or investment if not otherwise prohibited by law; and when
such joint deposits or investments are made, interest earned shall be prorated
and credited to the various funds on the basis of the amounts thereof invested,
figured according to an average periodic balance or some other sound accounting
principle. Interest earned on the deposit or investment of bond funds shall be
deemed a part of the bond proceeds.
      (6)   Registered securities acquired for investment may be released from
registration and transferred by signature of the Finance Officer.
(Ord. passed 11-14-2016)
UTILITY BILLING POLICY
§ 36.50  FORWARD.
   (A)   The objective of the Lowell Utility Billing and Collections Procedure
Policy is intended to provide a consistent process by which utilities are
billed and revenues are collected. The following utility billing and
collections procedure policy is a general policy to be enforced for the
collection of payment for utility services provided by the City of Lowell. This
policy is to become effective as of the 13th day of March, 2017. The following
policy will be strictly enforced and will apply to any and all customers of
utility services provided by the city. Any question in regards to utility
service, policy, or billing should be addressed to the City Clerk at City Hall
at (704) 824-3518.
   (B)   It is recommended that the following steps be taken:
      (1)   All city officials should read and understand this policy;
      (2)   All employees entrusted with utility billing and collections should
become thoroughly familiar with the procedures outlined in this policy;
      (3)   This policy should be kept where it is easily accessible for
reference; and
      (4)   Comments concerning this policy or clarification of its contents
should be directed to the City Manager, City Clerk, or the Finance Officer.
   (C)   This policy will be reviewed periodically and updated as needed.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2017)
§ 36.51  UTILITY SERVICE CONNECTION.
   (A)   Activation fee. An activation fee of $50 must be paid in order to have
utility services connected at any property. This applies to all property
owners, residents, renters, and businesses. Any balance owed by the applicant
on a previous account for utility services, must be paid in order for a new
account to be activated.
   (B)   Deposits. All renters (includes businesses renting a space) are
required to pay a $150 deposit in addition to the activation fee in order to
have utility services connected. Homeowners will be required to show proof of
ownership in order to have the deposit waived. Deposits remain on the account
until the account is closed. Once the account is closed, a final bill will be
generated and the deposit will be applied to the final bill. Any balance after
the final bill has been paid will be refunded by mail to the customer.
   (C)   Floating activation fees. Landlords have the option of keeping a $50
floating activation fee on the account in order to avoid paying the activation
fee each time a renter moves out and the landlord needs to restore the service.
If the landlord chooses to not float their activation fee, one will be required
each time they need to restore service in their name at the service address.
   (D)   Application for service. Prior to utility services being connected, an
application must be completed at City Hall and the applicant must provide a
valid driver's license and social security number. Applicants must be at least
18 years of age to open a water account. If the applicant has purchased a
residence or business, they must also provide proof of ownership in order for
the deposit to be waived. Only the person whose name is on the proof of
ownership can have utility services connected in their name. The person
occupying the residence must have the account in their name.
   (E)   Transferring service. If a customer is transferring continuous utility
service from one street address to another, an additional activation fee will
be required. All balances on the previous service address must be paid before
utility service will be connected at the new service address. If the final bill
for the old service address is not paid when due, utility services will be
disconnected at the new residence until the city receives payment for that
bill. The deposit from the previous account is transferrable to the new service
address.
   (F)   Name on account. The occupant of a service address must have the
account in their name, excluding businesses. If it is determined by the city
this is not the case, the city will notify the customer by written
notification. The current resident will have 30 days to place the account in
their name with a new application and pay a $150 deposit in order to avoid
disconnection of services.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2017)
§ 36.52  BILLING AND COLLECTIONS.
   (A)   Billing. Bills shall be prepared monthly for each billing cycle.
Consumption on your bill is calculated from the consumption cycle of the 16th
day of the previous month to the 16th day of the current month. Utility bills
for the current billing cycle will be mailed to customers on the last day of
the month. In the instance the last day of the month falls on a weekend day or
holiday, utility bills will be mailed out on the previous workday.
   (B)   Customer billing information. Due to North Carolina Privacy Act laws
and Council adoption, the City of Lowell is only allowed to discuss account
information with the person whose name is on the account unless the account
owner has given us permission to discuss with someone else.
   (C)   Due date. Bills are due by 5:00 p.m. on the 15th of each month. If the
15th day falls on a holiday or non-business day, payment is due by 5:00 p.m.
the following business day. 
   (D)   Late fees. A late fee of $5 will be applied to any unpaid utility
account after 5:00 p.m. on the 15th day of the month.
   (E)   Payment options. Utility payments may be paid by check, money order,
cash, or by debit/credit cards. The City of Lowell does not honor post marked
mail or checks for utility payments.
   (F)   Payment extensions. The City of Lowell does not offer payment
extensions for past due balances.
   (G)   Liability. Once a utility bill has been placed in the mail or dropped
off at the post office, the city is no longer responsible for that utility
bill. Payment for that utility bill is due to the city even if the customer
does not receive it in the mail.
   (H)   Late notification. Late notifications will not be mailed to customers.
Customers will be responsible for payment in full on their account by 8:00 a.m.
on the 25th of the month in order to avoid interruption of service.
   (I)   Minimum billing. If an account is considered "Active" it will be
billed monthly even if the customer shows no water consumption. The minimum
billing rate is charged for "0" to "1,500" gallons.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2017)
§ 36.53  SERVICE DISCONNECTION.
   (A)   Avoiding disconnection. The full balance of your utility bill plus any
additional fees incurred are due by 5:00 p.m. the 15th of each month. Services
will be discontinued at 8:00 a.m. on the 25th of the month for non-payment. If
the 25th of the month falls on a weekend or holiday, disconnection will occur
on the first available business day at 8:00 a.m. This applies to all utility
customers regardless of their account history or status as a business,
residential or industrial user with the city.
   (B)   Delinquent service charge. A delinquent service charge of $50 will be
charged to each unpaid or delinquent account at 8:00 a.m. on the 25th of the
month. In addition to the charge, the utility services will be disconnected. In
order to restore service, the customer must pay their past due utility bill in
full which includes any late fees, delinquent service charge, and tampering
fee, if applicable, in order for the utility services to be restored.
Disconnected utility services will be restored by 5:00 p.m. on the same day
payment was received. Services will not be restored after-hours.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2017)
§ 36.54  COLLECTION OF DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   Collecting delinquent payments. The city will collect delinquent water
and sewer debts through the following:
      (1)   North Carolina Local Government Debt Setoff Clearinghouse. This
program allows municipalities the ability to attach to debtors North Carolina
refund check for any feasible fine or charge issued by the municipality.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2017)
§ 36.55  METER INFORMATION.
   (A)   Requesting a meter test/calibration.
      (1)   A customer may request the city to test/calibrate the customer's
water meter. If the customer's meter tests within the allowable limits as
defined by the manufacturer's specification, a $10 charge shall be placed on
the customer's account for the meter test.
      (2)   If the customer's meter test shows a problem with the meter, there
shall be no charge for the test. The customer's account shall then be credited
based on the inaccuracy of the tested meter for the current billing period, if
applicable. If a meter is determined to be out of calibration, it shall either
be calibrated or replaced with a calibrated/new meter at the discretion of the
Public Works Director.
   (B)   Replaced damaged meters. If the City of Lowell determines a water
meter was damaged by the customer, a $40 replacement charge will be added to
the customer's account. The replacement charge must be included in the payment
due on the current bill.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2017)
§ 36.56  METER TAMPERING.
   Tampering and consequences. If the Water Department personnel determines
that a meter has been tampered with, a $250 tampering fee will be imposed on
the account of the owner or resident of that property. This tampering fee must
be paid prior to utility services being reconnected. Meter tampering includes
the connecting and disconnecting of utility services at the city's meter by the
owner or resident of the property and also breakage of the cut-off that is on
the meter. Meter tampering by law is a Class I Misdemeanor offense.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2017)
§ 36.57  RETURNED CHECK POLICY.
   Notification and fee.
   (A)   If the city receives a returned check for utility services the
customer will be notified by letter we have received a returned check and the
customer has ten days to pay the City of Lowell the face amount of the check in
addition to a $30 returned check fee to avoid disconnection. The letter will
also inform the customer they will be placed on a cash only basis for one year.
   (B)   After one year, the customer will be removed from cash only, if a
second returned check is received on the account, the same ten-day payment
schedule will be required and the customer will be notified they will be placed
on a cash only basis until the account is closed. No checks will be accepted as
payment on this account.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2017)
§ 36.58  TERMINATION OF SERVICES.
   (A)   Termination form. Completion of a termination of service form is
required in order to stop services at any service address.
   (B)   Termination by phone. Terminations of service are not accepted over
the phone in order to validate and protect our customers. If you have moved out
of state, please give the Billing Department a call at 704-824-3518 to discuss
your options.
   (C)   Account validation required. Terminations of services are only
accepted from the account holder and a proof of ID must be presented at time of
the request.
   (D)   Deceased account holder. If the account holder is deceased, a death
certificate and/or Power of Attorney document will be required prior to
terminating services.
   (E)   An account can be transferred into the remaining spouse's name,
however, their name plus the original account owner's name must be on the death
certificate to avoid opening a new account.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2017)
§ 36.59  ADJUSTMENTS AND ERRORS.
   (A)   Adjustment procedure.  Adjustments must be requested within 60 days of
the date of the protested bill.
      (1)   If, pursuant to a request for adjustment as filed above, it is
determined that the bill was in error or that an adjustment should rightfully
be made, a corrected bill will be prepared and the customer's account adjusted
accordingly. A credit will be applied to the customer's account; there will be
no cash refunds.
      (2)   Adjustments for high bills will only occur under the determination
of a leak by the city service employees or a private plumbing company. No
adjustment will be given until leaks are repaired and proof of repair is
determined. Documented proof must be submitted in order to qualify for an
adjustment. Valid documentation consists of a plumber's bill or recent receipts
for plumbing repair parts.  To qualify for an adjustment, usage will have to
more than double. Customers shall be responsible for charges above the
customer's average monthly consumption. Such average shall be determined by
averaging the customers' monthly metered consumption for the 12 consecutive
prior months. Only one adjustment is allowed per year (12 months).
   (B)   Exceptions. No adjustments will be given for water only customers,
irrigation, watering yards, washing cars, gardening, leaky faucets, hoses left
on by accident, etc.
   (C)   Pool adjustments. In order to qualify for a pool adjustment, the
customer must complete a pool adjustment form to include the following items:
readings at the beginning and end of the pool fill, date filled, and size of
pool. Once your pool adjustment is reviewed, if it is determined your higher
consumption for one month coincides with the date and timeline on your pool
adjustment form, you will receive the adjustment on the sewer portion of your
water bill. Pool adjustments are only given to water/sewer combination
customers. Pools filled by irrigation are not eligible for an adjustment. One
pool adjustment per year, per customer, will be honored.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2017)
§ 36.60  CITY'S RIGHT TO SUSPEND SERVICE.
   Possibilities for disconnection. The city reserves the right to suspend
service, without notice, for the following:
   (A)   Prevention of fraud and abuse, i.e. meter tampering;
   (B)   Customer's willful disregard of the city's rules and regulations;
   (C)   Emergency repairs;
   (D)   Insufficiency of supply due to circumstances beyond the city's
control;
   (E)   Legal procedures;
   (F)   Direction of authorized public authorities;
   (G)   Failure of the customer to permit city employees access to their water
meter at all reasonable hours; or
   (H)   Any unavoidable cause(s).
(Ord. passed 3-13-2017)
§ 36.61  PROFANE, INDECENT, AND THREATENING CALL.
   (A)   It is against G.S. § 14-196 to use "profane, indecent or threatening
language to any persons over the telephone; annoying or harassing by repeated
telephoning or making false statement(s) over the telephone."
   (B)   If a call of this nature is received the following will occur:
      (1)   Notification of indecency. At the first profane or indecent
utterance, the caller will be asked to please refrain from that type of
language. If the profane or indecent language continues, the caller will be
politely informed that if that type of language does not cease then the call
will be terminated.
      (2)   Documentation of incident. City personnel will document the
occurrence including the caller's name, address and telephone number, if known.
The incident will be reported to the supervisor. All incident-related
documentation of calls of profane, indecent and threatening nature shall be
noted on the customer's account.
      (3)   Abatement of indecent calls. If the calls continue, city personnel
receiving these calls will contact the Lowell Police Department and/or
Annoyance Call Center and/or the Gaston County Sheriff Department, if either is
deemed necessary.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2017)
§ 36.62  EQUALIZED PAYMENTS.
   The City of Lowell does not currently offer an equalized payment program.
(Ord. passed 3-13-2017)
TRAFFIC CALMING POLICY
§ 36.70  MISSION STATEMENT.
   The City of Lowell wishes to have a procedure whereby the city can
incorporate traffic calming devices and systems in order to alleviate speeding,
excessive traffic volume, dangerous intersections or other conditions that are
of a public safety nature.
(Ord. passed 3-12-2018)
§ 36.71  PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this policy is to present ways in which the city can
find solutions to residential traffic problems as approved by the City Council.
Consideration is given to a variety of residential traffic concerns on a case-
by-case basis. Each situation is reviewed with respect to the available traffic
control measures that have been, or could be, found effective to alleviate the
traffic concern. The ability to provide traffic control measures is always
subject to the availability of city funding.
   (B)   Traffic calming initiatives may include police enforcement, lower
speed limits, parking controls, traffic circles, chicanes, street narrowing,
turn restrictions, one-way streets, changed street patterns or design, multi-
way stop intersections, speed humps, and/or other traffic calming measures
deemed appropriate by the city. The city will exhaust all other initiatives to
calm traffic prior to the installation of speed humps.
   (C)   The following outlines the procedures which can be used to develop the
optimum solution or solutions to each particular situation. There are many
factors taken into consideration when reviewing residential traffic concerns to
determine the most feasible traffic control measure. These factors include: the
surrounding roadway network, resident access, speeds and/or volume of traffic,
accident history, provision of emergency services, and budget considerations.
(Ord. passed 3-12-2018)
§ 36.72  INITIATION OF REQUEST.
   (A)   Any citizen, city staff, or Council Member can make a request for
potential traffic calming. This request shall be in writing, and addressed to
the City Manager.
   (B)   The written request should outline the nature of the traffic/public
safety concern the requestor would like the city to investigate. The request
shall also indicate the street(s) the issue is being observed on, and any other
relevant specifics of the perceived problem (time of day, day(s) of week,
etc.).
   (C)   Once the written request is received, the process of analysis of the
concern begins.
(Ord. passed 3-12-2018)
§ 36.73  ANALYSIS.
   (A)   Once the request is received by the City Manager, the information will
be provided to the Lowell Police Department (LPD) to begin the analysis
process.
   (B)   Traffic information will be collected according to the protocol of the
LPD. This will include the use of traffic monitoring devices to collect
information such as speed, and volume on the street(s) in question. Additional
information such as incident history, and other relevant traffic/safety data
may be included in the analysis as well.
   (C)   Analysis shall begin within 30 business days of the written request
being received by the City Manager.
(Ord. passed 3-12-2018)
§ 36.74  FINDINGS.
   (A)   Police Department will provide all findings of the traffic analysis to
the City Manager.
   (B)   City Manager determines if issue is Class A or Class B.
      (1)   Class A is average speed of 0-9 m.p.h. over posted speed limit.
      (2)   Class B is average speed of 10+ m.p.h. over posted speed limit.
      (3)   Must have at least 50 cars in a 24-hour period.
      (4)   If 50 car threshold is not met, City Manager will coordinate
additionally with Police Department and use discretion to determine the
severity of traffic concerns.
   (C)   If the data indicates a Class A issue, the action to be taken is
increased random enforcement by the Police Department, or such other measures
as deemed appropriate by the City Council in its discretion.
   (D)   If the data indicates a Class B issue, city staff will coordinate with
the affected community to assess the type of traffic calming measures that
would best address public safety and the nature of the issue.
(Ord. passed 3-12-2018)
§ 36.75  ACTIONS.
   (A)   The City Manager will provide the findings of the study to the City
Council.
   (B)   If it is determined the problem falls into Class B, the City Manager
will make a recommendation to the City Council on the type of traffic calming
measure that would best address public safety. This recommendation will be made
based on analysis by city staff, in coordination with the residents of the
affected community.
   (C)   City Council will provide the final approval of the type of traffic
calming measure to be implemented.
      (1)   Decisions to be made will consider availability of funds to
implement traffic calming on city roads.
   (D)   Public works, and city staff will work to install traffic calming
measures on the city maintained streets as approved by the Board of
Commissioners.
      (1)   Based on the type of traffic calming measure being taken, outside
contracting may be necessary to complete the work.
(Ord. passed 3-12-2018)
§ 36.76  TRAFFIC CALMING POLICY OVERVIEW FLOW CHART.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/17b97ef94aeece1984b00d0b21f650d8c1532868/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1363.png]
 
(Ord. passed 3-12-2018)
TITLE V:  PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE AND REFUSE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
      
51.   WATER SUPPLY AND DISTRIBUTION
      
52.   SEWAGE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
      
53.   SEWER CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS
      
54.   SEWER USE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 50:  GARBAGE AND REFUSE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
Section
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Responsibility for administration
   
50.03   Throwing or depositing matter on public or private property
   
50.04   Private waste collectors
   
50.05   Salvage
   
50.06   Matter not acceptable for disposal
   
50.07   Precollection practices
   
50.08   Collection practices
   
50.09   Duty to keep premises clean
   
50.10   Collection limitations
   
50.11   Responsibilities and duties of occupants
   
50.12   Care, maintenance, replacement and issuance of rollcart containers
(refuse containers)
   
50.13   Exclusive use of refuse containers
   
50.14   Prohibited activities
   
50.15   Special provisions
 
   
50.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Utility Billing Policy, see
Ch. 36
§ 50.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASHES. Residue resulting from the burning of wood, coal, coke or other
combustible material which has no live embers.
   CONTAINER, BULK. A metal receptacle of not less than one-half cubic yard nor
more than six cubic yards in size. The receptacle is to be constructed
according to city specifications and standards.
   CONTAINER, REFUSE. A rollcart receptacle of metal and plastic construction
having water-tight fitting lids, handles sufficient for safe and convenient
use, and an approximate capacity of 90 gallons.
   GARBAGE. All putrescible animal or vegetable wastes resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food in any private dwelling
house, multiple dwelling, hotel restaurant, building or other institution.
   REFUSE, BULK. Leaves grass, trees, shrubbery, garden trimmings, discarded
household furniture and appliances, beddings, mattresses and abandoned motor
vehicles. For the purpose of this chapter, an ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE is
defined as one that has for a period of more than 48 hours been in a state of
disrepair and is incapable of being moved under its own power.
   REFUSE, HAZARDOUS. Cleaning fluids, crank case oils, cutting oils, paints,
plastics, explosives, acids, caustics, poisons, drugs, radioactive materials,
fine powdery earth used to filter cleaning fluid, infected material and refuse
of similar nature.
   RESIDENTIAL UNIT, MULTIPLE. A duplex, apartment or group of apartments under
a single roof and used for dwelling places for more than one family.
   RESIDENTIAL UNIT, SINGLE. A dwelling occupied by one family.
   RUBBISH. Cardboard, plastic, metal or glass food containers, waste papers,
rags, sweepings, small pieces of wood, rubber, leather and similar waste
materials that ordinarily accumulate around a home, business or industry. It
shall not include garbage, ashes, bulk refuse, dead animals, hazardous refuse,
industrial waste or construction waste resulting from the building, addition to
or alteration of any building.
   WASTE, BUILDING. Refuse or residue resulting directly from building,
construction, repair, demolition or alteration; from grading, stumping or other
incidental work in connection with the clearing of any premises; or from
replacement of building equipment or appliances.
   WASTE, INDUSTRIAL. Residue resulting directly from industrial or
manufacturing operations.
(1995 Code, § 4-21)  (Ord. passed 4-25-1966; Ord. passed 3-18-1991)
§ 50.02  RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION.
   The Public Works Director, or other city employee or official designated by
the City Manager, shall have the responsibility for the jurisdiction of the
collection, removal and disposal of all garbage, refuse, rubbish and ashes
within the city.
(1995 Code, § 4-22)  (Ord. passed 4-25-1966; Ord. passed 11-12-1984)
§ 50.03  THROWING OR DEPOSITING MATTER ON PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No person shall cause or permit to be deposited garbage, rubbish, mixed
refuse, bulk refuse, dead animals, hazardous refuse, industrial waste, leaves,
grass clippings or any other similar matter in or upon any street or alley or
sidewalk, storm drain, manhole, gutter, ditch, culvert or upon any premises
within the city, unless express permission therefor is first obtained from the
City Manager, or other city employee or official designated by the City
Manager.
(1995 Code, § 4-23)  (Ord. passed 4-25-1966; Ord. passed 11-12-1984; Ord.
passed 11-13-2012)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.04  PRIVATE WASTE COLLECTORS.
   No person other than employees of the city shall, for hire, collect, remove,
haul or convey any type of garbage, refuse, rubbish, ashes, waste or similar
matter through or upon the streets or alleys of the city, without first
obtaining a permit from the City Manager, or other city employee or official
designated by the City Manager to issue such authorization.
(1995 Code, § 4-25)  (Ord. passed 4-25-1966; Ord. passed 11-12-1984)  Penalty,
see §
50.99
§ 50.05  SALVAGE.
   All materials delivered and deposited for collection by the city in a bulk
or refuse container, litter basket or in a sanitary landfill, are the property
of the city. No person shall separate, collect, carry off or dispose of such
materials unless a permit is first obtained from the City Manager, or other
city employee or official designated by the City Manager.
(1995 Code, § 4-26)  (Ord. passed 4-25-1966; Ord. passed 11-12-1984)  Penalty,
see §
50.99
§ 50.06  MATTER NOT ACCEPTABLE FOR DISPOSAL.
   The following material shall not be acceptable for collection by the city
and such material shall not be placed in a city-provided waste receptacle:
   (A)   Certain hazardous refuse such as explosives, radioactive materials,
infected materials;
   (B)   Human tissue or waste resulting from operating, autopsy or obstetrical
procedure, or any other material of similar nature;
   (C)   Materials of any kind or nature, including ashes, that contain any hot
or live coals or fire;
   (D)   Construction and demolition debris generated by the work of
contractors or of unusual quantities and waste resulting from manufacturing,
industrial or agricultural processes; and
   (E)   Large and bulky materials such as auto car bodies that may require
special preparation and process for disposals.
(1995 Code, § 4-27)  (Ord. passed 4-25-1966)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.07  PRECOLLECTION PRACTICES.
   (A)   Refuse containers. Every person producing or having garbage, rubbish,
ashes or refuse collected by the city shall place all such materials in a
refuse container which shall be provided by and maintained by the city. The
City Manager shall have the authority to refuse collection services should
containers be provided by the owner, tenant, lessee or occupant of the
premises.
   (B)   Number of refuse containers. Single residences shall be limited to no
more than one rollcart container; multiple residences shall be limited to one
such container per dwelling unit.
   (C)   Materials to be placed in containers. Garbage, rubbish, ashes and bulk
refuse must be placed in a container, and no separation of the matter is
necessary; provided, however, that bulk refuse, excluding grass trimmings, of a
size or quantity too large to be placed in containers may be placed at the
front of the premises in the grass strip between the street and the sidewalk
where said strips are available; otherwise, they shall be placed off that
portion of the street right-of-way normally used by vehicles, pedestrians or
for surface drainage. Tree limbs shall not be longer than six feet in length,
nor weigh more than 50 pounds.
   (D)   Other limitations. No person shall throw, dispose of or sweep from any
household, yard, sidewalk or elsewhere, any garbage, rubbish, ashes, dirt,
refuse or similar matter into a storm drain, manhole, gutter, center strip or
onto a sidewalk or street, but shall deposit the same as herein specified.
(1995 Code, § 4-28)  (Ord. passed 4-25-1966; Ord. passed 3-18-1991)  Penalty,
see §
50.99
§ 50.08  COLLECTION PRACTICES.
   Subject to the conditions and limitations set forth herein, the city shall
make collections of garbage, refuse, rubbish, ashes and similar matter as
follows.
   (A)   Residential, retail and commercial collections. Residential, retail
and commercial establishments, religious and governmental buildings and private
club collection of matter placed in the container shall be made on regular
schedules once each week, said schedules being established by the City Manager.
All containers shall be made available to collectors of the city no later than
6:00 a.m. on the designated days of collection. No container shall be placed
upon any sidewalk, street or alley, or upon any city property unless specific
authorization to do so is obtained from the City Manager, or some other city
employee or official under the supervision or direction of the City Manager.
All containers made available to city collectors shall be removed no later than
9:00 p.m. on the days designated for collections. Rubbish or bulk refuse which
cannot be placed in containers will be collected on the designated collection
days, provided that such collections shall be limited to no more than one-half
truck load per week per residence; if additional service is required and
requested by the owner or occupant of the premises, such collections will be
made and the city will charge fees for this additional collection as
established by the City Manager. A copy of current additional collection fees
shall be kept on filed in the office of the Clerk.
   (B)   Request for bulk containers. Following approval by the City Manager or
by a city employee or official so designated to authorize the same by the City
Manager, any residence, retail or commercial establishment, religious or
governmental building or private club, which produces greater quantities of
garbage, rubbish, ashes or refuse than the limitation hereinbefore specified in
this chapter, may furnish bulk containers, according to city standards and
specifications. Once the bulk containers are placed in service, no other type
of collection will be afforded to such establishment.
   (C)   Dead animals. Dead animals, except from slaughter houses or rendering
plants, will be collected without charge on the days designated for
collections, if the body is placed in a location accessible to the city
collector.
   (D)   Collections prohibited. The city will neither pickup nor remove any of
the following except upon written permission given by the City Manager:
      (1)   Matter not acceptable for disposal at a sanitary landfill;
      (2)   Hazardous refuse;
      (3)   Industrial waste;
      (4)   Building waste; and
      (5)   Garbage, ashes, rubbish and refuse not placed or stored as required
by the provisions of this chapter.
(1995 Code, § 4-29)  (Ord. passed 4-25-1966; Ord. passed 7-1-1969; Ord. passed
7-11-1989; Ord. passed 3-18-1991)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.09  DUTY TO KEEP PREMISES CLEAN.
   All owners or occupants of any premises within the city shall keep the same
free and clear from garbage, rubbish, ashes, refuse, items specified in §
50.03 and similar matter, except as stored, placed or permitted in this
chapter, or as stored or placed in an enclosed building designated and
authorized by the City Manager or by an employee or official of the city
designated to give such permission by the City Manager.
(1995 Code, § 4-30)  (Ord. passed 4-25-1966; Ord. passed 11-12-1984; Ord.
passed 7-11-1989)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.10  COLLECTION LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      TREE TRIMMINGS. Waste accumulation of tree branches, tree limbs, parts of
trees, leaves or other matter usually created as refuse in the care of trees
and bushes.
      YARD TRASH. Waste accumulation of lawn, grass, and shrubbery cuttings or
clippings, free of dirt, rocks, large branches and bulky or noncombustible
material.
      YARD TRASH CONTAINERS. Refuse receptacles, two-ply kraft paper bags,
heavy-duty polyethylene plastic bags or heavy-duty cardboard boxes.
   (B)   Pending collection by the city, yard trash shall be stored in
conformity with the following regulations.
      (1)   All such yard trash shall be stored in refuse receptacles with lids
tightly fastened, or yard trash containers of such size, shape and weight that,
when full, they do not weight more than 50 pounds. Such containers shall be
securely fastened or covered at all times; and when plastic or paper bags are
used, these shall be tightly sealed.
      (2)   Yard trash stored in refuse receptacles or yard trash containers
shall be placed at curbside for collection.
   (C)   Tree trimmings shall be stored pending collection, and shall be
collected by the city in conformity with the following regulations.
      (1)   Tree trimmings shall be placed at curbside for collection by the
city.
      (2)   No tree trunks, branches or limbs larger than four inches in
diameter, longer than six feet or heavier than 50 pounds, shall be collected by
the city.
      (3)   Tree limbs shall have protruding branches trimmed, and shall be
neatly stacked and placed in an orderly manner at curbside. Thorny vegetation
shall be placed near the curbside in small, neat piles. All such trimmings
shall be effectively secured to prevent scattering by the wind.
      (4)   Collection of tree and shrubbery trimmings shall be limited to one
truck load per week per residence; additional service may be approved by the
City Manager upon request.
      (5)   The city shall not collect tree and shrubbery trimmings resulting
from work performed by landscaping or tree service contractors or other
commercial workers or resulting from land clearing work.
   (D)   Loose leaves may be placed pending collection by the city at the front
of the premises in the grass strip between the street and the sidewalk, where
such strips are available; otherwise, they may be placed just off that portion
of the street right-of-way normally used by vehicles or pedestrians, or used
for surface drainage purposes.
(1995 Code, § 4-32)  (Ord. passed 4-13-1987)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.11  RESPONSIBILITIES AND DUTIES OF OCCUPANTS.
   It shall be the duty of any building or residential unit:
   (A)   To place the refuse container or containers at a location in such a
manner as to be convenient for removal and collecting. The City Manager may
require such placement at any location for reasons of topography, efficiency or
emergency;
   (B)   To remove the empty container or containers from the place of deposit
at curbside or otherwise to be the storage location, such removal to be
accomplished not later than 9:00 p.m. on the day of collection;
   (C)   To pay the city for all repairs to damaged containers other than
normal wear and tear, such charges to be the actual cost of labor and
materials, and if the occupant shall fail to pay such charges, the owner of the
premises shall be liable for the payment thereof;
   (D)   To notify the Police Department of the city immediately upon the
discovery of damage to or theft of any refuse container; and
   (E)   To notify the City Manager of his or her intent to vacate the premises
in order that the refuse container or containers may be picked up by the city
and receipts issued therefor.
(1995 Code, § 4-33)  (Ord. passed 3-18-1991)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.12  CARE, MAINTENANCE, REPLACEMENT AND ISSUANCE OF ROLLCART CONTAINERS
(REFUSE CONTAINERS).
   (A)   Care and maintenance of rollcarts, garbage, refuse and waste
containers. The occupants of any unit or building for which a rollcart
container has been provided shall be responsible for the following:
      (1)   Placing the container in a location where it will not be subject to
damage by vehicular or other traffic, including lawnmowers;
      (2)   Preventing the placing in the container of any hot materials,
solvents or any other items or material which might damage plastic;
      (3)   Keeping the container in a clean and sanitary condition; and
      (4)   Placing the container in a readily accessible location as near the
street as possible (six feet or less) on scheduled collection days.
   (B)   Replacement of damaged carts. The owners for any unit or building for
which a rollcart has been provided shall be required to pay the cost of
replacement of any cart which is damaged as a result of carelessness, improper
use, neglect or any other cause of not resulting from actions of city
personnel.
   (C)   Issuance of rollcarts.
      (1)   All single-family households will be issued a rollcart in which to
store their refuse between collections. Exceptions may be made only by the City
Manager.
      (2)   Certain multi-family residential units will be issued rollcarts if
it is advantageous to the Sanitation Department to speed up collection time.
The City Manager, or other official or employee designated by the City Manager,
will make a determination on the individual basis as to the feasibility of
using rollcarts or bulk containers.
      (3)   Certain retail and commercial establishments, religious and
governmental buildings and private clubs will be issued rollcarts if it is
advantageous to the Sanitation Department to speed up collection time. The City
Manager, or other official or employee designated by the City Manager, will
make a determination on the individual basis as to the feasibility of using
rollcarts or bulk containers.
      (4)   Additional rollcarts may be leased by persons upon receiving
approval by the City Manager and upon agreement to abide by the lease terms
established by the City Council.
(1995 Code, § 4-34)  (Ord. passed 3-18-1991)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.13  EXCLUSIVE USE OF REFUSE CONTAINERS.
   Only those producers of garbage, refuse or rubbish to whom or which a
rollcart refuse container has been issued by the city shall be entitled to use
such rollcart container.
(1995 Code, § 4-35)  (Ord. passed 3-18-1991)
§ 50.14  PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   Refuse containers. It shall be unlawful:
      (1)   For any unauthorized person to remove, disarrange or interfere with
refuse containers used for collection of refuse or the contents of any such
refuse containers;
      (2)   For any person to break or damage any refuse container used for
refuse collection; and
      (3)   To fail to keep all refuse receptacles and containers clean,
sanitary, tightly covered and in good repair.
   (B)   Storage. It shall be unlawful:
      (1)   To deposit yard rubbish, bulk waste or dead animals on any lot
other than one owned by the depositor, whether vacant or improved, occupied and
unoccupied within the city;
      (2)   For any person to permit refuse to be scattered upon the streets of
the city;
      (3)   To place hot ashes and the like or any burning matter in any refuse
container; and
      (4)   For the responsible party to fail to provide sufficient refuse
containers pursuant to the requirements of this chapter.
(1995 Code, § 4-36)  (Ord. passed 3-18-1991)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.15  SPECIAL PROVISIONS.
   In the event a resident is physically unable to place the cart at the
curbside and there is no one living in the household or nearby that will place
it on the curb for them, the resident may request special pickup consideration.
All requests are to be made in writing to the City Manager, or an employee
designated to receive such request by the City Manager, who will then make a
determination as to whether special pickup arrangements are warranted.
Residents enrolled in this program must comply with all other provisions of
this chapter.
(1995 Code, § 4-37)  (Ord. passed 3-18-1991)
§ 50.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   The City Manager, or a city employee or official designated by the
City Manager, shall notify in writing the owner or occupant of any premises in
violation of this chapter of such violation, and failure to remove any unlawful
accumulation of such matter as hereinbefore specified within 24 hours after
such notification shall constitute a separate offense for each 24 hours that
the violation continues to exist.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction
thereof shall be fined in the amount not exceeding $50 or be imprisoned in the
county jail for a period not exceeding 30 days or be both so fined and
imprisoned. Each day such violation is committed or permitted to continue shall
constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as such hereunder.
(1995 Code, § 4-31)  (Ord. passed 4-25-1966; Ord. passed 11-12-1984; Ord.
passed 3-18-1991)
CHAPTER 51:  WATER SUPPLY AND DISTRIBUTION
Section
   
51.01   Service contracts to conform with pertinent provisions
   
51.02   City Manager shall supervise
   
51.03   Water service pipes
   
51.04   Water connections required; separate connections
   
51.05   Connections to be made by or under supervision of city
   
51.06   Applications for connections
   
51.07   Connection fees
   
51.08   Service pipe extensions
   
51.09   Right to enter premises
   
51.10   Water meters
   
51.11   Connections outside of city
   
51.12   Unauthorized use of water
   
51.13   Leaks responsibility of customer
   
51.14   Water for use of customers only
   
51.15   Injury to property and fixtures
   
51.16   Tampering with meters
   
51.17   Continuity of service
   
51.18   Water rates and charges
   
51.19   Water deposits
   
51.20   Meter reading; billing; collecting
   
51.21   Suspension and discontinuation of service
   
51.22   Availability fees
Cross-reference:
   Utility Billing Policy, see
Ch. 36
§ 51.01  SERVICE CONTRACTS TO CONFORM WITH PERTINENT PROVISIONS.
   All pertinent provisions of this chapter shall govern the terms and
conditions of the contracts under which the city furnishes water service to any
person, or whereby the city makes any water connections or performs any work of
any kind in connection with the furnishing of water service.
(1995 Code, § 5-1)
§ 51.02  CITY MANAGER SHALL SUPERVISE.
   (A)   The water system shall be under the supervision of the City Manager.
   (B)   The duty of enforcing full compliance with all rules and regulations
governing all connections with the mains shall be vested in the City Manager.
(1995 Code, § 5-2)  (Ord. passed 11-12-1984)
§ 51.03  WATER SERVICE PIPES.
   The city, or a licensed plumber under permit of the city, shall tap the
water main for connections and extend all service pipes to the curbing where a
stop box will be placed over a stop cock, all of which shall be under the
exclusive control of the city. No person shall be allowed to turn the water on
or off at this stop cock, except the Director of Public Works, or other officer
designated by the City Manager.
(1995 Code, § 5-3)
§ 51.04  WATER CONNECTIONS REQUIRED; SEPARATE CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Within 30 days after the water main in any street is completed and
ready for use, the owner of every abutting lot whereon water is needed for
human use shall cause such lot to be connected with the water main.
   (B)   Every house or building abutting any water main shall be separately
and independently connected and a separate water meter shall be provided for
each dwelling unit.
(1995 Code, § 5-4)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.05  CONNECTIONS TO BE MADE BY OR UNDER SUPERVISION OF CITY.
   The construction of laterals for water connections, and the necessary
excavation therefor, shall be done by the city, or, if done by a licensed
plumber, it shall be done under the supervision of the city.
(1995 Code, § 5-5)
§ 51.06  APPLICATIONS FOR CONNECTIONS.
   Every application for a water connection shall be made on a form provided by
the city, shall be signed by the applicant, shall be accompanied by the proper
fee for making the connections, and shall be filed with the City Manager.
(1995 Code, § 5-6)
§ 51.07  CONNECTION FEES.
   For extension of water service pipe to the subject property line and the
tapping of the main, the city will charge fees as established by the City
Council. A copy of the current fees shall be kept on file in the office of the
Clerk.
(1995 Code, § 5-7)
§ 51.08  SERVICE PIPE EXTENSIONS.
   The property owner shall be responsible for causing the construction of a
water service line connecting all improvements on the property to the city’s
meter. No service line shall be allowed to run across or traverse adjoining
private properties unless specific permission is given by the City Manager. All
expenses associated with the construction of service lines shall be paid by the
owner of the property to be served.
(1995 Code, § 5-8)
§ 51.09  RIGHT TO ENTER PREMISES.
   Whenever it becomes necessary to enter any premises, store or dwelling, for
the purpose of inspecting water pipes, fixtures or meters, the Public Works
Director or Building Inspector may do so within reasonable hours; should the
Public Works Director or Inspector be refused admittance, the supply of water
shall be cut off until the examination is made and the required information is
obtained, or until repairs and alterations are made.
(1995 Code, § 5-9)
§ 51.10  WATER METERS.
   (A)   The water meters furnished by the city shall remain the property of
the city and will be serviced by the city.
   (B)   At the request of any customer, the city will test the accuracy of a
water meter alleged to be recording improperly.
      (1)   If the meter is found to be inaccurate, the customer’s water bill
may be adjusted accordingly.
      (2)   If the meter is found to be accurate, the customer will be so
notified.
(1995 Code, § 5-10)
§ 51.11  CONNECTIONS OUTSIDE OF CITY.
   No extension of any water line or system outside of the city shall be made
to any part of the water system without special permission from the City
Council of such terms as the City Council shall prescribe.
(1995 Code, § 5-11)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.12  UNAUTHORIZED USE OF WATER.
   (A)   Only city employees are authorized to turn on water. If water is found
to be in use without the knowledge of the city, or without being turned on by a
city employee, or if water is used for any other purpose than that paid for,
the consumer of the water shall be guilty of a violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Any person who opens, closes, damages, tampers with, connects to, or
withdraws water from a city fire hydrant without a permit to do so issued by
the City Manager, will be subject to a penalty of $1,000 per violation.
(1995 Code, § 5-12)  (Ord. passed 3-13-2017)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.13  LEAKS RESPONSIBILITY OF CUSTOMER.
   If a break occurs, or a defect is found in any pipe or fixture, causing or
permitting a leakage or waste of water, it shall be the duty of the owner of
the premises or the customer to have the break or defect repaired.
(1995 Code, § 5-13)
§ 51.14  WATER FOR USE OF CUSTOMERS ONLY.
   It shall be unlawful for any customer to permit any person, except the
members of his or her family or employees living on the premises as a part of
the household or visitors in the home to remove water from the premises for any
purpose except in case of fire or other emergency. Any person unlawfully
receiving or using water shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and if it is shown
that the unlawful use has been made with the knowledge and consent of the
customer, the customer shall be deemed equally guilty.
(1995 Code, § 5-14)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.15  INJURY TO PROPERTY AND FIXTURES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to injure, deface or destroy any
property of the city water system, including the pipes, standpipes, valves,
boxes, fire hydrants, fountains, service boxes, service valves or service
connections or any other fixtures, or in any way to contaminate the city water
supply.
(1995 Code, § 5-15)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.16  TAMPERING WITH METERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, after the water has been turned off for
failure to pay the water bill, to turn the water on at the meter or to bypass
the meter or in any manner to obtain water at no cost.
(1995 Code, § 5-16)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.17  CONTINUITY OF SERVICE.
   The city will not be liable for any damages that may result to any customer
from the shutting off of water service for any cause whatever, even in cases
where no motive is given, and no deduction from bills will be made in
consequence thereof.
(1995 Code, § 5-17)
§ 51.18  WATER RATES AND CHARGES.
   The rates and charges for water service shall be established by the City
Council, shall be due and payable monthly, and shall be collected in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter. A copy of the current rates and charges
shall be kept on file at all times in the office of the Clerk.
(1995 Code, § 5-18)
§ 51.19  WATER DEPOSITS.
   Each customer applying for water service shall make a cash deposit in an
amount fixed by the City Council. If after 12 full months of service the
customer has paid all current charges in a timely manner, the deposit shall be
credited to the customer’s account.
(1995 Code, § 5-19)
§ 51.20  METER READING; BILLING; COLLECTING.
   (A)   Meters will be read and bills rendered monthly, but the city may vary
dates or length of period covered, temporarily or permanently, if necessary or
desirable.
   (B)   Bill for water service will be figured in accordance with the rate
schedule then in effect and will be based on the amount consumed for the period
covered by the meter readings, but the amount payable for each month’s service
shall not be less than the minimum charge prescribed in the schedule of rates.
   (C)   Charges for service commence when the meter is installed and
connection is made, whether used or not.
   (D)   Bills for water service are due when rendered and are delinquent after
15 days. In the event the bill for water service is not paid in 15 days after
it was rendered, a penalty in an amount fixed by the City Council shall be
added and shall be paid by the customer.
   (E)   Readings from different meters will not be combined for billing,
irrespective of the fact that such meters may be for the same or different
premises, or for the same or different customers, or for the same or different
services.
   (F)   Delinquent notices will be mailed to the customer 20 days after the
first billing, and if not paid within ten days after date of the second
mailing, water service may be discontinued.
   (G)   Failure to receive bills mailed or notices shall not prevent the bills
from becoming delinquent nor relieve the customer from payment.
(1995 Code, § 5-20)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.21  SUSPENSION AND DISCONTINUATION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   When service is discontinued and all bills are paid, including
penalties if applicable, the deposit or any remainder thereof will be refunded.
   (B)   Upon discontinuance of service for nonpayment of bills, the deposit
may be applied by the city toward settlement of the account. Any balance will
be refunded to the customer, but if the deposit is not sufficient to cover any
payable, the city may proceed to collect the balance in any manner provided by
laws for the collection of debts.
   (C)   Service discontinued for nonpayment of bills will be restored only
after bills are paid in full, redeposit made and a reconnection charge paid in
the amount as may be from time to time fixed by the City Council.
   (D)   The city reserves the right to discontinue service without notice in
the event of emergency circumstances, insufficiency of supply due to
circumstances beyond the city’s control, the direction of public authorities,
or other unforeseen or unavoidable circumstances.
   (E)   In the event that the city finds illegal use of its services or use of
water at a location where no current account is established, or the use of
water after discontinuance of service for nonpayment, a tampering fee of $100
may be imposed to the customer, as well as any other fees or fines that may
legally be imposed or levied.
   (F)   It is the policy of the city to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after a meaningful opportunity
to be heard on disputed bills and notice. The city’s form for application for
utility service shall contain, in addition to the title, address and telephone
number of the official in charge of billing, provisions to the effect that:
      (1)   Payment is due on or before the date stated on the bill;
      (2)   If any bill is not paid by the date specified on the bill a second
bill will be mailed containing a cut-off warning notice that if the bill is not
paid within ten days of the date of the second bill, service will be
discontinued for nonpayment; and
      (3)   Any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill shall
have a right to a hearing before the person in charge of billing at which time
he or she may be represented in person and by counsel or any other person of
his or her choosing and may present orally or in writing his or her complaint
and contentions to the official in charge of utility billing. This official
shall be authorized to order that the customer’s service not be discontinued
and shall have the authority to make a final determination on the customer’s
complaint.
   (G)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained; only
questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence of
payment of the bill rendered, or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the approximate time specified, but in
no event until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
   (H)   When it becomes necessary for the city to discontinue utility service
to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only after
all bills then due are paid in full, along with appropriate penalties and a
reconnection fee in the sum of $50 or in accordance with the fee schedule in
effect at that time.
(1995 Code, § 5-21) (Ord. passed 11-9-2004)
§ 51.22  AVAILABILITY FEES.
   (A)   On all undeveloped lots adjacent to the city’s municipal water and
sewer lines that wish to establish a serviceable structure thereon, a water and
sewer availability fee as set forth by the City Council shall be required.
   (B)   On those lots with existing serviceable structures that are not served
by the city’s water and/or sewer system but have been charged the monthly
accessibility fee, no availability fee is required.
(Ord. passed 1-13-2004)
CHAPTER 52:  SEWAGE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
Section
   
52.01   Service contracts to conform with pertinent provisions
   
52.02   City Manager shall supervise
   
52.03   Duties of supervisor
   
52.04   Sewer connections required; separate connections
   
52.05   Connections to be made by, or under supervision of city
   
52.06   Applications for connections
   
52.07   Connection charge
   
52.08   Service pipe extensions
   
52.09   Right to enter premises
   
52.10   Connections outside of city
   
52.11   Discharge into sewers
   
52.12   Injury to sewers prohibited
   
52.13   Certain drains not to be connected
   
52.14   Drains from garages, service stations
   
52.15   Sewer service charges
Cross-reference:
   Utility Billing Policy, see
Ch. 36
§ 52.01  SERVICE CONTRACTS TO CONFORM WITH PERTINENT PROVISIONS.
   All pertinent provisions of this chapter shall govern the terms and
conditions of the contracts under which the city furnishes sewer service to any
person, or whereby the city makes any sewer connections or performs any work of
any kind in connection with the furnishing of sewer service.
(1995 Code, § 5-22)
§ 52.02  CITY MANAGER SHALL SUPERVISE.
   The sewer system of the city shall be under the supervision of the Public
Works Director. The duty of enforcing full compliance with all rules and
regulations governing all connections with the mains shall be vested in the
Public Works Director.
(1995 Code, § 5-23)  (Ord. passed 11-12-1984)
§ 52.03  DUTIES OF SUPERVISOR.
   The City Manager or such other employee designated by the City Manager,
shall perform the following duties:
   (A)   He or she shall have general supervision over all the operations of
the sewerage system;
   (B)   He or she shall see that all rules and regulations of the city are
enforced; and
   (C)   He or she shall see that sewer rates and assessments are correctly
made.
(1995 Code, § 5-24)
§ 52.04  SEWER CONNECTIONS REQUIRED; SEPARATE CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Within 30 days after the sewer main in any street is completed and
ready for use, if a water main shall also have been installed in the street,
the owner of any abutting lot having thereon improvements for human occupancy,
shall cause a water closet and sink to be installed and to be connected with
the sewer main. All other sewer facilities within such improvements, if any,
are also to be connected with the sewer main.
   (B)   Every house or building abutting any sewer main shall be separately
and independently connected to the main.
(1995 Code, § 5-25)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.05  CONNECTIONS TO BE MADE BY, OR UNDER SUPERVISION OF CITY.
   The construction of a lateral for sewer connections, and the necessary
excavation therefor, shall be done by the city, or, if done by a licensed
plumber, it shall be done under the supervision of the city.
(1995 Code, § 5-26)
§ 52.06  APPLICATIONS FOR CONNECTIONS.
   Every application for a sewer connection shall be made on a form prescribed
by the city and shall be signed by the applicant, shall be accompanied by the
proper fee for making the connections, and shall be filed with the City
Manager.
(1995 Code, § 5-27)
§ 52.07  CONNECTION CHARGE.
   For the extension of sewer service pipe and tapping of main, the city will
charge fees as established by the City Council. A copy of the current
connection fees shall be kept on file in the office of the Clerk.
(1995 Code, § 5-28)
§ 52.08  SERVICE PIPE EXTENSIONS.
   The property owner shall be responsible for causing the construction of
sewer lines connecting all improvements to the city’s service line extension
located at or near the property line. No service pipe shall be allowed to run
across lots, that is, from one lot to another, but it must be taken from the
main in front of the premises or from some point adjacent thereto, unless
specific permission is obtained from the City Manager. The City Manager shall
have the power to extend service pipe to a building not abutting a main. All
additional expenses for the extensions shall be paid by the owner of the
property.
(1995 Code, § 5-29)
§ 52.09  RIGHT TO ENTER PREMISES.
   Whenever it becomes necessary to enter any premises, stores or dwelling, for
the purpose of inspecting sewer pipes or fixtures, the City Manager or Building
Inspector may do so within reasonable hours; should the City Manager or
Building Inspector be refused admittance, the supply of water shall be cut off
until the examination is made and the required information is obtained, or
until repairs and alterations are made.
(1995 Code, § 5-30)
§ 52.10  CONNECTIONS OUTSIDE OF CITY.
   No extension of any sewer line or system outside of the city shall be made
to any part of the sewer system without special permission from the City
Council on such terms as the City Council shall prescribe.
(1995 Code, § 5-31)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.11  DISCHARGE INTO SEWERS.
   No person shall put, throw or discharge any substance, either solid or
liquid, into any sanitary or storm sewer at any manhole, nor shall any person
discharge into any sanitary or storm sewer any substance likely to obstruct or
to cause the injury to the same.
(1995 Code, § 5-32)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.12  INJURY TO SEWERS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall obstruct, break, remove or otherwise injure any portion of
any manhole, flushtank or other part of any public sanitary or storm sewer.
(1995 Code, § 5-33)  (Ord. passed 3-3-1969)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.13  CERTAIN DRAINS NOT TO BE CONNECTED.
   No gutter drains from roofs, surface drains and drains from swimming pools,
privately owned reservoirs and other places where water is collected or stored
shall be connected with, nor discharged into the domestic sewer lines of the
city, but shall be connected with and discharged into the storm sewer system.
(1995 Code, § 5-34)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.14  DRAINS FROM GARAGES, SERVICE STATIONS.
   No drains from garages, automobile service stations or other places which
discharge any oil or grease shall be discharged into the domestic sewer system.
(1995 Code, § 5-35)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.15  SEWER SERVICE CHARGES.
   The charges for sewer service shall be as established by the City Council,
and shall be billed and collected in the same manner as charges for water
service. A copy of the current charges shall be kept on file at all times in
the office of the Clerk.
(1995 Code, § 5-36)
CHAPTER 53:  SEWER CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS
Section
   
53.01   Definitions
   
53.02   Application of regulations
   
53.03   Materials
   
53.04   Construction
   
53.05   Cleanouts
   
53.06   Other required construction
   
53.07   Inspection
   
53.08   Inspection fees
   
53.09   Denial of sewer service and appeal
 
   
53.99   Penalty
§ 53.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. When not
inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the
future, words in the plural number include the singular number, and words in
the singular number include the plural number. The word “shall” is always
mandatory and not merely directory.
   APPROVING AUTHORITY. The City Manager or his or her duly authorized deputy,
agent or representative.
   DISPOSAL PLANT. All the facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and
disposing of sewage.
   DOMESTIC WASTE. That liquid waste from bathrooms, toilet rooms, kitchens and
home laundries.
   HOUSE LATERAL. The sewer line from any structure to the sewer main in the
street.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting corners shall have
equal rights and is controlled by public authority.
   SANITARY SEWER. A conduit intended to receive domestic sewage and industrial
waste, except that of the type expressly prohibited without the admixture of
surface water and storm water intentionally added.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences,
institutions, commercial and industrial establishments.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SEWER SYSTEM. Includes any one or all of the following: sewer mains, sewer
outfall lines, sewer pumps and stations, sewage disposal plants and facilities.
   STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A conduit which carries storm and surface
waters, but excludes sewage or industrial waste.
(1995 Code, § 5-37)  (Ord. passed 1-8-1968)
§ 53.02  APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all persons using, connected
to or being served by the sewage system of the city, both inside and outside
the corporate limits.
(1995 Code, § 5-38)  (Ord. passed 1-8-1968)
§ 53.03  MATERIALS.
   Material used for house laterals or service lines shall be approved by the
Public Works Director and authorized by all applicable building codes.
(1995 Code, § 5-39)  (Ord. passed 1-8-1968)
§ 53.04  CONSTRUCTION.
   The house lateral shall have a minimum of two feet of cover when passing
under or near drives, porches or areas which are accessible to vehicles. The
minimum grade on the invert of the pipe shall be one-eighth inch per foot or
1%. Whenever the house lateral is constructed by a person other than the
property owner, the person shall be a licensed plumber or utility contractor.
(1995 Code, § 5-40)  (Ord. passed 1-8-1968)
§ 53.05  CLEANOUTS.
   A cleanout or cleanouts shall be located on laterals at or near the property
line and as otherwise specified by the Public Works Director.
(1995 Code, § 5-41)  (Ord. passed 1-8-1968)
§ 53.06  OTHER REQUIRED CONSTRUCTION.
   All construction techniques, methods, workmanship and requirements as set
forth in the State Plumbing Code as amended, shall be applicable and enforced
when they are not at variance from this chapter.
(1995 Code, § 5-42)  (Ord. passed 1-8-1968)
§ 53.07  INSPECTION.
   The procedure for inspections shall be as follows.
   (A)   The first inspection shall be preliminary in nature. The property
owner or his or her representative shall contact the approving authority who
will locate the street lateral or provide a new street lateral as agreed upon
by the two parties. Construction procedures and requirements shall be set forth
at this inspection.
   (B)   The second inspection shall be the examination of the installed house
lateral before any part of the house lateral is backfilled. At this inspection,
the approving authority shall issue a permit to the property owner stating that
the house lateral is acceptable for use in the sewer system.
(1995 Code, § 5-43)  (Ord. passed 1-8-1968)
§ 53.08  INSPECTION FEES.
   (A)   Prior to the first inspection, the property owner shall file his or
her name and address with the approving authority along with a deposit as set
forth in the house lateral sewer inspection rate as adopted by the City
Council. The deposit shall allow for the two inspections as described in §
53.07.
   (B)   All inspections, which shall include the first and second inspections
hereinbefore set forth and any additional inspections shall be paid by the
property owner at a rate established by City Council.
(1995 Code, § 5-44)  (Ord. passed 1-8-1968)
§ 53.09  DENIAL OF SEWER SERVICE AND APPEAL.
   If any person is denied a house lateral permit by the approving authority,
then this denial must be stated by registered mail. The property owner may
appeal therefrom to the City Council by filing written notice thereof within
ten days from the date of the decision and the City Council shall hear the
appeal within 30 days from the filing of the notice of appeal and shall fix the
time for such hearing and give at least three days’ notice thereof to the
person appealing. At such hearing on appeal, the City Council shall either
affirm, modify or set aside such order or decision of the approving authority.
An appeal from an order or decision of the approving authority shall not stay
or cause to be stayed any order issued by the approving authority until that
order has been either modified or set aside by the City Council.
(1995 Code, § 5-45)  (Ord. passed 1-8-1968)
§ 53.99  PENALTY.
   Any person violating the provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. For the purpose of this section, it shall be considered that each
day during which any provision of this chapter is violated shall constitute a
separate and distinct offense, even though continuing in nature. In the event
the person violating any provisions of this chapter is a corporation, the
officer, agent or employees thereof, who shall violate, procure, aid or abet
any violation of any provision of this chapter shall be subject to the same
penalties as if he or she, himself or herself, had committed such violations.
(1995 Code, § 5-46)  (Ord. passed 1-8-1968)
CHAPTER 54:  SEWER USE REGULATIONS
Section
   
54.01   Sewer use ordinance adopted by reference
§ 54.01  SEWER USE ORDINANCE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The sewer use regulations are set out in a separate bound document entitled
Sewer Use Regulations, the same being incorporated herein by reference as if
fully set out herein, and being on file in the Office of the City Clerk.
(1995 Code, § 5-47)
TITLE VII:  TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
      
72.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
73.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
74.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
75.   RAILROAD CROSSINGS
      
76.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
77.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions of words and phrases
Enforcement of and Obedience to Traffic Regulations
   
70.15   Authority of Police Department officials
   
70.16   Obedience to Police Department officials
   
70.17   Authorized emergency vehicles
 
   
70.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Utility Billing Policy, see
Ch. 36
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01  DEFINITIONS OF WORDS AND PHRASES.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A thoroughfare through the middle of a block.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Vehicles of the Fire Department, police
vehicles and ambulances and emergency vehicles of municipal departments or
public service corporation as are designed or authorized by the Chief of
Police.
   BICYCLE. Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may
ride, having two tandem wheels either of which is over 20 inches in diameter.
   BLOCK. A portion of any street located between any two intersections of any
two streets or public alleyways next adjacent to each other.
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE. Every vehicle designed, maintained or used primarily for
the transportation of property.
   CROSSWALK. That portion of any street or roadway ordinarily included within
the prolongation or connection of the lateral lines of sidewalks at
intersections. Any portion of a roadway or street distinctly indicated for
pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface of the street or
roadway.
   CURB LOADING ZONE. A space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use
of vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers or materials.
   DRIVER. Every person who shall drive or who shall be in actual physical
control of the operation of any vehicle.
   FREIGHT CURB LOADING ZONE. A space adjacent to a curb for the exclusive use
of vehicles during the loading or unloading of freight or passengers.
   INTERSECTION.
      (1)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of the two highways which join one another at or approximately at
right angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different
highways joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
      (2)   Where a highway includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then
every crossing of each roadway of the divided highway by an intersecting
highway shall be regarded as a separate intersection. In the event the
intersecting highway also includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then
every crossing of two roadways of the highway shall be regarded as a separate
INTERSECTION.
   LANED ROADWAY. A roadway which is divided into two or more clearly marked
lanes of vehicular traffic.
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle having a saddle for use of the rider and
designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the ground,
but excluding a tractor.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self propelled and every vehicle
designed to run upon the streets which is pulled by a self propelled vehicle.
   OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD. Whenever certain hours are named herein they shall
mean standard time or daylight savings time as may be in current use in this
city.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE. Any sign, signal, marking or device, not
inconsistent with this chapter, placed or erected by authority of the governing
body by a designated official having jurisdiction through authority given by
the governing body, for the purpose of regulating, warning, prohibiting or
guiding traffic upon the public streets and thoroughfares of the city.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC SIGNALS. Any device, whether manually, electrically or
mechanically operated, whereby traffic is alternately directed to stop and to
proceed, or to turn, or to proceed with caution.
   PARK. The standing of any vehicle, whether occupied or unoccupied, otherwise
than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or
unloading passengers or cargo.
   PASSENGER CURB LOADING ZONE. A place adjacent to a curb reserved for the
exclusive use of vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   PERSON. Every natural person, firm, copartnership, association or
corporation.
   POLICE OFFICER. Every peace officer of the city, including every employee of
the city authorized and empowered to regulate traffic and to make arrests for
any violations of the provisions of this chapter.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY. Every way or place in private ownership and used
for vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied
permission from the owner, but not by other persons.
   PUBLIC CONVEYANCE. Any vehicle other than a taxicab or railroad train for
transporting persons for a fare.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the street or roadway.
   ROADWAY. That portion of a street or highway improved, designed or
ordinarily used for vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. In the
event a highway includes two or more separate roadways, the term ROADWAY as
used herein shall refer to any roadways separately but not to all roadways
collectively.
   SAFETY ZONE. The area or space officially set apart within any roadway for
the exclusive use of pedestrians and which space shall be so protected or
marked or indicated by visible and adequate markers or signs as shall be
visible at all times while so set apart as a SAFETY ZONE for pedestrians.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines intended for the use of
pedestrians.
   STANDING. Any stopping of any vehicle, whether or not the vehicle is
occupied during the period of stopping.
   STOP. When required, means the complete cessation of movement of any
vehicle.
   STOP or STOPPING. When prohibited, means any stopping of any vehicle, except
when the STOPPING means that it shall be necessary to stop the vehicle to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with direction of any peace
officer of the city or by reason of any traffic control sign or signal or by
reason of any emergency.
   STREET AND HIGHWAY. The entire width between property lines of every way or
place of whatever nature, when any part thereof is open to the use of the
public as a matter of right for the purposes of vehicular traffic.
   THROUGH HIGHWAY. Every street or highway or portion thereof at the entrances
to which vehicular traffic from intersecting streets or highways is required by
law to stop before entering or crossing the same and when stop signs are
erected as provided in this chapter.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles of all kinds,
conveyances, tractors, bicycles, motorcycles and the like, either singularly or
together, while using any street or alleyway for travel, including the
operation of, the loading or unloading of, or the parking of any vehicle upon
any of the public streets of the city.
   VEHICLE. Every device used in, upon or by which any person or property is or
may be transported or drawn upon any street within the corporate limits, and,
for the purposes of this title any bicycle shall be deemed a VEHICLE.
(1995 Code, § 7-1)
Statutory reference:
   Motor vehicles, see G.S. Ch. 20
   Municipal authority to regulate traffic generally, see G.S. § 160A-300
ENFORCEMENT OF AND OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
§ 70.15  AUTHORITY OF POLICE DEPARTMENT OFFICIALS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the officers of the Police Department to
enforce all street traffic laws and all the state vehicle laws applicable to
street traffic.
   (B)   Officers of the Police Department are hereby authorized to direct all
traffic by voice, hand or signal in conformance with traffic laws, provided
that, in the event of a fire or other emergency or to expedite traffic or to
safeguard pedestrians, officers of the Police Department may direct traffic as
conditions may require notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws.
(1995 Code, § 7-2)
§ 70.16  OBEDIENCE TO POLICE DEPARTMENT OFFICIALS.
   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of a police officer.
(1995 Code, § 7-3)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.17  AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   The provisions of this title regulating the operation, parking and standing
of vehicles shall apply to authorized emergency vehicles, as defined in this
chapter, except as provided under state law.
(1995 Code, § 7-4)
Statutory reference:
   Emergency vehicles, exceptions to right-of-way rules, see G.S. § 20-156
§ 70.99  PENALTY.
   If any person shall violate an ordinance regulating the operation or parking
of vehicles, he or she shall be responsible for an infraction and shall be
required to pay a penalty of not more than $50.
(G.S. § 14-4(b))
CHAPTER 71:  TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
Section
   
71.01   Obedience to signs, markers or devices, generally
   
71.02   Signs as prerequisite to enforcement
   
71.03   Traffic control signal legend
   
71.04   Flashing signals
   
71.05   Display of unauthorized signs, signals or markings
   
71.06   Interference with official traffic control devices, signs or signals
   
71.07   Traffic lanes
   
71.08   Zone of quiet
   
71.09   School zones
   
71.10   Yield signs
§ 71.01  OBEDIENCE TO SIGNS, MARKERS OR DEVICES, GENERALLY.
   Any person failing or refusing to comply with the directions indicated on
any sign, marker or device for the control or direction of traffic erected or
placed in accordance with the provisions of this chapter when so placed or
erected shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. This section shall not be construed
to apply when the driver of a vehicle is otherwise directed by a police officer
or when an exception is granted to the driver of an authorized emergency
vehicle under §
70.17.
(1995 Code, § 7-5)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.02  SIGNS AS PREREQUISITE TO ENFORCEMENT.
   No provisions of this chapter for which signs are required shall be enforced
against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the alleged violation,
an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently legible to an
ordinarily observant person.
(1995 Code, § 7-6)
§ 71.03  TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND.
   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic control signals (Ch. 76, Sch. I)
exhibiting the words “Go,” “Caution” or “Stop” or exhibiting different colored
lights successively one at a time, or with arrows, the following colors only
shall be used and the terms and light shall indicate and apply to drivers of
vehicles and pedestrians as follows.
   (A)   Green alone or “Go.”
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed straight through or
turn right or left unless a sign at the place prohibits either turn. But
vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left, shall yield the
right-of-way to other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the
intersection or an adjacent crosswalk at the time the signal is exhibited.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across the roadway within
any marked or unmarked crosswalk.
   (B)   Yellow alone or “Caution” when shown following the green or “Go”
signal.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal is thereby warned that the red
or “Stop” signal will be exhibited immediately thereafter and the vehicular
traffic shall not enter or be crossing the intersection when the red or “
      (2)   No pedestrian facing the signal shall enter the roadway until the
green or “Go” is shown.
   (C)   Red alone or “Stop.”
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if none, then before
entering the intersection shall remain standing until green or “Go” is shown
alone; provided, however, that if a sign is not erected prohibiting turns on
red lights, the vehicles may turn right on red lights after coming to a
complete stop. Streets on which right turns on red are not allowed are set out
in Ch. 76, Sch. II hereof.
      (2)   No pedestrian facing the signal shall enter the roadway unless the
green or “Go” is shown alone unless authorized to do so by a pedestrian “Walk”
signal.
   (D)   Red with green arrow.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal may cautiously enter the
intersection only to make the movement indicated by the arrow but shall yield
the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within a crosswalk and to other
traffic lawfully using the intersection.
      (2)   No pedestrian facing the signal shall enter the roadway until the
green or “Go” is shown.
   (E)   Placement of official traffic control signal. In the event an official
traffic control signal is erected and maintained at a place other than in
intersection, the provisions of this section shall be applicable except as to
those provisions which by their nature can have no application. Any stop
required shall be made at a sign or marking on the payment indicating where the
stop shall be made, but in the absence of any sign or marking the stop shall be
made at the signal.
(1995 Code, § 7-7)
§ 71.04  FLASHING SIGNALS.
   Whenever flashing red or yellow signals are used, they shall require
obedience by vehicular traffic as follows.
   (A)   Flashing red (stop signal). When a red lens is illuminated by rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall come to a complete stop before
entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at a limit line when
marked, and the right to proceed shall be subject to the rules applicable after
making a stop at a stop sign. In no event shall the vehicle be driven into the
crosswalk unless and until the entry can be made with safety to other persons
and property at the place.
   (B)   Flashing yellow (caution signal) (Ch. 76, Sch. III). When a yellow
lens is illuminated with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers or operators of
vehicles may proceed through the intersection past the signal only with
caution.
(1995 Code, § 7-8)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.05  DISPLAY OF UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS, SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
   (A)   No person shall place, maintain or display upon or in view of any
highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which purports to be
or is in imitation of or resembles an official traffic control device, sign or
signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic, or which hides
from view or interferes with the effectiveness of any official traffic control
device, sign or signal.
   (B)   No person shall place or maintain nor shall any public authority
permit upon any highway any traffic sign or signal bearing thereon any
commercial advertising.
(1995 Code, § 7-9)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.06  INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICIAL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES, SIGNS OR SIGNALS.
   No person shall without lawful authority attempt to or in fact alter,
deface, injure, knock down or remove any official traffic control device, sign
or signal or any inscription, shield or insignia thereon, or any other part
thereof.
(1995 Code, § 7-10)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.07  TRAFFIC LANES.
   Where traffic lanes have been marked, it shall be unlawful for the operator
of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep the vehicle within the boundaries of
any lane except when lawfully passing another vehicle or preparatory to making
a lawful turning movement.
(1995 Code, § 7-11)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.08  ZONE OF QUIET.
   Whenever authorized signs are placed indicating a zone of quiet, the person
operating a motor vehicle within the zone shall not sound the horn or any other
warning device, except in an emergency.
(1995 Code, § 7-12)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.09  SCHOOL ZONES.
   Whenever authorized signs are placed designating any street or part thereof
as a school zone, drivers of motor vehicles using the street shall exercise the
greatest care for the protection of children.
(1995 Code, § 7-13)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.10  YIELD SIGNS.
   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign erected at these
intersections described in
Ch. 76, Sch. IV, shall and in obedience to the sign slow down and yield the
right-of-way to any pedestrian crossing the roadway on which he or she is
driving and to any vehicle in movement on the main traveled or through highway
or street which is approaching so as to arrive at the intersection at
approximately the same time as the vehicle entering the main traveled or
through street or highway.
(1995 Code, § 7-14)  Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 72:  TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
Speed Regulations
   
72.001   General
   
72.002   Exceptions
Turning Movements
   
72.015   Turning markers
   
72.016   Authority to place restricted turn signs
   
72.017   Obedience to no-turn signs
One-Way Streets and Alleys
   
72.030   Authority to sign one-way streets and alleys
   
72.031   One-way streets and alleys designated
Special Stops Required
   
72.045   Through streets designated
   
72.046   Authority to erect stop signs
   
72.047   Intersections where stop required
   
72.048   Signs to bear the word “Stop”
   
72.049   Vehicles to stop at stop signs
Miscellaneous Driving Rules
   
72.060   No heavy trucks
Cross-reference:
   Utility Billing Policy, see
Ch. 36
SPEED REGULATIONS
§ 72.001  GENERAL.
   Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, it shall be unlawful to
operate a vehicle in excess of 35 mph inside the city corporate limits.
(1995 Code, § 7-15)  Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   General 35 mph speed limit within municipal corporate limits, see G.S. § 20-
141
§ 72.002  EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle in excess of the speeds
listed below upon the streets or portions of streets of the state highway
system listed in the designated traffic schedule hereby made a part hereof:
      (1)   Twenty mph (
Ch. 76, Sch. V);
      (2)   Twenty-five mph (
Ch. 76, Sch. V);
      (3)   Thirty mph (
Ch. 76, Sch. V);
      (4)   Forty mph (
Ch. 76, Sch. V);
      (5)   Forty-five mph (
Ch. 76, Sch. V);
      (6)   Fifty mph (
Ch. 76, Sch. V); and
      (7)   Fifty-five mph (
Ch. 76, Sch. V).
   (B)   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, it shall be unlawful to
operate a vehicle in excess of the speeds listed below upon the streets or
portions of streets not a part of the state highway system, listed in the
designated traffic schedule, hereby made a part hereof:
      (1)   Twenty mph (
Ch. 76, Sch. V);
      (2)   Twenty-five mph (
Ch. 76, Sch. V);
      (3)   Thirty mph (
Ch. 76, Sch. V);
      (4)   Forty mph (
Ch. 76, Sch. V);
      (5)   Forty-five mph (
Ch. 76, Sch. V);
      (6)   Fifty mph (
Ch. 76, Sch. V); and
      (7)   Fifteen mph (
Ch. 76, Sch. V).
(1995 Code, § 7-16)  Penalty, see §
70.99
TURNING MOVEMENTS
§ 72.015  TURNING MARKERS.
   When authorized markers, buttons or other indicators are placed within an
intersection indicating the course to be traveled by turning vehicles, no
driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of the indicators.
(1995 Code, § 7-17)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.016  AUTHORITY TO PLACE RESTRICTED TURN SIGNS.
   (A)   The City Council shall determine those intersections at which drivers
of vehicles shall not make a right, left or U-turn and shall place proper signs
at those intersections.
   (B)   The making of the turns may be prohibited between certain hours of any
day and permitted at other hours, in which event the hours shall be plainly
indicated on the signs or they may be removed when the turns are permitted.
   (C)   Restrictions on turning movements shall be as specified in
Ch. 76, Schs. VI through
VIII, hereby incorporated herein.
(1995 Code, § 7-18)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.017  OBEDIENCE TO NO-TURN SIGNS.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left or U-
turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of any
sign.
(1995 Code, § 7-19)  Penalty, see §
70.99
ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS
§ 72.030  AUTHORITY TO SIGN ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   Whenever any ordinance designates any one-way street or alley, there shall
be signs giving notice thereof, and no regulations shall be effective unless
the signs are in place. Signs indicating the direction of lawful traffic
movement shall be placed at every intersection where movement of traffic in the
opposite direction is prohibited.
(1995 Code, § 7-20)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.031  ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS DESIGNATED.
   Upon those streets and parts of streets and in those alleys described in Ch.
76, Sch. IX, hereby made a part hereof, vehicular traffic shall move only in
the indicated direction when signs indicating the direction of traffic are
erected and maintained at every intersection where movement in the opposite
direction is prohibited.
(1995 Code, § 7-21)  Penalty, see §
70.99
SPECIAL STOPS REQUIRED
§ 72.045  THROUGH STREETS DESIGNATED.
   Those streets and parts of streets described in
Ch. 76, Sch. X, hereby made a part hereof, are declared to be through streets
for the purpose of this subchapter.
(1995 Code, § 7-22)
§ 72.046  AUTHORITY TO ERECT STOP SIGNS.
   Whenever any ordinance designates and describes a through street, there
shall be a stop sign on each and every street intersecting the through street
or intersecting portion thereof described and designated as such by any
ordinance unless traffic at any intersection is controlled at all times by
traffic control signals; provided, however, that at the intersection of two
through streets or at the intersection of a through street and a heavy traffic
street not so designated, stop signs shall be erected at the approaches of
either of the streets.
(1995 Code, § 7-23)
§ 72.047  INTERSECTIONS WHERE STOP REQUIRED.
   The City Council may determine and designate intersections where particular
hazard exists upon other than through streets and may determine whether
vehicles shall stop at one or more entrances to any stop intersection, and
shall erect a stop sign at every place where a stop is required. These places
are specified in
Ch. 76, Sch. XI, hereby made a part hereof.
(1995 Code, § 7-24)
§ 72.048  SIGNS TO BEAR THE WORD “STOP”.
   Every sign erected pursuant to this subchapter shall bear the word “Stop” in
letters not less than eight inches in height and the signs shall at nighttime
be rendered luminous by steady or flashing internal illumination, or by a fixed
floodlight projected on the face of the sign, or by efficient reflecting
elements on the face of the sign. Every stop sign shall be located as near as
practicable at the nearest line of the crosswalk on the side of the
intersection or, if none, at the nearest line of the roadway.
(1995 Code, § 7-25)
§ 72.049  VEHICLES TO STOP AT STOP SIGNS.
   (A)   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic control
signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop intersection described in
Ch. 76, Sch. XI of this code and indicated by a stop sign shall stop before
entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or, in the event
there is no crosswalk, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, or, if none,
then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view
of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway before entering the
intersection.
   (B)   The driver having stopped in obedience to a stop sign at an
intersection shall proceed cautiously yielding the right-of way to all vehicles
not so obliged to stop which are approaching the intersection.
(1995 Code, § 7-26)  Penalty, see §
70.99
MISCELLANEOUS DRIVING RULES
§ 72.060  NO HEAVY TRUCKS.
   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no persons shall operate any
truck or trailer having a gross weight in excess of two and one-half tons, upon
any portion of the streets described in
Ch. 76, Sch. XII, hereby made a part hereof.
(1995 Code, § 7-27)  (Ord. passed 5-17-1982)  Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 73:  PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
Method of Parking
   
73.01   Standing or parking close to curb
   
73.02   Unattended vehicles
   
73.03   Other than parallel parking
Stopping, Standing or Parking Prohibited
   
73.15   Stopping, standing or parking prohibited; no signs required
   
73.16   Parking not to obstruct traffic
   
73.17   Standing or parking for certain purposes prohibited
   
73.18   No stopping, standing or parking near hazardous or congested places
   
73.19   Stopping, standing or parking for primary purpose of advertising,
prohibited
Stopping for Loading or Unloading Only
   
73.30   Loading and unloading zones
   
73.31   Loading zones for freight and goods
   
73.32   Public carrier stops and stands
Stopping, Standing or Parking Restricted or Prohibited on Certain Streets
   
73.45   Application of subchapter
   
73.46   Regulations not exclusive
   
73.47   Parking prohibited at all times on certain streets
   
73.48   Parking time limited on certain streets
   
73.49   Parking signs required
METHOD OF PARKING
§ 73.01  STANDING OR PARKING CLOSE TO CURB.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle in a roadway other than parallel
with the edge of the roadway headed in the direction of lawful traffic movement
and with the right hand wheels of the vehicle within 18 inches of the curb or
edge of the roadway except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
(1995 Code, § 7-38)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.02  UNATTENDED VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave the engine or motor of any
motor vehicles running while it is standing parked upon the streets.
(1995 Code, § 7-39)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.03  OTHER THAN PARALLEL PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful to park a vehicle in a roadway other than parallel,
provided the vehicle is parked between two angled lines making a parking space
as designed and placed by the City Council.
(1995 Code, § 7-40)  Penalty, see §
70.99
STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING PROHIBITED
§ 73.15  STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING PROHIBITED; NO SIGNS REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary
to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with law or the
directions of a police officer or traffic control device, in any of the
following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk;
      (2)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
      (5)   On a crosswalk;
      (6)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
      (7)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign
or traffic control signal located at the side of a roadway;
      (8)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless signs
or markings indicate a different length;
      (9)   Within 30 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and on
the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75 feet
of the entrance (when properly sign-posted);
      (10)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (11)   On a roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street;
      (12)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or
within a highway tunnel;
      (13)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping;
      (14)   On any bridge, viaduct or elevated structure designed for
vehicular and pedestrian travel or traffic; and
      (15)   Within 50 feet of any viaduct, bridge, elevated structure or
underpass.
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any prohibited area or away from a curb any distance as is unlawful.
(1995 Code, § 7-41)  (Ord. passed 5-6-1958)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.16  PARKING NOT TO OBSTRUCT TRAFFIC.
   No person shall park any vehicle upon either Main Street or First Street, in
a manner or under any conditions as to leave available less than 18 feet of the
width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular traffic.
(1995 Code, § 7-42)  (Ord. passed 5-6-1968)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.17  STANDING OR PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stand or park a vehicle upon any
street of the city for the principal purposes of:
   (A)   Displaying for sale;
   (B)   Washing, greasing or repairing such vehicle, except repairs made
necessary by a bona fide emergency;
   (C)   Storing by garages, dealers or other persons when the storing is not
incident to the bona fide use and operation of the automobile or other vehicle;
or
   (D)   Storing of any detached trailer or van when the towing unit has been
disconnected or for the purpose of transferring merchandise or freight from one
vehicle to another.
(1995 Code, § 7-43)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.18  NO STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING NEAR HAZARDOUS OR CONGESTED PLACES.
   When official signs are erected at hazardous or congested places no person
shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in any designated place.
(1995 Code, § 7-44)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.19  STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING FOR PRIMARY PURPOSE OF ADVERTISING,
PROHIBITED.
   No person shall stand, or park, on any street any vehicle for the primary
purpose of advertising.
(1995 Code, § 7-45)  Penalty, see §
70.99
STOPPING FOR LOADING OR UNLOADING ONLY
§ 73.30  LOADING AND UNLOADING ZONES.
   Whenever vehicle loading and unloading zones are designated and described in
this subchapter and when signs are placed, erected or installed, giving notice
thereof, it shall be unlawful for any person to stop, stand or park any vehicle
for any purpose or period of time except in accordance with the requirements of
this subchapter.
(1995 Code, § 7-46)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.31  LOADING ZONES FOR FREIGHT AND GOODS.
   The streets, or parts thereof, described in
Ch. 77, Sch. III, hereby incorporated herein, are hereby designated as freight
loading and unloading zones, and no person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle
therein during the hours of 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. for any purpose other than
the expeditious loading or unloading of freight, equipment or other goods and
then only for a period not to exceed one hour.
(1995 Code, § 7-47)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.32  PUBLIC CARRIER STOPS AND STANDS.
   (A)   Bus stands, taxicab stands and stands for other passenger common
carrier motor vehicles, designated by appropriate signs, shall be as specified
in
Ch. 77, Sch. IV, hereby made a part hereof.
   (B)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle other than a bus in a
bus stop, or other than a taxicab in a taxicab stand when any stop has been
officially designated and appropriately signed, except that the driver of a
passenger vehicle may temporarily stop therein for the purpose of and while
actually engaged in loading or unloading passengers when stopping does not
interfere with any bus or taxicab waiting to enter or about to enter the zone.
(1995 Code, § 7-48)
STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING RESTRICTED
OR PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN STREETS
§ 73.45  APPLICATION OF SUBCHAPTER.
   The provisions of this subchapter prohibiting the standing or parking of a
vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times herein specified or as
indicated on official signs, except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or official traffic control device.
(1995 Code, § 7-49)
§ 73.46  REGULATIONS NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The provisions of this subchapter imposing a time limit on parking shall not
relieve any person from the duty to observe other and more restrictive
provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping, standing or parking of
vehicles in specified places or at specified times.
(1995 Code, § 7-50)
§ 73.47  PARKING PROHIBITED AT ALL TIMES ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle
at any time, upon any of the streets described in
Ch. 77, Sch. I, hereby made a part hereof.
(1995 Code, § 7-51)
§ 73.48  PARKING TIME LIMITED ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   When signs are erected in each block giving notice thereof, no person shall
park a vehicle for longer than the times specified within the district or upon
any of the streets described in
Ch. 77, Sch. II, hereby made a part hereof.
(1995 Code, § 7-52)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.49  PARKING SIGNS REQUIRED.
   Whenever by this or any other subchapter any parking time limit is imposed
or parking is prohibited in designated streets there shall be appropriate signs
giving notice thereof and no regulations shall be effective unless the signs
are erected and in place at the time of any alleged offense.
(1995 Code, § 7-53)
CHAPTER 74:  RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Regulations for Bicycles
   
74.01   Effect of regulations
   
74.02   Traffic laws apply to persons riding bicycles
   
74.03   Obedience to traffic control devices
   
74.04   Riding on bicycles
   
74.05   Riding on roadways and bicycles paths
   
74.06   Speed
   
74.07   Carrying articles
   
74.08   Riding on sidewalks
   
74.09   Yielding to pedestrians
   
74.10   Lamps and reflectors
Operation of Golf Carts and Utility Vehicles on Public Streets and Roads
   
74.25   Authority
   
74.26   Purpose
   
74.27   Definitions
   
74.28   Policy
   
74.29   Registration and inspection
   
74.30   General provisions
 
   
74.99   Penalty
REGULATIONS FOR BICYCLES
§ 74.01  EFFECT OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The parent of any child and the guardian of any ward shall not
authorize or knowingly permit any child or ward to violate any of the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   These regulations applicable to bicycles shall apply whenever a
bicycle is operated upon any street or upon any public path set aside for the
exclusive use of bicycles, subject to those exceptions stated herein.
(1995 Code, § 7-28)  Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.02  TRAFFIC LAWS APPLY TO PERSONS RIDING BICYCLES.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the
rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle by the laws of this state declaring rules of the road applicable to the
vehicles or by this title applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except as to
special regulations in this subchapter and except as to those provisions of
laws and ordinances which by their nature can have no application.
(1995 Code, § 7-29)  Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.03  OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   Any person operating a bicycle shall obey the instructions of official
traffic control signals, signs and other control devices applicable to
vehicles, unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   (B)   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left
or U-turn is permitted, no person operating a bicycle shall disobey the
direction of any sign, except where the person dismounts from the bicycle to
make any turn, in which event the person shall then obey the regulations
applicable to pedestrians.
(1995 Code, § 7-30)  (Ord. passed 9-30-1957)  Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.04  RIDING ON BICYCLES.
   (A)   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than astride a
permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
   (B)   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped.
(1995 Code, § 7-31)  Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.05  RIDING ON ROADWAYS AND BICYCLES PATHS.
   (A)   Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall ride as near to
the right hand side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when
passing a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
   (B)   Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than two
abreast except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles.
   (C)   Whenever a usable path for bicycles has been provided adjacent to a
roadway, bicycle riders shall use the path and shall not use the roadway.
(1995 Code, § 7-32)  Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.06  SPEED.
   No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is reasonable and
prudent under the conditions then existing.
(1995 Code, § 7-33)  Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.07  CARRYING ARTICLES.
   No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle or article
which prevents the rider from keeping at least one hand upon the handlebars.
(1995 Code, § 7-34)  Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.08  RIDING ON SIDEWALKS.
   No person shall ride a bicycle upon a sidewalk, or other path or way
designed or used primarily for pedestrian travel.
(1995 Code, § 7-35)  (Ord. passed 9-30-1957)  Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.09  YIELDING TO PEDESTRIANS.
   Where traffic control signals are not in place or in operation, the rider of
a bicycle shall yield the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping if need be to
so yield, to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within any marked crosswalk or
within any unmarked crosswalk at an intersection.
(1995 Code, § 7-36)  (Ord. passed 9-3-1957)  Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.10  LAMPS AND REFLECTORS.
   Every bicycle, when operated at night, shall be equipped with a lighted lamp
on the front thereof, visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a
distance of at least 300 feet in front of such bicycle, and shall also be
equipped with a reflex mirror, reflector or lamp on the rear, exhibiting a red
light
visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of at least 200
feet to the rear of such bicycle.
(1995 Code, § 7-37)  Penalty, see §
74.99
OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS AND UTILITY VEHICLES
ON PUBLIC STREETS AND ROADS
§ 74.25  AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Pursuant to G.S. § 160A-300.6, a city may, by ordinance, regulate the
operation of golf carts, as defined in G.S. § 20-4.01(12a), on any public
street, road or highway where the speed limit is 35 mph or less within its
municipal limits or on any property owned or leased by the city. The statute
further provides that, by ordinance, a city may require the registration of
golf carts, charge a fee for the registration, specify who is authorized to
operate golf carts, and specify the required equipment, load limits, and the
hours and methods of operation of golf carts, provided however that no person
less than 16 years of age may operate a golf cart on a public street, road or
highway.
   (B)   Pursuant to S.L. 2013-172, the city is authorized, by ordinance, to
regulate the operation of utility vehicles on any public street or road within
the city, and may, by ordinance require the registration of utility vehicles,
specify the persons authorized to operate utility vehicles, and specify the
required equipment, load limits, and the hours and methods of operation of the
utility vehicles.
(Ord. passed 8-26-2013)
§ 74.26  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide regulations for the operation
of golf carts and utility vehicles on public streets in the city and to provide
for the registration of golf carts and utility vehicles to be operated on
public streets in the city.
(Ord. passed 8-26-2013)
§ 74.27  DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this subchapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning.
   GOLF CART. A vehicle designed and manufactured for operation on a golf
course for sporting or recreational purposes and that is not capable of
exceeding speeds of 20 mph.
   OPERATOR. A person in actual physical control of a golf cart or utility
vehicle which is in motion or which has the engine running. The terms OPERATOR
and DRIVER and their cognates are synonymous.
   UTILITY VEHICLE. A vehicle designed and manufactured for general
maintenance, security, recreational and landscaping purposes, but does not
include vehicles designed and used primarily for the transportation of persons
or property on a street or highway.
(Ord. passed 8-26-2013)
§ 74.28  POLICY.
   This subchapter is adopted to address the interest of public safety. Golf
carts and utility vehicles are not designed or manufactured to be used on the
public streets and the city in no way advocates or endorses their operation on
public streets or roads. The city, by regulating such operations, is merely
trying to address potential safety issues, and adoption of this subchapter is
not to be relied upon as a determination that operation on public streets is
safe or advisable if done in accordance with the subchapter. All persons who
operate or ride upon golf carts on public streets or roads do so at their own
risk and peril, and must be observant of, and attentive to the safety of
themselves and others, including their passengers, other motorists, bicyclists
and pedestrians. The city has no liability and the city assumes no liability,
for permitting golf carts and utility vehicles to be operated on the designated
streets and neighborhoods under the special legislation granted by the state’s
legislature. Any person who operates a golf cart or utility vehicle is
responsible for procuring liability insurance sufficient to cover the risk
involved in using a golf cart or utility vehicle on the public streets and
roads.
(Ord. passed 8-26-2013)
§ 74.29  REGISTRATION AND INSPECTION.
   All golf carts and utility vehicles must be registered with, and inspected
by the City Police Department before traveling on the public streets and roads.
Registrations must be renewed and inspections performed on an annual basis.
Registrations and inspections must be scheduled with the Police Department in
advance. The cost of registration and inspections is $25 per year. Inspection
stickers provided at the time of registration and inspection must be displayed
on the golf cart or utility vehicle at all times. Proof of liability insurance
with a minimum coverage amount of $100,000 must be provided at the time of
registration.
(Ord. passed 8-26-2013)  Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.30  GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   A golf cart or utility vehicle may only be operated on public streets and
roads within the city under the following conditions and circumstances.
   (A)   Golf carts and utility vehicles shall not be operated on any street or
road with a posted speed limit in excess of 35 mph, or any street, road or
portion of a street or road for which the operation of a golf cart or utility
vehicle has been specifically prohibited. (See Ch. 76, Sch. XIII.)
   (B)   No person shall operate a golf cart or utility vehicle unless that
person is licensed by their state of legal residence to operate a motor vehicle
and then only in accordance with the terms and provisions of that license. No
person under the age of 16 shall operate a golf cart or utility vehicle unless
they possess a valid learner’s permit issued by the state and are accompanied
by a licensed driver as required by the learner’s permit.
   (C)   The maximum occupancy of a golf cart or utility vehicle shall be one
person per designated seat. No occupants of a golf cart or utility vehicle
shall stand at any time that the golf cart or utility vehicle is in motion.
   (D)   No golf cart or utility vehicle shall be operated at a speed greater
than reasonable or prudent for the existing conditions, and in no instance at a
speed greater than 20 mph.
   (E)   No golf cart or utility vehicle shall be operated in a careless or
reckless manner.
   (F)   Golf carts and utility vehicles must be operated to the extreme right
of the street and must yield to all vehicular and pedestrian traffic.
   (G)   Golf carts and utility vehicles shall only be operated during daylight
hours from sunup to sundown.
   (H)   Golf carts and utility vehicles shall be operated in accordance with
all applicable state and local laws and ordinances, including all laws,
regulations and ordinances pertaining to the possession and use of alcoholic
beverages.
   (I)   All golf carts and utility vehicles operating on public streets and
roads shall have the basic safety equipment supplied by the manufacturer and
the original vehicle identification number. No golf cart or utility vehicle
shall operate on public streets or roads without lights and reflectors visible
under normal conditions from a distance of at least 300 feet in front of such
golf cart or utility vehicle, and two red lamps on the rear, exhibiting a red
light visible under normal conditions from a distance of at least 200 feet to
the rear or such golf cart or utility vehicle.
   (J)   The Chief of Police or his or her designee may prohibit the operation
of golf carts on any street or road if it is determined that the prohibition is
necessary or advisable to ensure the public health, safety and welfare.
(Ord. passed 8-26-2013)  Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
70.99.
   (B)   In addition to all other penalties authorized by state law and local
ordinances, violation of §§
74.25 through
74.30 may result in the revocation of the privilege of operating the golf cart
or utility vehicle on public street and roads.
(Ord. passed 8-26-2013)
CHAPTER 75:  RAILROAD CROSSINGS
Section
   
75.01   Purpose; finding
   
75.02   Safe crossing required
   
75.03   Minimum requirements for crossings
 
   
75.99   Penalty
§ 75.01  PURPOSE; FINDING.
   (A)   The purpose and intent of this chapter is to maintain rail crossings,
bridges and viaducts in reasonably safe condition for travel and to that end
shall be liberally construed.
   (B)   The City Council determines that bridges, dangerous pits, embankments,
dangerous walls and like perilous places and things very near and adjoining the
streets, sidewalks and other public ways shall be repaired, altered and
improved so as to protect, and provide for, the safety of the citizens of the
city.
(1995 Code, § 4-12)  (Ord. passed 3-4-1958)
§ 75.02  SAFE CROSSING REQUIRED.
   Every railroad company operating traction engines to propel and convey such
engines and cars used in conjunction therewith on permanent rails over a
readily discernable roadbed shall construct, or cause to be constructed, at its
own expense crossings, bridges or viaducts of such structure and type as will
best promote the public safety in the use of public streets, sidewalks and
ways.
(1995 Code, § 4-13)  (Ord. passed 3-4-1958)  Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.03  MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS FOR CROSSINGS.
   The nature of crossings shall be such as shall best serve the public safety,
and every crossing shall meet the following minimum requirements.
   (A)   A crossing, bridge or viaduct shall not be less than 20 feet in width,
except that a crosswalk designed exclusively for use by pedestrians shall be
not less than eight feet in width; measurement shall be taken from either edge
of the travel lanes of said crossing, bridge or viaduct.
   (B)   Each such crossing shall be on level with the highest point of the
rails and such level portion shall extend back from the edge of the crossties
at least 20 feet.
   (C)   All crossings, viaducts and bridges shall be constructed at right
angles to the railroad, except that upon good cause shown, the angle of the
approach may be varied but in no event shall the most acute angle of
intersection be less than 45 degrees.
   (D)   The approaches to such crossings, bridges or viaducts shall not exceed
a grade of 30%, and shall not begin closer than 25 feet from the nearest edge
of the crossties and ballast of the railroad.
(1995 Code, § 4-14)  (Ord. passed 3-4-1958)  Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.99  PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of this chapter, or
in any manner erecting, maintaining or knowingly permitting a railroad crossing
to be of less than the minimum standards herein imposed, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(1995 Code, § 4-15)  (Ord. passed 3-4-1958)
CHAPTER 76:  TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Traffic control signals
      
II.   Right turn on red
      
III.   Flashing yellow caution signals
      
IV.   Yield right-of-way signs
      
V.   Speed limits
      
VI.   No right turns
      
VII.   No left turns
      
VIII.   No U-turns
      
IX.   One-way streets
      
X.   Through streets
      
XI.   Stop intersections (before entering)
      
XII.   Weight restrictions
      
XIII.   Golf carts and utility vehicles use prohibited
SCHEDULE I.  TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Traffic control signals shall be installed at the following intersections
(see §
71.03):
   (A)   First Street and Main Street;
   (B)   Main Street and McAdenville Road; and
   (C)   South Main Street and Wilkinson Boulevard.
(Ch. 4, App. I, § 101)  Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II.  RIGHT TURN ON RED.
   Vehicles may not turn right on red lights after coming to a complete stop on
the following streets (see §
71.03(C)(1)):
 
On Street        Direction At Street
McAdenville Road West      North Main Street
 
(Ch. 4, App. I, § 102)  Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE III.  FLASHING YELLOW CAUTION SIGNALS.
   Flashing yellow caution signal lights shall be installed at the following
locations (see §
71.04):
   [Reserved]
(Ch. 4, App. I, § 103)  Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE IV.  YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY SIGNS.
   Yield right-of-way signs shall be posted at the following locations (see §
71.10):
 
Yield Street                Approach Main Street
Oakland Street              East     Ash Street
Carolina Avenue             West     Martha Avenue
Lineberger Street Extension West     Lineberger Street
Stowe Street                South    Love Street
 
(Ch. 4, App. I, § 104)  Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE V.  SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   Twenty mph speed limit on the following state highway system streets
(see §
72.002(A)(1):
 
First Street (NC7) from Main Street (NC7) to Church Street
First Street (SR2213) from Grove Street (SR2213) to Main Street (NC7)
Main Street (NC7) from First Street (NC7)  to Second Street
 
(Ch. 4, App. I, § 105)
   (B)   Twenty-five mph speed limit on the following state highway system
streets (see §
72.002(A)(2)).
 
SR 2477 from west corporate limit, a point 0.12 mile east of SR 2329 northward
to US 29-74
 
(Ch. 4, App. I, § 106)
   (C)   Thirty mph speed limit on the following state highway system streets
(see §
72.002(A)(3)):
   [Reserved]
(Ch. 4, App. I, § 107)
   (D)   Forty mph speed limit on the following state highway system streets
(see §
72.002(A)(4)):
   [Reserved]
(Ch. 4, App. I, § 108)
   (E)   Forty-five mph speed limit on the following state highway system
streets (see §
72.002(A)(5)):
   [Reserved]
(Ch. 4, App. I, § 109)
   (F)   Fifty mph speed limit on the following state highway system streets
(see §
72.002(A)(6):
 
US 29-74 from a point 0.08 mile west of SR 2329, the western corporate limit of
the city, eastward to a point 0.13 mile east of SR 2481, the eastern corporate
limit of the city
 
(Ch. 4, App. I, § 110)
   (G)   Fifty-five mph speed limit on the following state highway system
streets (see §
72.002(A)(7):
   [Reserved]
(Ch. 4, App. I, § 111)
   (H)   Twenty mph speed limit on the following city streets (see §
72.002(B)(1):
Hand Circle (Business District)
Hemlock Lane
High Street
Kensworthy Avenue
North Church Street
Park Circle
Potts Street
Reid Street
 
(Ch. 4, App. I, § 112)
   (I)   Twenty-five mph speed limit on the following city streets (see §
72.002(B)(2)):
Ash Street
Birch Street
Black Street
Bridge Street
Carolina Avenue
Caroline Street
Clay Street
Cobb Street
Elm Street
Ethelyn Avenue
Gann Street from Westover Street to Robinson Street
Geer Street
Gittens Street
Kenworthy Street
Lakeview Drive
Lineberger Street
Love Street
Lowell Avenue
Martha Avenue
McAdenville Avenue
McLean Street from Westover Street to Robinson Street
Mill Street
Oak Street
Perkins Street
Pine Street
Poplar Street
Power Drive (SR2380)
Rankin Street
Robinson Street from Groves Street to US 29-74
Second Street
Stowe Drive
Stowe Street
Walker Drive
Walnut Street
Westover Street from Robinson Street to US 29-74
White Oak Drive
 
(Ch. 4, App. I, § 113)
   (J)   Thirty mph speed limit on the following town streets (see §
72.002(B)(3)):
   [Reserved]
(Ch. 4, App. I, § 114)
   (K)   Forty mph speed limit on the following city streets (see §
72.002(B)(4):
   [Reserved]
(Ch. 4, App. I, § 115)
   (L)   Forty-five mph speed limit on the following city streets (see §
72.002(B)(5):
   [Reserved]
(Ch. 4, App. I, § 116)
   (M)   Fifty mph speed limit on the following city streets (see §
72.002(B)(6)):
   [Reserved]
(Ch. 4, App. I, § 117)
   (N)   Fifteen mph speed limit on the following city streets (see §
72.002(B)(7)):
Cloninger Court
Indian Walk (formerly Gist Street)
Oakland Street from Second Street to Clay Street
Odom Drive (closed)
Owens Court
Peachtree Street
Roseboro Court
Second Street from Poplar Street to Ash Street
Seigle Street
Walker Street
Wilson Street
 
(Ch. 4, App. I, § 118)
   (O)   Thirty-five mph speed limit on the following city streets.
 
Church Street (SR2339) from Henderson Street (SR2339) to the southern corporate
limit, approximately 0.1 mile west of Hoffman Street
Henderson Street (SR2339) from Church Street (SR2339) to Main Street (SR2329)
Main Street (SR2339) from Henderson Street (SR2339) to First Street (NC7)
Main Street (SR2201) from Third Street (NC7) to the northern corporate limit,
approximately 0.05 mile north of Geer Street
Main Street (NC7) from Third Street (NC7) to Second Street
Grove Street (SR2213) from First Street (SR2213) to the southern corporate
limit, approximately 0.3 mile south of Robinson Avenue
Mill Street (SR2340) from First Street (SR2213) to McAdenville Road (NC7)
McAdenville Road (NC7) from Mill Street (SR2340) to the eastern corporate
limit, approximately 0.4 mile east of Stow Drive
Third Street (NC7) from Mill Street (SR2340) to Main Street (NC7)
 
(Ord. passed 6-25-1984; Ord. passed 12-12-1989; Ord. passed 12-11-1990; Ord.
passed 11-12-1991; Ord. passed 6-16-1992; Ord. passed 2-16-1993; Ord. passed 4-
16-1996; Ord. passed 11-10-2008)  Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE VI.  NO RIGHT TURNS.
   No right turns at the following intersections (see §§
72.016 and
72.017):
   [Reserved]
(Ch. 4, App. I, § 119)  Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE VII.  NO LEFT TURNS.
   No left turns at the following locations (see §§
72.016 and
72.017):
   [Reserved]
(Ch. 4, App. I, § 120)  Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE VIII.  NO U-TURNS.
   No U-turns at the following locations (see §§
72.016 and
72.017):
   [Reserved]
(Ch. 4, App. I, § 121)  Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE IX.  ONE-WAY STREETS.
    See §
72.031.
 
Street            Direction From                 To
Lineberger Street East      Lineberger Extension Unnamed street
Lineberger Street West      Saxony               Lineberger Extension
 
(Ch. 4, App. I, § 122)  (Ord. passed 6-12-1990)  Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE X.  THROUGH STREETS.
   See §
72.045.
Stop Street Approach Through Street
Stop Street             Approach            Through Street
East First Street       East                East Mill Street and Groves Street
East First Street       East and West       Oak Street
West Second Street      East and West       Poplar Street
West Second Street      East                Ash Street
West Second Street      West                North Main Street
East Second Street      East and West       Mill Street
East Second Street      West                Bridge Street
West Third Street       East                Hemlock Street
Third Street            East and West       North Main Street
East Third Street       East                Bridge Street
East Third Street       West                Oak Street
Ash Street              North               West First Street
Avondale Road           East                Ford Drive
“B” Street          North               West First Street
Birch Street            North               West First Street
Black Street            North               Lineberger Street
Branch Street           East                South Main Street
Bridge Street           South               McAdenville Road
Bridge Street           North and South     East First Street
Bridge Street           North               Groves Street
Carolina Avenue         East                North Main Street
Carolina Avenue         West                Stowe Drive
Caroline Street         East                Stowe Drive
Caroline Street         West                Power Drive
Costner Avenue          East                Power Drive
Court Street            North               Rogosin Boulevard
Cobb Street             South               South Church Street
North Church Street     North               West First Street
North Church Street     North and South     Second Street
North Church Street     South               Third Street
South Church Street     West                South Main Street
North Clay Street       North               West First Street
South Clay Street       South               West First Street
Crausby Street          West                South Main Street
Ethelyn Avenue          South               Phillips Street
East Drive              East                Lineberger Street
North Elm Street        North               Rogosin Boulevard
South Elm Street        South               Rogosin Boulevard
Fair Street             South               Wilkinson Boulevard
Ford Street             South               Tennant Drive
Ford Drive Extension    East                Ford Drive
Gamehill Street         East                Poplar Street
Gann Street             West                Westover Street
Gann Street             East                Robinson Street
Geer Street             West                North Main Street
Gist Street             South               Reid Street
Groves Street           South               East First Street
Groves Street           North               Wilkinson Blvd
Gittens Street          South               Martha Avenue
Gittens Street          North               Carolina Avenue
Hagley Street           North               Robinson Street
High Street             North               McAdenville Road
High Street             South               Second Street
High Street             North and South     First Street
High Street             North               Groves T.
Hand Circle             South                
Hand Circle             (2 locations)       South Church Street
Huffman Street          East                South Church Street
Hemlock Lane            North and South     Second Street
Hemlock Lane            North               West First Street
Henderson Street        West                South Main Street
Henderson Street        East                South Church Street
Kenworthy Avenue        East                Cobb Street
Kenworthy Avenue        East                South Main Street
Lakeview Drive          West                Phillips Street
Lineberger Road         South and North     Southern R.R.
Lineberger Road         South               West First Street
Lineberger Road         South (2 locations) West First Street
Lineberger Street       West                West First Street
                        West and East       North Main Street
Love Street             East                North Main Street
Ledwell Street          East                Fair Street
Ledwell Street          West                Westover Street
Lowell Avenue           West                Power Drive
Lowell Avenue           East                Stowe Drive
Lynn Street             West                South Church Street
Martha Avenue           East                North Main Street
McAdenville Avenue      East                Stowe Drive
McAdenville Avenue      West                Power Drive
McAdenville Avenue      West                Dogwood Street
McArver Street          South               Walker Drive
McLain Street           West                Westover Street
McLain Street           East                Robinson Street
Mill Street             North and South     McAdenville Road
Mill Street             South               Carolina Avenue
Moose Street            South               Wilkinson Boulevard
Neeley Street           South               Huffman Street
Oak Street              North               Groves Street
Oak Street              South               McAdenville Road
Oakland Drive           North               West First Street
Oakland Drive           North and South     Seaboard R.R.
Oakland Street          East                Clay Street
Oakland Street          East and West       Birch Street
Oakland Street          West                Ash Street
Oakland Street          North               Second Street
Park Circle             (2 locations)        
Park Circle             West                North Main Street
Peachtree Street        North               West First Street
Peerless Lane           East                Poplar Street
Peerless Lane           West                Ash Street
Perkins Street          West                Lakeview Drive
Phillips Street         South               West First Street
Phillips Street         North               South Church Street
North Pine Street       North               Rogosin Boulevard
South Pine Street       South               Rogosin Boulevard
Poplar Street           North               West First Street
Potts Street            West                Birch Street
Potts Street            East                Clay Street
Power Drive             North               McAdenville Road
Power Drive             North and South     Seaboard R.R.
Railroad Street         East                Lineberger Road
Railroad Street         East and West       South Clay Street
Railroad Street         East and West       Phillips Street
North Rogosin Boulevard East                North Main Street
South Rogosin Boulevard West                North Main Street
Reid Circle             North               Lakeview Drive
Reid Street             East                South Main Street
Reid Street             West                Branch Street
Rhyne Street            North               West First Street
Rhyne Street            North and South     Seaboard R.R.
Robins Street           West                South Main Street
Robinson Street         North               Wilkinson Boulevard
Robinson Street         East and West       Southern R.R.
Robinson Street         West                Groves Street
Seigle Street           South               Reid Street
Short Street            South               West First Street
Stowe Street            South               Love Street
Stowe Street            North               Lineberger Street
Stowe Drive             North               McAdenville Road
Taylor Avenue           West                Neeley Street
Tennant Drive           South               McAdenville Road
Teacherage Street       South               North First Street
Walker Drive            West                South Church Street
Walker Street           East                Ethelyn Avenue
White Oak Drive         South               Walker Drive
Walnut Street           South               Rogosin Boulevard
Walker Street           East                Cobb Street
Westover Street         North               Wilkinson Boulevard
Westover Street         South               Robinson Street
Wilson Street           South               Reid Street
 
(Ch. 4, App. I, § 123)  Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE XI.  STOP INTERSECTIONS (BEFORE ENTERING).
   Intersections at which “stop” is required before entering (see §§
72.047 and
72.049):
   [Reserved]
(Ch. 4, App. I, § 124)  Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE XII.  WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS.
   There shall be no heavy trucks or trailers allowed on the following streets
or portions of streets (see §
72.060):
On Street From To
On Street               From              To
Ash Street              Peerless Lane     Oakland Street
Birch Street            Potts Street      Deadend
Birch Street            At the bridge across Seaboard Coastline Railroad right-
                        of-way
Bridge Street           Groves Street     McAdenville Road
North Church Street     First Street      Third Street
South Church Street     Phillips Street   Wilkinson Boulevard
North Clay Street       First Street      Deadend
Costner Avenue          Power Drive       Dogwood Street
Hemlock Street          First Street      Third Street
Lowell Avenue           Power Drive       Dogwood Street
McAdenville Avenue      Power Drive       Dogwood Street
Oak Street              Groves Street     McAdenville Road
Poplar Street           First Street      Second Street
Potts Street            Ash Street        North Clay Street
Rankin Street           Entire
North Rogosin Boulevard Entire
South Rogosin Boulevard Entire
Second Street           North Main Street Poplar Street
Third Street            North Main Street Hemlock Street
 
(Ch. 4, App. I, § 131)  (Ord. passed 3-15-1982; Ord. passed 5-10-1982; Ord.
passed 6-16-1992)  Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE XIII.  GOLF CARTS AND UTILITY VEHICLES USE PROHIBITED.
   The operation of golf carts and utility vehicles are strictly prohibited on
the following streets and roads, or portions thereof, at all times:
   (A)   East Franklin Boulevard (all);
   (B)   Wilkinson Boulevard (all); and
   (C)   Interstate 85 (all).
(Ord. passed 8-26-2013)  Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 77:  PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   No parking
      
II.   Limited parking
      
III.   Freight loading zones
      
IV.   Public carrier loading and unloading zones
      
V.   Truck parking
SCHEDULE I.  NO PARKING.
   There shall be no parking allowed on the following streets or portions of
streets (see § 73.47):
On Street Side(s) From To
On Street           Side(s) From              To
Birch Street        Both    West First Street Potts Street
South Church Street East                      
South Church Street West    Phillips Street   Henderson
West First Street   Both    Main              North Church Street
Groves Street       Beside Post Office
Kenworthy Avenue    North   South Main        Cobb Street
Martha Avenue       Both    North Main        Glittens Street
North Main Street   Both    Second Street     Seaboard R.R.
South Main Street   Both                      
McAdenville Avenue  Both    Stowe Drive       Dogwood Street
Oakland Street      Both    Ashe Street       Clay Street
Phillips Street     Both                      
Power Drive         Both                      
Second Street       Both    Poplar            Ash
Stowe Drive         Both    Carolina Avenue   Caroline Street
 
(Ch. 4, App. I, § 127)  (Ord. passed 2-9-1987; Ord. passed 6-8-1987; Ord passed
6-21-1987; Ord. passed 10-10-1989; Ord. passed 6-16-1992)  Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II.  LIMITED PARKING.
   (A)   Parking limited to two hours between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00
p.m. on any day except Sundays and public holidays within the district or upon
any of the streets as follows (see §
73.48):
   [Reserved]
(Ch. 4, App. I, § 128)
   (B)   Parking limited to one hour between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 6:30
p.m. on any day except Sundays and public holidays within the district upon any
of the streets as follows (see §
73.48):
   [Reserved]
(Ch. 4, App. I, § 129)
   (C)   Parking limited to ten minutes (see §
73.48):
   [Reserved]
(Ch. 4, App. I, § 130)
   (D)   Parking or idling of trucks is hereby prohibited on a portion of
Lineberger Street between the hours of 8:30 p.m. and 8:30 a.m. The portion of
Lineberger Street subject to this proposal is an approximate 385 foot section
extending from the intersection of Lineberger Street and Power Drive in a
southwesterly direction for 385 feet to the rear entrance of the Lowell Bonded
Warehouse.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2015)  Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE III.  FREIGHT LOADING ZONES.
   (A)   See §
73.31.
   (B)   Beginning at a point on an existing concrete curb marking the easterly
margin of North Main Street, said beginning point being 62 feet and ten inches
in a northeasterly direction from the ending of said concrete curb at the
intersection of North Main Street and First Street; thence continuing along the
edge of the concrete curb in a northeasterly direction along the eastern edge
of North Main Street a distance of 14 feet; thence turning a 90 degree angle
and running in a northwesterly direction out into North Main Street a distance
of 15 feet; thence turning at a 90 degree angle and running a southwesterly
direction along a line perpendicular to the curb of North Main Street a
distance of 14 feet; thence turning at a 90 degree angle and running in a
southwesterly direction a distance of 15 feet back to the point of beginning,
said freight loading zone having an area of ground coverage consisting of 210
square feet.
(Ch. 4, App. I, § 125)  (Ord. passed 1-25-1982)  Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE IV.  PUBLIC CARRIER LOADING AND UNLOADING ZONES.
   The following streets or portions thereof, are designated as public carrier
loading and unloading zones (see §
73.32):
   [Reserved]
(Ch. 4, App. I, § 126)  Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE V.  TRUCK PARKING.
   (A)   The parking or idling of trucks is hereby prohibited on the following
streets or public rights-of-way.
      (1)   A portion of Lineberger Street between the hours of 8:30 p.m. and
8:30 a.m.  The portion of Lineberger Street subject to this proposal is an
approximate 385-foot section extending from the intersection of Lineberger
Street and Power Drive in a southwesterly direction for 385 feet to the rear
entrance of Lowell Bonded Warehouse.
   (B)   For the purposes of this Schedule the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      TRUCK.  Any of several types of motor vehicle, differing in load-carrying
capacity, body type and wheel arrangement, designed primarily for the
transportation of goods and having a load carrying capacity of two and one-half
tons or greater.
(Ord. passed 5-11-2015)
TITLE IX:  GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   ABANDONED, NUISANCE AND JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES
      
92.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
93.   PUBLIC NUISANCES
      
94.   LITTER
      
95.   PARK AND RECREATION FACILITIES
      
96.   PARADES AND DEMONSTRATIONS
CHAPTER 90:  ANIMALS
Section
   
90.01   County ordinance adopted
   
90.02   Integration with ordinance regulating dogs and other animals in Gaston
County
   
90.03   Responsibilities of owner
   
90.04   Determination of stray animal
   
90.05   Authority and responsibility of animal control officers
   
90.06   Keeping of swine prohibited
   
90.07   Bird sanctuary established
   
90.08   Keeping of farm animals
   
90.09   Permitted locations of farm animals and associated structures
§ 90.01  COUNTY ORDINANCE ADOPTED.
   The city hereby adopts the provisions of the Gaston County ordinance
regulating dogs and other animals in the county, as it was adopted by the Board
of County Commissioners in June of 1981, or as it may be amended, as an
ordinance of the city, and authorizes the county animal shelter and its
superintendent and animal control officers to enforce the provisions of that
ordinance within the corporate limits of the city.
(1995 Code, § 8-6)  (Ord. passed 8-17-1981)
§ 90.02  INTEGRATION WITH ORDINANCE REGULATING DOGS AND OTHER ANIMALS IN GASTON
COUNTY.
   All definitions and provisions of the ordinance regulating dogs and other
animals in the county, as adopted by the Board of County Commissioners in June
of 1981, or as may be amended, shall apply in the city except where provisions
of this chapter are inconsistent with the provisions of the ordinance
regulating dogs and other animals in the county and the provisions of this
chapter are more specific.
(1995 Code, § 8-7)  (Ord. passed 8-17-1981)
§ 90.03  RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNER.
   Every person owning or having possession, charge, care, custody or control
of any dog shall keep such dog exclusively upon his or her own premises, or on
the private premises of another with prior consent only provided, however, that
a dog may leave such premises only if:
   (A)   A dog is under restraint by virtue of being in the custody of a
competent person and held by a leash, chain or other device of sufficient
strength to maintain control by that person;
   (B)   A dog is under direct control by virtue of being in the custody of a
competent person and sufficiently near that person to hear that person’s
commands and is obedient to those commands;
   (C)   A dog is under direct control by virtue of being held within a secure
enclosure as defined in the ordinance regulating dogs and animals in the
county; or
   (D)   A dog is engaged in organized hunting activities on private property
with the consent of the owner of that property, providing that the dog is
obedient to the command to its owner.
(1995 Code, § 8-8)  (Ord. passed 8-17-1981)
§ 90.04  DETERMINATION OF STRAY ANIMAL.
   A dog belonging to an identifiable owner or other person not complying with
the provisions of §
90.03 shall be deemed to be at large and a stray animal. A dog that roams at
large with no apparent ownership shall also be deemed to be at large and a
stray animal.
(1995 Code, § 8-9)  (Ord. passed 8-17-1981)
§ 90.05  AUTHORITY AND RESPONSIBILITY OF ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICERS.
   The Gaston County animal shelter and its superintendent and animal control
officers are hereby authorized to capture and impound and, in certain cases,
tranquilize or humanely destroy, stray animals under §§
90.01,
90.02,
90.03 and
90.04, in accordance with Section V, VI and VII and any other applicable
sections of the county ordinance regulating dogs and other animals in the
county.
(1995 Code, § 8-10)  (Ord. passed 8-17-1981)
§ 90.06  KEEPING OF SWINE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to pen, harbor or otherwise maintain any pig,
shoat, hog or swine of any kind within the corporate limits of the city.
   (B)   Any person who owns, leases, occupies or exercises any control over
any lot, lots, tracts and/or parcels of land or any premises within the
corporate limits of the city, who shall on said premises keep, harbor, pen or
permit to run at large, any pig, shoat, hog or swine shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
   (C)   This section shall be liberally construed as a public health measure
and a prohibition of the keeping of swine within the corporate limits of the
city, the same being detrimental to the health, comfort and welfare of the
citizens of the city, and the keeping of swine within the city is hereby found
to be and declared a common public nuisance and shall be forthwith abated and
the continuance thereof prohibited as by law provided.
(1995 Code, § 8-11)  (Ord. passed 10-5-1959)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.07  BIRD SANCTUARY ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   There is hereby created and established a bird sanctuary within the
territorial limits of the city; provided, that this division (A) does not apply
to birds classed as predatory by the Wildlife Resources Commission or by the
General Statutes of the state, nor does the protection of this section extend
to pigeons, crows, starlings or English sparrows.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to hunt, kill or trap any birds
within the corporate limits of the city, other than pigeons, crows, starlings
and English sparrows.
(1995 Code, § 8-12)  (Ord. passed 9-30-1957)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.08  KEEPING OF FARM ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep any horse, mule, donkey,
hog, cow, sheep, goat, duck, chicken, turkey or similar domesticated fowl or
animals except in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The provisions of this section and §
90.09 shall not be applicable to bona fide farms as defined in Chapter 2 of the
city’s Unified Development Ordinance.
(Ord. passed 7- -2002)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.09  PERMITTED LOCATIONS OF FARM ANIMALS AND ASSOCIATED STRUCTURES.
   Any horse, mule, donkey, cow, sheep, goat, duck, chicken, turkey or similar
domesticated fowl or animals shall be kept on residentially zoned property
only, as determined by the official zoning map of the city. No such animal
shall be kept on any lot of less than two acres in area. Furthermore, up to
four non-fowl animals may be kept on any lot provided that there shall be at
least one acre of land for each such non-fowl animal. Any structure housing or
sheltering any farm animals shall be located at least 25 feet from any property
line and at least 200 feet from an existing principal non-farm structure on
another lot.
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 91:  ABANDONED, NUISANCE AND JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES
Section
   
91.01   Administration
   
91.02   Definitions
   
91.03   Abandoned vehicle unlawful; removal authorized
   
91.04   Nuisance vehicle unlawful; removal authorized
   
91.05   Junked motor vehicle regulated; removal authorized
   
91.06   Removal of abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicles; pre-towing
notice requirements
   
91.07   Exceptions to prior notice requirements
   
91.08   Removal of vehicles; post-towing requirements
   
91.09   Right to probable cause hearing before final disposition of vehicle
   
91.10   Redemption of vehicle during proceedings
   
91.11   Sale and disposition of unclaimed vehicle
   
91.12   Conditions on removal of vehicles from private property
   
91.13   Protection against criminal or civil liability
   
91.14   Exceptions
   
91.15   Unlawful removal of impounded vehicle
§ 91.01  ADMINISTRATION.
   The Police Department of the city and a Code Enforcement Officer (appointed
by the City Council to enforce the provisions of this chapter) shall be
responsible for the administration and enforcement of this chapter. The Police
Department shall be responsible for administering the removal and disposition
of vehicles determined to be “abandoned” on the public streets and highways
within the city, and on property owned by the city. The Code Enforcement
Officer (or other public official appointed to enforce this chapter) shall be
responsible for administering the removal and disposition of “abandoned”,
“nuisance” or “junked motor vehicles” located on private property. The city
may, on an annual basis, contract with private tow truck operators or towing
businesses to remove, store and dispose of abandoned vehicles, nuisance
vehicles and junked motor vehicles in compliance with this chapter and
applicable state laws. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to limit the
legal authority or powers of officers of the City Police Department and Fire
Department in enforcing other laws or in otherwise carrying out their duties.
(1995 Code, § 8-13)  (Ord. passed 4-17-1990)
§ 91.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. As authorized and defined in G.S. § 160A-303, an
ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE is one that:
      (1)   Is left upon a public street or highway in violation of a law or
ordinance prohibiting parking;
      (2)   Is left on a public street or highway for longer than seven days;
      (3)   Is left on property owned or operated by the city for longer 24
hours; or
      (4)   Is left on private property without the consent of the owner,
occupant or lessee thereof, for longer than two hours.
   AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL. The supervisory employee of the Police Department or
the Code Enforcement Officer, respectively, designated to authorize the removal
of vehicles under the provisions of this chapter.
   MOTOR VEHICLE or VEHICLE. As authorized and defined in G.S. § 160A-303.2,
the term JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE means a vehicle that does not display a current
license plate lawfully upon that vehicle and that:
      (1)   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE. As authorized and defined in G.S. § 160A-
303.2, the term JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE means a vehicle that does not display a
current license plate lawfully upon that vehicle and that:
         (a)   Is partially dismantled or wrecked; or
         (b)   Cannot be self-propelled or moved in the manner in which it
originally was intended to move; or
         (c)   Is more than five years old and appears to be worth less than
$100 or is more than five years old and appears to be worth less than $500 as
provided by the municipality in an ordinance adopted under this section.
      (2)   NUISANCE VEHICLE. A vehicle on public or private property that is
determined and declared to be a health or safety hazard, a public nuisance, and
unlawful, including a vehicle found to be:
         (a)   A breeding ground or harbor for mosquitoes, other insects, rats
or other pests;
         (b)   A point of heavy growth of weeds or other noxious vegetation
over 12 inches in height;
         (c)   A point of collection of pools or ponds of water;
         (d)   A point of concentration of quantities of gasoline, oil or other
flammable or explosive material as evidence by odor;
         (e)   One which has areas of confinement which cannot be operated from
the inside, such as trunks, hoods and the like;
         (f)   So situated or located that there is a danger of it falling or
turning over;
         (g)   One which is a point of collection of garbage, food waste,
animal waste or any other rotten or putrescible matter of any kind;
         (h)   One which has sharp parts thereof which are jagged or contain
edges of metal or glass; or
         (i)   Any other vehicle specifically declared a health and safety
hazard and a public nuisance by the City Council.
(1995 Code, § 8-14)  (Ord. passed 4-17-1990; Ord. passed 12-10-2012; Ord.
passed 5-3-2019)
§ 91.03  ABANDONED VEHICLE UNLAWFUL; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a vehicle to cause or allow such vehicle to be abandoned as the
term is defined herein.
   (B)   Upon investigation, proper authorizing officials of the city may
determine that a vehicle is an abandoned vehicle and order the vehicle removed.
(1995 Code, § 8-15)  (Ord. passed 4-17-1990)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.04  NUISANCE VEHICLE UNLAWFUL; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee or occupant of the real
property upon which the vehicle is located to leave or allow the vehicle to
remain on the property after it has been declared a nuisance vehicle.
   (B)   Upon investigation, the Code Enforcement Officer may determine and
declare that a vehicle is a health or safety hazard and a nuisance vehicle as
defined above, and order the vehicle removed.
(1995 Code, § 8-16)  (Ord. passed 4-17-1990)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.05  JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE REGULATED; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
the possession of a junked motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee, or occupant
of the real property upon which a junked motor vehicle is located to leave or
allow the vehicle to remain on the property after the vehicle has been ordered
removed.
   (B)   (1)   Upon investigation, the Code Enforcement Officer may order the
removal of a junked motor vehicle as defined in this chapter after finding in
writing that the aesthetic benefits of removing the vehicle outweigh the
burdens imposed on the private property owner. Such finding shall be based on a
balancing of the monetary loss of the apparent owner against the corresponding
gain to the public by promoting or enhancing community, neighborhood or area
appearance.
      (2)   The following among other relevant factors may be considered:
         (a)   Protection of property values;
         (b)   Promotion of tourism and other economic development
opportunities;
         (c)   Indirect protection of public health and safety;
         (d)   Preservation of the character and integrity of the community;
and
         (e)   Promotion of the comfort, happiness and emotional stability of
area residents.
(1995 Code, § 8-17)  (Ord. passed 4-17-1990)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.06  REMOVAL OF ABANDONED, NUISANCE OR JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES; PRE-TOWING
NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as set forth in §
91.07, an abandoned, nuisance or junked vehicle which is to be removed shall be
towed only after notice to the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of the vehicle. In the case of a nuisance vehicle or a junked motor
vehicle, if the names and mailing addresses of the registered owner or person
entitled to the possession of the vehicle, or the owner, lessee or occupant of
the real property upon which the vehicle is located can be ascertained in the
exercise of reasonable diligence, the notice shall be given by first class
mail. The person who mails the notice(s) shall retain a written record to show
the name(s) and address(es) to which mailed, and the date mailed. If such names
and addresses cannot be ascertained or if the vehicle to be removed is an
abandoned motor vehicle, notice shall be given by affixing on the windshield or
some other conspicuous place on the vehicle a notice indicating that the
vehicle will be removed by the city on a specified date (no sooner than seven
days after the notice is affixed). The notice shall state that the vehicle will
be removed by the city on a specified date, no sooner than seven days after the
notice is affixed or mailed, unless the vehicle is moved by the owner or legal
possessor prior to that time.
   (B)   With respect to abandoned vehicles on private property, nuisance
vehicles and junked motor vehicles to which notice is required to be given, if
the registered owner or person entitled to possession does not remove the
vehicle but chooses to appeal the determination that the vehicle is abandoned,
a nuisance vehicle or in the case of a junked motor vehicle that the aesthetic
benefits of removing the vehicle outweigh the burdens, such appeal shall be
made to the City Council in writing, heard at the next regularly scheduled
meeting of the City Council, and further proceedings to remove the vehicle
shall be stayed until the appeal is heard and decided.
(1995 Code, § 8-18)  (Ord. passed 4-17-1990)
§ 91.07  EXCEPTIONS TO PRIOR NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The requirement that notice be given prior to the removal of an
abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle may, as determined by the
authorizing official, be omitted in those circumstances where there is a
special need for prompt action to eliminate traffic obstructions or to
otherwise maintain and protect the public safety and welfare. Such findings
shall, in all cases, be entered by the authorizing official in the appropriate
daily records.
   (B)   Circumstances justifying the removal of vehicles without prior notice
include:
      (1)   Vehicles abandoned on the streets. For vehicles left on the public
streets and highways, the City Council hereby determines that immediate removal
of such vehicles may be warranted when they are:
         (a)   Obstructing traffic;
         (b)   Parked in violation of an ordinance prohibiting or restricting
parking;
         (c)   Parked in a no stopping or standing zone;
         (d)   Parked in loading zones;
         (e)   Parked in bus zones; or
         (f)   Parked in violation of temporary parking restrictions imposed
under code sections.
      (2)   Other abandoned or nuisance vehicles. With respect to abandoned or
nuisance vehicles left on city-owned property other than the streets and
highways, and on private property, such vehicles may be removed without giving
prior notice only in those circumstances where the authorizing official finds a
special need for prompt action to protect and maintain the public health,
safety and welfare. By way of illustration and not of limitation, such
circumstances include vehicles blocking or obstructing ingress or egress to
businesses and residences, vehicles parked in such a location or manner as to
pose a traffic hazard, and vehicles causing damage to public or private
property.
(1995 Code, § 8-19)  (Ord. passed 4-17-1990)
§ 91.08  REMOVAL OF VEHICLES; POST-TOWING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle which has been ordered
removed may, as directed by the city, be removed to a storage garage or area by
the tow truck operator or towing business contracting to perform such services
for the city. Whenever such a vehicle is removed, the authorizing city official
shall immediately notify the last known registered owner of the vehicle, such
notice to include the following:
      (1)   The description of the removed vehicle;
      (2)   The location where the vehicle is stored;
      (3)   The violation with which the owner is charged, if any;
      (4)   The procedure the owner must follow to redeem the vehicle; and
      (5)   The procedure the owner must follow to request a probable cause
hearing on the removal.
   (B)   The city shall attempt to give notice to the vehicle owner by
telephone; however, whether or not the owner is reached by telephone, written
notice, including the information set forth in divisions (A)(1) through (A)(5)
above, shall also be mailed to the registered owner’
   (C)   If the vehicle is registered in the state, notice shall be given
within 24 hours. If the vehicle is not registered in the state, notice shall be
given to the registered owner within 72 hours from the removal of the vehicle.
   (D)   Whenever an abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle is removed,
and such vehicle has no valid registration or registration plates, the
authorizing city official shall make reasonable efforts, including checking the
vehicle identification number, to determine the last known registered owner of
the vehicle and to notify him or her of the information set forth in divisions
(A)(1) through (A)(5) above.
(1995 Code, § 8-20)  (Ord. passed 4-17-1990)
§ 91.09  RIGHT TO PROBABLE CAUSE HEARING BEFORE FINAL DISPOSITION OF VEHICLE.
   After the removal of an abandoned vehicle, nuisance vehicle or junked motor
vehicle, the owner or any other person entitled to possession is entitled to a
hearing for the purpose of determining if probable cause existed for removing
the vehicle. A request for hearing must be filed in writing with the County
Magistrate designated by the Chief District Court Judge to receive such hearing
requests. The Magistrate will set the hearing within 72 hours of receipt of the
request, and the hearing will be conducted in accordance with the provisions of
G.S. § 20-219.11, as amended.
(1995 Code, § 8-21)  (Ord. passed 4-17-1990)
§ 91.10  REDEMPTION OF VEHICLE DURING PROCEEDINGS.
   At any stage in the proceedings, including before the probable cause
hearing, the owner may obtain possession of the removed vehicle by paying the
towing fee, including any storage charges, or by posting a bond for double the
amount of such fees and charges to the tow truck operator or towing business
having custody of the removed vehicle. Upon regaining possession of a vehicle,
the owner or person entitled to the possession of the vehicle shall not allow
or engage in further violations of this chapter.
(1995 Code, § 8-22)  (Ord. passed 4-17-1990)
§ 91.11  SALE AND DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLE.
   Any abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle which is not claimed by the
owner or other party entitled to possession will be disposed of by the tow
truck operator or towing business having custody of the vehicle. Disposition of
such a vehicle shall be carried out in coordination with the city and in
accordance with G.S. Ch. 44A, Art. 1.
(1995 Code, § 8-23)  (Ord. passed 4-17-1990)
§ 91.12  CONDITIONS ON REMOVAL OF VEHICLES FROM PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   As a general policy, the city will not remove a vehicle from private
property if the owner, occupant or lessee of such property could have the
vehicle removed under the applicable state law procedures. In no case will a
vehicle be removed by the city from private property without a written request
of the owner, occupant or lessee, except in those cases where a vehicle is a
nuisance vehicle or is a junked motor vehicle which has been ordered removed by
the Code Enforcement Officer. The city may require any person requesting the
removal of an abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle from private property
to indemnify the city against any loss, expense or liability incurred because
of the removal, storage or sale thereof.
(1995 Code, § 8-24)  (Ord. passed 4-17-1990)
§ 91.13  PROTECTION AGAINST CRIMINAL OR CIVIL LIABILITY.
   No person shall be held to answer in any civil or criminal action to any
owner or other person legally entitled to the possession of an abandoned,
nuisance or junked motor vehicle, for disposing of such vehicle as provided in
this chapter.
(1995 Code, § 8-25)  (Ord. passed 4-17-1990)
§ 91.14  EXCEPTIONS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall apply to any vehicle:
   (A)   That is located in a bona fide “automobile graveyard” or “junkyard” as
defined in G.S. § 136-143 in accordance with the Junkyard Control Act, G.S. §§
136-141 et seq.;
   (B)   That is in an enclosed building;
   (C)   That is on the premises of a business enterprise being operated in a
lawful place and manner if the vehicle is necessary to the operation of the
enterprise; or
   (D)   That is in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained in a
lawful place and manner by the city.
(1995 Code, § 8-26)  (Ord. passed 4-17-1990)
§ 91.15  UNLAWFUL REMOVAL OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or attempt to remove from any
storage facility designated by the city any vehicle which has been impounded
pursuant to the provisions of this code unless and until all towing and
impoundment fees which are due, or bond in lieu of such fees, have been paid.
(1995 Code, § 8-27)  (Ord. passed 4-17-1990)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 92:  STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Streets and Sidewalks
   
92.01   Acceptance of subdivision streets
Excavation and Repair
   
92.15   Excavations; permit required
   
92.16   Excavations; application for permit; fees
   
92.17   Street repair; after excavation
   
92.18   Excavations; leaving unprotected
   
92.19   Streets not to be damaged by tractors or harrows
   
92.20   Sidewalk construction
   
92.21   House moving
   
92.22   Damage to municipal property
   
92.23   Driveways; permit required
Obstructing Streets and Sidewalks
   
92.35   Assembly on streets and sidewalks
   
92.36   Display of goods prohibited
   
92.37   Construction near sidewalk
   
92.38   Sheds and awnings
   
92.39   Repair of motor vehicles
   
92.40   Gates opening on streets or sidewalks
Use and Cleanliness
   
92.55   Littering prohibited
   
92.56   Littering from vehicles
   
92.57   Maintenance of public areas
   
92.58   Maintenance of receptacles
STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
§ 92.01  ACCEPTANCE OF SUBDIVISION STREETS.
   New streets proposed for dedication as a part of, or in connection with,
subdivisions of land shall be submitted by plat in accordance with the
subdivision regulations.
(1995 Code, § 4-1)
EXCAVATION AND REPAIR
§ 92.15  EXCAVATIONS; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall make any excavation or opening or dig any ditch, trench,
tunnel or hole in, along, across or under any street, sidewalk or other public
place for the purpose of laying or placing therein any pipe, wires or poles or
for any other purposes unless a written permit therefor has been issued by some
officer of the city vested with proper authority; provided, that a permit shall
not be required where the work is performed under a contract with the city, but
in the event the work requires a sidewalk or street to be wholly or partially
obstructed, the party performing the work shall notify the city at least two
hours before obstructing the sidewalk or street, unless prevented by sudden
emergency.
(1995 Code, § 4-3)
Statutory reference:
   Establishment and control over municipal streets, see G.S. § 160A-296
§ 92.16  EXCAVATIONS; APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; FEES.
   (A)   All persons desiring a permit to make an opening in any street or
sidewalk, as set forth in §
92.15, shall make written application therefor, which application shall show
the location of the proposed opening, the purpose therefor and the approximate
number of square yards of surface to be cut.
   (B)   (1)   A minimum administrative fee of $25 shall be charged for a
permit to open any street or sidewalk.
      (2)   The City Manager shall have the authority to charge a higher fee
based on the estimated cost to the city in issuing the permit.
(1995 Code, § 4-4)
§ 92.17  STREET REPAIR; AFTER EXCAVATION.
   When any street, sidewalk, alley or other public place of the city shall be
torn or dug up for any purpose, the person making the excavation or opening
shall have the duty of refilling the excavation or opening, and the refilling
shall be done in accordance with the standards and specifications of the city
and at the direction of the Public Works Director.
(1995 Code, § 4-5)
§ 92.18  EXCAVATIONS; LEAVING UNPROTECTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation who obtains a
permit under the sections of this subchapter to do any excavation of any kind
which may create or cause a dangerous condition in or near any street, alley,
sidewalk or public place of the city without placing and maintaining proper
guard rails three feet from the ground and signal lights or other warnings at,
in or around the same sufficient to warn the public of the excavation or work,
and to protect all persons using reasonable care from injuries on account of
the excavation or work.
(1995 Code, § 4-6)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.19  STREETS NOT TO BE DAMAGED BY TRACTORS OR HARROWS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to drag or run or
cause to be dragged or run any harrow or other implement, engine, machine or
tool upon any asphalt or other type of permanently paved street of the city
which shall be likely in any way to injure or cut the surface thereof.
(1995 Code, § 4-7)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.20  SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   No sidewalk of any description shall be built by any individual, firm or
corporation of any brick, wood or other material without a written permit from
the city.
(1995 Code, § 4-8)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.21  HOUSE MOVING.
   No person shall move any house or building upon or across the public streets
or sidewalks without the written consent of the Council and the deposit of a
good and sufficient bond to cover damage done to any street or sidewalk or to
any property of any person.
(1995 Code, § 4-9)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.22  DAMAGE TO MUNICIPAL PROPERTY.
   No person shall injure, tamper with, remove, paint upon or deface any
bridge, culvert, ditch and drain, sign, sign post, street light, traffic
signal, bulletin board or other municipal property upon the streets and
sidewalks or elsewhere except employee of the city in the performance of his or
her duties.
(1995 Code, § 4-10)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.23  DRIVEWAYS; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall begin to construct, reconstruct, repair, alter or grade any
driveway on the public streets, unless a written permit therefor has been
issued by an officer of the city vested with such authority.
(1995 Code, § 4-11)  Penalty, see §
10.99
OBSTRUCTING STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
§ 92.35  ASSEMBLY ON STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   Except as provided in
Ch. 96, Parades and Demonstrations, of this code, it shall be unlawful for
crowds or assemblages of persons to congregate on the streets or sidewalks of
the city in such a way as to unnecessarily interfere with pedestrian or
vehicular traffic. Any person refusing to disperse upon being so ordered by a
police officer shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(1995 Code, § 6-43)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.36  DISPLAY OF GOODS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to place or set out
for exhibition any goods, wares or merchandise directly connected with the
business transacted by him or her, on the sidewalk in front of a place of
business, store, or building owned, controlled or occupied by him or her.
(1995 Code, § 6-44)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.37  CONSTRUCTION NEAR SIDEWALK.
   Before building or remodeling at any place where the same is in close
proximity to the sidewalk, a passageway shall be constructed so as to leave the
sidewalk unobstructed and provide safe and easy passage.
(1995 Code, § 6-45)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.38  SHEDS AND AWNINGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to construct or
erect, or cause to be constructed or erected, any structure, and particularly
any awning or similar structure, over any sidewalk or any part of any sidewalk
of the city unless such structure be at least seven feet above the surface of
such sidewalk; this restriction is in addition to other restrictions which now,
or may in the future, apply to such structures.
(1995 Code, § 6-46)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.39  REPAIR OF MOTOR VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to repair a motor
vehicle on a paved street of the city except in case of emergency.
(1995 Code, § 6-47)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.40  GATES OPENING ON STREETS OR SIDEWALKS.
   All gates shall be so constructed as not to open upon or otherwise encroach
upon any street or sidewalk.
(1995 Code, § 6-48)  Penalty, see §
10.99
USE AND CLEANLINESS
§ 92.55  LITTERING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, organization or private
corporation to throw or deposit upon any street or sidewalk, or upon any
private property, except with written permission of the owner or occupant of
the private property any trash, refuse, garbage, building material, cans,
bottles, broken glass, paper or any type of litter.
(1995 Code, § 6-49)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.56  LITTERING FROM VEHICLES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person while a driver or a passenger in a
vehicle to throw or deposit litter upon any street or other public place within
the city, or upon private property.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive a truck containing
gravel, sand or other earth material, garbage or trash without having the same
equipped with a tailgate and proper cover. The owner or operator of any truck
from which any gravel, sand or other earth material, garbage or trash spills
shall be responsible for cleaning the same from the street.
(1995 Code, § 6-50)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.57  MAINTENANCE OF PUBLIC AREAS.
   Every owner, lessee, tenant, occupant or other person in charge of any
commercial establishment or premises which maintains any paved or unpaved areas
for the use of the public, either for parking or as access areas and incident
to the carrying on of the principal business of any commercial establishment or
premises and which parking or access areas abut or lie within ten feet of any
public street or other public way, shall keep and maintain the areas clean and
free from trash, litter, rubbish and any materials liable to be blown,
deposited or cast upon the street or other public way.
(1995 Code, § 6-51)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.58  MAINTENANCE OF RECEPTACLES.
   Suitable receptacles may be provided in parking or access areas within the
meaning of §
92.57. The receptacles shall be plainly marked and constructed to prevent
scattering of any trash, litter, rubbish or other material deposited therein.
(1995 Code, § 6-52)
CHAPTER 93:  PUBLIC NUISANCES
Section
   
93.01   Public nuisances enumerated
   
93.02   Complaint and investigation
   
93.03   Notice and order to abate nuisance
   
93.04   Appeal of order of abatement
   
93.05   Abatement of nuisance by city
   
93.06   Owner may request abatement by city
   
93.07   Charges for abatement by city; lien
   
93.08   Disposal of vehicles found to be nuisances
   
93.09   Inspections
   
93.10   Annual notice to chronic violators of public nuisance chapter
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01  PUBLIC NUISANCES ENUMERATED.
   The existence of any of the following conditions on any vacant lot or other
parcel of land within the corporate limits is hereby declared to be dangerous
and prejudicial to the public health or safety and to constitute a public
nuisance:
   (A)   The uncontrolled growth of weeds or grass to a height of 12 inches or
more within 150 feet of any residential structure;
   (B)   Any accumulation of animal or vegetable matter that is offensive by
virtue of odors or vapors or which is inhabited by rats, mice, snakes or vermin
of any kind which is or may be dangerous or prejudicial to the public health;
   (C)   Any accumulation of rubbish, trash, refuse or other solid wastes not
in compliance with Chapter 50 of this code of ordinances;
   (D)   Any motor vehicle that has, for a period of more than 48 hours, been
in a state of disrepair and is incapable of being moved under its own power and
is found to be:
      (1)   A breeding ground or harbor for mosquitoes or other insects,
snakes, rats or vermin of any kind;
      (2)   A point of heavy growth of weed and grass over 12 inches in height;
      (3)   A point of accumulation of stagnant water;
      (4)   A point of concentration of gasoline, oil or other flammable or
explosive materials;
      (5)   So located that there is danger of the vehicle’s falling or turning
over;
      (6)   A source of danger for children through entrapment in areas of
confinement that cannot be opened from the inside or from exposed surfaces of
other flammable or explosive materials; or
      (7)   Any condition detrimental to the public health, safety or welfare,
or which violates the rules and regulations of the Gaston County Health
Department.
   (E)   Open wells;
   (F)   An accumulation of stagnant water causing or threatening to cause the
inhabitation thereof by mosquitoes;
   (G)   Any condition detrimental to the public health, safety and welfare, or
which violates the rules and regulations of the County Health Department; and
   (H)   Any accumulation of litter not in compliance with Chapter 94 of this
code of ordinances.
   (I)   Placement, storage or use of upholstered sofas, couches, chairs, seats
removed from motor vehicles, or other furniture designed for indoor use by the
manufacturer, on any porch, deck, driveway, open carport, patio or other
outdoor area in such a manner as to be visible from public streets or adjacent
properties.
   (J)   Outdoor storage of appliances, mattresses, cloth, glass, cans,
household wares, household items, cardboard, machine parts, vehicle parts,
wooden pallets, scrap metal material, batteries, tire rims, tires, water
heaters and building materials, provided however that the temporary on-site
storage of building materials that are actively being used for a building
project are permitted.
(1995 Code, § 8-28)  (Ord. passed 11-21-1983; Ord. passed 3-8-1988; Ord. passed
8-10-2009; Ord. passed 5- -2010; Ord. passed 12-10-2012; Ord. passed 7-14-2014;
Ord. passed 9-8-2014; Ord. passed 4-11-2016)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.02  COMPLAINT AND INVESTIGATION.
   The city code enforcement officer, upon notice from any person of the
existence of any of the conditions described in §
93.01, shall make, or cause to be made by an official of the inspections
division of the Gaston County Health Department, such investigation as may be
necessary to determine whether in fact, such conditions exist as to constitute
a public nuisance as declared in §
93.01.
(1995 Code, § 8-29)  (Ord. passed 11-21-1983; Ord. passed 11-12-1984; Ord.
passed 9-8-2014)
§ 93.03  NOTICE AND ORDER TO ABATE NUISANCE.
   (A)   For purposes of this chapter, the respondent is the person in
possession of the property where a public nuisance (as described in §
93.01) is located, as well as the owner of such property, if different from the
former.
   (B)   Upon determination by the city code enforcement officer that there
exists on any property conditions constituting a public nuisance (as described
in §
93.01), the city code enforcement officer shall notify the respondent by
certified mail of such conditions and shall order the abatement thereof within
five days of receipt of such notice. If after due diligence the respondent’s
address cannot be determined, then the notice required by this division (B)
shall be posted conspicuously on the offending property.
(1995 Code, § 8-30)  (Ord. passed 9-8-2014)
§ 93.04  APPEAL OF ORDER OF ABATEMENT.
   At any time before the expiration of the five-day abatement period specified
in §
93.03(B), the respondent may request a hearing before the City Manager to
appeal the finding of the city code enforcement officer that a public nuisance
as defined in §
93.01 exists on the premises.
(1995 Code, § 8-31)  (Ord. passed 9-8-2014)
§ 93.05  ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE BY CITY.
   (A)   Upon the occurrence of either of the following conditions:
      (1)   A hearing is requested and held under §
93.03 resulting in either a final order with modifications or the reinstatement
of the initial order as a final order, and such order is not complied with
within 15 days from adjournment of the hearing; or
      (2)   No hearing is requested or held, and the respondent having been
ordered to abate such a public nuisance fails, neglects or refuses to abate or
remove the condition constituting the nuisance within five days from receipt of
said order, or such other number of days, in the discretion of the code
enforcement officer additional time is warranted.
   (B)   The code enforcement officer may consider any remedies or actions set
forth in the code or the General Statutes of the state including to cause said
condition to be removed or otherwise remedied by having employees of the city
go upon said premises and remove or otherwise abate such nuisance under the
supervision of an officer or employee designated by the code enforcement
office.
(1995 Code, § 8-32)  (Ord. passed 11-21-1983; Ord. passed 11-12-1984; Ord.
passed 9-8-2014)
§ 93.06  OWNER MAY REQUEST ABATEMENT BY CITY.
   The owner of property where a public nuisance has been found to exist under
this chapter may request the city in writing to remove such condition, and the
city may remove the offending condition pursuant to such request.
(1995 Code, § 8-33)  (Ord. passed 11-21-1983)
§ 93.07  CHARGES FOR ABATEMENT BY CITY; LIEN.
   (A)   The actual cost incurred by the city in removing or otherwise
remedying a public nuisance pursuant to §§
93.04 or
93.05 shall be charged to the owner of the offending property, and the owner
shall pay these charges within 30 days after receiving from the city a
statement of charges.
   (B)   In the event charges for the removal or abatement of a public nuisance
are not paid within 30 days after the receipt of a statement of charges as
under division (A) above, such charges shall become a lien upon the land or
premises where the public nuisance existed and shall be collected as unpaid
taxes, as provided in G.S. § 160A-193.
(1995 Code, § 8-34)  (Ord. passed 11-21-1983)
§ 93.08  DISPOSAL OF VEHICLES FOUND TO BE NUISANCES.
   When a motor vehicle has been found to be a nuisance and has been removed by
the city under this chapter, then:
   (A)   If the vehicle has been removed by a private towing operator acting as
agent of the city, the vehicle may be disposed of in accordance with the
provisions of G.S. Ch. 44A, Art. 1; or
   (B)   The city may sell such vehicle as a junked motor vehicle in accordance
with the provisions of §
91.07 of this code of ordinances.
(1995 Code, § 8-35)  (Ord. passed 11-21-1983)
§ 93.09  INSPECTIONS.
   Whenever it is necessary to make an inspection in the course of an
investigation required by this chapter, the city code enforcement officer is
hereby empowered to enter upon property upon which there is alleged to exist a
public nuisance at any reasonable time to inspect the same, but only if the
consent of the person in possession of the premises is freely given or a search
or inspections warrant is obtained as hereinafter provided:
   (A)   If such property is occupied, the code enforcement officer shall first
present credentials to the occupant and request entry, explaining the reasons
therefor;
   (B)   If such property is unoccupied, the code enforcement officer shall
first make a reasonable effort to locate the person having charge or control of
the property, present proper credentials and request entry, explaining the
reasons therefor; and
   (C)   If such entry is refused or cannot be obtained because the person
having the charge or control of the property cannot be found after due
diligence, the code enforcement officer shall obtain a warrant to conduct a
search or inspection of the property.
(1995 Code, § 8-36)  (Ord. passed 11-21-1983; Ord. passed 11-12-1984)
§ 93.10  ANNUAL NOTICE TO CHRONIC VIOLATORS OF PUBLIC NUISANCE CHAPTER.
   A city may notify a chronic violator of the city’s public nuisance ordinance
that, if the violator’s property is found to be in violation of the ordinance,
the city may, without further notice in the calendar year in which notice is
given, take action to remedy the violation, and the expense of the action shall
become a lien upon the property and shall be collected as unpaid taxes. The
notice shall be sent by certified mail. A chronic violator is a person who owns
property whereupon, in the previous calendar year, the city gave notice of
violation at least three times under any provision of the public nuisance
ordinance.
(Ord. passed 9-8-2014)
§ 93.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor, punishable as provided in G.S. § 14-4.
   (B)   The procedure set forth in this chapter shall be in addition to any
other remedies that may now or hereafter exist under law for the abatement of
public nuisances.
   (C)   Each day that any violation continues after a person has been notified
that such violation exists and that he or she is subject to the penalties
specified herein shall constitute a separate offense.
   (D)   This chapter may also be enforced by any appropriate equitable action,
including injunctions or orders of abatement.
   (E)   The city may enforce this chapter by any one or any combination of the
remedies set forth in this chapter.
(1995 Code, § 8-37)  (Ord. passed 11-12-1983; Ord. passed 9-8-2014)
CHAPTER 94:  LITTER
Section
   
94.01   Short title
   
94.02   Definitions
   
94.03   Litter in public places
   
94.04   Placement of litter in receptacles so as to prevent scattering
   
94.05   Sweeping litter into gutters prohibited
   
94.06   Merchants’ duty to keep sidewalks free of litter
   
94.07   Litter thrown by persons in vehicles
   
94.08   Truck loads causing litter
   
94.09   Litter in parks
   
94.10   Throwing or distributing commercial handbills in public places
   
94.11   Placing commercial and noncommercial handbills on vehicles
   
94.12   Depositing commercial and noncommercial handbills on uninhabited or
vacant premises
   
94.13   Prohibiting distribution of handbills where properly posted
   
94.14   Distributing commercial and noncommercial handbills at inhabited
private premises
   
94.15   Dropping litter from aircraft
   
94.16   Posting notices prohibited
   
94.17   Litter on occupied private property
   
94.18   Owner to maintain premises free of litter
   
94.19   Litter on vacant lots
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01  SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “City of Lowell Anti-
Litter Chapter”.
(1995 Code, § 4-38)
§ 94.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. When not
inconsistent with the context, words used in the
present tense include the future, words used in the plural number include the
singular number, and words used in the singular number include the plural
number. The word “shall” is always mandatory and not merely directory.
   AIRCRAFT. Any contrivance now known or hereafter invented, used or
designated for navigation or for flight in the air. The word AIRCRAFT shall
include helicopters and lighter-than-air dirigibles and balloons.
   AUTHORIZED PRIVATE RECEPTACLE. A litter storage and collection receptacle as
required and authorized in the refuse collection ordinance found in
Chapter 50 of the code of ordinances.
   CITY. The City of Lowell.
   COMMERCIAL HANDBILL. Any printed or written matter, any sample or device,
dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, paper, booklet, or any other printed or
otherwise reproduced original or copies of any matter of literature:
      (1)   Which advertises for sale any merchandise, product, commodity or
thing;
      (2)   Which directs attention to any business or mercantile or commercial
establishment, or other activity, for the purpose of either directly or
indirectly promoting the interest thereof by sales;
      (3)   Which directs attention to or advertises any meeting, theatrical
performance, exhibition or event of any kind, for which an admission fee is
charged for the purpose of private gain or profit; but the terms of this
division (3) shall not apply where an admission fee is charged or a collection
is taken up for the purpose of defraying the expenses incident to such meeting,
theatrical performance, exhibition or event of any kind, when either of the
same is held, given or takes pace in connection with the dissemination of
information which is not restricted under the ordinary rules of decency, good
morals, public peace, safety and good order, provided that nothing contained in
this clause shall be deemed to authorize the holding, giving or taking place of
any meeting, theatrical performance, exhibition or event of any kind, without a
license, where such license is or may be required by any law of this state, or
under any ordinance of this city; or
      (4)   Which, while containing reading matter other than advertising
matter, is predominantly and essentially an advertisement, and is distributed
or circulated for advertising purposes, or for the private benefit and gain of
any person so engaged as advertiser or distributor.
   GARBAGE. Putrescible animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   LITTER. Garbage, refuse and rubbish as defined herein and all other waste
material which, if thrown or deposited as herein prohibited, tends to create a
danger to public health, safety and welfare.
   NEWSPAPER. Any newspaper of general circulation as defined by general law,
any newspaper duly entered with the Post Office Department of the United
States, in accordance with federal statute or regulation, and any newspaper
filed and recorded with any recording officer as provided by general law; and
in addition thereto, NEWSPAPER shall mean and include any periodical or current
magazine regularly published with not less than four issues per year, and sold
to the public.
   NONCOMMERCIAL HANDBILL. Any printed or written matter, any sample or devise,
dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, newspaper, paper, booklet, or any other
printed or otherwise reproduced original or copies of any matter of literature
not included in the aforesaid definitions of a commercial handbill or
newspaper.
   PARK. A park, reservation, playground, beach, recreation center or any other
public area in the city, owned or used by the city and devoted to active or
passive recreation.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   PRIVATE PREMISES. Any dwelling, house, building or other structure, designed
or used either wholly or in part for private residential purposes, whether
inhabited or temporarily or continuously uninhabited or vacant, including any
yard, grounds, walk, driveway, porch, steps, vestibule or mailbox belonging or
appurtenant to such dwelling, house, building or other structure.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any and all streets, sidewalks, boulevards, alleys or other
public ways and any and all public parks, squares, spaces, grounds and
buildings.
   REFUSE. All putrescible and nonputrescible solid wastes except body wastes,
including garbage, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead animals, abandoned
automobiles and industrial wastes.
   RUBBISH. Nonputrescible solid wastes consisting of both combustible and
noncombustible wastes, such as paper, wrappings, cigarettes, cardboard, tin
can, yard clippings, leaves, wood, glass, bedding, crockery and similar
materials.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, including devices used exclusively upon
stationary rails or tracks.
(1995 Code, § 4-39)  (Ord. passed 3-8-1988)
§ 94.03  LITTER IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   No person shall throw or deposit litter in or upon any street, sidewalk, or
other public place within the city except in public receptacles, in authorized
private receptacles for collection, or in official city dumps.
(1995 Code, § 4-40)  (Ord. passed 3-8-1988)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04  PLACEMENT OF LITTER IN RECEPTACLES SO AS TO PREVENT SCATTERING.
   Persons placing litter in public receptacles or in authorized private
receptacles shall do so in such a manner as to prevent it from being carried or
deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk or other public place or
upon private property.
(1995 Code, § 4-41)
§ 94.05  SWEEPING LITTER INTO GUTTERS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street, or public place
within the city the accumulation of litter from any building or lot or from any
public or private sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying property
shall keep the sidewalk in front of their premises free of litter.
(1995 Code, § 4-42)  (Ord. passed 3-8-1988)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.06  MERCHANTS’ DUTY TO KEEP SIDEWALKS FREE OF LITTER.
   No person owning or occupying a place of business shall sweep into or
deposit in any gutter, street or public place within the city the accumulation
of litter from any building or lot or from any public or private sidewalk or
driveway. Persons owning or occupying places of business within the city shall
keep the sidewalk in front of their business free of litter.
(1995 Code, § 4-43)  (Ord. passed 3-8-1988)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.07  LITTER THROWN BY PERSONS IN VEHICLES.
   No person, while a driver or passenger in a vehicle, shall throw or deposit
litter upon any street or other public place within the city, or upon private
property.
(1995 Code, § 4-44)  (Ord. passed 3-8-1988)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.08  TRUCK LOADS CAUSING LITTER.
   No persons shall drive or move any truck or other vehicle within the city
unless such vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any load,
contents or litter from being blown or deposited upon any street, alley or
other public place. Nor shall any person drive or move any vehicle or truck
within the city, the wheels or tires of which carry onto or deposit in any
street, alley or other public place, mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter or
foreign matter of any kind.
(1995 Code, § 4-45)  (Ord. passed 3-8-1988)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.09  LITTER IN PARKS.
   No person shall throw or deposit litter in any park within the city except
in public receptacles and in such a manner that the litter will be prevented
from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any part of the park or
upon any street or other public place. Where public receptacles are not
provided, all such litter shall be carried away from the park by the person
responsible for its presence and properly disposed of elsewhere as provided
herein.
(1995 Code, § 4-46)  (Ord. passed 3-8-1988)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.10  THROWING OR DISTRIBUTING COMMERCIAL HANDBILLS IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial handbill in
or upon any sidewalk, street or other public place within the city, nor shall
any person hand out or distribute or sell any commercial handbill in any public
place; provided, however, that it shall not be unlawful on any sidewalk, street
or other public place within the city for any person to hand out or distribute,
without charge to the receiver thereof, any noncommercial handbill to any
person willing to accept it.
(1995 Code, § 4-47)  (Ord. passed 3-8-1988)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.11  PLACING COMMERCIAL AND NONCOMMERCIAL HANDBILLS ON VEHICLES.
   No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial handbill in
or upon any vehicle; provided, however, that it shall not be unlawful in any
public place for a person to hand out or distribute without charge to the
receiver thereof a noncommercial handbill to any occupant of a vehicle who is
willing to accept it.
(1995 Code, § 4-48)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.12  DEPOSITING COMMERCIAL AND NONCOMMERCIAL HANDBILLS ON UNINHABITED OR
VACANT PREMISES.
   No person shall throw or deposit any commercial or noncommercial handbill in
or upon any private premises which are temporarily or continuously uninhabited
or vacant.
(1995 Code, § 4-49)  (Ord. passed 3-8-1988)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.13  PROHIBITING DISTRIBUTION OF HANDBILLS WHERE PROPERLY POSTED.
   No person shall throw, deposit or distribute any commercial or noncommercial
handbill upon any private premises, if requested by anyone thereon not to do
so, or if there is placed on the premises in a conspicuous position near the
entrance thereof, a sign bearing the words: “No Trespassing;” “No Peddlers or
Agents;” “No Advertisement” or similar notice, indicating in any manner that
the occupants of the premises do not desire to be molested or have their right
of privacy disturbed, or to have any such handbills left upon the premises.
(1995 Code, § 4-50)  (Ord. passed 3-8-1988)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.14  DISTRIBUTING COMMERCIAL AND NONCOMMERCIAL HANDBILLS AT INHABITED
PRIVATE PREMISES.
   (A)   No person shall throw, deposit or distribute any commercial or
noncommercial handbill in or upon private businesses which are inhabited,
except by handing or transmitting any such handbill directly to the owner,
occupant or other person then present in or upon such private premises;
provided, however, that in case of inhabited private premises which are not
posted, as provided in this chapter, such person, unless requested by anyone
upon such premises not to do so, may place or deposit any such handbill in or
upon such inhabited private premises, if such handbill is so placed or
deposited as to secure or prevent such handbill from being blown or drifted
about such premises or sidewalks, streets or other public places, and except
that mailboxes may not be used when so prohibited by federal postal law or
regulations.
   (B)   Exemption for mail and newspapers: the provisions of this section
shall not apply to the distribution of mail by the United States, nor to
newspapers as defined herein except that newspapers shall be placed on private
property in such a manner as to prevent their being carried or deposited by the
elements upon any street, sidewalk or other public place or upon private
property.
(1995 Code, § 4-51)  (Ord. passed 3-8-1988)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.15  DROPPING LITTER FROM AIRCRAFT.
   No person in an aircraft shall throw out, drop or deposit within the city
any litter, handbill or any other object.
(1995 Code, § 4-52)  (Ord. passed 3-8-1988)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.16  POSTING NOTICES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall post or affix any notice, poster or other paper or devise,
calculated to attract the attention of the public, to any lamp post, public
utility pole or shade tree or upon any public structure or building, except as
may be authorized or required by law.
(1995 Code, § 4-53)  (Ord. passed 3-8-1988)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.17  LITTER ON OCCUPIED PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any occupied private property
within the city, whether owned by such person or not, except that the owner or
person in control of private property may maintain authorized private
receptacles for collection in such a manner that litter will be prevented from
being carried or deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk or other
public place or upon any private property.
(1995 Code, § 4-54)  (Ord. passed 3-8-1988)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.18  OWNER TO MAINTAIN PREMISES FREE OF LITTER.
   The owner or person in control of any private property shall at all times
maintain the premises free of litter; provided, however, that this section
shall not prohibit the storage of litter in authorized private receptacles for
collection.
(1995 Code, § 4-55)  (Ord. passed 3-8-1988)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.19  LITTER ON VACANT LOTS.
   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any open or vacant private
property within the city whether owned by such person or not.
(1995 Code, § 4-56)  (Ord. passed 3-8-1988)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable as provided in G.S. § 14-4.
   (B)   Each day such violation is committed or permitted to continue shall
constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as such hereunder.
   (C)   This chapter may also be enforced by any appropriate equitable action,
including injunctions or orders of abatement.
   (D)   The city may enforce this chapter by any one or any combination of the
foregoing remedies.
(1995 Code, § 4-57)  (Ord. passed 3-8-1988)
CHAPTER 95:  PARK AND RECREATION FACILITIES
Section
   
95.01   User policy
   
95.02   Prohibiting registered sex offenders on city parks and recreation
facilities
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01  USER POLICY.
   (A)   Permits for the use of facilities do not include any concession rights
whatsoever. All concession rights are retained by the city.
   (B)   The following regulations apply to all recreation facilities and
community center operated by the city.
      (1)   The facility must be left clean and orderly, otherwise, a clean-up
fee shall be charged to the person(s) reserving the facility. All trash must be
bagged and removed.
      (2)   Only folding tables and chairs may be moved. All other furnishings
must remain in place.
      (3)   All costs associated with the repair, replacement and clean-up of
the property resulting from the misuse of the facility shall be the
responsibility of the person(s) reserving the facility.
      (4)   All activities shall cease at 11:00 p.m. unless an exception is
granted by the City Manager or his or her designee.
      (5)   All decorations and other equipment must be removed immediately
following use of the facility. (At no time shall nails, tack, tape and the like
be attached to the walls, floors and ceilings of the facility.)
      (6)   The sale of goods and merchandise are prohibited unless an
exception is granted in advance by the City Manager or his or her designee.
      (7)   Alcoholic beverages, drugs or gambling will not be allowed on the
premises of any facility owned or operated by the city.
      (8)   Authorized employees of the city and/or their representatives shall
be granted access to any facility.
      (9)   A person having a ball field reserved must exercise good judgment
in the use of the field after a rain. Extremely wet fields shall not be used.
Damages caused to a field by using it while too wet shall be repaired or paid
for by the person(s) reserving the field.
      (10)   (a)   All dogs and/or pets must be kept on a leash and under the
control of its owner at all times. In addition to any person owning, walking,
in possession of or in charge of a dog or other animal which defecates on
public park property shall remove all feces immediately after it is deposited
by the dog or other animal. All feces removed in accordance with this division
(B)(10) shall be placed in a suitable bag or other container that closes and
disposed of in a lawful manner.
         (b)   Any person, while owning, walking, in possession of or in charge
of a dog or animal in a public park or facility shall have in his or her
possession a bag or other container that closes, which is suitable for removing
feces deposited by the dog or other animal.
         (c)   This provision shall not apply to blind persons using dogs or
other animals as guides.
      (11)   All motorized vehicles, unless operated by the city or their
agents are prohibited. (Exempt from this policy are motorized handicapped
conveyances.)
      (12)   Smoking and tobacco products are prohibited.
      (13)   All youth events must have adult (parental) supervision.
      (14)   All lights must be turned off and doors securely shut and locked
at the close of the event.
(Ord. passed 11-12-2007; Ord. passed 10-13-2008)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.02  PROHIBITING REGISTERED SEX OFFENDERS ON CITY PARKS AND RECREATION
FACILITIES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PUBLIC PARK. Any publicly owned or maintained land which is designated by
the city as a park or recreation facility.
      REGISTERED SEX OFFENDER. An individual who is registered by any state or
federal agency as a sex offender and whose name is published on any state or
federal registered sex offender listing, including, but not limited to the sex
offender registry established in G.S. § 14-208.6.
   (B)   It shall constitute a general offense against the regulations of the
city for any person or persons registered with the state and or any other state
or federal agency to knowingly enter into or on any public park owned, operated
or maintained by the city.
   (C)   The City Manager shall be charged with posting this regulation at the
main entrance of each park within 30 days of the adoption of this section.
(Ord. 09-08, passed 9-15-2008)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Anyone found in violation of §
95.02 shall be subject to a fine of not less than $500 per offense and or 30
days in jail. Each and every entrance into the parks, regardless of the time
period involved shall constitute a separate offense under §
95.02.
(Ord. 09-08, passed 9-15-2008)
CHAPTER 96:  PARADES AND DEMONSTRATIONS
Section
   
96.01   Permit required, exception
   
96.02   Standards for issuance of permit
   
96.03   Notice of rejection; appeal
   
96.04   Use of sidewalks; special conditions
   
96.05   Interference prohibited
   
96.06   Unreasonable obstruction of sidewalk or street
§ 96.01  PERMIT REQUIRED, EXCEPTION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in any parade,
demonstration or march on any street, sidewalk or public way of the city or to
promote or to stage any parade, demonstration or marching unless a parade
permit shall have been obtained therefor and unless the persons seeking to
conduct the same shall have first made written application to the Chief of
Police stating the date, place, route and purpose of the parade, demonstration
or marching, at least 72 hours in advance of the scheduled event and shall
obtain a written permit therefor from that officer.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to:
      (1)   Funeral processions;
      (2)   Students going to and from school classes or participating in
educational activities, provided such conduct is a part of such school
activities and under the immediate direction and supervision of proper school
authorities; and
      (3)   The armed forces of the United States or any governmental agency
acting within the scope of its functions.
(1995 Code, § 6-53)  (Ord. passed 3-4-1968)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.02  STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police shall issue a permit for a lawful parade, demonstration
or march as provided for hereunder when, from a consideration of the
application and from such other information as he or she might otherwise
obtain, he or she finds that:
   (A)   The conduct of the same will not substantially interrupt the safe and
orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
   (B)   The conduct of the same will not require the diversion of so great a
number of police officers of the city to properly police the line of movement
and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police protection to the
city;
   (C)   The concentration of persons, animals and vehicles at assembly points
of the same will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection of
areas contiguous to such assembly areas;
   (D)   The conduct of the same will not unreasonably interfere with the
movement of firefighting equipment, ambulances or police vehicles in route to a
call, fire or emergency;
   (E)   The same is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its point of
termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays in route; and
   (F)   The same is not held for the sole purpose of advertising any product
or goods and it is not designed purely for private profit.
(1995 Code, § 6-54)  (Ord. passed 3-4-1968)
§ 96.03  NOTICE OF REJECTION; APPEAL.
   The Chief of Police shall act upon the application for the permit required
hereunder within 12 hours after the filing thereof. If the Chief of Police
disapproves the application, he or she shall immediately notify the applicant
by mail or in person, stating the reasons for his or her denial of the permit,
which notification shall be given not later than 24 hours from the time of the
application. Any person aggrieved shall have the right to appeal the denial of
such permit to the City Council within three days after notice of rejection by
the Chief of Police. The City Council shall act upon such appeal within 14 days
after its receipt.
(1995 Code, § 6-55)  (Ord. passed 3-4-1968)
§ 96.04  USE OF SIDEWALKS; SPECIAL CONDITIONS.
   If a lawful parade, demonstration or march is conducted on a sidewalk of the
city, the same shall be done or engaged in only under the following conditions.
   (A)   The use of only one of the sidewalks within any one block of the city
shall be permitted. The term BLOCK as used in this division (A) shall mean that
portion of a street lying between street intersections.
   (B)   Persons engaged in the parade, demonstration or march must march in
single file if the sidewalk is less than six feet in width but may march in not
more than two abreast, six inches apart, if the sidewalk is greater than six
feet in width; must keep to only one side of the sidewalk used, and the
interval in the columns between the single file marchers or each pair of
abreast marchers, if permitted, shall not be closer than six feet.
   (C)   No animals, vehicles or other objects shall be used in the parade,
demonstration or march.
(1995 Code, § 6-56)  (Ord. passed 3-4-1968)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.05  INTERFERENCE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall physically interfere with or obstruct any lawful
parade, demonstration or marching on any street, sidewalk or public way nor
address profane, indecent, abusive or threatening language to or at any person
engaged in any lawful parade, demonstration or marching which would tend to
provoke such persons or any other to a breach of the peace.
   (B)   No driver of any vehicle shall drive between the vehicles or persons
comprising a parade, demonstration or march unless so directed by a police
officer.
   (C)   The Chief of Police shall have the authority when reasonably necessary
to prohibit or restrict the parking of vehicles along any street or part
thereof constituting a part of the route of the parade, demonstration or march.
   (D)   The police officers of the city may, in the event of the assemblage of
persons who, of any of whom, are intimidating persons lawfully engaged in any
parade, demonstration or march through abusive acts or the use of profane,
indecent abusive or threatening language, direct the dispersal of persons so
assembled, and any person so directed shall disperse and absent himself or
herself from the place of such assemblage.
(1995 Code, § 6-57)  (Ord. passed 3-4-1968)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.06  UNREASONABLE OBSTRUCTION OF SIDEWALK OR STREET.
   Whenever the free passage of any street or sidewalk in the city shall be
unreasonably obstructed by any person or crowd, or by any persons engaged in
any lawful parade, demonstration or march, such persons shall disperse, stop or
move over or on as and when directed to do so by a police officer of the city,
and it shall be unlawful for any person not to so disperse, stop or move on or
over when so directed by such police officer.
(1995 Code, § 6-58)  (Ord. passed 3-4-1968)  Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XI:  BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   TAXICABS
      
111.   GAME ROOMS AND OTHER PUBLIC AMUSEMENTS
      
112.   MASSAGE PARLORS AND HEALTH SALONS
      
113.   SECONDHAND PRECIOUS METAL BUSINESSES
      
114.   TEMPORARY VENDORS
CHAPTER 110:  TAXICABS
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Unlawful to operate without certificate
   
110.03   Application required
   
110.04   City Council issues certificates
   
110.05   Term; renewal
   
110.06   Determination of convenience and necessity
   
110.07   Hearing; notices
   
110.08   Burden of proof
   
110.09   Revocation of certificate
   
110.10   Liability insurance required
   
110.11   Identification of vehicles
   
110.12   Rates and fares
   
110.13   Fee
§ 110.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSONS. When used in this chapter, shall mean and include both singular and
plural, and shall also mean and include persons, individuals, firms,
corporations, partnerships and associations.
   TAXICAB. When used in this chapter, shall be defined as any motor vehicle
seating nine or fewer passengers, operated upon any street or highway or call
on demand, accepting or soliciting passengers indiscriminately for hire between
such points along streets or highways as may be directed by the passenger or
passengers so being transported.
(1995 Code, § 6-1)
§ 110.02  UNLAWFUL TO OPERATE WITHOUT CERTIFICATE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a taxicab upon and over the
streets of the city without first having applied for and secured from the City
Council a certificate of convenience and necessity as hereinafter set forth.
(1995 Code, § 6-2)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.03  APPLICATION REQUIRED.
   Every person desiring to operate a taxicab upon and over the streets of the
city shall file on forms supplied by the City Clerk an application for
certificate of convenience and necessity.
(1995 Code, § 6-3)
§ 110.04  CITY COUNCIL ISSUES CERTIFICATES.
   The City Council shall have power and it will be its duty to order certain
certificates issued or refuse to issue certain certificates or to issue
certificates for partial exercise of the rights granted only such certificate
on such terms and conditions as in its judgment the public convenience and
necessity may require.
(1995 Code, § 6-4)
§ 110.05  TERM; RENEWAL.
   A certificate of convenience and necessity issued under the provisions of
this chapter shall constitute a franchise from the city for the operation of
taxicabs within the city subject to the provisions of this chapter for one
year, unless a shorter period of time is specified in the certificate.
Application for renewal shall be filed annually and hearings conducted as
provided by this chapter.
(1995 Code, § 6-5)
§ 110.06  DETERMINATION OF CONVENIENCE AND NECESSITY.
   (A)   In determining whether the public convenience and necessity require
the franchising of such taxicab or taxicabs, the City Council shall, among
other things, take into consideration the following factors:
      (1)   Whether or not the public convenience and necessity require such
proposed or additional taxicab service within the city;
      (2)   The financial responsibility for the applicant and the likelihood
of the proposed service being permanent, responsible and satisfactory;
      (3)   The number and condition of equipment;
      (4)   The schedule of proposed rates, if required, by the City Council to
be charged;
      (5)   The number of taxicabs now operated and the demand for increased
service, if any, and whether or not the safe use of the streets by the public,
both vehicular and pedestrian, will be preserved, and whether or not adequate
provision has been made for off-street parking of the taxicabs;
      (6)   The experience of the applicant in the taxicab business; and
      (7)   Such other relevant facts as may be deemed necessary and advisable.
   (B)   Before making any decision with respect to the issuance of a
certificate of convenience and necessity, the City Council shall make a full
and complete investigation of all facts, if it so desires, subpoena witnesses
and utilize the services of the Chief of Police or any other officer or
employee of the city.
(1995 Code, § 6-6)
§ 110.07  HEARING; NOTICES.
   Each application for a certificate of convenience and necessity shall be
scheduled for a hearing not later than 30 days after the same is filed, and the
applicant shall be notified by the City Clerk by mail to the business address
set forth in the application of the date and time of such hearing. Such
notification to be sent at least ten days before the date set for the hearing.
(1995 Code, § 6-7)
§ 110.08  BURDEN OF PROOF.
   The burden of proof shall be upon the applicant to establish the existence
of public convenience and necessity for the operation of the taxicab or
taxicabs specified in this application, and all other facts required for the
granting of a certificate.
(1995 Code, § 6-8)
§ 110.09  REVOCATION OF CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   The City Council may at any time after a public hearing revoke any
certificate issued by authority of this chapter for any one or more of the
following causes:
      (1)   Failure to operate the taxicab specified in the certificate in such
manner as to serve the public adequately and efficiently;
      (2)   Failure to maintain motor equipment in good repair;
      (3)   Failure to carry liability insurance or bond as required by law;
      (4)   Failure to pay the city taxes or license fees imposed upon such
taxicabs;
      (5)   Repeated and persistent violation by the taxicab drivers of traffic
and safety regulations and ordinances, or state laws or the provisions of this
code relating to alcoholic beverages, prostitution or gambling;
      (6)   Failure to comply with any provision of this code or other
ordinances or state laws relating to the operation of taxicabs;
      (7)   Failure to maintain off-street parking facilities;
      (8)   Failure to abide by and charge the fares scheduled in this chapter;
      (9)   Failure to operate one or more taxicabs for a period of 30 days;
and
      (10)   Failure to report accidents.
   (B)   No certificate of convenience and necessity shall be revoked until the
owner has had a least five days’ notice by personal service or registered mail
of the charges against him or her, and of the time and place of the hearing.
If, after the hearing, it is found that the owner is guilty of one or more of
the offenses listed herein, the City Council shall have the power to revoke the
certificate, or to condition the revocation upon compliance of its order within
any time fixed by it.
(1995 Code, § 6-9)
§ 110.10  LIABILITY INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   Each holder of a certificate of convenience and necessity under this
chapter, shall have in full force and effect on each vehicle being operated as
a taxicab upon and over the streets of the city sufficient liability insurance
with an insurance company licensed to operate and do business within the state.
Compliance with the above insurance provisions is declared to be a condition
precedent to the operation of any taxicab upon and over the streets of the
city.
(1995 Code, § 6-10)
§ 110.11  IDENTIFICATION OF VEHICLES.
   Every holder of a certificate of convenience and necessity for one or more
taxicabs under the provisions of this chapter shall display upon each of the
taxicabs identification of his or her taxicab name, telephone number and the
fact that it operates from the city. This identification shall be either by
dome lights or lettering on the exterior of the automobile. The lettering shall
be at least three inches in height. In the event that it is necessary to
replace any taxicab by another automobile, then a permit may be obtained from
the city for the temporary replacement of the vehicle.
(1995 Code, § 6-11)
§ 110.12  RATES AND FARES.
   Every holder of a certificate of convenience and necessity under this
chapter shall cause to be displayed in each taxicab under his or her control in
a conspicuous position when the same shall be plainly visible to passengers a
schedule of rates and fares to be charged.
(1995 Code, § 6-12)
§ 110.13  FEE.
   Any fee for a certificate of convenience and necessity issued pursuant to
the provisions of this chapter for a taxicab shall be as established by the
City Council, and available in the office of the Clerk.
(1995 Code, § 6-13)
CHAPTER 111:  GAME ROOMS AND OTHER PUBLIC AMUSEMENTS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Licenses required
   
111.03   Certain prohibitions to be observed by licensee and employees
   
111.04   Rules for operation
   
111.05   Licensee responsible
   
111.06   Revocation of licenses
   
111.07   Enforcement of chapter
§ 111.01  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   A GAME ROOM for the purpose of this chapter shall be any place of
business that operates three or more mechanical games, video games or pay
devices or tables for which charge is made either directly or indirectly.
   (B)   Examples of games rooms, by way of illustration and not limitation,
are poolrooms, bowling alleys, billiard halls, video arcades, amusement centers
and the like.
(1995 Code, § 6-14)
§ 111.02  LICENSES REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   Every owner of a game room shall apply for and obtain a license
from the City Council to operate a game room. Application for such a license
shall be made upon forms provided by the City Clerk.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to operate a game room within the city without
a license as required by this chapter.
   (B)   The City Council shall not issue a license to any applicant who:
      (1)   Has been convicted within the past two years of selling
intoxicating liquors and/or narcotic drugs, or of any felony;
      (2)   Is not a citizen and resident of the state; or
      (3)   Is a habitual user of intoxicating liquor or narcotic drugs.
   (C)   The license shall only authorize the operation of the game room by the
owner to whom the license is issued and at the location specified in the
application. Licenses shall not be transferrable and shall automatically expire
two years from date of issuance.
   (D)   Every license issued pursuant to this chapter shall specify the
premises for which it is used, the number of tables, alleys or games to be
operated, the name and address of the owner, and the dates upon which the
license begins and shall expire. Licenses shall be posted in a prominent place
on the premises at all times.
   (E)   An application fee of $25 shall be paid to and collected by the City
Clerk when the application is submitted to cover the cost of administration of
this chapter.
(1995 Code, § 6-15)
§ 111.03  CERTAIN PROHIBITIONS TO BE OBSERVED BY LICENSEE AND EMPLOYEES.
   Licensees under this chapter shall not directly or through their employees
and agent:
   (A)   Suffer or permit any gambling on the licensed premises at any time;
nor the sale or use of any racing, football or other parley cards;
   (B)   Suffer or permit the licensed premises to become disorderly; or permit
any profane, obscene or indecent language thereon;
   (C)   Suffer or permit any intoxicating liquors or narcotic drugs to be sold
or kept or consumed on the licensed premises;
   (D)   Employ any person who has been convicted in the past year of
unlawfully selling alcoholic beverages, narcotic drugs or any felony;
   (E)   Suffer or permit any school child between the ages of six and 16 years
to enter or remain upon the licensed premises between the hours of 8:00 a.m.
through 3:00 p.m. on days when the public schools are in session; or
   (F)   Suffer or permit the willful violation of any of the General Statutes
of the state.
(1995 Code, § 6-16)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.04  RULES FOR OPERATION.
   The following rules shall be observed by all operators of poolrooms, bowling
alleys and other amusements required to be licensed by this chapter within the
city.
   (A)   Game room establishments shall at all times be subject to entry by the
City Manager or police officers for the purpose of verifying compliance with
the terms and conditions of this chapter.
   (B)   All game rooms shall close no later than 1:00 a.m. Sunday through
Saturday. All game rooms may open no earlier than 6:00 a.m. Monday through
Saturday and no earlier than 1:00 p.m. on Sundays.
   (C)   Play on any tables, alleys or machines shall be allowed only during
the hours set forth herein.
   (D)   The establishments shall remain closed on Sundays, except as provided
in division (A) above.
   (E)   No game or device shall, however, be screened from view so as to not
be readily visible from within the premises.
   (F)   No screens, curtains, blinds, partitions or other obstruction shall be
placed between the entrance to the room where amusements or games are played
and the rear wall of the room. A clear view of the interior premises from the
entrance to the rear of the premises must be maintained at all times.
(1995 Code, § 6-17)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.05  LICENSEE RESPONSIBLE.
   The acts and conduct of the agents and employees of the licensee in the
conduct of the business shall be deemed to be the acts and conduct of the
licensee.
(1995 Code, § 6-18)
§ 111.06  REVOCATION OF LICENSES.
   After giving the operator of a game room adequate notice and an opportunity
to be heard, the City Council may revoke the license of any game room operator
who:
   (A)   Violates the provisions of this chapter; or
   (B)   Is convicted of unlawfully selling alcoholic beverages or narcotic
drugs.
(1995 Code, § 6-19)
§ 111.07  ENFORCEMENT OF CHAPTER.
   The provisions of this chapter may be enforced by any of the remedies
enumerated in G.S. § 160A-175.
(1995 Code, § 6-20)
CHAPTER 112:  MASSAGE PARLORS AND HEALTH SALONS
Section
   
112.01   Purpose
   
112.02   Definitions
   
112.03   License required
   
112.04   Application for license
   
112.05   Names of employees to be filed
   
112.06   Issuance of license; expiration
   
112.07   What applicants shall not be licensed
   
112.08   Enforcement and revocation of license
   
112.09   Hours of operation
   
112.10   Treatment of persons of the opposite sex restricted
   
112.11   Area of massage restricted
   
112.12   Patronage of massage parlors by minors restricted; duty of operators
   
112.13   Applicability
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01  PURPOSE.
   In order to protect the general health, safety, welfare and morals, the
licensing provisions hereinafter specified are ordained for the privilege of
carrying on the business, trade or profession of masseur or masseuse and for
the operation of carrying on the businesses, trades or professions commonly
known as massage parlors, health salons, physical culture studios, clubs or
establishments, or similar establishments by whatever name designated, wherein
physical culture, massage, hydrotherapy or other physical treatment of the
human body is carried on or practiced. The provisions of this chapter shall not
apply to a regularly established and licensed hospital, sanitarium, nursing
home or medical clinic, or to the office or clinic operated by a duly qualified
and licensed medical practitioner, osteopath or osteopathy; provided, however,
that such office or clinic is regularly used by the medical practitioner,
chiropractor or osteopath as his or her principal location for his or her
practice of medicine, chiropractor or osteopathy.
(1995 Code, § 6-21)  (Ord. passed 6-5-1975)
§ 112.02  DEFINITIONS.
   A male person who applies manual or mechanical massage or similar treatment
to the human body trunk or limbs shall be deemed within the terms of this
chapter a MASSEUR; and a female person so engaged, a MASSEUSE.
(1995 Code, § 6-22)  (Ord. passed 6-5-1975)
§ 112.03  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, firm or corporation shall engage in the business, trade or
profession of masseur or masseuse or the operation or carrying on of any of the
businesses, trades, professions, occupations or callings mentioned in §
112.01 unless such person, firm or corporation has first been licensed under
the provisions of this chapter.
(1995 Code, § 6-23)  (Ord. passed 6-5-1975)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04  APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Every person, firm or corporation desiring a license under the
provisions of this chapter shall submit to the City Manager a written
application upon the approved form furnished by the city.
   (B)   Such application shall be addressed to the Mayor and City Council and
shall include the following:
      (1)   Name and address of applicant. Corporate applicants shall include
the names and addresses of all officers of the corporation, together with
certified copy of the articles of incorporation. Partnerships shall include the
name and addresses of all partners;
      (2)   Names and addresses of at least two individuals who are familiar
with the moral character of the applicant and who have provided written
recommendations showing proof of good moral character, which recommendations
shall be attached to the application and become a part thereof; and, in case
the applicant is a corporation, such corporation must be created in, or
domesticated by the laws of this state and each officer thereof shall provide
the same proof of moral character as all other applicants;
      (3)   A statement by the applicant that he or she is free from infectious
disease evidenced by a valid health certificate from a medical doctor which
shall be attached to the application and become a part thereof; and
      (4)   The date of birth of the applicant, to be evidenced by a certified
copy of the applicant’s birth certificate, which shall be attached to the
application and become a part thereof.
(1995 Code, § 6-24)  (Ord. passed 6-5-1975)
§ 112.05  NAMES OF EMPLOYEES TO BE FILED.
   It shall be the duty of all persons holding a license hereunder to file with
the City Manager the names of all employees, their home addresses, home
telephone numbers and other places of employment, if any. Changes in the list
of employees with the names of new employees must be filed with the City
Manager within seven days from the date of such changes.
(1995 Code, § 6-25)  (Ord. passed 6-5-1975)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.06  ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; EXPIRATION.
   If the application is submitted in proper form and is approved by the City
Council, then the Tax Collector shall forthwith issue an appropriate license to
the applicant, upon the payment of any applicable privilege license fee. Every
license issued under the provisions of this chapter shall expire at 12:00
midnight on June 30 following the date of issuance.
(1995 Code, § 6-26)  (Ord. passed 6-5-1975)
§ 112.07  WHAT APPLICANTS SHALL NOT BE LICENSED.
   A license hereunder shall not be issued to any applicant under the age of 18
years, and no license shall be issued to any corporate applicant if any of its
officers shall be under the age of 18 years.
(1995 Code, § 6-27)  (Ord. passed 6-5-1975)
§ 112.08  ENFORCEMENT AND REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Cause for revocation of the license shall exist for the failure of the
licensee to perform any duty required by this chapter, for violation of any
provision of this chapter, or for conviction of the licensee of any crime
involving moral turpitude. Grounds shall also exist if, by reason of the nature
or the manner or place in which the licensee conducts business, a nuisance and
menace to good order, public health, safety or morals is created.
   (B)   Before any license required hereunder shall be revoked, the City
Council shall cause to be sent by registered mail a written notice to the
licensee stating the specific alleged grounds for revocation and setting forth
the date, time and place of a hearing, which hearing shall take place ten days
or more after the mailing of the notice. At the hearing, the licensee shall be
given an opportunity to appear and be heard, either personally or through his
or her attorney, to rebut any evidence against him or her and to present
evidence and witnesses in his or her behalf. If the licensee fails to show good
cause why his or her license should not be revoked. The City Council may revoke
said license upon a finding that good cause exists for revocation.
(1995 Code, § 6-28)  (Ord. passed 6-5-1975)
§ 112.09  HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No masseur or masseuse or any person or party engaging in any of the
businesses licensed by this chapter shall engage in such business, trade,
profession, occupation or calling except within and between the hours of 8:00
a.m. and 10:00 p.m.; nor shall any operator of a massage parlor or
establishment or business above enumerated and not specifically excepted
hereunder, operate the same except within and between the aforesaid hours.
(1995 Code, § 6-29)  (Ord. passed 6-5-1975)
§ 112.10  TREATMENT OF PERSONS OF THE OPPOSITE SEX RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person holding a license under this chapter to
treat a person of the opposite sex, except upon the signed order of a licensed
physician, osteopath, chiropractor or registered physical therapist, which
order shall be dated and shall specifically state the number of treatments, not
to exceed ten. The date and hour of each treatment given and the name of the
operator shall be entered on such order by the establishment where such
treatments are given and shall be subject to inspection by the police at any
reasonable time. The requirements of this section shall not apply to treatments
given in the residence of a patient, the office of a licensed physician,
osteopath or registered physical therapist, chiropractor or in a regularly
established and licensed hospital or sanitarium.
(1995 Code, § 6-30)  (Ord. passed 6-5-1975)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.11  AREA OF MASSAGE RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person holding a license under this chapter to
massage, treat or otherwise manipulate the genital area of another.
(1995 Code, § 6-31)  (Ord. passed 6-5-1975)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.12  PATRONAGE OF MASSAGE PARLORS BY MINORS RESTRICTED; DUTY OF OPERATORS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 18 to patronize
any massage parlor or similar establishment licensed hereunder unless such
person carries with him or her at the time of such patronage a written order,
directing the treatment to be given, signed by a regularly licensed physician.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the operator of every massage parlor or
similar establishment licensed hereunder to determine and have verification of
the age of the persons patronizing such establishment, and violation of this
section shall be grounds for the revocation of the license of the
establishment.
(1995 Code, § 6-32)  (Ord. passed 6-5-1975)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.13  APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this chapter with respect to the original issuance of
license shall not apply to those engaged in the businesses, trades,
professions, occupations or callings enumerated above who have been regularly
licensed by the city or who have been so engaged in the city for a period of
three years or more prior to the adoption of this chapter; provided, however
that the provisions of this chapter shall apply to all such businesses, trades,
professions, occupations or callings from and after the date of adoption of
this chapter and all said businesses, trades, professions, occupations or
callings shall be properly licensed as provided herein.
(1995 Code, § 6-33)  (Ord. passed 6-5-1975)
§ 112.99  PENALTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to violate any of
the licensing provisions relative to masseurs, masseuses, massage parlors,
health salons and clubs, and a violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter shall constitute a misdemeanor, as provided by G.S. 14-4, and shall be
grounds for revocation of any license hereunder.
(1995 Code, § 6-34)  (Ord. passed 6-5-1975)
CHAPTER 113:  SECONDHAND PRECIOUS METAL BUSINESSES
Section
   
113.01   License required
   
113.02   Secondhand precious metal business defined
   
113.03   Investigation of license applicant
   
113.04   License denial or revocation
   
113.05   Records of transactions
   
113.06   Goods to be kept for seven days
   
113.07   Purchasing from juvenile
   
113.08   Use of unlicensed premises prohibited; exception
§ 113.01  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person, partnership, corporation or association shall operate a
secondhand precious metal business as hereby defined unless such person,
partnership, corporation or association shall have first applied for and
received a privilege license from the City Tax Collector. A separate license
shall be required for each location, place or premises used for the conduct of
a secondhand previous metal business, and each license shall designate the
location, place or premises to which it applies. In addition, such businesses
shall not be carried on or conducted in any other place other than that
designated in or by such license.
   (B)   Every employee of a secondhand precious metal business shall, within
five days of being employed, register his or her name and address with the
Police Department and have his or her thumbprints, fingerprints and photograph
taken by the Police Department. Such employee shall then be issued by the
Police Department a certificate of compliance with this section.
(1995 Code, § 6-35)  (Ord. passed 10-21-1980)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.02  SECONDHAND PRECIOUS METAL BUSINESS DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SECONDHAND ARTICLE. An article which has been used or which has been
previously traded or sold by a retailer. The term SECONDHAND ARTICLE shall not
include any coin or any gold or silver ingot or bar.
   SECONDHAND PRECIOUS METAL BUSINESS. Any person, firm, corporation or
association engaged in the business of purchasing, trading for or otherwise
acquiring ownership of any secondhand article made, in whole or in part, of
gold, silver or platinum.
(1995 Code, § 6-36)  (Ord. passed 10-21-1980)
§ 113.03  INVESTIGATION OF LICENSE APPLICANT.
   (A)   Any person applying to the City Tax Collector for a license to conduct
the business of a secondhand precious metal dealer shall also report to the
Police Department and furnish his or her full name, address, physical
description, age, North Carolina driver’s license number (if applicable), and
Social Security number to assist in an investigation of his or her criminal
record and character. In addition, the applicant will be photographed and
fingerprinted in order to facilitate the investigation.
   (B)   In the event the applicant is a partnership or association, all
persons owning or having an interest therein shall comply with the provisions
of division (A) above.
   (C)   In the case of a corporate applicant, each stockholder owning 10% or
more of the corporation’s common stock shall comply with the provisions of
division (A) above.
(1995 Code, § 6-37)  (Ord. passed 10-21-1980)
§ 113.04  LICENSE DENIAL OR REVOCATION.
   (A)   No license shall be issued to any applicant if any of the persons
required to be investigated under §
111.02 has been convicted of any felony or of a crime involving fraud, theft or
receiving or possessing stolen property in the five years immediately preceding
the date of the license application.
   (B)   The conviction of any person required to be investigated under §
111.02 for any felony or for any crime involving fraud, theft, or receiving or
possessing stolen property or for any violation of this chapter shall
constitute grounds for immediate revocation by the City Council of the
privilege license issued to such secondhand precious metal business.
(1995 Code, § 6-38)  (Ord. passed 10-21-1980)
§ 113.05  RECORDS OF TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   Every secondhand precious metal business shall keep a tightly bound
book or books, not looseleaf, with pages numbered in sequence, in which there
shall be legibly written at the time of any transaction with a nonlicensee
involving the purchasing of, trading for or acquiring of ownership of any
secondhand article made, in whole or in part, of gold or silver or platinum,
the following information:
      (1)   An account and description of the item, article or thing purchased,
traded for or taken in, including, if applicable, the manufacturer’s name, the
model, the model number, the serial number and any engraved number, initial or
marking;
      (2)   The amount of money involved in the transaction or any item offered
in trade;
      (3)   The date of the transaction;
      (4)   The name and residence of the person involved in the transaction
with the secondhand precious metal business, along with the person’s date of
birth and general physical description, including hair color and approximate
height and weight; and
      (5)   A notation whether the item, article or thing is stored on the
licensed premises or elsewhere.
   (B)   No transaction involving purchase, trading for or taking in a
secondhand article made, in whole or in part, of gold, silver or platinum shall
be completed by any secondhand precious metal business or any agent or employee
thereof until the person involved in the transaction presents two forms of
positive identification or one state or federal government issued
identification containing a photographic representation imprinted thereon. This
identification information shall be recorded next to the person’s name and
residence in the book required to be kept pursuant to division (A) above.
   (C)   The books required by this section, shall be a permanent record to be
kept at all times on the premises of the secondhand precious metal business.
Such books shall be made available, during regular business hours, to any law
enforcement officer. A full and accurate copy of the records required to be
kept by this section shall be filed with the Police Department within 48 hours
of the transaction. The full and accurate filing with the Police Department of
the records required hereunder by a licensee which is also a licensed
pawnbroker shall constitute compliance with the filing provisions of G.S. § 66-
410 for any transaction subject to the provisions thereof.
   (D)   The books need not be kept longer than three years by the licensee.
(1995 Code, § 6-39)  (Ord. passed 10-21-1980)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.06  GOODS TO BE KEPT FOR SEVEN DAYS.
   Every secondhand precious metal business must keep all secondhand articles
made, in whole or in part, of gold or silver or platinum, available for
inspection by an law enforcement officer at reasonable times for a period of
seven days after the purchase or acquisition thereof in any transaction subject
to the provisions of §
113.05(C). During this period the appearance for such articles shall not be
altered in any way. A secondhand precious metal business is not prohibited from
selling or arranging to sell or trade such articles during the seven-day period
as long as such articles remain in its possession as required by this section.
(1995 Code, § 6-40)  (Ord. passed 10-21-1980)
§ 113.07  PURCHASING FROM JUVENILE.
   No secondhand precious metal business or employee or agent thereof shall
purchase from any juvenile under 18 years of age any secondhand article made,
in whole or in part, of gold or silver or platinum without the written consent
of the juvenile’s parent or guardian or presentation of proof of ownership.
(1995 Code, § 6-41)  (Ord. passed 10-21-1980)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.08  USE OF UNLICENSED PREMISES PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   No secondhand precious metal business shall make use of any property or
premises, not included within the premises designated in or by the license
required by this chapter, for the display of any secondhand article, made in
whole or in part, of gold silver or platinum or for the conduct of a secondhand
precious metal business. This chapter does not prohibit the storage or
safekeeping of any such secondhand article off of the licensed premises.
(1995 Code, § 6-42)  (Ord. passed 10-21-1980)
CHAPTER 114: TEMPORARY VENDORS
Section
   
114.01   Temporary vendors prohibited during December
§ 114.01  TEMPORARY VENDORS PROHIBITED DURING DECEMBER.
   (A)   No person may, during the month of December, operate a temporary
concession along the route from Exit 22 off of I-85 onto S. Main Street,
continuing across the railroad tracks to N. Main Street, turning right onto
McAdenville Road, across I-85 bridge into the town limits of McAdenville, North
Carolina. A temporary concession shall include, but not be limited to: the
selling or giving away of any goods, food, beverages, merchandise, literature
or services or in any other way solicit persons within the city limits.
   (B)   No existing business may between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and 11:00 p.m.
during the month of December engage in any of the following:
      (1)   Outside sale or display of merchandise;
      (2)   Outdoor advertising not used on a year-round basis;
      (3)   Erection of outdoor temporary showrooms;
      (4)   Outside serving or dining areas not used on a year-round basis; or
      (5)   Charging for or renting of parking spaces.
   (C)   No person may conduct or participate in any activity during the month
of December and between the hours of 5:00 p.m. and 11:00 p.m. that disrupts in
any manner or impedes in any manner vehicular or pedestrian traffic.
(Ord. passed 10-9-2018)
TITLE XIII:  GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130:  GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
General Provisions
   
130.01   Unnecessary noise
   
130.02   Posting of printed matter
   
130.03   Prohibited activities in city recreation areas
   
130.04   Begging and solicitation, prohibited conduct
Disorderly Conduct
   
130.20   Profanity and boisterous conduct
   
130.21   Discharge of firearms and other weapons
   
130.22   Disturbing public meetings
   
130.23   Injuring property of city
   
130.24   Alcoholic beverage use and possession
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 130.01  UNNECESSARY NOISE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to create or
assist in creating, permit, continue or permit the continuance of any
unreasonably loud, disturbing and unnecessary noise in the city. Noise of such
character, intensity and duration as to be detrimental to the life or health of
any individual is prohibited.
   (B)   The following acts, among others, are declared to be loud, disturbing
and unnecessary noises in violation of this section, but said enumeration shall
not be deemed to be exclusive, namely:
      (1)   The sounding of any horn or signal device or any device on any
automobile, motorcycle, bus or other vehicle while not in motion, except as a
danger signal if another vehicle is approaching apparently out of control, or
if in motion only as a danger signal after or as brakes are being applied and
deceleration of the vehicle is intended; the creation by means of any such
signal device of any unreasonably loud or harsh sound; and the sounding of such
device for an unnecessary and unreasonable period of time;
      (2)   The use of any gong or siren upon any vehicle, other than police,
fire or other emergency vehicle;
      (3)   The use or operation of any piano, manual, or automatic,
phonograph, radio, loud speaker or any other instrument or sound amplifying
devices so loudly as to disturb persons in the vicinity thereof, or in such a
manner as renders the same a public nuisance; provided, however, that upon
application to the Chief of Police, permits may be granted to responsible
organizations to produce programs in music, speeches or general entertainment;
      (4)   The keeping of any animal or bird which by causing frequent or long
continued noise shall disturb the comfort and repose of any person in the
vicinity;
      (5)   The use of any automobile, motorcycle or other vehicle so out of
repair, so loaded or in such manner as to create loud or unnecessary grating,
grinding, rattling or other noise;
      (6)   The blowing of any steam whistle attached to any stationary boiler
except to give notice of the time to begin or stop work or as a warning of
danger;
      (7)   The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any steam engine,
stationary internal combustion engine, motor vehicle except through a muffler
or other device which will effectively prevent loud or explosive noises
therefrom;
      (8)   The use of any mechanical device operated by compressed air unless
the noise created thereby is effectively muffled and reduced;
      (9)   The erection (including excavation), demolition, alteration or
repair of any building in a residential or business district other than between
the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on weekdays, except in the case of urgent
necessity in the interest of public safety and then only with a permit from the
Building Inspector, which permit may be renewed for a period of three days or
less while the emergency continues;
      (10)   The creation of any excessive noise on any street adjacent to any
school, institution of learning or court while the same are in session; or
within 150 feet of any hospital, which unreasonably interferes with the working
of such institution, provided conspicuous signs are displayed in such streets
indicating that the same are school, court or hospital streets;
      (11)   The creation of any excessive noise on Sundays on any street
adjacent to any church, provided conspicuous signs are displayed in such
streets adjacent to churches indicating that the same are church streets;
      (12)   The creation of loud and excessive noise in connection with
loading or unloading any vehicle or the opening and destruction of bales,
boxes, crates and containers;
      (13)   The sounding of any bell or gong attached to any building or
premises which disturbs the quiet or repose of persons in the vicinity thereof;
      (14)   The shouting and crying of peddlers, barkers, hawkers and vendors
which disturbs the quiet and peace of the neighborhood; or anyone shouting
within the corporate limits so as to disturb the peace and quiet of the
neighborhood;
      (15)   The use of any drum, loud speaker or other instrument or device
for the purpose of attracting attention by creation of noise to any
performance, show or sale or display of merchandise;
      (16)   The use of any mechanical loud speakers or amplifiers on trucks or
other moving vehicles for advertising purposes or other purposes except where
specific license is received from the City Council;
      (17)   The conducting, operating or maintaining of any garage or filling
station in any residential district so as to cause loud or offensive noises to
be emitted therefrom between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.; and
      (18)   The firing or discharging of a gun, squibs, crackers, gunpowder or
other combustible substance in the streets or elsewhere for the purpose of
making noise or disturbance, except by permit from the City Council.
(1995 Code, § 8-38)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate noises, see G.S. § 160A-184
§ 130.02  POSTING OF PRINTED MATTER.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to post, nail, stick or otherwise
affix bills, posters, advertisements, notices or any other printed or graphic
matter upon public property in the city. This section shall not apply to
notices, signs or advertisements required to be posted by law, signs or plates
on residential premises giving the name or address of the occupant, mail boxes
or newspaper tubes, municipal, county, state and federal traffic signs,
historical markers, monuments or signs erected by public authority, temporary
displays as a part of customary holiday decorations, and signs denoting the
location of underground utilities.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to nail,
stick or otherwise affix bills, posters, advertisements, notices or other
printed or graphic matter upon private property within the city without the
consent of the owner.
(1995 Code, § 8-39)  (Ord. passed 9-5-1961)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.03  PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES IN CITY RECREATION AREAS.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, the term CITY RECREATION AREAS means and
includes the city’s ball park and recreation center, the city’s Joe Hudson
Neighborhood Park, and the city’s community center building (Teacherage) and
park.
   (B)   Within or upon the premises of any city recreation areas, it shall be
unlawful for any person:
      (1)   To have or possess any weapon, any intoxicating beverage, any
contraband or any controlled substances as defined in G.S. Ch. 90, Art. 5;
      (2)   To litter, discard trash, cans, bottles or other debris within said
park in any area other than within a receptacle provided therefor;
      (3)   To deface, mar, paint or otherwise disfigure any portions of any
building or land including any fixtures and equipment thereon;
      (4)   To have any bicycle or motor vehicles, including motorcycles, dirt
bikes and mopeds, at any place other than public vehicular parking areas; or
      (5)   To violate G.S. § 14-132, relating to disorderly conduct in and
injuries to public buildings.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to enter or go upon the following
city recreation areas between the hours herein set forth, unless such areas are
open to the public generally during such hours:
      (1)   Ball park and recreation center: 11:00 p.m. until 7:00 a.m.; 6:00
p.m. until 11:00 p.m. on Wednesday; 7:00 a.m. until 1:00 p.m. and 5:00 p.m.
until 11:00 p.m. on Sunday;
      (2)   Joe Hudson Neighborhood Park: 10:00 p.m. until 7:00 a.m.; and
      (3)   Community center building (Teacherage) and park: 10:00 p.m. until
7:00 a.m.
   (D)   Signs shall be prominently located within each city recreation area
setting the words “No Trespassing” and the hours set forth in division (C)
above.
   (E)   In addition to the above prohibited activities, it shall be unlawful
for any person to have or possess within the boundaries of the city’s ball park
and recreation center any glass container unless that person is one of the
authorized personnel providing concessions for any and all activities within
said park and recreation center.
(1995 Code, § 8-40)  (Ord. passed 5-19-1980; Ord. passed 8-18-1980; Ord. passed
10-20-1980; Ord. passed 3-21-1983; Ord. passed 5-16-1983)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.04  BEGGING AND SOLICITATION, PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to ask, beg, solicit or offer to
work for money or any other thing having value by:
      (1)   Accosting another; or
      (2)   Forcing oneself upon the company of another.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, ASK, BEG, SOLICIT OR OFFER TO WORK FOR
shall include, without limitation, the spoken, written or printed word or such
other acts as are conducted in furtherance of the permitted activity.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, ACCOSTING shall be defined as
approaching or speaking to an individual or individuals in such manner as would
cause a reasonable person to fear imminent bodily harm or the commission of a
criminal act upon his or her person, or upon property in his or her immediate
possession.
   (D)   For purposes of this section, FORCING ONESELF UPON THE COMPANY OF
ANOTHER shall be defined as:
      (1)   Continuing to request, beg, solicit or offer to work in close
proximity to the individual addressed after the person to whom the request is
directed has made a negative response;
      (2)   Blocking the passage of the individual addressed whether such
person be within or without a motor vehicle or upon any other conveyance; or
      (3)   Otherwise engaging in conduct which could reasonably be construed
as intended to compel or force a person to such demands.
(Ord. passed 5- -2010)  Penalty, see §
10.99
DISORDERLY CONDUCT
§ 130.20  PROFANITY AND BOISTEROUS CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use loud, boisterous or profane
language in any public place in a manner as to create a public disturbance.
(1995 Code, § 8-1)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Offenses against the public peace, see G.S. Ch. 14, Art. 35
§ 130.21  DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS AND OTHER WEAPONS.
   (A)   No person shall employ himself or herself in hunting or discharging
firearms, including air rifles, spring rifles, and bows and arrows, within the
corporate limits of the city; provided, that this section shall apply only to
hunting and discharging firearms and shall not apply to the coursing of game
within the city when the person or persons in charge of said coursing of game
by hound or other domestic animal shall not have in his or her possession any
firearm, air rifle, spring gun or other device capable of propelling a
projectile of any size or nature, and there is likewise excepted from the
prohibition of this section sponsored shooting events or matches conducted for
nonprofit organization.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (A) above, upon proper
application to the City Manager, a permit may be issued to authorize the
destruction, by discharge of firearms and other approved methods of pigeons,
crows, starlings, English sparrows and other animals or birds not protected by
law.
(1995 Code, § 8-2)  (Ord. passed 9-30-1957; Ord. passed 1-6-1959)  Penalty, see
§
10.99
§ 130.22  DISTURBING PUBLIC MEETINGS.
   It shall be unlawful to behave in a boisterous or indecent manner or to
create any disturbance at or near any public entertainment or meeting.
(1995 Code, § 8-3)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.23  INJURING PROPERTY OF CITY.
   It shall be unlawful to injure, damage, deface, trespass upon, break or
injure any property belonging to the city.
(1995 Code, § 8-4)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.24  ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE USE AND POSSESSION.
   It shall be unlawful:
   (A)   For any person to drink, possess or make any public display of any
beer, wine, liquor or any other type of alcoholic beverage at any athletic
contest in the city;
   (B)   For any person to drink beer, wine, liquor or any other type of
alcoholic beverage or to make any display thereof if the cap or seal on the
container for the same has been or is open or broken on any public road,
highway, street or parking area in the city;
   (C)   For any person to transport or possess in the passenger area of any
motor vehicle within the city any beer, wine, liquor or any other type of
alcoholic beverage if the cap or seal on the container for the same has been or
is open or broken; or
   (D)   For any person to possess or consume any beer, wine, liquor or any
other type of alcoholic beverage in the city where the consumption of alcoholic
beverages is not authorized by law, or where said person or any member of the
general public has been forbidden to possess or consume beer, wine, liquor or
any other type of alcoholic beverage by the owner, operator or person in charge
of said premises.
(1995 Code, § 8-5)  (Ord. passed 2-3-1969)  Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XV:  LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES
      
152.   HISTORIC PROPERTIES COMMISSION
CHAPTER 150:  BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Adoption of Regulatory Codes by Reference
   
150.001   Scope of subchapter and codes
   
150.002   Building Code adopted
   
150.003   Plumbing Code adopted
   
150.004   Heating Code adopted
   
150.005   Electrical Code adopted
   
150.006   Residential Building Code
   
150.007   Amendments to Codes
   
150.008   Compliance with Codes
   
150.009   Copies of Codes filed with Clerk
Inspections Department
   
150.020   Designation of county department for inspections
   
150.021   Enforcement of authority of County Inspections Department
   
150.022   Enforcement of zoning ordinance
   
150.023   Enforcement of Uniform Standards Code for Mobile Homes
Minimum Housing Code
   
150.035   Finding; purpose
   
150.036   Definitions
   
150.037   Minimum standards of fitness for dwellings and dwelling units
   
150.038   Minimum standards for structural condition
   
150.039   Minimum standards for basic equipment and facilities
   
150.040   Minimum standards for ventilation
   
150.041   Minimum standards for space, use and location
   
150.042   Minimum standards for safe and sanitary maintenance
   
150.043   Minimum standards for control of insects, rodents and infestation
   
150.044   Minimum standards applicable to rooming houses; exceptions
   
150.045   Responsibilities of owners and occupants
   
150.046   Duties of Building Inspector
   
150.047   Powers of the Building Inspector
   
150.048   Inspections; duty of owners and occupants
   
150.049   Procedure for enforcement
   
150.050   Methods of service of complaints and orders
   
150.051   In rem action by Inspector; placarding
   
150.052   Costs a lien on premises
   
150.053   Alternative remedies
   
150.054   Zoning Board of Adjustment to hear appeals
   
150.055   Conflict with other provisions
Property Numbering
   
150.070   Numbering map
   
150.071   Numbering system
   
150.072   Numbers for future buildings
   
150.073   Unlawful to deface numbers
   
150.074   Display of numbers required
Abandoned Structures
   
150.085   Findings; intent
   
150.086   Duties of the Building Inspector
   
150.087   Powers of the Building Inspector
   
150.088   Standards for enforcement
   
150.089   Procedure for enforcement
   
150.090   Methods of service of complaints and orders
   
150.091   In rem action by Inspector; placarding
   
150.092   Costs of lien on premises
   
150.093   Alternative remedies
   
150.094   Zoning Board of Adjustment to hear appeals
   
150.095   Conflict with other provisions
 
   
150.999   Penalty
ADOPTION OF REGULATORY CODES BY REFERENCE
§ 150.001  SCOPE OF SUBCHAPTER AND CODES.
   The provisions of this subchapter and of the regulatory codes herein adopted
shall apply to the following:
   (A)   The location, design, materials, equipment, construction,
reconstruction, alteration, repair, maintenance, moving, demolition, removal,
use and occupancy of every building or structure or any appurtenances connected
or attached to such building or structure;
   (B)   The installation, erection, alteration, repair, use and maintenance of
plumbing systems consisting of house sewers, building drains, waste and vent
systems, hot and cold water supply systems and all fixtures and appurtenances
thereof;
   (C)   The installation, erection, alteration, repair, use and maintenance of
mechanical systems consisting of heating, ventilating, air conditioning and
refrigeration systems, fuel burning equipment and appurtenances thereof; and
   (D)   The installation, erection, alteration, repair, use and maintenance of
electrical systems and appurtenances thereof.
(1995 Code, § 9-1)  (Ord. passed 9-18-1978)
§ 150.002  BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   The current edition of the North Carolina State Building Code (Volume I,
General Construction), as adopted by the North Carolina Building Code Council
and as amended, is hereby adopted by reference as fully as though set forth
herein.
(1995 Code, § 9-2)  (Ord. passed 9-18-1978)
§ 150.003  PLUMBING CODE ADOPTED.
   The current edition of the North Carolina Plumbing Code (North Carolina
State Building Code, Volume II, Plumbing) as adopted by the North Carolina
Building Code Council and as amended, is hereby adopted by reference as fully
as though set forth herein.
(1995 Code, § 9-3)  (Ord. passed 9-18-1978)
§ 150.004  HEATING CODE ADOPTED.
   The current edition of the North Carolina Heating Code (North Carolina State
Building Code, Volume III, Heating) as adopted by the North Carolina Building
Code Council and as amended, is hereby adopted by reference as fully as though
set forth herein.
(1995 Code, § 9-4)  (Ord. passed 9-18-1978)
§ 150.005  ELECTRICAL CODE ADOPTED.
   The current edition of the North Carolina Electrical Code (North Carolina
State Building Code, Volume IV, Electrical) as adopted by the North Carolina
Building Code Council and as amended, is hereby adopted by reference as fully
as though set forth herein.
(1995 Code, § 9-5)  (Ord. passed 9-18-1978)
§ 150.006  RESIDENTIAL BUILDING CODE.
   The current edition of the North Carolina Uniform Residential Building Code,
as adopted by the North Carolina Building Code Council and as amended is hereby
adopted by reference as fully as though set forth herein.
(1995 Code, § 9-6)  (Ord. passed 9-18-1978)
§ 150.007  AMENDMENTS TO CODES.
   Amendments to the regulatory codes adopted by reference herein, which are
from time to time adopted and published by the agencies or organizations
referred to herein, shall be effective in the city at the time the amendments
are filed with the City Clerk or Building Inspector as provided in §
150.009.
(1995 Code, § 9-7)  (Ord. passed 9-18-1978)
§ 150.008  COMPLIANCE WITH CODES.
   (A)   All buildings or structures which are hereafter constructed,
reconstructed, erected, altered, extended, enlarged, repaired, demolished or
moved shall conform to the requirements, minimum standards and other provisions
of either the North Carolina State Building Code, General Construction, Volume
1 or the North Carolina Uniform Residential State Building Code, whichever is
applicable, or of both if both are applicable.
   (B)   Every building of structure intended for human habitation, occupancy
or use shall have plumbing, plumbing systems or plumbing fixtures installed,
constructed, altered, extended, repaired or reconstructed in accordance with
the minimum standards, requirements and other provisions of the North Carolina
Plumbing Code (North Carolina State Building Code, Volume II, Plumbing).
   (C)   All mechanical systems consisting of heating, ventilating, air
conditioning and refrigeration systems, fuel burning equipment and
appurtenances shall be installed, erected, altered, repaired, used and
maintained in accordance with the minimum standards, requirements and other
provisions of the North Carolina Heating Code (North Carolina State Building
Code, Volume III, Heating).
   (D)   All electrical wiring, installations and appurtenances shall be
erected, altered, repaired, used and maintained in accordance with the minimum
standards, requirements and other provisions of the North Carolina Electrical
Code (North Carolina State Building Code, Volume IV, Electrical).
(1995 Code, § 9-8)  (Ord. passed 9-18-1978)
§ 150.009  COPIES OF CODES FILED WITH CLERK.
   (A)   An official copy of each regulatory code adopted herein, and official
copies of all amendments thereto, shall be kept on file in the office of the
Building Inspector.
   (B)   The copies shall be the official copies of the codes and the
amendments.
(1995 Code, § 9-9)  (Ord. passed 9-18-1978)
INSPECTIONS DEPARTMENT
§ 150.020  DESIGNATION OF COUNTY DEPARTMENT FOR INSPECTIONS.
   The County Building Inspection Department is hereby designated as the
enforcement agency of the city.
(1995 Code, § 9-10)  (Ord. passed 9-18-1978)
§ 150.021  ENFORCEMENT OF AUTHORITY OF COUNTY INSPECTIONS DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The Building Inspector of the county and the County Inspection
Department are hereby authorized, empowered and directed to exercise in all
respects the powers granted by this subchapter within the corporate limits of
the city and within the extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the city until
such time as the City Council shall officially withdraw such authority.
Inspection fees for inspections performed by the County Inspections Department
shall be collected by or paid to the county.
   (B)   The County Building Inspector is hereby authorized and directed to
establish such administrative procedures as may in his or her opinion be
necessary to accomplish the authority granted him or her and the County
Inspections Department by this section.
(1995 Code, § 9-11)  (Ord. passed 9-18-1978)
§ 150.022  ENFORCEMENT OF ZONING ORDINANCE.
   The County Inspections Department is not charged with enforcement of the
zoning ordinance; however, no permit for alteration, repair or construction of
any building or structure shall be issued until a zoning permit has first been
issued by the appropriate official charged with enforcement of the city zoning
ordinance.
(1995 Code, § 9-12)  (Ord. passed 9-18-1978)
§ 150.023  ENFORCEMENT OF UNIFORM STANDARDS CODE FOR MOBILE HOMES.
   The County Inspections Department shall, upon the direction of the City
Council, be responsible for enforcing the North Carolina Uniform Standards Code
for Mobile Homes (G.S. Ch. 143, Art. 9A), including any design and construction
standards incorporated therein by reference.
(1995 Code, § 9-13)  (Ord. passed 9-18-1978)
MINIMUM HOUSING CODE
§ 150.035  FINDING; PURPOSE.
   (A)   Pursuant to G.S. § 160A-441, it is hereby found and declared that
there exist in the city dwellings which are unfit for human habitation due to
dilapidation, defects increasing the hazards of fire, accidents and other
calamities, lack of ventilation, light and sanitary facilities, and due to
other conditions rendering such dwellings unsafe or unsanitary, and dangerous
and detrimental to the health, safety and morals, and otherwise harmful or
adverse to the welfare of the residents of the city.
   (B)   In order to protect the health, safety and welfare of the residents of
the city, it is the purpose of this subchapter to establish minimum standards
of fitness for the initial and continued occupancy of all buildings used for
human habitation, as expressly authorized by G.S. § 160A-444.
(1995 Code, § 9-14)  (Ord. passed 3-14-1978)
§ 150.036  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASEMENT. A portion of a building which is located partly underground,
having direct access to light and air from windows located above the level of
adjoining ground.
   CELLAR. A portion of a building located partly or wholly underground having
an inadequate access to light and air from windows located partly or wholly
below the level of the adjoining ground.
   DETERIORATED. That a dwelling is unfit for human habitation and can be
repaired, altered or improved to comply with all of the minimum standards
established by this subchapter, at a cost not in excess of 50% of its value, as
determined by finding of the Inspector.
   DILAPIDATED. That a dwelling is unfit for human habitation and cannot be
repaired, altered or improved to comply with all of the minimum standards
established by this subchapter at a cost not in excess of 50% of its value, as
determined by finding of the Inspector.
   DWELLING. Any building which is wholly or partly used or intended to be used
for living or sleeping by human occupants; provided that temporary housing as
hereinafter defined shall not be regarded as a DWELLING.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms located within a dwelling and
forming a single habitable unit with facilities which are used or intended to
be used for living, sleeping, cooking and eating.
   EXTERMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rodents or other
pests by eliminating their harborage places; by removing or making inaccessible
materials that may serve as their food; by poisoning, spraying, fumigating,
trapping or by any other recognized and legal pest elimination methods approved
by the Inspector.
   GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   HABITABLE ROOM. A room or enclosed floor space used or intended to be used
for living, sleeping, cooking or eating purposes, excluding bathrooms, water
closet compartments, laundries, heating rooms, foyers or communicating
corridors, closets and storage spaces.
   INFESTATION. The presence, within or around a dwelling, of any insects,
rodents or other pests in such number as to constitute a menace to the health,
safety or welfare of the occupants or to the public.
   INSPECTOR. A Building Inspector of the city or any agent of the Inspector
who is authorized by the Inspector.
   MEANING OF CERTAIN WORDS. Whenever the words DWELLING, DWELLING UNIT,
ROOMING HOUSE, ROOMING UNIT, PREMISES are used in this subchapter, they shall
be construed as though they were followed by the words OR ANY PART THEREOF.
   MULTIPLE DWELLING. Any dwelling containing more than two dwelling units.
   OCCUPANT. Any person over one year of age, living, sleeping, cooking or
eating in or having actual possession of a dwelling unit or rooming unit.
   OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care or control of a building, or part
thereof, in which dwelling units or rooming units are let.
   OWNER. Any person, firm or corporation, who alone, or jointly, or severally
with others:
      (1)   Shall have title to any dwelling or dwelling unit, with or without
accompanying actual possession thereof; or
      (2)   Shall have charge, care or control of any dwelling or dwelling
unit, as owner or agent of the owner, or as executor, executrix, administrator,
administratrix, trustee or guardian of the estate of the owner. Any such person
thus representing the ACTUAL OWNER shall be bound to comply with the provisions
of this subchapter, and of the rules and regulations adopted pursuant thereof,
to the same extent as if he or she were the OWNER.
   PLUMBING. Includes all of the following supplied facilities and equipment:
gas pipes, gas burning equipment, water pipes, mechanical garbage disposal
units (mechanical sink grinder), waste pipes, water closets, sinks, installed
dishwashers, lavatories, bathtubs, shower baths, installed clothes washing
machines, catch basin, drains, vents and any other similar supplied fixtures,
together with all connections to water, sewer or gas line.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. The City Housing Authority or any officer who is in charge
of any department or branch of the government of the city or of the county or
of the state relating to health, fire, building regulations or other activities
concerning dwellings in the city.
   ROOMING HOUSE. Any dwelling, or that part of any dwelling containing one or
more rooming units, in which space is let by the owner or operator to three or
more persons who are not husband and wife, son or daughter, mother or father,
or sister or brother of the owner or operator.
   ROOMING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit
used or intended to be used for living and sleeping, but not for cooking or
eating purposes.
   RUBBISH. Combustible and noncombustible waste materials, except garbage and
ashes, and the terms shall include paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood,
excelsior, rubber, leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, tin cans, metals,
mineral matter, glass crockery and dust.
   SUPPLIED. Paid for, furnished or provided by, or under the control of, the
owner or operator.
   TEMPORARY HOUSING. Any tent, trailer or other structure used for human
shelter which is designed to be transportable and which is not attached to the
ground, to another structure, or to any utilities system on the same premises
for more than 30 consecutive days.
   UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION. That conditions exist in a dwelling which
violate or do not comply with one or more of the minimum standards of fitness
or one or more of the requirements established by this subchapter.
(1995 Code, § 9-15)  (Ord. passed 3-14-1978)
§ 150.037  MINIMUM STANDARDS OF FITNESS FOR DWELLINGS AND DWELLING UNITS.
   Every dwelling and dwelling unit used as a human habitation, or held out for
use as a human habitation, shall comply with all of the minimum standards of
fitness for human habitation and all of the requirements of §§
150.038 through
150.043. No person shall occupy as owner-occupants, or let to another for
occupancy or use as a human habitation, any dwelling or dwelling unit which
does not comply with all of the minimum standards of fitness for human
habitation and all of the requirements of §§
150.038 through
150.043.
(1995 Code, § 9-16)  (Ord. passed 3-14-1978)  Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.038  MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR STRUCTURAL CONDITION.
   (A)   Walls or partitions or supporting members, sills, joists, rafters or
other structural members shall not list, lean or buckle, and shall not be
rotted, deteriorated, or damaged, and shall not have holes or cracks which
might admit rodents.
   (B)   Floors or roofs shall have adequate supporting members and strength to
be reasonably safe for the purpose used.
   (C)   Foundations, foundation walls, piers or other foundation supports
shall not be deteriorated or damaged.
   (D)   Steps, stairs, landings, porches or other parts or appurtenances shall
be maintained in such condition that they will not fail or collapse.
   (E)   Adequate facilities for egress in case of fire or panic shall be
provided.
   (F)   Interior walls and ceilings of all rooms, closets and hallways shall
be finished of suitable materials, which will, by use of reasonable household
methods, promote sanitation and cleanliness, and
shall be maintained in such a manner so as to enable the occupants to maintain
reasonable privacy between various spaces.
   (G)   The roof, flashings, exterior walls, basement walls, floors and all
doors and windows exposed to the weather shall be constructed and maintained so
as to be weather- and water-tight.
   (H)   There shall be no chimneys or parts thereof which are defective,
deteriorated or in danger of falling, or in such condition or location as to
constitute a fire hazard.
   (I)   There shall be no use of the ground for floors or wood floors on the
ground.
(1995 Code, § 9-17)  (Ord. passed 3-14-1978)  Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.039  MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR BASIC EQUIPMENT AND FACILITIES.
   (A)   Plumbing system.
      (1)   Each dwelling unit shall be connected to a potable water supply and
to the public sewer or other approved sewage disposal system.
      (2)   Each dwelling unit shall contain not less than a kitchen sink,
lavatory, tub or shower, water closet and adequate supply of both cold water
and hot water. All water shall be supplied through an approved pipe
distribution system connected to a potable water supply.
      (3)   All plumbing fixtures shall meet the standards of the City Plumbing
Code and shall be maintained in a state of good repair and in good working
order.
      (4)   All required plumbing fixtures shall be located within the dwelling
unit and be accessible to the occupants of same. The water closet and tub or
shower shall be located in a room or rooms affording privacy to the user.
   (B)   Heating system. Every dwelling and dwelling unit shall have facilities
for providing heat in accordance with either division (B)(1) or (B)(2) below.
      (1)   Central and electric heating systems. Every central or electric
heating system shall be of sufficient capacity so as to heat all habitable
rooms, bathrooms and water closet compartments in every dwelling unit to which
it is connected with a minimum temperature of 70°F measured at a point three
feet above the floor during ordinary winter conditions.
      (2)   Other heating facilities. Where a central or electric heating
system is not provided, each dwelling and dwelling unit shall be provided with
sufficient fireplaces, chimneys, flues or gas vents
whereby heating appliances may be connected so as to heat all habitable rooms
with a minimum temperature of 70°F measured three feet above the floor during
ordinary winter conditions.
   (C)   Electrical system.
      (1)   Every dwelling and dwelling unit shall be wired for electric lights
and convenience receptacles. Every habitable room shall contain at least two
floor or wall-type electric convenience receptacles, connected in such manner
as determined by the State Electric Code. There shall be installed in every
bathroom, water closet room, laundry room and furnace room at least one
supplied ceiling or wall-type electric light fixture. In the event wall or
ceiling light fixtures are not provided in any habitable room, then each such
habitable room shall contain at least three floor or wall-type electric
convenience receptacles.
      (2)   Every public hall and stairway in every multiple dwelling shall be
adequately lighted by electric lights at all times when natural daylight is not
sufficient.
      (3)   All fixtures, receptacles, equipment and wiring shall be maintained
in a state of good repair, safe, capable of being used and installed in
accordance with the State Electrical Code.
(1995 Code, § 9-18)  (Ord. passed 3-14-1978)
§ 150.040  MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR VENTILATION.
   (A)   General. Every habitable room shall have at least one window or
skylight facing directly to the outdoors. The minimum total window area,
measured between stops, for every habitable room shall be 10% of the floor area
of such room. Whenever walls or other portions of structures face a window of
any such room and such light obstructing structures are located less than five
feet from the window and extend to a level above that of the ceiling of the
room, such a window shall not be deemed to face directly to the outdoors and
shall not be included as contributing to the required minimum total window
area. Whenever the only window in a room is a skylight-type window in the top
of such room, the total window area of such skylight shall equal at least 15%
of the total floor area of such room.
   (B)   Habitable rooms. Every habitable room shall have at least one window
or skylight which can easily be opened, or such other device as will adequately
ventilate the room. The total openable window area in every habitable room
shall be equal to at least 45% of the minimum window area size or minimum
skylight-type window size as required, or shall have other approved, equivalent
ventilation.
   (C)   Bathroom and water closet rooms. Every bathroom and water closet
compartment shall comply with the light and ventilation requirements for
habitable rooms except that no window or skylight shall be required in
adequately ventilated bathrooms and water closet rooms equipped with an
approved ventilation system.
(1995 Code, § 9-19)  (Ord. passed 3-14-1978)
§ 150.041  MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR SPACE, USE AND LOCATION.
   (A)   Room sizes.
      (1)   Every dwelling unit shall contain at least the minimum room size in
each habitable room as required by the State Residential Building Code.
      (2)   Every dwelling unit shall contain at least 150 square feet of
habitable floor area for the first occupant, at least 100 square feet of
additional habitable area for each of the next three occupants, and at least 75
square feet of additional habitable floor area for each additional occupant.
      (3)   In every dwelling unit and in every rooming unit, every room
occupied for sleeping purposes by one occupant shall contain at least 70 square
feet of floor area, and every room occupied for sleeping purposes by more than
one occupant shall contain at least 50 square feet of floor area for each
occupant 12 years of age and over and at least 35 square feet of floor area for
each occupant under 12 years of age.
   (B)   Ceiling height. At least one-half of the floor area of every habitable
room shall have a ceiling height of not less than seven feet and six inches.
   (C)   Floor area calculation. Floor area shall be calculated on the basis of
habitable room area. However, closet area and wall area within the dwelling
unit may count for not more than 10% of the required habitable floor area. The
floor area of any part of any room where the ceiling height is less than four
and one-half feet shall not be considered as part of the floor area computing
the total area of the room to determine the maximum permissible occupancy.
   (D)   Cellar. No cellar shall be used for living purposes.
   (E)   Basements. No basement shall be used for living purposes unless:
      (1)   The floor and walls are substantially water-tight;
      (2)   The total window area, total openable window area and ceiling
height are equal to those required for habitable rooms; and
      (3)   The required minimum window area of every habitable room is
entirely above the grade adjoining such window area, except where the window or
windows face a stairwell, window well or accessway.
(1995 Code, § 9-20)  (Ord. passed 3-14-1978)
§ 150.042  MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR SAFE AND SANITARY MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Exterior foundation, walls and roofs.
      (1)   Every foundation wall, exterior wall, and exterior roof shall be
substantially weather-tight and rodent proof; shall be kept in sound condition
and good repair; shall be capable of affording privacy; shall be safe to use
and capable of supporting the load which normal use may cause to be placed
thereon.
      (2)   Every exterior wall shall be protected with paint or other
protective covering to prevent the entrance or penetration of moisture or the
weather.
   (B)   Interior floor, walls and ceilings. Every floor, interior wall and
ceiling shall be substantially rodent proof; shall be kept in sound condition
and good repair; and shall be safe to use and capable of supporting the load
which normal use may cause to be placed thereon.
   (C)   Windows and doors. Every window, exterior door, basement or cellar
door, and hatchway shall be substantially weather-tight, water-tight and rodent
proof; and shall be kept in sound working condition and good repair.
   (D)   Stairs, porches and appurtenances. Every inside and outside stair,
porch and any appurtenance thereto shall be safe to use and capable of
supporting the load that normal use may cause to be placed thereon; and shall
be kept in sound condition and good repair.
   (E)   Bathroom floors. Every bathroom floor surface and water closet
compartment floor surface shall be constructed and maintained so as to be
reasonably impervious to water and so as to permit such floor to be easily kept
in a clean and sanitary condition.
   (F)   Supplied facilities. Every supplied facility, piece of equipment or
utility which is required under this subchapter shall be so constructed or
installed that it will function safely and effectively and shall be maintained
in satisfactory working condition.
   (G)   Drainage. Every yard shall be properly graded so as to obtain thorough
drainage and so as to prevent the accumulation of stagnant water.
   (H)   Noxious weeds. Every yard and all exterior property areas shall be
kept free of species of weeds or plant growth which are noxious or detrimental
to health.
   (I)   Egress. Every dwelling unit shall be provided with adequate means of
egress as required by the State Building Code.
(1995 Code, § 9-21)  (Ord. passed 3-14-1978)
§ 150.043  MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR CONTROL OF INSECTS, RODENTS AND INFESTATION.
   (A)   Screens. In every dwelling unit, for protection against mosquitos,
flies and other insects, every door opening directly from a dwelling unit to
outdoor space shall have supplied and installed screens and a self-closing
device, and every window or other device with openings to outdoor space, used
or intended to be used for ventilation, shall likewise be supplied with screens
installed.
   (B)   Rodent control. Every basement or cellar window used or intended to be
used for ventilation and every other opening to a basement which might provide
an entry for rodents, shall be supplied with screens installed or such other
approved device as will effectively prevent their entrance.
   (C)   Infestation. Every occupant of a dwelling containing a single-dwelling
unit shall be responsible for the extermination of any insects, rodents or
other pests therein or on the premises; and every occupant of a dwelling unit
in a dwelling containing more than one dwelling unit shall be responsible for
such extermination whenever his or her dwelling unit shall be the only one
infested. Whenever infestation is caused by failure of the owner to maintain a
dwelling in a rodent proof or reasonably insect proof condition, extermination
shall be the responsibility of the owner. Whenever infestation exists in two or
more of the dwelling units in any dwelling or in the shared or public parts of
any dwelling containing two or more dwelling units, extermination shall be the
responsibility of the owner.
   (D)   Rubbish storage and disposal. Every dwelling and every dwelling unit
shall be supplied with approved containers and covers for storage of rubbish as
required by city ordinances, and the owner, operator or agent in control of
such dwelling or dwelling unit shall be responsible for the removal of rubbish.
   (E)   Garbage storage and disposal. Every dwelling and every dwelling unit
shall be supplied with an approved garbage disposal facility, which may be
adequate mechanical garbage disposal unit (mechanical sink grinder) in each
dwelling unit or an incinerator unit, to be approved by the Inspector, in the
structure for the use of the occupants of each dwelling unit or an approved
outside garbage can as required by the city ordinances.
(1995 Code, § 9-22)  (Ord. passed 3-14-1978)
§ 150.044  MINIMUM STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO ROOMING HOUSES; EXCEPTIONS.
   All of the provisions of this subchapter and all of the minimum standards
and requirements of this subchapter shall be applicable to rooming houses, and
to every person who operates a rooming house or who occupies or lets to another
for occupancy any rooming unit in any rooming house, except as provided in the
following divisions.
   (A)   Water closet, hand lavatory and bath facilities. At least one water
closet, lavatory basin and bathtub or shower, properly connected to an approved
water and sewer system and in good working condition, shall be supplied for
each four rooms within a rooming house wherever said facilities are shared. All
such facilities shall be located within the residence building served and shall
be directly accessible from a common hall or passageway and shall be no more
than one story removed from any of the persons sharing such facilities. Every
lavatory basin and bathtub or shower shall be supplied with hot and cold water
at all times. Such required facilities shall not be located in a cellar.
   (B)   Minimum floor area for sleeping purposes. Every room occupied for
sleeping purposes by one occupant shall contain at least 70 square feet of
floor area, and every room occupied for sleeping purposes by more than one
occupant shall contain at least 50 square feet of floor area for each occupant
12 years of age and over and at least 35 square feet of floor area for each
occupant under 12 years of age.
   (C)   Sanitary conditions. The operator of every rooming house shall be
responsible for the sanitary maintenance of all walls, floors and ceilings, and
for the sanitary maintenance of every other part of the rooming house; and he
or she shall be further responsible for the sanitary maintenance of the entire
premises where the entire structure or building within which the rooming house
is contained is leased or occupied by the operator.
   (D)   Sanitary facilities. Every water closet, flush urinal, lavatory basin,
and bathtub or shower required by division (A) above shall be located within
the rooming house and within a room or rooms which afford privacy and are
separate from the habitable rooms and which are accessible from a common hall
and without going outside the rooming house or through any other room therein.
(1995 Code, § 9-23)  (Ord. passed 3-14-1978)
§ 150.045  RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   Public areas. Every owner of a dwelling containing two or more
dwelling units shall be responsible for maintaining in a clean and sanitary
condition the shared or public areas of the dwelling and premises thereof.
   (B)   Cleanliness. Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall keep
in a clean and sanitary condition that part of the dwelling, dwelling unit and
premises thereof which he or she occupies and controls.
   (C)   Rubbish and garbage. Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit
shall dispose of all his or her rubbish and garbage in a clean and sanitary
manner by placing it in the supplied storage facilities. In all cases the owner
shall be responsible for the availability of rubbish and garbage storage
facilities.
   (D)   Supplied plumbing fixtures. Every occupant of a dwelling unit shall
keep all supplied plumbing fixtures therein in a clean and sanitary condition
and shall be responsible for the exercise of reasonable care in the proper use
and operation of same.
   (E)   Care of facilities, equipment and structure. No occupant shall
willfully destroy, deface or impair any of the facilities or equipment or any
part of the structure of a dwelling or dwelling unit.
(1995 Code, § 9-24)  (Ord. passed 3-14-1978)  Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.046  DUTIES OF BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   The City Council shall appoint a Building Inspector, who is hereby
designated as the officer to enforce the provisions of this subchapter and to
exercise the duties and powers herein prescribed.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Building Inspector:
      (1)   To investigate the dwelling conditions and to inspect dwellings and
dwelling units located in the city in order to determine which dwellings and
dwelling units are unfit for human habitation, and for the purpose of carrying
out the objectives of this subchapter with respect to such dwellings and
dwelling units;
      (2)   To take such action, together with other appropriate departments
and agencies, public and private, as may be necessary to effect rehabilitation
of housing which is deteriorated;
      (3)   To keep a record of the results of inspections made under this
subchapter and an inventory of those dwellings that do not meet the minimum
standards of fitness herein prescribed; and
      (4)   To perform such other duties as may be herein prescribed.
(1995 Code, § 9-25)  (Ord. passed 3-14-1978)
§ 150.047  POWERS OF THE BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   The Building Inspector is authorized to exercise such powers as may be
necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate the purpose and provisions
of this subchapter, including the following powers in addition to others herein
granted:
   (A)   To investigate the dwelling conditions in the city in order to
determine which dwellings therein are unfit for human habitation;
   (B)   To administer oaths and affirmations, examine witnesses and receive
evidence;
   (C)   To enter upon premises for the purpose of making examinations and
inspections; provided, such entries shall be made in such manner as to cause
the least possible inconvenience to the persons in possession; and
   (D)   To appoint and fix the duties of such officers, agents and employees
as he or she deems necessary to carry out the purposes of this subchapter.
(1995 Code, § 9-26)  (Ord. passed 3-14-1978)
§ 150.048  INSPECTIONS; DUTY OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS.
   For the purpose of making inspections, the Inspector is hereby authorized to
enter, examine and survey at all reasonable times all dwellings, dwelling
units, rooming units and premises. The owner or occupant of every dwelling,
dwelling unit or rooming unit, or the person in charge thereof, shall give the
Inspector free access to such dwelling, dwelling unit or rooming unit, and its
premises at all reasonable times for the purposes of such inspection,
examination and survey. Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall
give the owner thereof, or his or her agent or employee, access to any part of
such dwelling or dwelling unit, and its premises, at all reasonable times for
the purpose of making such repairs or alterations as are necessary to effect
compliance with the provisions of this subchapter or with any lawful order
issued pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter.
(1995 Code, § 9-27)  (Ord. passed 3-14-1978)
§ 150.049  PROCEDURE FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Preliminary investigation; notice; hearing. Whenever a petition is
filed with the Inspector by a public authority or by at least five residents of
the city charging that any dwelling or dwelling unit is unfit for human
habitation, or whenever it appears to the Inspector, upon inspection, that any
dwelling or dwelling unit is unfit for human habitation, he or she shall, if
his or her preliminary investigation discloses a basis for such charges, issue
and cause to be served upon the owner of and parties in interest in such
dwelling or dwelling unit a complaint stating the charges and containing a
notice that a hearing will be held before the Inspector at a place therein
fixed, not less than ten nor more than 30 days after the serving of said
complaint. The owner or any party in interest shall have the right to file an
answer to the complaint and to appear in person, or otherwise, and give
testimony at the place and time fixed in the complaint. Notice of such hearing
shall also be given to at least one of the persons signing a petition relating
to such dwelling. Any person desiring to do so may attend such hearing and give
evidence relative to the matter being heard. The rules of evidence prevailing
in the courts of law or equity shall not be controlling in hearings before the
Inspector.
   (B)   Procedure after hearing.
      (1)   After such notice and hearing, the Inspector shall state in writing
his or her determination whether such dwelling or dwelling unit is unfit for
human habitation, and if so, whether it is deteriorated or dilapidated.
      (2)   If the Inspector determines that the dwelling or dwelling unit is
deteriorated, he or she shall state in writing his or her findings of fact in
support of such determination and shall issue and cause to be served upon the
owner thereof an order directing and requiring the owner to repair, alter and
improve such dwelling or dwelling unit to comply with the minimum standards of
fitness established by this subchapter within a specified period of time, not
to exceed 90 days. Such order may also direct and require the owner to vacate
and close such dwelling unit until such repairs, alterations and improvements
have been made.
      (3)   If the Inspector determines that the dwelling is dilapidated, he or
she shall state in writing his or her findings of fact to support such
determination and shall issue and cause to be served upon the owner thereof an
order directing and requiring the owner to either repair, alter or improve such
dwelling or dwelling unit to comply with the minimum standards of fitness
established by this subchapter, or else vacate and remove or demolish the same
within a specified period of time not to exceed 90 days.
   (C)   Failure to comply with order.
      (1)   In personam remedy. If the owner of any deteriorated dwelling or
dwelling unit shall fail to comply with an order of the Inspector to repair,
alter or improve the same within the time specified therein, or if the owner of
a dilapidated dwelling shall fail to comply with an order of the Inspector to
vacate and close, and remove or demolish the same within the time specified
therein, the Inspector shall submit to the City Council at its next regular
meeting a resolution directing the City Attorney to petition the Superior Court
for an order directing such owner to comply with the order of the Inspector, as
authorized by G.S. § 160A-446(g).
      (2)   In rem remedy. After failure of an owner of a deteriorated dwelling
or dwelling unit or of a dilapidated dwelling to comply with an order of the
Inspector within the time specified therein, if injunctive relief has not been
sought or has not been granted as provided in division (C)(1) above, the
Inspector shall submit to the City Council an ordinance ordering the Inspector
to cause such dwelling or dwelling unit closed and removed or demolished, as
provided in the original order of the Inspector, and pending such removal or
demolition, to placard such dwelling as provided by G.S. § 160A-443 and §
150.051.
   (D)   Appeals from orders of Inspector.
      (1)   An appeal from any decision or order of the Inspector may be taken
by any person aggrieved thereby. Any appeal from the Inspector shall be taken
within ten days from the rendering of the decision or service of the order, and
shall be taken by filing with the Inspector and with the Zoning Board of
Adjustment a notice of appeal which shall specify the grounds upon which the
appeal is based. Upon the filing of any notice of appeal, the Inspector shall
forthwith transmit to the Board all papers constituting the record upon which
the decision appealed from was made. When an appeal is from a decision of the
Inspector refusing to allow the person aggrieved thereby to do any act, his or
her decision shall remain in force until modified or reversed. When any appeal
is from a decision of the Inspector requiring the person aggrieved to do any
act, the appeal shall have the effect of suspending the requirement until the
hearing by the Board, unless the Inspector certifies to the Board, after the
notice of appeal is filed with him or her, that by reason of the facts stated
in the certificate (a copy of which shall be furnished the appellant), a
suspension of his or her requirement would cause imminent peril to life or
property, in which case the requirement shall not be suspended except by a
restraining order, which may be granted for due cause shown upon not less than
one day’s written notice to the Inspector, by the Board or by a court of record
upon petition made pursuant to G.S. § 160A-446(f) and division (E) below.
      (2)   The Board shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of all
appeals, shall give due notice to all the parties, and shall render its
decision within a reasonable time. Any party may appear in person or by agent
or attorney. The Board may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify
the decision or order appealed from, and may make such decision and order as in
its opinion ought to be made in the matter, and to that end it shall have all
the powers of the Inspector, but the concurring vote of four members of the
Board shall be necessary to reverse or modify any decision or order of the
Inspector. The Board shall have power also in passing upon appeals, in any case
where there are practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships in the way of
carrying out the strict letter of the subchapter, to adapt the application of
the subchapter to the necessities of the case to the end that the spirit of the
subchapter shall be observed, public safety and welfare secured, and
substantial justice done.
      (3)   Every decision of the Board shall be subject to review by
proceedings in the nature of certiorari instituted within 15 days of the
decision of the Board, but not otherwise.
   (E)   Petition to Superior Court by owner. Any person aggrieved by an order
issued by the Inspector or a decision rendered by the Board shall have the
right, within 30 days after issuance of the order or rendering of the decision,
to petition the Superior Court for temporary injunction restraining the
Inspector pending a final disposition of the case, as provided by G.S. § 160A-
446(f).
(1995 Code, § 9-28)  (Ord. passed 3-14-1978)
§ 150.050  METHODS OF SERVICE OF COMPLAINTS AND ORDERS.
   Complaints or orders issued by the Inspector shall be served upon persons
either personally or by registered or certified mail, but if the whereabouts of
such persons are unknown and the same cannot be ascertained by the Inspector in
the exercise of reasonable diligence, the Inspector shall make an affidavit to
that effect, and the serving of such complaint or order upon such person may be
made by publishing the same once each week for two successive weeks in a
newspaper circulating in the city. Where service is made by publication, a
notice of the pending proceedings shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the
premises affected by the complaint or order.
(1995 Code, § 9-29)  (Ord. passed 3-14-1978)
§ 150.051  IN REM ACTION BY INSPECTOR; PLACARDING.
   (A)   After failure of an owner of a dwelling or dwelling unit to comply
with an order of the Inspector issued pursuant to the provisions of this
subchapter, and upon adoption by the City Council of an ordinance authorizing
and directing him or her to do so, as provided by G.S. § 160A-443(5) and §
150.049(C), the Inspector shall proceed to cause such dwelling or dwelling unit
to be repaired, altered or improved to comply with the minimum standards of
fitness established by this subchapter, or to be vacated and closed and removed
or demolished, as directed by the ordinance of the City Council, and shall
cause to be posted on the main entrance of such dwelling or dwelling unit a
placard with the following words:
      “This building is unfit for human habitation; the use or occupation of
this building for human habitation is prohibited and unlawful.”
   (B)   Occupation of a building so posted shall constitute a misdemeanor.
Each such ordinance shall be recorded in the office of the Register of Deeds of
the county, and shall be indexed in the name of the property owner in the
grantor index, as provided by G.S. § 160A-443(5).
(1995 Code, § 9-30)  (Ord. passed 3-14-1978)  Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.052  COSTS A LIEN ON PREMISES.
   As provided by G.S. § 160A-446(6), the amount of the cost of any repairs,
alterations or improvements, or vacating and closing, or removal or demolition,
caused to be made or done by the Inspector pursuant to §
150.051 shall be a lien against the real property upon which such cost was
incurred. Such lien shall be filed, and have the same priority, and be enforced
and the costs collected as provided by G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 10.
(1995 Code, § 9-31)  (Ord. passed 3-14-1978)
§ 150.053  ALTERNATIVE REMEDIES.
   Neither this subchapter or any of its provisions shall be construed to
impair or limit in any way the power of the city to define and declare
nuisances and to cause their abatement by summary action or otherwise, or to
enforce this subchapter by criminal process as authorized by G.S. § 14-4, and
the enforcement of any remedy provided herein shall not prevent the enforcement
of any other remedy or remedies provided herein or in other ordinances or laws.
(1995 Code, § 9-32)  (Ord. passed 3-14-1978)
§ 150.054  ZONING BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT TO HEAR APPEALS.
   All appeals which may be taken from decisions or orders of the Inspector
pursuant to §
150.049(D) shall be heard and determined by the Zoning Board of Adjustment. As
the appeals body, the Board shall have power to fix the times and places of
meetings, to adopt necessary rules of procedure and any other rules and
regulations which may be necessary, for the proper discharge of its duties. The
Board shall perform the duties prescribed by §
150.049(D) and shall keep an accurate journal of all its proceedings.
(1995 Code, § 9-33)  (Ord. passed 3-14-1978)
§ 150.055  CONFLICT WITH OTHER PROVISIONS.
   In the event any provision, standard or requirement of this subchapter is
found to be in conflict with any provision of any other ordinance or code of
the city, the provision which establishes the higher standard or more stringent
requirement for the promotion and protection of the health and safety of the
residents of the city shall prevail.
(1995 Code, § 9-34)  (Ord. passed 3-14-1978)
PROPERTY NUMBERING
§ 150.070  NUMBERING MAP.
   The property numbering map entitled the “House Numbering Plan” of the city
is hereby adopted as the official property numbering map of the city, and all
property numbers assigned shall be assigned in accordance with said map and
this subchapter, and no other property numbers shall be used or displayed in
the city except numbers assigned in accordance with the official house
numbering map and plan. The property numbering map shall be kept on file in the
office of the City Clerk.
(1995 Code, § 4-16)  (Ord. passed 5-9-1960)
§ 150.071  NUMBERING SYSTEM.
   (A)   On the property numbering map there shall be designated a north-south
axis and an east-west axis and all avenues, streets or alleys running generally
north and south shall be numbered from the east-west axis consecutively to the
corporate limits or the extremity of such avenue, alley or street. Avenues,
streets or alleys running generally east and west shall be numbered from the
north-south axis in the same manner. One or more hundreds of numbers shall be
allowed to each block so that the number of each consecutive block shall
commence with consecutive hundreds and one.
   (B)   One whole number shall be assigned for every 50 feet of ground,
whether improved property or vacant lot on every street within the corporate
limits except in the area designated by the City Council as the business area,
in which one whole number shall be assigned for every 20 feet of ground,
whether improved or not. Odd numbers shall be assigned to the left side of the
street and even numbers to the right side going away from the axis toward the
corporate limits.
(1995 Code, § 4-17)  (Ord. passed 5-9-1960)
§ 150.072  NUMBERS FOR FUTURE BUILDINGS.
   All buildings erected after the adoption of this subchapter shall be
assigned a number in accordance with the House Numbering Plan map and shall
purchase and display such number as provided in §
150.071.
(1995 Code, § 4-18)  (Ord. passed 5-9-1960)  Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.073  UNLAWFUL TO DEFACE NUMBERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to alter, deface or take down any number
placed on any property in accordance with this subchapter, except for repair or
replacement of such number.
(1995 Code, § 4-19)  (Ord. passed 5-9-1960)  Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.074  DISPLAY OF NUMBERS REQUIRED.
   The owner of any residence, industry, business or other structure shall post
assigned numbers on structures, using the following standards: that there be a
minimum of three inches in height and also it identifies the location of the
house numbers on the structure or property.
(1995 Code, § 4-20)  (Ord. passed 5-9-1960; Ord. passed 11-10-2008)
ABANDONED STRUCTURES
§ 150.085  FINDINGS; INTENT.
   It is hereby found that there exists within the city abandoned structures
which the City Council finds to be hazardous to the health, safety and welfare
of the residents of the city due to the attraction of insects or rodents,
conditions creating a fire hazard, dangerous conditions constituting a threat
to children, or frequent use by vagrants as living quarters in the absence of
sanitary facilities. Therefore, pursuant to the authority granted by G.S. §
160A-441, it is the intent of this subchapter to provide for the repair,
closing or demolition of any such abandoned structures in accordance with the
same provisions and procedures as are set forth by law for the repair, closing
or demolition of dwellings unfit for human habitation.
(1995 Code, § 9-79)  (Ord. passed 5-7-1982)
§ 150.086  DUTIES OF THE BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   The City Council shall appoint a Building Inspector, who is hereby
designated as the officer to enforce the provisions of this subchapter and to
exercise the duties and powers herein prescribed.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Building Inspector:
      (1)   To locate abandoned structures within the city and determine which
structures are in violation of this subchapter;
      (2)   To take such action pursuant to this subchapter as may be necessary
to provide for the repair, closing or demolition of such structures;
      (3)   To keep an accurate record of all enforcement proceedings begun
pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter; and
      (4)   To perform such other duties as may be prescribed herein or
assigned to him or her by the City Council.
(1995 Code, § 9-80)
§ 150.087  POWERS OF THE BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   The Building Inspector is authorized to exercise such powers as may be
necessary to carry out the intent and the provisions of this subchapter,
including the following powers in addition to others herein granted:
   (A)   To investigate the condition of buildings within the city in order to
determine which structures are abandoned and in violation of this subchapter;
   (B)   To enter upon premises for the purpose of making inspections;
   (C)   To administer oaths and affirmations, examine witnesses and receive
evidence; and
   (D)   To designate such other officers, agents, and employees of the city as
he or she deems necessary to carry out the provisions of this subchapter.
(1995 Code, § 9-81)
§ 150.088  STANDARDS FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Every abandoned structure within the city shall be deemed in violation
of this subchapter whenever such structure constitutes a hazard to the health,
safety or welfare of the citizens as a result of:
      (1)   The attraction of insects or rodents;
      (2)   Conditions creating a fire hazard;
      (3)   Dangerous conditions constituting a threat to children; or
      (4)   Frequent use by vagrants as living quarters in the absence of
sanitary facilities.
   (B)   In making the preliminary determination of whether or not an abandoned
structure is in violation of this subchapter, the Building Inspector may, by
way of illustration and not limitation, consider the presence or absence of the
following conditions:
      (1)   Holes or cracks in the structure’s floors, walls, ceilings or roof
which might attract or admit rodents and insects, or become breeding places for
rodents and insects;
      (2)   The collection of garbage or rubbish in or near the structure which
might attract rodents and insects, or become breeding places for rodents and
insects;
      (3)   Violation of the State Building Code, the State Electrical Code,
the Fire Prevention Code which constitutes a fire hazard in such structure;
      (4)   The collection of garbage, rubbish or combustible material which
constitutes a fire hazard in such structure;
      (5)   The use of such structure or nearby grounds or facilities by
children as a play area;
      (6)   Violations of the State Building Code which might result in danger
to children using the structure or nearby grounds or facilities as a play area;
and
      (7)   Repeated use of such structure by transients and vagrants, in the
absence of sanitary facilities, for living, sleeping, cooking or eating.
(1995 Code, § 9-82)
§ 150.089  PROCEDURE FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Preliminary investigation; notice; hearing. Whenever a petition is
filed with the Inspector by at least five residents of the city charging that
any structure exists in violation of this subchapter or whenever it appears to
the Inspector, upon inspection, that any structure exists in violation hereof,
he or she shall, if his or her preliminary investigation discloses a basis for
such charges, issue and cause to be served upon the owner of and parties in
interest in such structure a complaint stating the charges and containing a
notice that a hearing will be held before the Inspector at a place therein
fixed, not less than ten nor more than 30 days after the serving of said
complaint. The owner or any party in interest shall have the right to file an
answer to the complaint and to appear in person, or otherwise, and give
testimony at the place and time fixed in the complaint. Notice of such hearing
shall also be given to at least one of the persons signing a petition relating
to such structure. Any person desiring to do so may attend such hearing and
give evidence relevant to the matter being heard. The rules of evidence
pertaining in courts of law or equity shall not be controlling in hearings
before the Inspector.
   (B)   Procedure after hearing.
      (1)   After such notice and hearing, the Inspector shall state in writing
his or her determination whether such structure violates this subchapter.
      (2)   If the Inspector determines that the dwelling is in violation he or
she shall state in writing his or her findings of fact to support such
determination, and shall issue and cause to be served upon the owner thereof an
order directing and requiring the owner to either repair, alter and improve
such structure or else remove or demolish the same within a specified period of
time not to exceed 90 days.
   (C)   Failure to comply with order.
      (1)   In personam remedy. If the owner of any structure shall fail to
comply with an order of the Inspector within the time specified therein, the
Inspector may submit to the City Council at its next regular meeting a
resolution directing the City Attorney to petition the Superior Court for an
order directing such owner to comply with the order of the Inspector, as
authorized by G.S. § 160A-446(g).
      (2)   In rem remedy. After failure of an owner of a structure to comply
with an order of the Inspector within the time specified therein, if injunctive
relief has not been sought or has not been granted as provided in division (C)
(1) above, the Inspector shall submit to the City Council an ordinance ordering
the Inspector to cause such structure to be removed or demolished, as provided
in the original order of the Inspector, and pending such removal or demolition,
to placard such dwelling as provided by G.S. § 160A-443, and §
150.091.
   (D)   Appeals from orders of Inspector. An appeal from any decision or order
of the Inspector may be taken by any person aggrieved thereby, all in
accordance with the procedures, rights and duties of §
150.049(D) of this code of ordinances.
   (E)   Petition to Superior Court by owner. Any person aggrieved by an order
issued by the Inspector or a decision rendered by the Board shall have the
right, within 30 days after issuance of the order or rendering of the decision,
to petition the Superior Court for a temporary injunction restraining the
Inspector pending a final disposition of the cause, as provided by G.S. § 160A-
446(f).
(1995 Code, § 9-83)
§ 150.090  METHODS OF SERVICE OF COMPLAINTS AND ORDERS.
   Complaints or orders issued by the Inspector shall be served upon persons
either personally or by registered or certified mail, but if the whereabouts of
such persons are unknown and the same cannot be ascertained by the Inspector in
the exercise of reasonable diligence, the Inspector shall make an affidavit to
that effect, and the serving of such complaint or order upon such person may be
made by publication in a newspaper having general circulation in the city at
least once each week for two successive weeks, the last publication being no
later than the time at which personal service is required under §
150.089. Where service is made by publication, a notice of the pending
proceedings shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises affected by
the complaint or order.
(1995 Code, § 9-84)
§ 150.091  IN REM ACTION BY INSPECTOR; PLACARDING.
   (A)   After failure of an owner of a structure to comply with an order of
the Inspector issued pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter, and upon
adoption by the City Council of an ordinance authorizing and directing him or
her to do so, as provided by G.S. § 160A-443(5) and §
150.089(C), the Inspector shall proceed to cause such structure to be removed
or demolished, as directed by the ordinance of the City Council and shall cause
to be posted on the main entrance of such structure a placard prohibiting the
use or occupation of the structure. Use or occupation of a building so posted
shall constitute a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Each such ordinance shall be recorded in the office of the Register of
Deeds of the county, and shall be indexed in the name of the property owner in
the grantor index, as provided by G.S. § 160A-443(5).
(1995 Code, § 9-85)  Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.092  COSTS OF LIEN ON PREMISES.
   As provided by G.S. § 160A-446(6) , the amount of the cost of any removal or
demolition caused to be made or done by the Inspector pursuant to this
subchapter shall be a lien against the real property upon which such cost was
incurred. Such lien shall be filed, have the same priority, and be enforced and
costs collected as provided by G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 10.
(1995 Code, § 9-86)
§ 150.093  ALTERNATIVE REMEDIES.
   Neither this subchapter nor any of its provisions shall be construed to
impair or limit in any way the power of the city to define and declare
nuisances and to cause their abatement by summary action or otherwise, or to
enforce this subchapter by criminal process, and the enforcement of any remedy
provided herein shall not prevent the enforcement of any other remedy or
remedies provided herein or in other ordinances or laws.
(1995 Code, § 9-87)
§ 150.094  ZONING BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT TO HEAR APPEALS.
   All appeals which may be taken from decisions or orders of the Inspector
pursuant to §§
150.089(D) and
150.049(D) shall be heard and determined by the Zoning Board of Adjustment. As
the appeals body, the Board shall have power to fix the times and places of
meetings, to adopt necessary rules of procedure and any other rules and
regulations which may be necessary for the proper discharge of its duties. The
Board shall perform the duties prescribed by §
150.049(D) and shall keep an accurate journal of all its proceedings.
(1995 Code, § 9-88)
§ 150.095  CONFLICT WITH OTHER PROVISIONS.
   In the event any provision, standard or requirement of this subchapter is
found to be in conflict with any provision of any other ordinance or code of
the city, the provision which establishes the higher standard or more stringent
requirement for the promotion and protection of the health and safety of the
residents of the city shall prevail.
(1995 Code, § 9-89)
§ 150.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dwelling or dwelling unit to
fail, neglect or refuse to repair, alter or improve the same or to vacate and
close and remove or demolish the same, upon order of the Inspector duly made
and served as herein provided, within the times specified in such order, and
each day that any such failure, neglect or refusal to comply with such order
continues shall constitute a separate and distinct offense. It shall be
unlawful for the owner of any dwelling or dwelling unit, with respect to which
an order has been issued pursuant to §§
150.035 through
150.055, to occupy or permit the occupancy of the same after the time
prescribed in such order for its repair, alteration or improvement or its
vacation and closing, and each day that such occupancy continues after such
prescribed time shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
(1995 Code, § 9-35)  (Ord. passed 3-14-1978)
CHAPTER 151:  NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Short title
   
151.02   Purpose and authority
   
151.03   Scope and applicability
   
151.04   Definitions
Administration and Enforcement
   
151.15   Duties and powers of the code enforcement official
   
151.16   Inspections
   
151.17   Administrative liability
   
151.18   Procedure for enforcement
   
151.19   Appeal from order of code enforcement official to the Housing Appeals
Board
   
151.20   Methods of service of complaints and orders
   
151.21   Lis pendens
   
151.22   Costs a lien on the property
   
151.23   Alternative remedies
   
151.24   Conflict with other provisions
   
151.25   Ejectment
Maintenance Standards
   
151.40   Maintenance standards in general
   
151.41   External maintenance standards
   
151.42   Interior maintenance standards
   
151.43   Property maintenance standards
   
151.44   Vacant buildings or structures
 
   
151.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Abandoned structures, see §§
150.085 through
150.095
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01  SHORT TITLE.
   The rules and regulations prescribed by this chapter shall be known and be
cited as “The Nonresidential Building Code of the City of Lowell” and may be
referred to in this chapter as “this code.”
(Ord. passed 9- -2010)
§ 151.02  PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   Pursuant to G.S. § 160A-439, it is the purpose of this chapter to establish
minimum standards for the maintenance, sanitation and safety of all
nonresidential buildings and structures within the corporate limits of the
city. This chapter does not replace or modify requirements or standards
otherwise established for the construction, repair, alteration or use of
buildings, equipment or facilities, except as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. passed 9- -2010)
§ 151.03  SCOPE AND APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all nonresidential
buildings or structures which are now in existence or which may be built within
the corporate limits of the city.
   (B)   Every nonresidential building or structure and the property on which
it is situated shall comply with the provisions of this chapter, whether or not
such building or structure shall have been constructed, altered or repaired
before or after the enactment of this chapter, and irrespective of any permits
or licenses which have been issued for the use or occupancy of the building or
structure or for the installment or repair of equipment or facilities.
(Ord. passed 9- -2010)
§ 151.04  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALTERATION. As applied to a building or structure, means a change or
rearrangement in the structural parts or in the exit facilities; as
enlargement, whether by extending on a side or by increasing in height; or the
moving from one location or position to another; and the term ALTER in its
various moods and tenses and its participle refers to the making of an
alteration.
   APPROVED. As applied to a material, device or mode of construction, means
approved by the Inspector under this chapter or by other authority designated
by law to give approval in the matter in question.
   AREA.
      (1)   As applied to the dimensions of a building, means the maximum
horizontal projected area of the building; and
      (2)   As applied to the dimensions of a room, means the total square
footage of floor area between finished walls.
   BASEMENT. A story with 50% or more of its cubical volume below finished
grade.
   BUILDING. For the purposes of this chapter, any structure built for the
shelter or enclosure of persons, animals or property of any kind. The term
BUILDING shall be construed as if followed by the phrase “or part thereof.”
   CITY COUNCIL. The City Council of the City of Lowell.
   CLOSE. Securing the building or structure so that unauthorized persons
cannot gain entrance.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL. The person who has been designated by the City
Manager to enforce this chapter.
   DEMOLISH. The demolition and removal of the entire building or structure,
leaving the property free and clear of any debris and without holes or pockets
which may retain water.
   EXTERMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rodents or other
pests by eliminating their harborage places; by removing or making inaccessible
materials that may serve as their food by poisoning, spraying, fumigating,
trapping or by any other recognized and legal pest elimination methods approved
by the Inspector.
   GARBAGE. Waste materials including, without limitation, the byproduct of
animal or vegetable foodstuffs, paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood, excelsior,
rubber, leather, tree branches, yard waste, tins, metals, mineral matter,
glass, crockery, dust and the residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke and
other combustible material.
   INFESTATION. The presence, within or around a building or structure, of any
insects, rodents or other pests in such number as to constitute a menace to the
health, safety or welfare of the occupants or public.
   INSPECTOR. Any person who is authorized by the code enforcement official to
conduct inspections for the purpose of this chapter.
   NONRESIDENTIAL. Any building or structure that is not a dwelling, lodging
establishment, manufactured home or rooming house.
   OWNER. The holder of title in fee simple and every mortgagee of record.
   PARRY IN INTEREST. All individuals, associations and corporations who have
interests of record in a nonresidential building or structure and any who are
in possession thereof.
   PIER. A masonry or other material support extending from the ground and
footing to and supporting the building or portion thereof. Pier sizes and
spacing shall conform to the specifications of the State Building Code.
   PLUMBING. Includes all of the following supplied facilities and equipment:
gas pipes, gas-burning equipment, water pipes, mechanical sink grinders, waste
pipes, water closets, sinks, installed dishwashers, lavatories, bathtubs,
shower baths, installed clothes washing machines, catchbasins, drains, vents
and any other similar supplied fixtures, together with all connections to
water, sewer or gas lines.
   PROPERTY. Any lot or parcel of land inclusive of any building, structures or
improvements located thereon.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Any authority or officer of any department or branch of
the government of the city, county or state who is in charge of administering
and enforcing regulations relating to health, fire, public safety, buildings or
other activities concerning buildings or structures in the city.
   STATE BUILDING CODE. The North Carolina State Building Code or any
superseding regulation.
   VACANT. That a building or structure has not been used for its intended
purpose or for any lawful purpose for a period of at least 180 consecutive
days.
   VACANT INDUSTRIAL WAREHOUSE. Any building or structure designed for the
storage of goods or equipment in connection with manufacturing processes, which
has not been used for that purpose for at least one year and has not been
converted to another use.
   VACANT MANUFACTURING FACILITY. Any building or structure previously used for
the lawful production or manufacturing of goods, which has not been used for
that purposes for at least one year and has not been converted to another use.
(Ord. passed 9- -2010)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 151.15  DUTIES AND POWERS OF THE CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL.
   It shall be the duty of the code enforcement official to:
   (A)   Investigate the conditions of and inspect buildings and structures in
the city in order to determine whether they have been properly maintained in
compliance with the minimum standards established by this chapter so that the
safety or health of the occupants or members of the general public are not
jeopardized;
   (B)   Enter upon property for the purpose of making examinations and
inspections provided that such entries shall be made in accordance with law and
in such a manner as to cause the least possible inconvenience to the persons in
possession, if any;
   (C)   If permission to enter is not granted by the owner, the owner’s agent,
a tenant or other person legally in possession of the property, obtain a duly
issued administrative search warrant in accordance with G.S. § 15-27.2;
   (D)   Appoint and fix the duties of officers, agents and employees necessary
to carry out the purposes of this chapter;
   (E)   Delegate any of his or her functions and powers under this chapter to
other officers and agents;
   (F)   Take such action, together with other appropriate departments and
agencies, public and private, as may be necessary to effect compliance of
nonresidential buildings or structures which are in an unsafe condition;
   (G)   Administer oaths and affirmations, examine witnesses and receive
evidence;
   (H)   Issue notices of violation and impose civil penalties;
   (I)   Keep a record of the results of inspections made under this chapter;
and
   (J)   Perform such other duties as may be prescribed in this chapter.
(Ord. passed 9- -2010)
§ 151.16  INSPECTIONS.
   For the purpose of making inspections, the code enforcement official is
hereby authorized to enter and examine and survey, at all reasonable times, all
property after sufficiently identifying himself or herself. The owner or
occupant of every property, or the person in charge thereof, shall give the
code enforcement official free access to such property, at all reasonable
times, for the purpose of such inspection, examination and survey.
(Ord. passed 9- -2010)
§ 151.17  ADMINISTRATIVE LIABILITY.
   Except as may otherwise be provided by statute or local law or ordinance, no
city officer, agent or employee charged with the enforcement of this chapter
shall be personally liable for any damage that may accrue to persons or
property as a result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of his
or her duties under this chapter unless he or she acted with actual malice.
(Ord. passed 9- -2010)
§ 151.18  PROCEDURE FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Preliminary investigation. Whenever it appears to the code enforcement
official that any nonresidential building or structure has not been properly
maintained so that the safety or health of its occupants or members of the
general public is jeopardized for failure of the property to meet the minimum
standards established by this chapter, he or she shall undertake a preliminary
investigation.
   (B)   Complaint and hearing. If the preliminary investigation discloses
evidence of a violation of the minimum standards established by this chapter,
the code enforcement official shall issue a complaint and cause it to be served
upon the owner of and parties in interest in such nonresidential building or
structure. The complaint shall state the charges and contain a notice that a
hearing will be held before the code enforcement official at a place therein
fixed, not less than ten days or more than 30 days after the serving of such
complaint. The owner or any party in interest shall have the right to correct
the violation or to file an answer to the complaint and to appear in person, or
otherwise, and give testimony at the place and time fixed in the complaint. Any
person desiring to do so may attend such hearing and give evidence relevant to
the matter being heard. The rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law or
equity shall not be controlling in the hearing before the code enforcement
official.
   (C)   Procedure after hearing; issuance of order.
      (1)   If, after notice and hearing provided for in division (B) above,
the code enforcement official determines that the nonresidential building or
structure has not been properly maintained so that the safety or health of its
occupants or members of the general public is jeopardized for failure of the
property to meet the minimum standards established in this chapter, the code
enforcement official shall state in writing findings of fact in support of that
determination and shall issue and cause to be served upon the owner an order.
      (2)   If the code enforcement official determines that the cost of
repair, alteration or improvement of the nonresidential building or structure
would not exceed 50% of its then current value, then the code enforcement
official shall state in writing the findings of fact in support of such
determination and issue an order that requires the owner, within a reasonable
time specified in the order, to either:
         (a)   Repair, alter or improve the nonresidential building or
structure in order to bring it into compliance with the minimum standards
established in this chapter; or
         (b)   Vacate and close the nonresidential building or structure for
any use.
      (3)   If the code enforcement official determines that the cost of
repair, alteration or improvement of the nonresidential building or structure
would exceed 50% of its then current value, then the code enforcement official
shall state in writing the findings of fact in support of such determination
and issue an order that requires the owner, within a reasonable time specified
in the order, to either:
         (a)   Remove or demolish the nonresidential building or structure; or
         (b)   Repair, alter or improve the nonresidential building or
structure to bring it into compliance with the minimum standards established in
this chapter.
   (D)   Limitations on orders.
      (1)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, if the nonresidential
building or structure is designated as a local historic landmark, listed in the
National Register of Historic Places, or located in a locally designated
historic district or in a historic district listed in the National Register of
Historic Places and the City Council determines, after a public hearing as
provided by ordinance, that the nonresidential building or structure is of
individual significance or contributes to maintaining the character of the
district, and the nonresidential building or structure has not been condemned
as unsafe, the order may require that the nonresidential building or structure
be vacated and closed until it is brought into compliance with the minimum
standards established in this chapter.
      (2)   An order may not require repairs, alterations or improvements to be
made to vacant manufacturing facilities or vacant industrial warehouse
facilities to preserve the original use. The order
may require such building or structure to be vacated and closed, but repairs
may be required only when necessary to maintain structural integrity or to
abate a health or safety hazard that cannot be remedied by ordering the
building or structure closed for any use.
   (E)   Action by City Council upon failure to comply with order.
      (1)   If the owner fails to comply with an order to repair, alter or
improve or to vacate and close the nonresidential building or structure, the
City Council may adopt an ordinance ordering the code enforcement official to
cause such building or structure to be repaired, altered or improved in order
to bring it into compliance with the minimum standards established by this
chapter or to be vacated and closed for any use. The property or properties
shall be described in the ordinance. The ordinance shall be recorded in the
office of the Register of Deeds and shall be indexed in the name of the
property owner or owners in the grantor index. Following adoption of an
ordinance, the code enforcement official may cause the building or structure to
be repaired, altered or improved or to be vacated and closed. The code
enforcement official may cause to be posted on the main entrance of any
nonresidential building or structure so closed a placard with the following
words; “This building is unfit for any use; the use or occupation of this
building for any purpose is prohibited and unlawful.” Any person who occupies
or knowingly allows the occupancy of a building or structure so posted shall be
guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor.
      (2)   If the owner fails to comply with an order to remove or demolish
the nonresidential building or structure, the City Council may adopt an
ordinance ordering the code enforcement official to cause such building or
structure to be removed or demolished. No ordinance shall be adopted to require
removal or demolition of a nonresidential building or structure until the owner
has first been given a reasonable opportunity to bring it into conformity with
the minimum standards established in this chapter. The property or properties
shall be described in the ordinance. The ordinance shall be recorded in the
office of the Register of Deeds and shall be indexed in the name of the
property owner or owners in the grantor index. Following adoption of an
ordinance, the code enforcement official may cause the building or structure to
be removed or demolished.
   (F)   Action by City Council upon abandonment of intent to repair.
      (1)   (a)   If the City Council has adopted an ordinance or the code
enforcement official has issued an order requiring the building or structure to
be repaired or vacated and closed and the building or structure has been
vacated and closed for a period of two years pursuant to the ordinance or
order, the City Council may make findings that the owner has abandoned the
intent and purpose to repair, alter or improve the building or structure and
that the continuation of the building or structure in its vacated and closed
status would be inimical to the health, safety and welfare of the city in that
it would continue to deteriorate, would create a fire or safety hazard, would
be a threat to children and vagrants, would attract persons intent on criminal
activities, or would cause or contribute to blight and the deterioration of
property values in the area. Upon such findings, the City Council may, after
the expiration of the two-year period, enact an ordinance and serve such
ordinance on the owner, setting forth the following:
            1.   If the cost to repair the nonresidential building or structure
to bring it into compliance with the minimum standards is less than or equal to
50% of its then current value, the ordinance shall require that the owner
either repair or demolish and remove the building or structure within 90 days;
or
            2.   If the cost to repair the nonresidential building or structure
to bring it into compliance with the minimum standards exceeds 50% of its then
current value, the ordinance shall require the owner to demolish and remove the
building or structure within 90 days.
         (b)   In the case of vacant manufacturing facilities or vacant
industrial warehouse facilities, the building or structure must have been
vacated and closed pursuant to an order or ordinance for a period of five years
before the City Council may take action under this subsection. The ordinance
shall be recorded in the office of the register of deeds in the county wherein
the property or properties are located and shall be indexed in the name of the
property owner in the grantor index.
      (2)   If the owner fails to comply with the ordinance, the code
enforcement official shall cause the building or structure to be removed or
demolished.
(Ord. passed 9- -2010)
§ 151.19  APPEAL FROM ORDER OF CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL TO THE HOUSING APPEALS
BOARD.
   (A)   An appeal from any decision of the code enforcement official may be
taken by any person aggrieved thereby to the Appeals Board described in § 11-
43. Any appeal from the code enforcement official must be taken within ten days
after the rendering of the decision or service of the order by filing with the
code enforcement official and with the Appeals Board a notice of appeal which
shall specify the grounds upon which the appeal is based. Upon the filing of
any notice of appeal, the code enforcement official shall forthwith transmit to
the Housing Appeals Board all the papers constituting the record upon which the
decision appealed from was made. When an appeal is from a decision of the code
enforcement official refusing to allow the person aggrieved thereby to do any
act, the code enforcement official’s decision shall remain in force until
modified or reversed. When an appeal is from a decision of the code enforcement
official requiring the person aggrieved to do any act, the appeal shall have
the effect of suspending the requirement until the hearing of the Board unless
the code enforcement official certifies to the Board, after the notice of
appeal is made, that, by reason of the fact stated in the certificate, a copy
of which shall be furnished to the appellant and other parties in interest, a
suspension of this requirement would cause imminent peril to life or property.
When the code enforcement official issues such a certificate, the requirement
shall not be suspended except by a restraining order which may be granted for
due cause shown upon not less than one day’s written notice to the code
enforcement official by the Board or by a court of record upon petition made
pursuant to G.S. § 160A-446(c) and division (C) below. The Board shall fix a
reasonable time for the hearing of all appeals and cross appeals, shall give
due notices to all parties in interest and shall render its decision within a
reasonable time. Any party may appear in person or by agent or attorney and
present evidence. The Board may reverse, affirm, wholly or partly, or modify
the decision or order appealed from and may make such decision and order as in
its opinion ought to be made in the matter. All Board meetings shall have a
quorum present of at least four members, and the vote of at least four members
shall be required for a decision on an appeal or cross appeal. The Board shall
have the power in passing upon appeals and cross appeals where there are
practical difficulties or hardships to adopt the application of this chapter to
the necessities of the individual case to the end that the general purposes of
the law and justice shall be done.
   (B)   Every decision of the Board shall be subject to review by proceedings
in the nature of certiorari instituted within 15 days of the service of the
decision of the Board on the person who filed the appeal.
   (C)   Any person aggrieved by an order issued by the code enforcement
official or a decision rendered by the Board shall have the right, within 30
days after issuance of the order or rendering of the decision, to petition the
Superior Court for a temporary injunction restraining the code enforcement
official pending a final disposition of the cause, as provided by G.S. § 160A-
446(f).
(Ord. passed 9- -2010)
§ 151.20  METHODS OF SERVICE OF COMPLAINTS AND ORDERS.
   (A)   Complaints or orders issued by the code enforcement official pursuant
to this chapter shall be served upon persons either personally or by registered
or certified mail so long as the means used are reasonably designed to achieve
actual notice. When service is made by registered or certified mail, a copy of
the complaint or order may also be sent by regular mail. Service shall be
deemed sufficient if the registered or certified mail is refused, but the
regular mail is not returned by the post office within ten days after the
mailing. If regular mail is used, a notice of the pending proceedings shall be
posted in a conspicuous place on the property affected.
   (B)   If the identities of any owners or the whereabouts of persons are
unknown and cannot be ascertained by the code enforcement official in the
exercise of reasonable diligence, and the code enforcement official makes an
affidavit to that effect, the serving of the complaint or order upon the owners
or other persons may be made by publication in a newspaper having general
circulation in the city at least once no later than the time at which personal
service would be required under this chapter. When service is made by
publication, a notice of the pending proceedings shall be posted in a
conspicuous place on the property affected.
(Ord. passed 9- -2010)
§ 151.21  LIS PENDENS.
   Any complaint and notice of hearing or order issued pursuant to this chapter
may be filed in the notice of lis pendens in the office of the Clerk of the
Superior Court. A copy of the complaint containing a notice of hearing or a
copy of the order shall be attached to the lis pendens. When the lis pendens is
filed with the Clerk, it shall be indexed and cross-indexed in accordance with
the indexing procedures of G.S. § 1-117 and it shall be served on the owners of
and parties in interest in the building or structure. From the date and time of
indexing the complaint and notice of hearing or order, it shall be binding upon
the successors and assigns of the owners of and parties in interest in the
building or structure. The code enforcement official may cancel the lis pendens
upon his or her determination that the owner of the building or structure has
fully complied with the code enforcement official’s order.
(Ord. passed 9- -2010)
§ 151.22  COSTS A LIEN ON THE PROPERTY.
   (A)   As provided by G.S. § 160A-439(i), the amount of the cost of any
repairs, alterations or improvements, or vacating and closing, or removal or
demolition, caused to be made or done by the code enforcement official pursuant
to the provisions of this chapter shall be a lien against the real property
upon which such cost was incurred. Such lien shall be filed, have the same
priority and be collected as the lien for special assessment provided in G.S.
Ch. 160A, Art. 10.
   (B)   The amount of the cost of repairs, alterations or improvements, or
vacating and closing, or removal or demolition expended by the code enforcement
official is also a lien on any other real property of the owner located within
the city limits except for the owner’s primary residence. The additional lien
provided in this division (B) is inferior to all prior liens and shall be
collected as a money judgment.
   (C)   If the nonresidential building or structure is removed or demolished
by the code enforcement official, he or she shall offer for sale the
recoverable materials of the building or structure and any personal property,
fixtures or appurtenances found in or attached to the building or structure and
shall credit the proceeds of the sale, if any, against the cost of the removal
or demolition, and any balance remaining shall be deposited in the Superior
Court by the code enforcement official, shall be secured in a manner directed
by the court, and shall be disbursed by the court to the persons found to be
entitled thereto by final order or decree of the court. Nothing in this chapter
shall be construed to impair or limit in any way the power of the City Council
to define and declare nuisances and to cause their removal or abatement by
summary proceedings or otherwise.
(Ord. passed 9- -2010)
§ 151.23  ALTERNATIVE REMEDIES.
   Enforcement by any remedy provided in this chapter shall not prevent
enforcement by any other remedy provided in this chapter or in other ordinances
or laws. With the exception of §
151.18(E)(1), however, a violation of any provision of this chapter shall not
constitute an infraction or misdemeanor punishable under G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. passed 9- -2010)
§ 151.24  CONFLICT WITH OTHER PROVISIONS.
   If any provision, standard or requirement of this chapter is found to be in
conflict with any other city ordinance, the provision which establishes the
higher standard or more stringent requirement for the promotion and protection
of the health and safety of the residents of the city shall prevail.
(Ord. passed 9- -2010)
§ 151.25  EJECTMENT.
   If any occupant fails to comply with an order to vacate a nonresidential
building or structure, the code enforcement official may file a civil action in
the name of the city to remove the occupant. Such action shall be filed in the
nature of summary ejectment and conducted in accordance with G.S. § 160A-439
(j).
(Ord. passed 9- -2010)
MAINTENANCE STANDARDS
§ 151.40  MAINTENANCE STANDARDS IN GENERAL.
   Only electrical, mechanical and plumbing devices and systems which are:
   (A)   Intended to be used at the time of inspection;
   (B)   Being used at the time of inspection; or
   (C)   Required by law at the time of inspection are subject to the
applicable portions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 9- -2010)
§ 151.41  EXTERNAL MAINTENANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Exit requirements.
      (1)   Minimum number of exits shall conform to the requirements of the
State Building Code as applicable.
      (2)   Every stairway, deck, porch and balcony, and all appurtenances
attached thereto, including without limitation, handrails and guardrails, shall
be maintained in a structurally sound condition, in good repair. Each shall be
properly anchored and capable of supporting live or dead loads.
   (B)   Electrical facilities.
      (1)   No receptacles, ceiling fixtures or other fixtures shall be hanging
loose, unless designed and rated for that purpose.
      (2)   All switches and receptacles shall be safe.
      (3)   There shall be no unsafe wiring.
      (4)   There shall be no drop or extension cords in excess of six feet in
length used in place of permanent wiring.
      (5)   No circuits shall be overloaded.
      (6)   Fuses shall be sized correctly and not bridged out.
      (7)   All wiring shall be in accordance with the National Electrical
Code.
   (C)   Exterior walls.
      (1)   There shall be no unsafe wall conditions such that the plumbline
from the top center of studs falls outside the base plate at any point along
the wall.
      (2)   Maximum spacing for studding, providing they show signs of being
weak or overloaded, shall comply with the requirements of the State Building
Code.
      (3)   Studs or other structural members shall be structurally sound and
not likely to cause structural weakness in the future.
      (4)   There shall be no broken or cracked structural members.
      (5)   All siding shall be reasonably weather-tight, with no holes or
excessive cracks or decayed boards, or siding material.
      (6)   There shall be no loose siding.
      (7)   There shall be no deterioration because of lack of preventative
maintenance consisting of painting, waterproofing and repair.
   (D)   Roofs.
      (1)   All structural members shall be maintained free from deterioration,
and shall be capable of safely supporting the dead and live loads.
      (2)   The roof and flashing shall be sound, tight and not have defects
which admit water or rain. Roof drainage shall be adequate to prevent dampness
or deterioration in the walls or interior of the structure. Roof drains,
gutters, scuppers and downspouts shall be maintained in good repair, and free
from obstructions. Roof water shall not be discharged in a manner that creates
a health or safety hazard.
   (E)   Porches, vestibules and external covered areas.
      (1)   The floor, ceiling and roof shall be equal to requirements set
forth in this chapter, except sills, joists and floors need not be level if
providing drainage of floors; floors need not be weather-tight.
      (2)   Every stairway, deck, porch and balcony, and all appurtenances
attached thereto, including, without limitation, handrails and guardrails,
shall be maintained in a structurally sound condition, in good repair. Each
shall be properly anchored, and capable of supporting imposed loads.
   (F)   Windows. Windows, where provided, including frames, sash components
and glazing shall be maintained in good condition, with no broken, cracked or
missing glazing.
   (G)   Property maintenance.
      (1)   Building structure. Exterior wood surfaces not inherently resistant
to deterioration shall be treated with a protective coating of paint or other
suitable preservative with sufficient frequency to prevent deterioration.
      (2)   Open areas. There shall be no heavy undergrowth or accumulation of
plant growth which is noxious or detrimental to health, or because it is
overgrown, may provide harborage for criminal activity.
      (3)   Infestation. Grounds, buildings and structures shall be maintained
free of infestation by rodents, insects and other pests.
      (4)   Chimneys and towers. All chimneys, cooling towers, smoke stacks and
similar appurtenances shall be maintained structurally safe and sound, and in
good repair. All exposed surfaces of metal or wood shall be protected from the
elements and against decay or rust by periodic application of weather coating
materials, such as paint or similar surface treatment.
(Ord. passed 9- -2010)
§ 151.42  INTERIOR MAINTENANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   The interior of a structure and equipment therein shall be maintained
in good order, shall be structurally sound, and be in a sanitary condition.
   (B)   Occupants shall keep that part of the building or structure which they
occupy or control in a clean and sanitary condition.
      (1)   Exit requirements. Minimum number of exits shall conform to the
requirements of the State Building Code as applicable.
      (2)   Plumbing systems and facilities.
         (a)   In general, all fixtures and piping shall be properly installed
and maintained in working order, and shall be kept free from obstructions,
leaks and defects. All plumbing shall be capable of performing the function for
which such plumbing fixtures are designed. All plumbing fixtures shall be
maintained in a safe, sanitary and functional condition.
         (b)   Plumbing fixtures shall have adequate clearance for usage and
cleaning.
         (c)   Where it is found that a plumbing system in a building or
structure creates an unsafe condition that is hazardous to the occupants, or by
reason of inadequate service, inadequate venting, cross connection,
backsiphonage, improper installation deterioration or damage or for similar
reasons, the code enforcement official shall require the defects to be
corrected to eliminate the unsafe condition.
      (3)   Heating facilities.
         (a)   Buildings shall be weatherproof.
         (b)   Heating systems shall be maintained in good order and repair and
shall be of sufficient capacity so as to heat all occupied areas in accordance
with the State Building Code.
         (c)   All safety controls and all clearances to combustible materials
for electrical equipment which produces heat shall be maintained in effective
operation.
         (d)   Other heating facilities, where provided, shall meet the
requirements of the State Building Code.
         (e)   All electric, gas and heating oil heating equipment installed on
the property shall be listed by Underwriters’ Laboratories, Inc. or American
Gas Association and installed in accordance with the provisions of the State
Building Code.
         (f)   All mechanical appliances shall be properly installed and
maintained in a safe working condition, and shall be capable of performing the
intended function.
         (g)   All fuel burning equipment or appliances shall be connected to
an approved chimney or vent. Fuel burning equipment and appliances labeled for
unvented use are an exception to this requirement.
         (h)   All required clearances to combustible materials shall be
maintained.
         (i)   All safety controls for fuel burning equipment shall be
maintained in effective operation.
      (4)   Electrical facilities.
         (a)   No receptacles, ceiling fixtures or other fixtures shall be
hanging loose unless designed and rated for that purpose.
         (b)   All switches and receptacles shall be safe.
         (c)   There shall be no unsafe wiring.
         (d)   There shall be no drop or extension cords in excess of six feet
in length used in place of permanent wiring.
         (e)   No circuits shall be overloaded.
         (f)   Fuses shall be sized correctly and not bridged out.
         (g)   All wiring shall be in accordance with the National Electrical
Code.
      (5)   Structural standards.
         (a)   Foundation.
            1.   Beneath the building or structure there shall be firm ground,
which is reasonably dry, properly drained and no water shall be running under
the building or structure.
            2.   There shall be sound footings and adequate bearing.
            3.   There shall be sound piers and no loose mortar or masonry.
            4.   There shall be no piers in which the plumbline from the top
center falls outside the middle one-third of the pier base.
            5.   There shall be no isolated masonry piers exceeding in height
ten times the least dimension of the pier.
            6.   There shall be no wood stiff-knee piers.
         (b)   Floors.
            1.   Flooring shall be weather-tight without holes or excessive
cracks which permit air to penetrate rooms.
            2.   Flooring or floor covering shall be reasonably smooth and not
decayed, fire damaged or worn through.
            3.   There shall be no loose flooring,
            4.   Floors shall be reasonably level.
            5.   All structural members shall be maintained free from
deterioration, and shall be capable of safely supporting the dead and live
loads.
         (c)   Interior load bearing walls.
            1.   There shall be no unsafe wall conditions such that the
plumbline from the top center studs falls outside the base plate at any point
along the wall.
            2.   Maximum spacing for studding, providing the studs show signs
of being weak or overloaded, shall comply with the requirements of the State
Building Code.
            3.   Studs or other structural members, including posts and
columns, shall be structurally sound and not likely to cause structural
weaknesses in the future.
            4.   There shall be no broken or cracked structural members.
         (d)   Interior porches, landings and vestibules.
            1.   The floor and ceiling shall be equal to the requirements set
forth in this chapter.
            2.   Every stairway, deck, porch and balcony and all appurtenances
attached thereto, including, without limitation, handrails and guardrails,
shall be maintained in a structurally sound condition and in good repair.
            3.   Any interior porch, landing or vestibule shall be properly
anchored and capable of supporting live and dead loads.
(Ord. passed 9- -2010)
§ 151.43  PROPERTY MAINTENANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Building structure. Storage of combustible materials is prohibited
unless the building or structure is designed for that purpose.
   (B)   Open areas.
      (1)   Surface and subsurface water shall be appropriately drained to
protect buildings and structures and to prevent development of stagnant pools.
      (2)   Fences, sheds, signs, outbuildings and other accessory buildings
shall be maintained in a safe and functional condition or removed or
demolished.
      (3)   Yards, courts, parking lots and driveways shall be kept clean and
free of physical hazards, garbage, junk, junked vehicles, vehicle parts and
other similar material.
      (4)   There shall be no heavy undergrowth or accumulation of plant growth
which is noxious or detrimental to health, or because it is overgrown, may
provide harborage for criminal activity.
      (5)   There shall be adequate lighting to prevent harborage for criminal
activity.
   (C)   Infestation. Grounds, buildings and structures shall be maintained
free of infestation by rodents, insects and other pests.
   (D)   Garbage. There shall be adequate sanitary facilities and methods for
the storage, handling and disposal of garbage generated on or by the property.
   (E)   Storm drainage. Drainage of paved areas, yards, courts and other open
areas on the property shall not be discharged in a manner that creates a health
or safety hazard.
(Ord. passed 9- -2010)
§ 151.44  VACANT BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES.
   (A)   The interior maintenance standards set forth in §
151.42 shall not apply to vacant nonresidential buildings or structures unless
one or more of the following serious conditions is present on the property:
      (1)   Overall conditions present a serious health or safety hazard;
      (2)   The building or structure is a breeding area for rodents or
insects;
      (3)   The building or structure presents a fire hazard;
      (4)   The building or structure is structurally unsafe and presents a
threat to the safety of code enforcement personnel, Fire Department personnel
and law enforcement officers or members of the general public;
      (5)   The building or structure is frequented by vagrants; and
      (6)   The building or structure is not properly secured to prevent
unauthorized access.
   (B)   If the code enforcement official orders a nonresidential building or
structure vacated and closed pursuant to this chapter, the owner shall board
and secure such building or structure in accordance with the guidelines for
boarding and securing a building or structure provided by the code enforcement
official.
(Ord. passed 9- -2010)
§ 151.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any nonresidential building or
structure to fail, neglect or refuse to repair, alter or improve the building
or structure, or to vacate and close and remove or demolish, or to vacate and
close the building or structure upon order of the code enforcement official
duly made and served as provided in this chapter, within the time specified in
such order; and each day that any such failure, neglect or refusal to comply
with such order continues shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or agent of the owner of any
nonresidential building or structure, with respect to which an order has been
issued to occupy or permit the occupancy of the building after the time
prescribed in such order for its repair, alteration or improvement or its
vacation and closing, and removal or demolition, and each day that such
occupancy continues after such prescribed time shall constitute a separate and
distinct offense.
   (C)   Any owner who fails to comply with an order of the code enforcement
official to repair, alter or improve the building or structure or to vacate and
close and remove or demolish the building or structure, or vacate and close the
building or structure within the time specified in the order, shall be subject
to a civil penalty in the amount of $500 for the first day of noncompliance and
$50 for each day thereafter until the building or structure is brought into
compliance with the order. The civil penalty may be recovered by the city in a
civil action in the nature of a debt if the owner does not pay the penalty
within 30 days after the initial day of noncompliance.
(Ord. passed 9- -2010)
CHAPTER 152:  HISTORIC PROPERTIES COMMISSION
Section
   
152.01   Establishment
   
152.02   Purpose
   
152.03   Composition and term of office
   
152.04   Powers and authority
§ 152.01  ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby established jointly by Gaston County, the Cities of
Gastonia, Mount Holly, Belmont, Cramerton, Ranlo, Lowell, Stanley, McAdenville,
Dallas, Spencer Mountain, High Shoals, Cherryville, Dellview and Bessemer City,
the Joint Gaston County Historic Properties Commission.
(1995 Code, § 9-75)  (Ord. passed 2-20-1978)
§ 152.02  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of establishing the Joint Gaston County Historic Properties
Commission shall be:
   (A)   To safeguard the heritage of the county by preserving any property
therein that embodies important elements of its cultural, social, economic,
political or architectural history;
   (B)   To promote the use and conservation of such property for the
education, pleasure  and enrichment of the county and the state; and
   (C)   To recommend sites for designation as historic properties on the basis
of individual merit and historical significance.
(1995 Code, § 9-76)
§ 152.03  COMPOSITION AND TERM OF OFFICE.
   (A)   (1)   The Commission shall consist of seven members with each one
selected by the County Commissioners from their respective townships. The terms
of the Commission members shall be four
years. To achieve staggered terms, for the purpose of maintaining continuity,
the members shall draw straws. The three members drawing short straws shall
serve an initial term of two years.
      (2)   A majority of the members of the Historic Properties Commission
shall have demonstrated special interest, experience or education in history,
preservation, architecture, real estate or law.
      (3)   The Historic Properties Commission shall elect annually a
Chairperson, a Vice- Chairperson, Secretary and Treasurer, who shall act as the
executive committee.
   (B)   The Commission shall appoint advisory staffs to secure adequate
representation from the municipalities included in their respective townships.
The members of the advisory staffs shall be ex officio members of the
Commission and shall have no voting power. The size of the advisory staffs
shall vary in size, proportionate to the population of the townships. The
initial size of the advisory staffs shall be: Gastonia Township, five members;
South Point Township, three members; Riverbend Township, two members; Dallas
Township, one member; and Crowders Mountain Township, one member.
   (C)   The Properties Commission Executive Committee shall appoint an
Inventory Committee for the purpose of making an index of the historic
properties in the county. Those appointed may come from the Properties
Commission, the advisory staffs or from the county population at large. The
Inventory Committee shall include no less than three members, one responsible
for photographic work. The term is continual and any vacancy may be filled by
appointment by the Executive Committee.
(1995 Code, § 9-77)
§ 152.04  POWERS AND AUTHORITY.
   The Joint Gaston County Historic Properties Commission shall have all the
powers and authority as prescribed in G.S. §§ 160A-399.1 through 160A-399.13,
with the following exceptions.
   (A)   The Joint Gaston County Historic Properties Commission (G.C.H.P.C.)
shall have the authority to acquire property designated by ordinance as
historic property with any funds which may be appropriated for that purpose.
   (B)   All lands, buildings or structures acquired by the G.C.H.P.C, whether
from private or public funds, may be acquired and held in the name of the
Historic Properties Commission.
(1995 Code, § 9-78)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
TABLE I:  ANNEXATIONS
 
Res. No.  Date Passed Description
10-15-96B 12-31-1996  Annexation of contiguous territory, consisting of 12 lots
                      and tracts.
- -       3-24-2016   Annexation of property of Gaston Christian School, Inc.
- -       8-14-2017   Annexation of 3.662 acres, more or less.
                     
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to North Carolina General Statutes
References to 1995 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUTES
G.S. Section Code Section
G.S. Section                   Code Section
1-117                          151.21
1-593                          10.05
12-3                           10.05
Ch. 14, Art. 35                130.20
                               93.99,
                               94.99,
14-4                           112.99,
                               150.053,
                               151.23
14-4(a)                        10.99
14-4(b)                        70.99
14-132                         130.03
14-196                         36.61
14-208.6                       95.02
15-27.2                        151.15
Ch. 20                         70.01
20-4.01(12a)                   74.25
20-141                         72.001
20-156                         70.17
20-219.11                      91.09
Ch. 44A, Art. 1                91.11,
                               93.08
44A-26                         36.41
66-410                         113.05
87-1                           36.41
Ch. 90, Art. 5                 130.03
105-349                        32.17
105-350                        32.17
133-1                          36.39
133-1.1                        36.39
133-1.1(a)                     36.41
133-2                          36.39
133-3                          36.39
136-141 et seq.                91.14
136-143                        91.14
Ch. 143, Art. 9A               150.023
143-64.31                      36.41
143-64.32                      36.41
143-128                        36.39
143-128.2(a), (j)              36.41
143-129                        36.41,
                               36.39
143-129(b)                     36.41
143-129(c)                     36.41
143-129(g)                     36.41
143-129.8                      36.36
                               36.36,
143-131                        36.37,
                               36.39,
                               36.41
143-131(b)                     36.41
143-132                        36.39
143-132(a)                     36.39
143-135                        36.39,
                               36.41
143-318.11(a)                  30.16
143-318.11(a)(1)               30.16,
                               30.21
143-318.11(a)(3)               30.16,
                               30.21
147-69.3                       36.41
Ch. 159, Art. 3                34.01
159-25(a)(3)                   36.32
159-28                         34.01
159-30                         36.34
159-30(b), (c)                 36.34
159-30(c)(6a)                  36.41
159-32                         36.34
159-55                         36.35
Ch. 160A, Art. 7, Part 2       Charter 4.1
                               150.052,
Ch. 160A, Art. 10              150.092,
                               151.22
160A-1                         Charter 1.3
160A-63                        Charter 2.7
160A-64                        31.04
160A-69                        31.02
160A-70                        31.03
160A-72                        32.15
160A-74                        Charter 2.6
160A-75                        Charter 2.6
160A-79                        10.01
160A-147                       32.17
160A-152                       32.30
160A-171                       32.15
160A-173                       32.16
160A-175                       10.99,
                               111.07
160A-184                       130.01
160A-193                       93.07
160A-266(c)                    36.40
160A-267                       36.40
160A-268                       36.40
160A-270                       36.40
160A-271                       36.40
160A-277                       36.40
160A-279                       36.40
160A-280                       36.40
160A-281 et seq.               35.01
160A-296                       92.15
160A-300                       70.01
160A-300.6                     74.25
160A-303                       91.02
160A-303.2                     91.02
160A-360(b)                    33.16
160A-361                       33.15
160A-362                       33.15
160A-385(a)                    30.41
160A-386                       30.41
160A-399.1 through 160A-399.13 152.04
160A-439                       151.02
160A-439(i)                    151.22
160A-439(j)                    151.25
160A-441                       150.035,
                               150.085
160A-443                       150.049,
                               150.089
160A-443(5)                    150.051,
                               150.091
160A-444                       150.035
160A-446(c)                    151.19
                               150.049,
160A-446(f)                    150.089,
                               151.19
160A-446(g)                    150.049,
                               150.089
160A-446(6)                    150.052,
                               150.092
160A-460 through 160A-464      36.41
163-292                        Charter 3.1
Ch. 163, Subch. IX             30.03
164-7                          10.14
                               
 
REFERENCES TO 1995 CODE
1995 Section 2015 Section
1995 Section         2015 Section
1-1                  10.01
1-2                  10.05
1-4                  10.04
1-5                  10.16
1-6                  10.99
1-7                  10.07
1-8                  10.17
1-9                  10.19
2-1                  31.01
2-2                  31.02
2-3                  31.03
2-5                  31.04
2-16                 32.30
2-17                 32.31
2-18                 32.32
2-19                 32.15
2-20                 32.16
2-21                 32.17
2-22                 32.01
2-23                 32.02
2-24                 33.01
2-25                 34.01
2-26                 34.02
2-27                 34.03
2-28                 33.15
2-29                 33.16
2-30                 33.17
2-31                 33.18
2-32                 33.19
2-33                 33.20
2-34                 33.21
2-35                 33.22
2-36                 33.23
2-37                 33.24
2-38                 33.25
2-39                 33.26
3-1                  35.01
3-2                  35.02
3-3                  35.03
3-4                  35.04
3-5                  35.05
3-6                  35.06
3-7                  35.07
3-8                  35.08
3-9                  35.20
3-10                 35.21
3-11                 35.22
3-12                 35.23
3-13                 35.24
3-14                 35.35
4-1                  92.01
4-3                  92.15
4-4                  92.16
4-5                  92.17
4-6                  92.18
4-7                  92.19
4-8                  92.20
4-9                  92.21
4-10                 92.22
4-11                 92.23
4-12                 75.01
4-13                 75.02
4-14                 75.03
4-15                 75.99
4-16                 150.070
4-17                 150.071
4-18                 150.072
4-19                 150.073
4-20                 150.074
4-21                 50.01
4-22                 50.02
4-23                 50.03
4-25                 50.04
4-26                 50.05
4-27                 50.06
4-28                 50.07
4-29                 50.08
4-30                 50.09
4-31                 50.99
4-32                 50.10
4-33                 50.11
4-34                 50.12
4-35                 50.13
4-36                 50.14
4-37                 50.15
4-38                 94.01
4-39                 94.02
4-40                 94.03
4-41                 94.04
4-42                 94.05
4-43                 94.06
4-44                 94.07
4-45                 94.08
4-46                 94.09
4-47                 94.10
4-48                 94.11
4-49                 94.12
4-50                 94.13
4-51                 94.14
4-52                 94.15
4-53                 94.16
4-54                 94.17
4-55                 94.18
4-56                 94.19
4-57                 94.99
Ch. 4, App. I, § 101Ch. 76, Sch. I
Ch. 4, App. I, § 102Ch. 76, Sch. II
Ch. 4, App. I, § 103Ch. 76, Sch. III
Ch. 4, App. I, § 104Ch. 76, Sch. IV
Ch. 4, App. I, § 105Ch. 76, Sch. V
Ch. 4, App. I, § 106Ch. 76, Sch. V
Ch. 4, App. I, § 107Ch. 76, Sch. V
Ch. 4, App. I, § 108Ch. 76, Sch. V
Ch. 4, App. I, § 109Ch. 76, Sch. V
Ch. 4, App. I, § 110Ch. 76, Sch. V
Ch. 4, App. I, § 111Ch. 76, Sch. V
Ch. 4, App. I, § 112Ch. 76, Sch. V
Ch. 4, App. I, § 113Ch. 76, Sch. V
Ch. 4, App. I, § 114Ch. 76, Sch. V
Ch. 4, App. I, § 115Ch. 76, Sch. V
Ch. 4, App. I, § 116Ch. 76, Sch. V
Ch. 4, App. I, § 117Ch. 76, Sch. V
Ch. 4, App. I, § 118Ch. 76, Sch. V
Ch. 4, App. I, § 119Ch. 76, Sch. VI
Ch. 4, App. I, § 120Ch. 76, Sch. VII
Ch. 4, App. I, § 121Ch. 76, Sch. VIII
Ch. 4, App. I, § 122Ch. 76, Sch. IX
Ch. 4, App. I, § 123Ch. 76, Sch. X
Ch. 4, App. I, § 124Ch. 76, Sch. XI
Ch. 4, App. I, § 125Ch. 77, Sch. III
Ch. 4, App. I, § 126Ch. 77, Sch. IV
Ch. 4, App. I, § 127Ch. 77, Sch. I
Ch. 4, App. I, § 128Ch. 77, Sch. II
Ch. 4, App. I, § 129Ch. 77, Sch. II
Ch. 4, App. I, § 130Ch. 77, Sch. II
Ch. 4, App. I, § 131Ch. 76, Sch. XII
5-1                  51.01
5-2                  51.02
5-3                  51.03
5-4                  51.04
5-5                  51.05
5-6                  51.06
5-7                  51.07
5-8                  51.08
5-9                  51.09
5-10                 51.10
5-11                 51.11
5-12                 51.12
5-13                 51.13
5-14                 51.14
5-15                 51.15
5-16                 51.16
5-17                 51.17
5-18                 51.18
5-19                 51.19
5-20                 51.20
5-21                 51.21
5-22                 52.01
5-23                 52.02
5-24                 52.03
5-25                 52.04
5-26                 52.05
5-27                 52.06
5-28                 52.07
5-29                 52.08
5-30                 52.09
5-31                 52.10
5-32                 52.11
5-33                 52.12
5-34                 52.13
5-35                 52.14
5-36                 52.15
5-37                 53.01
5-38                 53.02
5-39                 53.03
5-40                 53.04
5-41                 53.05
5-42                 53.06
5-43                 53.07
5-44                 53.08
5-45                 53.09
5-46                 53.99
5-47                 54.01
6-1                  110.01
6-2                  110.02
6-3                  110.03
6-4                  110.04
6-5                  110.05
6-6                  110.06
6-7                  110.07
6-8                  110.08
6-9                  110.09
6-10                 110.10
6-11                 110.11
6-12                 110.12
6-13                 110.13
6-14                 111.01
6-15                 111.02
6-16                 111.03
6-17                 111.04
6-18                 111.05
6-19                 111.06
6-20                 111.07
6-21                 112.01
6-22                 112.02
6-23                 112.03
6-24                 112.04
6-25                 112.05
6-26                 112.06
6-27                 112.07
6-28                 112.08
6-29                 112.09
6-30                 112.10
6-31                 112.11
6-32                 112.12
6-33                 112.13
6-34                 112.99
6-35                 113.01
6-36                 113.02
6-37                 113.03
6-38                 113.04
6-39                 113.05
6-40                 113.06
6-41                 113.07
6-42                 113.08
6-43                 92.35
6-44                 92.36
6-45                 92.37
6-46                 92.38
6-47                 92.39
6-48                 92.40
6-49                 92.55
6-50                 92.56
6-51                 92.57
6-52                 92.58
6-53                 96.01
6-54                 96.02
6-55                 96.03
6-56                 96.04
6-57                 96.05
6-58                 96.06
7-1                  70.01
7-2                  70.15
7-3                  70.16
7-4                  70.17
7-5                  71.01
7-6                  71.02
7-7                  71.03
7-8                  71.04
7-9                  71.05
7-10                 71.06
7-11                 71.07
7-12                 71.08
7-13                 71.09
7-14                 71.10
7-15                 72.001
7-16                 72.002
7-17                 72.015
7-18                 72.016
7-19                 72.017
7-20                 72.030
7-21                 72.031
7-22                 72.045
7-23                 72.046
7-24                 72.047
7-25                 72.048
7-26                 72.049
7-27                 72.060
7-28                 74.01
7-29                 74.02
7-30                 74.03
7-31                 74.04
7-32                 74.05
7-33                 74.06
7-34                 74.07
7-35                 74.08
7-36                 74.09
7-37                 74.10
7-38                 73.01
7-39                 73.02
7-40                 73.03
7-41                 73.15
7-42                 73.16
7-43                 73.17
7-44                 73.18
7-45                 73.19
7-46                 73.30
7-47                 73.31
7-48                 73.32
7-49                 73.45
7-50                 73.46
7-51                 73.47
7-52                 73.48
7-53                 73.49
8-1                  130.20
8-2                  130.21
8-3                  130.22
8-4                  130.23
8-5                  130.24
8-6                  90.01
8-7                  90.02
8-8                  90.03
8-9                  90.04
8-10                 90.05
8-11                 90.06
8-12                 90.07
8-13                 91.01
8-14                 91.02
8-15                 91.03
8-16                 91.04
8-17                 91.05
8-18                 91.06
8-19                 91.07
8-20                 91.08
8-21                 91.09
8-22                 91.10
8-23                 91.11
8-24                 91.12
8-25                 91.13
8-26                 91.14
8-27                 91.15
8-28                 93.01
8-29                 93.02
8-30                 93.03
8-31                 93.04
8-32                 93.05
8-33                 93.06
8-34                 93.07
8-35                 93.08
8-36                 93.09
8-37                 93.99
8-38                 130.01
8-39                 130.02
8-40                 130.03
9-1                  150.001
9-2                  150.002
9-3                  150.003
9-4                  150.004
9-5                  150.005
9-6                  150.006
9-7                  150.007
9-8                  150.008
9-9                  150.009
9-10                 150.020
9-11                 150.021
9-12                 150.022
9-13                 150.023
9-14                 150.035
9-15                 150.036
9-16                 150.037
9-17                 150.038
9-18                 150.039
9-19                 150.040
9-20                 150.041
9-21                 150.042
9-22                 150.043
9-23                 150.044
9-24                 150.045
9-25                 150.046
9-26                 150.047
9-27                 150.048
9-28                 150.049
9-29                 150.050
9-30                 150.051
9-31                 150.052
9-32                 150.053
9-33                 150.054
9-34                 150.055
9-35                 150.999
9-75                 152.01
9-76                 152.02
9-77                 152.03
9-78                 152.04
9-79                 150.085
9-80                 150.086
9-81                 150.087
9-82                 150.088
9-83                 150.089
9-84                 150.090
9-85                 150.091
9-86                 150.092
9-87                 150.093
9-88                 150.094
9-89                 150.095
                     
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No.  Date Passed Code Section
10-15-96B 12-31-1996  TSO I
- -       3-24-2016   TSO I
- -       8-14-2017   TSO I
                     
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
-        9-3-1957    74.09
-        9-30-1957   74.03,
                     74.08
-        9-30-1957   90.07
-        9-30-1957   130.21
                     75.01—
-        3-4-1958    75.03,
                     75.99
-        5-6-1958    73.15
-        1-6-1959    130.21
-        10-5-1959   90.06
-        5-9-1960    150.070—
                     150.074
-        9-5-1961    130.02
                     50.01—
-        4-25-1966   50.09,
                     50.99
-        1-8-1968    35.35
                     53.01—
-        1-8-1968    53.09,
                     53.99
-        3-4-1968    96.01—
                     96.06
-        5-6-1968    73.16
-        2-3-1969    130.24
-        3-3-1969    52.12
-        7-1-1969    50.08
                     112.01—
-        6-5-1975    112.13,
                     112.99
-        2-20-1978   152.01
                     150.035—
-        3-14-1978   150.055,
                     150.999
                     150.001—
-        9-18-1978   150.009,
                     150.020—
                     150.023
-        5-19-1980   130.03
-        8-18-1980   130.03
-        10-20-1980  130.03
-        10-21-1980  113.01—
                     113.08
-        8-17-1981   90.01—
                     90.05
-        1-25-1982   Ch. 77, Sch. III
-        3-15-1982   Ch. 76, Sch. XII
-        5-7-1982    150.085
-        5-10-1982   Ch. 76, Sch. XII
-        5-17-1982   72.060
-        3-21-1983   130.03
-        5-16-1983   130.03
-        11-12-1983  93.99
                     93.01,
-        11-21-1983  93.02,
                     93.05—
                     93.09
-        6-25-1984   Ch. 76, Sch. V
-        11-12-1984  10.01,
                     10.05
                     50.02—
-        11-12-1984  50.05,
                     50.09,
                     50.99
-        11-12-1984  51.02
-        11-12-1984  52.02
                     93.02,
-        11-12-1984  93.04,
                     93.08
-        4-9-1985    32.01,
                     32.02
-        2-9-1987    Ch. 77, Sch. I
-        4-13-1987   50.10
-        6-8-1987    Ch. 77, Sch. I
-        6-21-1987   Ch. 77, Sch. I
-        3-8-1988    93.01
                     94.02,
                     94.03,
                     94.05—
-        3-8-1988    94.10,
                     94.12—
                     94.19,
                     94.99
-        7-11-1989   50.08,
                     50.09
-        10-10-1989  Ch. 77, Sch. I
-        12-12-1989  Ch. 76, Sch. V
-        4-17-1990   91.01—
                     91.15
-        6-12-1990   Ch. 76, Sch. IX
-        12-11-1990  Ch. 76, Sch. V
                     50.01,
                     50.07,
-        3-18-1991   50.08,
                     50.11—
                     50.15,
                     50.99
-        9-10-1991   35.20—
                     35.24
-        11-12-1991  Ch. 76, Sch. V
-        6-16-1992   Ch. 77, Sch. I
-        6-16-1992   Ch. 76, Sch. V
-        6-16-1992   Ch. 76, Sch. XII
-        7-21-1992   33.18
-        2-16-1993   Ch. 76, Sch. V
-        4-16-1996   Ch. 76, Sch. V
-        7- -2002    90.08
-        1-13-2004   51.22
-        5-11-2004   35.09
-        11-9-2004   51.21
-        11-12-2007  95.01
09-08    9-15-2008   95.02,
                     95.99
-        10-13-2008  95.01
-        11-10-2008  150.074
-        12-8-2008   36.01
-        8-10-2009   93.01
-        5- -2010    93.01
-        5- -2010    130.04
                     151.01—
                     151.04,
                     151.15—
-        9- -2010    151.25,
                     151.40—
                     151.44,
                     151.99
-        11-13-2012  50.03
-        12-10-2012  91.02,
                     93.01
                     74.25—
-        8-26-2013   74.30,
                     74.99,
                     Ch. 76, Sch. XIII
                     30.01—
                     30.28,
-        12-9-2013   30.40—
                     30.42,
                     30.55,
                     30.56
-        12-9-2013   36.15—
                     36.21
-        5-9-2014    30.06
-        7-14-2014   93.01
                     93.01—
-        9-8-2014    93.05,
                     93.10,
                     93.99
-        5-11-2015   Ch. 77, Sch. V
-        5-11-2015   Ch. 77, Sch. II
-        4-11-2016   93.01
-        11-14-2016  36.30 -
                     36.41
-        3-13-2017   51.12
-        3-13-2017   36.50—
                     36.62
-        3-12-2018   36.70—
                     36.76
-        8-20-2018   30.01
-        10-9-2018   114.01
                     Charter
-        4-9-2019    2.2,
                     2.3
-        5-3-2019    91.02
-        -           33.40—
                     33.43
                    
 
