MAIDEN, NORTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local Legislation current through Ord. 17-2020, passed 6-9-2020
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING CORPORATION
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588  www.amlegal.com
CHARTER
Section
Art. I. Historical Background
   
Div. 1.   Private Laws of 1883, Chapter 103
   
Div. 2.   Private Laws of 1885, Chapter 5
   
Div. 3.   Private Laws of 1905, Chapter 415
   
Div. 4.   Private Laws, Extra Session 1920, Chapter 54
   
Div. 5.   Public Local Laws of 1939, Chapter 350
Art. II. Town Charter Amended
Editor’s note:
   Printed herein is the Charter of the Town of Maiden, North Carolina,
consisting of the original Charter set out in the Private and Public Local Laws
of North Carolina and printed in the article called Historical Background
together with the Charter amendment in Article II.
ARTICLE I. HISTORICAL BACKGROUND
DIVISION 1. PRIVATE LAWS OF 1883, CHAPTER 103
Section 1. 
That the Town of Maiden, in the County of Catawba, be and the same is hereby
incorporated by the name and style of the Town of Maiden, and shall be subject
to all the provisions contained in the One Hundred and Eleventh Chapter of the
Revised Code, not inconsistent with the laws of this State, or of the United
States.
Section 2. 
That the corporate limits of said town shall be as follows--one half mile east,
west, north and south from the center of Maiden Cotton Mills.
Section 3. 
The officers of said incorporation shall consist of a Mayor, three
Commissioners and a Constable, and the following named persons shall fill said
offices, until the first Monday in May, one thousand eight hundred and eighty
three; or until their successors in office are elected and qualified -- to-wit:
for Mayor, J.P. Robb - for Commissioners, Alexander Keener, Alexander Cline,
Amzi Stine, and for Constable, Daniel Boyd.
Section 4. 
There shall be an election held for the officers mentioned in Section 3 of this
Act, on the first Monday in May, one thousand eight hundred and eighty three,
and each succeeding year, thereafter, under the same rules and regulations, and
restrictions that state and county elections are held, and all citizens within
said corporation, who have resided twelve months in the state and ninety days
in the corporate limits of said town, previous to the day of election, shall be
entitled to vote at said election.
Section 5. 
It shall be the duty of the Commissioners to meet and organize within twenty
days after their election, or appointment and take the following oath of
office: “I, A. B., do solemnly swear, or affirm, that I will faithfully act and
discharge 'the duties of Commissioner to the best of my knowledge and ability,
for the ensuing year, so help me, God.”
Section 6. 
That said Commissioners shall have power to pass all by-laws, rules and
regulations for the good government of the corporation, not inconsistent with
the laws of this State, or of the United States; and to levy and collect a tax
on all subjects of State taxation, not to exceed one half of the State tax, and
to abate all nuisances, and for that purpose, may impose such fines as may be
necessary to abate them. And it shall be the duty of said Commissioners to
expend the taxes and fines in repairing the streets and for the necessary
expenses of said town.
Section 7. 
That the Mayor, before entering upon the duties of his office, shall go before
some person authorized to administer oaths, and take and subscribe the oath of
a Justice of the Peace of this State.
Section 8. 
That the Constable provided for by this act, before entering upon the duties of
his office, shall go before the Mayor, or some other person authorized to
administer an oath, and take the oath usually taken by Constables.
Section 9.  That the said Commissioners shall have power to take bonds of the
Constable or other officer of the corporation.
Section 10.  That said Commissioners, for the purpose of the election of the
officers mentioned in this act, shall have power to appoint a Registrar and
Inspectors of election, to hold the elections as provided by law, for election
of County Officers and members of the General Assembly in this State.
Section 11.  That no person or persons shall sell any spirituous liquors within
the limits of said town, without first having a license for that purpose from
the Commissioners of said corporation, the amount to be fixed by said
Commissioners in the by-laws.
Section 12.  This act shall be in force from and after its ratification.
DIVISION 2. PRIVATE LAWS OF 1885, CHAPTER 5
Section 1.  That Section Three of Chapter One Hundred and Three, Private Laws
of 1883, be amended by inserting the names of J.F. Rabb for Mayor and D.M.
Carpenter, J.P. Rabb and S.A. Ramsour for Commissioners of Aldermen instead of
J.P. Rabb, Alexander Keener, Alexander Cline and Amzi Stine, and that Robert
Winters be appointed Constable instead of Daniel Boyd, and that Mayor, Alderman
and Constable when qualified shall hold their office until the first Monday in
May, 1885, or until their successors are duly elected and qualified.
Section 2.  That said Chapter 103, Private Laws of 1883, as so amended is
hereby declared to be in full force and effect.
Section 3.  That this act shall be in force from and after its ratification.
DIVISION 3. PRIVATE LAWS OF 1905, CHAPTER 415
Section 1.  That the Private Laws of 1883, Chapter One Hundred and Three, be
amended by adding to Section Two thereof, the following:
“That the eastern boundary of the corporate limits of the Town of Maiden, N.C.,
shall be the Island Ford Road; the Southern boundary of this extension be one
block South of the Old State Road, and parallel with said Old State Road,
extending East to the said Island Ford Road, the Northern boundary of this
extension to be three blocks North of the Old State Road, and parallel with
said Old State Road, to the said Island Road.”
Section 2. That this act shall be in force from and after its ratification.
DIVISION 4. PRIVATE LAWS, EXTRA SESSION 1920, CHAPTER 54
Section 1.  That the Private Laws of One Thousand Eight Hundred and Eighty-
three, Chapter One Hundred and Three, be amended by adding to Section Two
thereof the following in addition to the amendment of One Thousand Nine Hundred
and Five, viz: That the corporate limits of the Town of Maiden, North Carolina,
shall be extended by beginning at a stone in a small branch in the present
northern boundary of the said corporate limits, a little northwest of the
Carolina Cotton Mills building, and running down said branch to a stone in
Maiden Creek; thence nearly each up said creek to a stone where the boundary
line of said town and the said Maiden Creek intersect.
Section 2.  That Section Three of said Private Laws of One Thousand Eight
Hundred and Eighty-three shall be amended by adding to Section Three thereof
the following, viz: That the Constable provided for in said section shall be
appointed or elected by the Town Commissioners instead of elected by the people
as provided for in said Section and Charter of the Town of Maiden.
Section 3.  That all laws and parts of laws in conflict with this act are
hereby repealed.
Section 4.  That this act shall be in force from and after its ratification.
DIVISION 5. PUBLIC LOCAL LAWS OF 1939, CHAPTER 350
Section 1.  That Section Four of Chapter 103 of the Private Laws of One
Thousand Eight Hundred Eighty Three be amended by adding at the end of said
section the following hereinafter act out section.
Section 2.  That all candidates for Mayor or Members of the Board of Aldermen
or Commissioners of the Town of Maiden, or some citizen of good moral character
in behalf of the candidate shall file with the Clerk to the Board, written
notice of their desire to become a candidate and pay to said clerk a fee of
$1.00 and upon receipt of the written notice and the sum of $1.00 the Clerk to
the Board shall acknowledge same in writing, provided the notice and the $1.00
is received on or before the 2nd Monday in April, Nineteen Hundred Thirty Nine,
and on the same date each and every year thereafter.
Section 3.  That on the first Monday in May Nineteen Hundred Thirty Nine, the
qualified registered voters of the Town of Maiden shall effect a Mayor and five
Aldermen or Commissioners.
The Mayor shall serve during a term of one year. The two elected persons
receiving at said election the highest number of votes and the second highest
number of votes, respectively, for Aldermen or Commissioners, shall serve
during a term of two years; the other three persons elected Aldermen or
Commissioners at said election shall serve during a term of one year.
Section 4.  That on the first Monday in May of each year after the year
Nineteen Hundred Thirty Nine, a Mayor shall be elected for a term of one year,
and two Aldermen shall be elected for a term of two years and an Alderman for a
term of one year. The two elected persons, receiving at said election the
highest number of votes and the second highest number of votes respectively,
for Alderman or Commissioners, shall serve during a term of two years; the
other one person elected Alderman or Commissioner, shall serve during a term of
one year.
Section 5.  That the Mayor and Aldermen or Commissioners elected for the Town
of Maiden, shall from and after the ratification of this act, meet at 7:30
o’clock P.M. in the Town Hall of Maiden, N.C. on the first day of July Nineteen
Hundred Thirty Nine, unless said first day falls on Sunday, and in the event on
the Monday following, and annually thereafter and be sworn in, and shall enter
upon their duties on that date; that the Mayor and Aldermen or Commissioners
now in office shall hold over until said first day of July Nineteen Hundred
Thirty Nine or until their successors are elected and qualified. The purpose of
this Act is to make the Municipal year and fiscal year concurrent.
Section 6.  That no person shall be considered a Candidate unless he has
complied with the provisions of this act.
Section 7.  That all laws and clauses of laws in conflict with the provisions
of this act are hereby repealed.
Section 8.  That this act shall be in force from and after ratification.
ARTICLE II. TOWN CHARTER AMENDED
Section 1.  Town Charter amended.
The Town of Maiden in the County of Catawba, having been heretofore
incorporated by act of the General Assembly by the name and style of the Town
of Maiden, and the same being subject to all the provisions of the General
Statutes of North Carolina and the laws of the United States, does hereby amend
its Charter as hereinafter set forth and makes this the Charter of the Town of
Maiden.
Section 2.  Corporate limits.
(a)   The corporate limits of the Town of Maiden shall consist of all areas
heretofore annexed by either charter, charter amendment, or ordinance.
(b)   The corporate limits include:
   (1)   Original area of one square mile as set forth in original charter
(1883).
   (2)   Area east of original limits to Island Ford Road (1905).
   (3)   Area north of original limits to Maiden Creek (1920).
   (4)   Area south of East Boyd Street between 6th Avenue and 10th Avenue.
   (5)   Area west of original limits along and south of West Finger Street
(Woonsocket Mills area) (1965).
   (6)   Area extending to east and south of limits along both sides of U.S.
Highway No. 321 (1961).
   (7)   Area north of 1905 extension and being extensions of N. 9th Avenue and
N. 10th Avenue (1967).
   (8)   Area west of original limits and North of W. Finger Street (1967).
   (9)   Area north of original limits to Maiden Creek (Carolina Terrace area)
(19).
   (10)   Area west of S. 7th Avenue Extension to original limits (1971).
   (11)   Area south of original limits and west of State Road No. 2003 (1971).
   (12)   Area south of area in paragraph (11) above and to both east and west
of State Road No. 2003 (2 tracts) (1973).
   (13)   Area east of U.S. Highway No. 321 and south of area in paragraph (6)
above (Wendover) (1973).
   (14)   Area south of State Road 2007 to Maiden Creek (Miles property)
(1975).
   (15)   Area to west of area in paragraph (8) above (Ramseur property)
(1975).
   (16)   Area to east of State Road 2000 and South of area in paragraph (9)
above (Williams property) (1975).
(c)   Henceforth, the corporate limits of the Town of Maiden shall be modified
by ordinance in accordance with procedures established by the North Carolina
General Statutes.
(d)   The corporate limits of the Town of Maiden shall be shown on a map
prepared and maintained by the Town Clerk and all modifications to the
corporate limits shall additionally be recorded with the Register of Deeds of
Catawba County.
Section 3. Mayor and Council.
The officers of said municipal corporation shall consist of a Mayor and five
council members to be designated as the Council.
Section 4. Elections.
(a)   The Mayor and council members shall be elected at large from the citizens
of the Town who shall have reached the age of 18 years on or before November 15
in the year of the election.
(b)   Elections shall be conducted on the first Tuesday of November in odd-
numbered years as provided by the Laws of North Carolina.
(c)   Election of the Mayor and Council shall be on a nonpartisan plurality
basis and the following rules shall be utilized in determining those elected:
   (1)   When more than one person is seeking election to a single office, the
candidate who receives the highest number of votes shall be declared elected.
   (2)   When more persons are seeking election to two or more offices
(constituting a group) than there are offices to be filled, those candidates
receiving the highest number of votes equal in number to the number of offices
to be filled, shall be declared elected.
   (3)   If two or more candidates receiving the highest number of votes each
receive the same number of votes, the board of elections shall determine the
winner by lot.
(d)   The term of office for the Mayor shall be two (2) years.
(e)   The term of office for the Council shall be determined as follows:
   (1)   Election in 1975 to provide that the two candidates receiving the
first and second largest number of votes to serve four-year terms;
   (2)   Election in 1975 to provide that the three candidates receiving the
third, fourth, and fifth largest number of votes to serve two-year terms;
   (3)   Election in 1977 to provide that the two candidates receiving the
first and second largest number of votes to serve four-year terms;
   (4)   Election in 1977 to provide that the candidate receiving the third
largest number of votes to serve a two-year term;
   (5)   Election in all odd-numbered years after 1977 to provide that the two
candidates receiving the first and second largest number of votes to serve
four-year terms; and the candidate receiving the third largest number of votes
to serve a two-year term.
Section 5. Organization.
It shall be the duty of the Mayor and Council to meet and organize at the first
regular meeting following the certification of the election results at which
time newly elected officials shall take the oath of office as prescribed by the
General Statutes of North Carolina.
Section 6.  Powers and duties.
The Council shall have power to pass all laws; by-laws; rules and regulations
for the good government of the corporation, not inconsistent with. the laws of
North Carolina or of the United States; and to levy and collect a tax on all
subjects of State taxation; and to abate all nuisances; and for said purposes
may impose such fines and other penalties as may be by law authorized. And it
shall be the duty of said Council to expend revenues for the lawful purposes of
the Town and its government.
Section 7.  Form of government.
The Town shall operate under the council-manager form of government according
to the laws of North Carolina.
Section 8.  Sale of liquor.
No person, firm, partnership, corporation, or other person or group shall sell
or cause to be sold spirituous liquors within the corporate limits of the Town.
CHAPTER 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
1-101   How code is designated and cited
   
1-102   Definitions and rules of construction
   
1-103   Provisions considered as continuation of existing ordinances
   
1-104   Catchlines; history notes, references to code
   
1-105   Effect of repeal or expiration of ordinances
   
1-106   Damaging ordinances prohibited
   
1-107   Certain ordinances not affected by code
   
1-108   Amendments to code; effect of new ordinances; amendatory language
   
1-109   Supplementation of code
   
1-110   Severability of parts of code
   
1-111   General penalty
§ 1-101  HOW CODE IS DESIGNATED AND CITED.
   (A)   The provisions in the following chapters and sections shall
constitute, and be designated, as the “Code of Ordinances, Town of Maiden,
North Carolina”, and may be so cited.
   (B)   Such code may also be cited as the “town code”, or “code of
ordinances”.
Statutory reference:
   Code of Ordinances, G.S. § 160A-77; ordinance book, G.S. § 160A-78; pleading
and proving city ordinances, G.S. § 160A-79.
§ 1-102  DEFINITIONS AND RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   In the construction of this code, the following definitions and rules of
construction shall be observed unless inconsistent with the manifest intent of
the Town Council, or the context clearly requires otherwise.
   CLERK. The Town Clerk, or his or her designee.
   COMPUTATION OF TIME. The time within which an act is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first and including the last day. If the last day is
Saturday, Sunday, or a legal holiday, that day shall be excluded.
   COUNCIL. The Town Council.
   COUNTY. The County of Catawba, North Carolina, except as otherwise provided.
   DEPARTMENTS, OFFICERS, AND THE LIKE. The names of departments, officers,
boards, commissions, and the like shall be read as though followed by “of the
Town of Maiden”.
   FINANCE OFFICER. The Finance Officer of the town, or his or her designee.
   GENDER. Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine and
neuter, and be extended to firms, partnerships, and corporations.
   GENERAL STATUTES or G.S. The general statutes of the state, as amended.
   JOINT AUTHORITY. All words giving a joint authority to three, or more,
persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority
of such persons or officers.
   MANAGER. The Town Manager, his or her designee, Acting Town Manager, or
Interim Town Manager, as duly appointed by the Council.
   MAY. The word shall be permissive.
   MAYOR. The Mayor of the town.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
   NUMBER. Words used in the singular include the plural, and words used in the
plural include the singular number.
   OATH. Includes an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation
may be substituted for an OATH, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN
shall be equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
   OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD. Whenever certain hours are named in this code, they
shall mean Eastern Standard Time or Eastern Daylight Saving Time, whichever may
be in current use in the town.
   OWNER. When applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner,
joint owner, tenant in common, joint tenant, or tenant by the entirety, of the
whole, or a part of such building or land.
   PERSON. A corporation, firm, partnership, association, organization, and any
other group acting as a unit, as well as an individual.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Every species of property except real property, as
defined in this section.
   PRECEDING, FOLLOWING. Next before and next after, respectively.
   PROPERTY. Real and personal property.
   REAL PROPERTY. Lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   SHALL. The word shall be mandatory.
   SIDEWALK. Any portion of a street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   SIGNATURE. Includes a mark when the person cannot write; includes the word
SUBSCRIPTION.
   STATE. The State of North Carolina, except as otherwise provided.
   STREET. Any public way, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard, parkway,
alley, lane, viaduct, or bridge, and the approaches thereto within the town.
   TENANT. Any person who occupies the whole, or a part, of such building or
land, whether alone or with others. Includes the word OCCUPANT.
   TENSE. Words used in the past or present tense include the future, as well
as the past and present.
   TOWN. The Town of Maiden in Catawba County, North Carolina, except as
otherwise provided.
   WRITING. Printing, and any other mode of representing words and letters.
Includes the word WRITTEN.
   YEAR. A calendar year.
(Code 1976, § 1.1)
Cross-reference:
   Definitions for animal chapter, §
4-101; definitions for minimum housing standards article, §
5-401; taxicab defined, §
6-201; definitions for amusement devices and places of amusement article, §
6-301; peddler defined, §
6-401; definitions of masseur and masseuse, §
6-502;; definitions  for garbage and refuse chapter, §
11-101; interpretation of commonly used terms and words in land use and zoning,
§ 17-305; definitions of specific terms and words in land use and zoning, § 17-
306; definitions for flood damage prevention article, § 17-402; definitions for
subdivision control, § 17-501; minor subdivision defined, § 17-521; definitions
regarding parades and demonstrations, §
19-321; traffic and motor vehicle definitions, §
20-101; definitions regarding sewer system, §
21-302; definitions regarding electric power system, §
21-401; definitions regarding abandoned motor vehicles, §
20-1201.
Statutory reference:
   Computation of time, G.S. §§ 1-593, 1A-1, Rule 6(a), 159-2; rules
construction, G.S. § 12-3; citation of general statutes, G.S. § 164-1.
§ 1-103  PROVISIONS CONSIDERED AS CONTINUATION OF EXISTING ORDINANCES.
   The provisions appearing in this code, so far as they are the same as those
of the previous codification, and any ordinances adopted subsequent to the
previous codification and included herein, shall be considered as continuations
thereof, and not as new enactments.
(Code 1976, § 1.2)
Statutory reference:
   Construction of amended statute, G.S. § 12-4.
§ 1-104  CATCHLINES; HISTORY NOTES; REFERENCES TO CODE.
   (A)   The catchlines of the several sections of this code printed in
boldface type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the
section, and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, nor as
any part of the section, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted.
   (B)   The history or source notes appearing in parentheses after sections in
this code are not intended to have any legal effect, but are merely intended to
indicate the source of matter contained in the section. Cross-references and
statutory references, which appear after sections or subsections of this code,
or which otherwise appear in footnote form, are provided for the convenience of
the user of this code, and have no legal effect.
   (C)   All references to chapters, articles, or sections are to the chapters,
articles, and sections of this code, unless otherwise specified.
(Code 1976, § 1.3)
§ 1-105  EFFECT OF REPEAL OR EXPIRATION OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   The repeal of an ordinance, or its expiration by virtue of any
provision contained therein, shall not affect any right accrued, any offense
committed, any penalty or punishment incurred, or any proceeding commenced
before the repeal took effect or the ordinance expired.
   (B)   When an ordinance which repealed another shall itself be repealed, the
previous ordinance shall not be revived without express words to that effect.
(Code 1976, § 1.4)
§ 1-106  DAMAGING ORDINANCES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall tear or deface any of the town ordinances.
(Code 1976, § 1.7)
§ 1-107  CERTAIN ORDINANCES NOT AFFECTED BY CODE.
   (A)   Nothing in this code, or the ordinance adopting this code, shall be
construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
      (1)   Any ordinance promising or guaranteeing the payment of money of the
town, or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the town, or any evidence of
the town’s indebtedness;
      (2)   Any ordinance providing for public improvements and assessments
therefor;
      (3)   Any zoning ordinance, or any ordinance regulating or otherwise
relating to the subdivision of land, except to the extent that Chapter 17 of
the code is periodically amended;
      (4)   Any appropriation ordinance, or ordinance providing for an annual
budget or for the transfer of funds;
      (5)   Any ordinance annexing territory to the town or discontinuing
territory as a part of the town;
      (6)   Any ordinance granting any franchise, permit, or other right;
      (7)   Any ordinance approving, authorizing, or otherwise relating to any
contract, agreement, or special project;
      (8)   Any ordinance regulating traffic or vehicles at specific locations,
except to the extent that Chapters 17 and 20 are periodically amended; and
      (9)   Any ordinance setting fees or charges.
   (B)   All such ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full force
and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this code.
Statutory reference:
   Authority of town to omit designated classes of ordinances from code, G.S. §
160A-77.
§ 1-108  AMENDMENTS TO CODE; EFFECT OF NEW ORDINANCES; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   (A)   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal, or
in any way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering
system hereof, and printed for inclusion in this code. When subsequent
ordinances repeal any chapter, section, or subsection, or any portion thereof,
such repealed portions may be excluded from this code by omission from
reprinted pages. The subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted
in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent
ordinances until such time that this code, and subsequent ordinances numbered
or omitted, are readopted as a new code by the Town Council.
   (B)   Amendments to any of the provisions of this code shall be made by
amending such provisions by specific reference to the section number of this
code in the following language: “That section of the Code of Ordinances, Town
of Maiden, North Carolina, is hereby amended to read as follows ....” The
provisions shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (C)   If a new section is to be added to this code, the following language
shall be used: “That the Code of Ordinances, Town of Maiden, North Carolina, is
hereby amended by adding a section, to be numbered___, which section reads as
follows....” The new section shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (D)   All sections, articles, chapters, or provisions desired to be repealed
must be specifically repealed by section, article, or chapter number, as the
case may be.
§ 1-109  SUPPLEMENTATION OF CODE.
   (A)   By contract or by town personnel, supplements to this code shall be
prepared, and printed, whenever authorized, or directed, by the Town Manager. A
supplement to the code shall include all substantive, permanent, and general
parts of ordinances passed by the Town Council during the period covered by the
supplement, and all changes made thereby in the code. The pages of a supplement
shall be so numbered that they will fit properly into the code and will, where
necessary, replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and
the new pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the code
will be current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance
included in the supplement.
   (B)   In preparing a supplement to this code, all portions of the code which
have been repealed shall be excluded from the code by the omission thereof from
reprinted pages.
   (C)   When preparing a supplement to this code, the codifier (meaning the
person, agency, or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make
formal, non-substantive changes in ordinances, and parts of ordinances,
included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them
into a unified code. For example, the codifier may:
      (1)   Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
      (2)   Provide appropriate catchlines, headings, and titles for sections
and other subdivisions of the code printed in the supplement, and make changes
in such catchlines, headings, and titles;
      (3)   Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be
inserted in the code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change
existing section or other subsection numbers;
      (4)   Change the words “this ordinance” or words of the same meaning to
“this chapter”, “this article”, “this subsection”, and the like, as the case
may be, or to “sections___ through ___” (inserting section numbers to indicate
the sections of the code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance
incorporated into the code); and
      (5)   Make other non-substantive changes necessary to preserve the
original meanings of ordinance sections inserted into the code; but, in no
case, shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance
material included in the supplement, or already embodied in the code.
§ 1-110  SEVERABILITY OF PARTS OF THE CODE.
   It is hereby declared to be the intention of the Council that the sections,
paragraphs, sentences, clauses, and phrases of this code are severable, and if
any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, or section of this code shall be
declared unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by the valid judgment, or
decree, of any court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality or
invalidity shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences,
paragraphs, and sections of this code, since the same would have been enacted
by the Council without the incorporation in this code of any such
unconstitutional, or invalid, phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, or section.
(Code 1976, § 1.6)
§ 1-111  GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Unless this code shall otherwise provide, violation of any provision
hereof shall be a Class 3 misdemeanor punishable upon conviction by a fine not
exceeding $50, as provided in G.S. § 14-4(a). A violation of Chapter 20,
Article XI, “Parking, Stopping or Standing”, of this code shall be an
infraction punishable upon conviction by a fine not exceeding $50, as provided
in G.S. § 14-4(b).
   (B)   Unless the code shall otherwise provide, violation of a provision of
this code shall subject the offender to a civil penalty in the amount of $50 to
be recovered by the town in a civil action in the nature of debt if the
offender does not pay the penalty within ten calendar days, or such longer
period of time as may be prescribed, after he or she has been cited for
violation of the ordinance.
   (C)   Unless the code shall otherwise provide, violation of a provision of
this code may be enforced by an appropriate equitable remedy issuing from a
court of competent jurisdiction. In such case, the General Court of Justice
shall have jurisdiction to issue such orders as may be appropriate, and it
shall not be a defense to the application of the town for equitable relief that
there is an adequate remedy at law.
   (D)   A provision of this code that makes unlawful a condition existing
upon, or use made of, real property may be enforced by injunction and order of
abatement, and the General Court of Justice shall have jurisdiction to issue
such orders. When a violation of such an ordinance or code provision occurs,
the town may apply to the appropriate division of the General Court of Justice
for a mandatory, or prohibitory, injunction, and order of abatement commanding
the defendant to correct the unlawful condition upon, or cease the unlawful use
of, the property. The action shall be governed in all respects by the laws and
rules governing civil proceedings, including the Rules of Civil Procedure in
general and Rule 65 in particular.
   (E)   In addition to an injunction, the court may enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the case. An order of abatement may
direct that buildings, or other structures, on the property be closed,
demolished, or removed; that fixtures, furniture, or other movable property be
removed from buildings on the property; that grass and weeds be cut; that
improvements or repairs be made; or that any other action be taken that is
necessary to bring the property into compliance with the ordinance or code
provision. If the defendant fails, or refuses, to comply with an injunction or
with an order of abatement within the time allowed by the court, he or she may
be cited for contempt, and the town may execute the order of abatement. The
town shall have a lien on the property for the cost of executing an order of
abatement in the nature of a mechanic’s and material man’s lien. The defendant
may secure cancellation of an order of abatement by paying all costs of the
proceedings, and posting a bond for compliance with the order. The bond shall
be given with sureties approved by the Clerk of Superior Court in an amount
approved by the judge before whom the matter is heard, and shall be conditioned
on the defendant’s full compliance with the terms of the order of abatement
within a time fixed by the judge. Cancellation of an order of abatement shall
not suspend, or cancel, an injunction issued in conjunction therewith.
   (F)   Subject to the express terms thereof, a provision of this code may be
enforced by any one, all, or a combination of the remedies authorized, and
prescribed, by this section.
   (G)   Except as otherwise provided in this code or in any ordinance of the
town, each day any violation of such code or ordinance shall continue shall
constitute a separate, and distinct, offense.
(Code 1976, § 1.5)  (Ord. 10-89, passed 6-19-1989)
Cross-reference:
   Violations of the State Building Code and minimum housing standards, §§ 5-
206 and 5-210, 5-414(C); penalties for violation of the amusement article, §§
6-352 et seq.
Statutory reference:
   Violation of local ordinances deemed a misdemeanor, G.S. § 14-4; authority
of town to enforce ordinances, G.S. § 160A-175.
CHAPTER 2: ADMINISTRATION 1
   Article
      
I.   IN GENERAL
      
II.   TOWN COUNCIL
      
III.   ORDINANCES
      
IV.   OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
      
V.   FINANCE
      
VI.   RESERVED
 
Notes
  1Cross-reference:
  Businesses and Trades, Ch. 6; Community Recreational Advisory Committee, §§ 16-
  301 et seq.;
    Planning, Zoning, and Subdivision Control, Ch. 17; Planning Board, §§ 17-201 et
1 seq.; Creation
    of Board of Adjustment, §
  17-343; Administration of traffic chapter, §§ 20-201 et seq.
  Statutory reference:
  Cities and towns, G.S. Ch. 160A.
ARTICLE I:  IN GENERAL
[Reserved]
Cross-reference:
   Sections 2-101 and 2-102 have been moved to Chapter 15.
ARTICLE II:  TOWN COUNCIL
Section
   
2-201   Organizational meeting
   
2-202   Mayor pro tempore; disability of Mayor
   
2-203   Regular meetings
   
2-204   Special meetings
   
2-205   Quorum
   
2-206   Minutes
   
2-207   Mayor to preside
   
2-208   Mayor not to vote except to break tie
   
2-209   Committees
   
2-210   Voting
   
2-211   Franchises; technical ordinances
   2-212 to 2-299   Reserved
Charter reference:
   Mayor and Council,
Art. II, § 3
Cross-reference:
   Authority of Mayor to declare state of emergency, §
9-101; Member of Town Council and Town Manager to be ex officio members of the
Community Advisory Committee,
Ch. 16.
Statutory reference:
   Organization and procedures of the Council, G.S. §§ 160A-68 et seq.
§ 2-201  ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING.
   (A)   The organizational meeting of the Town Council shall be on the date
and at the time of the first regular meeting following certification of the
election results.
   (B)   The organization of the Council shall take place notwithstanding the
absence, death, refusal to serve, failure to qualify, or non-election of one,
or more, members, but at least a quorum of the members must be present.
   (C)   When the organizational meeting is held on the third Monday of
November following the election, the outgoing Council members shall receive a
salary of one-half of one month, and the incoming members shall receive a
salary of one-half of one month. When the organizational meeting is not held
until December, then outgoing members shall not receive a salary for December,
and incoming members shall receive a salary for the full month of December.
(Code 1976, § 2.1)
Statutory reference:
   Compensation of Mayor and Council, G.S. § 160A-64; organizational meeting of
Council, G.S. § 160A-68.
§ 2-202  MAYOR PRO TEMPORE; DISABILITY OF MAYOR.
   At the organizational meeting, the Town Council shall elect from its members
a Mayor Pro Tempore to serve at the pleasure of the Council. A Council member
serving as Mayor Pro Tempore shall be entitled to vote on all matters, and
shall be considered a Council member for all purposes, including the
determination of whether a quorum is present. During the absence of the Mayor,
the Council may confer upon the Mayor Pro Tempore any of the powers and duties
of the Mayor. If the Mayor should become physically, or mentally, incapable of
performing the duties of his or her office, the Council may, by unanimous vote,
declare that he or she is incapacitated, and confer any of his or her powers
and duties on the Mayor Pro Tempore. Upon the Mayor’s declaration that he or
she is no longer incapacitated, and with the concurrence of a majority of the
Council, the Mayor shall resume the exercise of his or her powers and duties.
During a period of incapacity of the Mayor when the Mayor Pro Tempore is
performing the duties of Mayor, the salary of the Mayor shall be suspended, and
the Mayor Pro Tempore shall receive a pro rata salary for the time acting as
Mayor at the salary rate of the Mayor. During such period, the Mayor Pro
Tempore shall not receive a salary as a Council member.
(Code 1976, § 2.2)
Statutory reference:
   Mayor Pro Tempore, G.S. § 160A-70.
§ 2-203  REGULAR MEETINGS.
   The Town Council shall regularly meet on the first and third Monday of each
month at 7:00 p.m. in the Council Chambers located in Town Hall, unless it
becomes necessary for the Council to designate a different time or place to
conduct the meeting. In such instances, the Town Clerk shall fulfill the public
notification requirements established in G.S. § 143-318.12.
(Code 1976, § 2.3) (Ord. 23-2006, passed 8-7-2006; Ord. 24-2007, passed 9-10-
2007)
§ 2-204  SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   Special meetings of the Town Council may be held upon the call of the Mayor,
or upon the request, in writing, to the Town Clerk of any two members of the
Council, and upon such notice as may be, by law, required. In such instances,
the Town Clerk shall fulfill the public notification requirements established
in G.S. § 143-318.12. Notice of the time and purposes of special meetings shall
be posted at the Town Hall, and due notice shall be given to the Mayor and
Council of the time and purposes of such meetings.
(Code 1976, § 2.4)
Statutory reference:
   Regular and special meetings, G.S. §§ 160A-71 and 143-318.12.
§ 2-205  QUORUM.
   A majority of the actual membership of the Town Council shall constitute a
quorum, and no official business of the town shall be transacted by the Council
unless a quorum is present.
(Code 1976, § 2.5)
Statutory reference:
   Quorum, G.S. § 160A-74.
§ 2-206  MINUTES.
   (A)   The Town Clerk shall keep full, and accurate, minutes of the Town
Council proceedings, and said minutes shall be open to the inspection of the
public.
   (B)   The results of each vote shall be recorded in the minutes and, upon
the request of any member of the Council, the ayes and noes upon any question
shall be taken.
   (C)   The minutes of closed session meetings shall not be open to the
inspection of the public, as provided in G.S. § 143-318.10(e).
(Code 1976, § 2.6)
Statutory reference:
   Minutes to be kept, G.S. § 160A-72.
§ 2-207  MAYOR TO PRESIDE.
   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the Town Council, and in his and
her absence, the Mayor Pro Tempore shall preside.
(Code 1976, § 2.7)
Statutory reference:
   Mayor to preside over Council, G.S. § 160A-69; Mayor Pro Tempore, G.S. §
160A-70.
§ 2-208  MAYOR NOT TO VOTE EXCEPT TO BREAK TIE.
   The Mayor shall not vote on any question before the Town Council, except in
the case of a tie vote deadlocking a decision of the Council.
(Code 1976, § 2.8)
Statutory reference:
   Mayor’s vote in case of tie, G.S. § 160A-69.
§ 2-209  COMMITTEES.
   The Mayor and Town Council may create such committees of the Council for
special purposes as it deems best.
(Code 1976, § 2.9)
Statutory reference:
   Voting, G.S. § 160A-75.
§ 2-210  VOTING.
   (A)   No member shall be excused from voting, except upon matters involving
the consideration of his or her own financial interest, or official conduct. In
all other cases, a failure to vote by a member who is physically present in the
Council Chamber, or who has withdrawn without being excused by a majority vote
of the remaining members present, shall be recorded as an affirmative vote. The
question of the compensation and allowances of members of the Town Council is
not a matter involving a member’s own financial interest or official conduct.
   (B)   (1)   An affirmative vote equal to a majority of all the members of
the Town Council not excused from voting on the question in issue (including
the Mayor’s vote in case of an equal division) shall be required to adopt an
ordinance, take any action having the effect of an ordinance, authorize, or
commit, the expenditure of public funds, or make, ratify, or authorize any
contract on behalf of the town.
      (2)   In addition, no ordinance, or any action having the effect of any
ordinance, may be finally adopted on the date on which it is introduced except
by an affirmative vote equal to, or greater than, two-thirds of all members of
the Council, not including the Mayor.
      (3)   For the purposes of this section, an ordinance shall have been
deemed to have been introduced on the date the subject matter is first voted on
by the Council.
(Code 1976, § 2.10)
Statutory reference:
   Voting, G.S. § 160A-75.
§ 2-211  FRANCHISES; TECHNICAL ORDINANCES.
   (A)   No ordinance making a grant, renewal, extension, or amendment of any
franchise shall be finally adopted until it has been passed at two regular
meetings of the Town Council, and no such grant, renewal, extension, or
amendment shall be made otherwise than by ordinance.
   (B)   Any published technical code, or any standards or regulations
promulgated by any public agency, may be adopted in an ordinance by reference,
subject to G.S. § 143-138(e). A technical code, or set of standards or
regulations, adopted by reference in an ordinance shall have the force of law
within the town. Official copies of all technical codes, standards, and
regulations adopted by reference shall be maintained for public inspection in
the office of the Town Clerk.
(Code 1976, § 2.11)
Cross-reference:
   Building and Building Regulations, Ch. 5; Franchises, App. D.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, G.S. § 160A-76.
§§ 2-212 TO 2-299  RESERVED.
ARTICLE III:  ORDINANCES
Section
   
2-301   Effective date
   
2-302   One subject rule
   
2-303   Official copy
   
2-304   Ordinance book
   2-305 to 2-399   Reserved.
Statutory reference:
   Code of ordinances, G.S. § 160A-77; ordinance book, G.S. § 160A-78; pleading
and proving city ordinances, G.S. § 160A-79.
§ 2-301  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   All ordinances shall be effective after the ratification thereof, except
ordinances specifying some other effective date, or ordinances required by
state law to be effective only after having met specific date requirements.
(Code 1976, § 2.12)
§ 2-302  ONE SUBJECT RULE.
   All ordinances shall be confined to one subject, except appropriation
ordinances, which shall be confined to the subject of appropriations only.
(Code 1976, § 2.13)
§ 2-303  OFFICIAL COPY.
   A true copy of any ordinance, which has been duly enacted by the Town
Council, signed by the Mayor, and attested to by the Town Clerk, shall be known
as an official copy of any ordinance for the town. All ordinances, or a true
copy thereof, shall be inserted in this code in the proper chapter, except
those ordinances enumerated in §
1-107.
(Code 1976, § 2.14)
§ 2-304  ORDINANCE BOOK.
   The Town Clerk shall file a true copy of each ordinance, until it is
codified in this code, in an ordinance book separate, and apart, from the
Council minute book. The ordinance book shall be appropriately indexed, and
maintained, for public inspection in the Office of the Clerk.
(Code 1976, § 2.15)
§§ 2-305 TO 2-399  RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV:  OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
   
2-401   Office of Mayor
   
2-402   Town Clerk; Deputy Clerk
   
2-403   Office of Town Manager
   
2-404   Acting Town Manager
   
2-405   Interim Town Manager
   
2-406   Town Attorney
   
2-407   Tax collector
   
2-408   Employee's bonds
   
2-409   Finance Officer
   2-410 to 2-499   Reserved
Cross-reference:
   Animal Control Officer, §
4-102; Fire Department, §§ 10-201 et seq.; Police, Ch. 18; Police Department,
§§ 18-201 et seq.; Public employees to obey traffic regulations, §
20-305.
§ 2-401  OFFICE OF MAYOR.
   It shall be the duty of the Mayor to cause all ordinances of the town to be
enforced, and to attend, and preside, over all meetings of the Town Council. It
shall further be the duty of the Mayor, within 30 days after the close of each
year, to require a report to the Council from the various departments of the
town government for the previous year, and recommend such adjustments as he or
she may see fit, and the Mayor shall perform such other duties as the Council,
from time to time, may require. The Mayor shall be the chief executive officer
of the town.
(Code 1976, § 2.17)
Statutory reference:
   Mayor to preside over Council, G.S. § 160A-69.
§ 2-402  TOWN CLERK; DEPUTY CLERK.
   (A)   There shall be a Town Clerk who shall be appointed by the Town
Manager. The Clerk shall:
      (1)   Give notice of meetings of the Town Council;
      (2)   Attend all meetings of the Council, and regularly, and fairly,
record all of its proceedings;
      (3)   Keep an ordinance book, and be the custodian, of all town records;
and
      (4)   Perform such other duties as the Council, or Manager may, from time
to time, require.
   (B)   There shall be a Deputy Town Clerk, who shall be appointed by the
Manager and who shall have full authority to exercise, and perform, the duties
of the Clerk as may, from time to time, be necessary and appropriate.
(Code 1976, § 2.18(1)-(3), (7))
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, G.S. § 160A-171.
§ 2-403  OFFICE OF TOWN MANAGER.
   (A)   The Town Council shall appoint a qualified person to serve as Town
Manager, and such individual shall serve at the pleasure of the Council. The
Manager need not be a resident of the town or state at the time of appointment;
however, assuming the duties of Town Manager, the Town Manager shall have his
or her primary residence within the corporate limits of the town.
   (B)   The Town Manager shall:
      (1)   Appoint, and suspend, or remove all town officers and employees not
elected by the people, and whose appointment, or removal, is not otherwise
provided for by law or ordinance, except the Town Attorney, in accordance with
such general personnel rules, regulations, policies, or ordinances as the
Council may adopt;
      (2)   Direct, and supervise, the administration of all departments,
offices, and agencies of the town, subject to the general direction, and
control, of the Council, except as otherwise provided by law;
      (3)   Attend all meetings of the Council, and recommend any measures that
he or she deems expedient;
      (4)   See that all laws of the state, the Town Charter, and the
ordinances, resolutions, and regulations of the Council are faithfully executed
within the town;
      (5)   Prepare, and submit, the annual budget and capital program to the
Council;
      (6)   Annually submit to the Council, and make available to the public, a
complete report on the finances and administrative activities of the town as of
the end of the fiscal year;
      (7)   Make any other reports that the Council may require concerning the
operations of town departments, offices, and agencies subject to his or her
direction and control;
      (8)   Serve as the town’s Assistant Finance Officer; and
      (9)   Perform any other duties that may be required, or authorized, by
the Council.
(Code 1976, § 2.19(a), (b)) (Ord. 21-90, passed 12-17-1990; Ord. 29-2000,
passed 9-18-2000)
Cross-reference:
   Finance, §§
2-501 et seq.; Town Manager to be inspector for purposes of minimum housing
standards, §§
5-401 et seq.; member of Town Council and Town Manager to be ex officio members
of the Community Advisory Committee,
Ch. 16; approval of sketch plat for minor subdivision by Town Manager, § 17-
525; Town Manager to have general supervision over Police Department, §
18-203; duties of Town Manager in regard to electric power system, §
21-403.
Statutory reference:
   Town Manager, G.S. §§ 160A-147 et seq.; similar provisions, G.S. § 160A-148;
Finance Officer,  G.S. §§ 159-24, 159-25.
§ 2-404  ACTING TOWN MANAGER.
   (A)   During the temporary absence or disability of the Town Manager, the
Town Manager may appoint, by letter filed with the Clerk, a qualified person to
exercise the powers and perform the duties as Town Manager, subject to approval
by the Town Council.
   (B)   The salary of such appointee shall be determined by the Council.
During this absence or disability, the Council may revoke that designation at
any time, and appoint another to serve until the Manager returns, or his or her
disability ceases.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the above subsections (A) and (B), the Council may
appoint an Acting Town Manager when the Town Manager becomes disabled, or the
position of Acting Town Manager becomes vacant.
(Code 1976, § 2.19(c))
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, G.S. § 160A-149.
§ 2-405  INTERIM TOWN MANAGER.
   When the position of Town Manager is vacant, the Town Council shall
designate a qualified person to exercise the powers, and perform the duties, of
Town Manager until the vacancy is filled.
(Code 1976, § 2.19(d))
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, G.S. § 160A-150.
§ 2-406  TOWN ATTORNEY.
   The Town Council shall appoint a Town Attorney to serve at its pleasure, and
to be its legal advisor.
(Code 1976, § 2.20)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, G.S. § 160A-173.
§ 2-407  TAX COLLECTOR.
   (A)   The town may contract with the county for tax collection services to
perform those duties of tax collector as set forth in state law.
   (B)   If the town contracts with the county, as provided in subsection (A)
above, then, for the purposes of this chapter, the County Tax Department shall
be deemed the Tax Department of the town.
   (C)   If the town does not contract with the county as provided in
subsection (A) above, the Town Council shall appoint a tax collector to serve
at its pleasure to perform those duties of tax collector, as set forth in state
law.
Cross-reference:
   Businesses and trades, Ch. 6.
Statutory reference:
   Appointment, term, qualifications, and bond of tax collectors, G.S. § 105-
349.
§ 2-408  EMPLOYEE’S BONDS.
   The Town Clerk, and other officers or employees required by the Town Council
or by state law, shall, before entering upon their duties, post bond in amounts
specified by the Council. All bond premiums shall be paid from town funds;
provided, that when two offices are combined, such as the offices of Manager
and Finance Officer, only one bond shall be required.
(Code 1976, § 2.23)
Statutory reference:
   Fidelity bonds, G.S. § 159-29.
§ 2-409  FINANCE OFFICER.
   The Town Manager shall appoint a Finance Officer to perform those duties of
Finance Officer, as set forth in the state law.
(Ord. 29-2000, passed 9-18-2000)
§§ 2-410 TO 2-499  RESERVED.
ARTICLE V:  FINANCE
Section
   
2-501   Disbursement of funds
   
2-502   Purchasing
   2-503 to 2-599   Reserved
Cross-reference:
   Any ordinance promising or guaranteeing payment of money, authorizing
issuance of bonds, or  giving evidence of the town’s indebtedness, any
ordinance providing for public improvements  assessments, any appropriation
ordinance or budget ordinance, any ordinance setting fees or  charges save from
repeal, §
1-107; Town Manager to serve as town’s Assistant Finance Officer, §
2-403; Town Manager to prepare and submit the annual budget and capital program
to Council, §
2-403.
Statutory reference:
   Local government finance, G.S. Ch. 159.
§ 2-501  DISBURSEMENT OF FUNDS.
   No money shall be disbursed from the town treasury except on order of the
Town Council in session, and then only if the item, for which the disbursement
is made, has been provided for in the annual budget except in the case of an
extreme emergency.
(Code 1976, § 2.24)
§ 2-502  PURCHASING.
   (A)   Before any order is given for items to be paid by the town, or any
purchase made by any town employee which shall be in excess of $300, a large
purchase order must first be obtained from the Finance Officer, Assistant
Finance Officer, or designee of the Finance Officer. Items to be paid by the
town, or any purchase made by any town employee costing $300 or less, shall
require a small purchase order. When available, competition shall be solicited
prior to any order given for items to be paid by the town, or any purchase made
by any town employee.
   (B)   Any town employee purchasing goods without a purchase order from the
Town Manager will be held responsible for the cost of same.
(Code 1976, § 2.25) (Ord. 29-2000, passed 9-18-2000)
§§ 2-503 TO 2-599  RESERVED.
ARTICLE VI:  RESERVED
Section
   2-601 to 2-699   Reserved
Editor’s note:
   Section 1 of Ord. 39-2000, adopted Dec. 18, 2000, deleted Art.VI, Div. 1-9,
§§ 2-601-2-699, from the code. This article covered Personnel Policies, and was
derived from the following ordinances:
Ord. No.   Date         Ord. No.   Date
8-88      09-05-88      9-94      06-06-94
6-92      04-06-92      24-96      08-19-96
23-92      10-05-92      38-96      12-16-96
25-92      11-19-92      29-99      08-17-99
26-92      11-16-92
§§ 2-601  TO 2-699  RESERVED.
CHAPTER 3: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
3-100   Definitions
   
3-101   Consumption of beverages in public places
   
3-102   Possession of open containers of malt beverages and unfortified wines
in public places
   
3-103   Consumption in public places, possession of open containers in public
places, exception for special events with a permit
§ 3-100  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   ABC PERMIT or PERMITS. Any written or printed authorization issued by the
Commission pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, other than a purchase-
transportation permit. Unless the context clearly requires otherwise, as in the
provisions concerning applications for permits, ABC PERMIT or PERMIT means a
presently-valid permit.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Any beverage containing at least 0.5% alcohol by volume,
including malt beverages, unfortified wine, fortified wine, spirituous liquor,
and mixed beverages.
   BEER. The same as the term MALT BEVERAGE, as defined by G.S. § 18B-101;
   COMMISSION. The State Alcoholic Beverage Control Commission, established
under G.S. § 18B-200.
   FORTIFIED WINE. Any wine of more than 16%, and no more than 24%, alcohol by
volume, made by fermentation from grapes, fruits, berries, rice, or honey; or
by the addition of pure cane, beet, or dextrose sugar; or by the addition of
pure brandy from the same type of grape, fruit, berry, rice, or honey that is
contained in the base wine, and produced in accordance with the regulations of
the United States.
   MALT BEVERAGE. Beer, lager, malt liquor, ale, porter, and any other brewed
or fermented beverage, except unfortified, or fortified, wine as defined by
this chapter, containing at least 0.5%, and not more than 15%, alcohol by
volume. Any malt beverage containing more than 6% alcohol by volume shall bear
a label clearly indicating the alcohol content of the MALT BEVERAGE.
   MIXED BEVERAGE.
      (1)   A drink composed in whole, or in part, of spirituous liquor, and
served in a quantity less than the quantity contained in a closed package.
      (2)   A premixed cocktail served from a closed package containing only
one serving.
   NON-TAXPAID ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Any alcoholic beverage upon which the taxes
imposed by the United States, this state, or any other territorial jurisdiction
in which the alcoholic beverage was purchased have not been paid.
   OPEN CONTAINER. A container that has a broken seal, or a container other
than the manufacturer’s unopened, original container.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation, limited
liability company, other organization or group, or other combination of
individuals acting as a unit.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Property owned, occupied, or controlled by the town.
   PUBLIC STREET. Any highway, road, street, avenue, boulevard, or other way
owned, or under control of, the town and open to public use, including the
sidewalks of any such street.
   SPIRITOUS LIQUOR or LIQUOR. Distilled spirits or ethyl alcohol, including
spirits of wine, whiskey, rum, brandy, gin, and all other distilled spirits and
mixtures of cordials, liqueur, and premixed cocktails, in closed containers for
beverage use regardless of their dilution.
   UNFORTIFIED WINE. Any wine of 16%, or less, alcohol by volume made by
fermentation from grapes, fruits, berries, rice, or honey; or by the addition
of pure cane, beet, or dextrose sugar; or by the addition of pure brandy from
the same type of grape, fruit, berry, rice, or honey that is contained in the
base wine, and produced in accordance with the regulations of the United
States.
   WINE. The same as UNFORTIFIED WINE, as defined by G.S. § 18B-101.
(Ord. 7-2019, passed 5-14-2019)
§ 3-101  CONSUMPTION OF BEVERAGES IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who is not an occupant of a motor
vehicle to consume malt beverages, or unfortified wine, on any public street.
It shall also be unlawful for any person to consume malt beverages, or
unfortified wine, in any public building owned, occupied, or controlled by the
town; on the grounds of any public building owned, occupied, or controlled by
the town; or on any other property owned, occupied, or controlled by the town,
including, but not limited to, public parks, playgrounds, tot lots,
recreational fields, tennis courts, or other athletic fields.
(Code 1976, § 11.1) (Ord. 8-78, passed 7-17-1978)  Penalty, see §
1-111
Cross-reference:
   Offenses, Ch. 15.
Statutory reference:
   Unlawful possession or use of fortified wine and spiritous liquors, G.S. §§
18B-300 et seq.
§ 3-102  POSSESSION OF OPEN CONTAINERS OF MALT BEVERAGES AND UNFORTIFIED WINES
IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who is not an occupant of a motor
vehicle to possess any open container of malt beverage, or unfortified wine, on
any public street. It shall also be unlawful for any person to possess any open
container of malt beverage, or unfortified wine, in any public building owned,
occupied, or controlled by the town; on the grounds of any public building
owned, occupied, or controlled by the town; or on any other property owned,
occupied, or controlled by the town, including, but not limited to, public
parks, playgrounds, tot lots, recreational fields, tennis courts, or other
athletic fields. For purposes of this section, an OPEN CONTAINER means a
container whose seal has been broken, or a container other than the
manufacturer’s unopened, original container.
Penalty, see §
1-111
Editor’s note:
   Ord. 28-98, adopted Aug. 31, 1998, repealed § 3-102, which regulated the
hours of sale of alcoholic beverages, and which derived from Code 1976, §
10.61.
Statutory reference:
   Unlawful possession or use of fortified wine and spiritous liquors, G.S. §
18B-300.
§ 3-103  CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES, POSSESSION OF OPEN CONTAINERS IN PUBLIC
PLACES, EXCEPTION FOR SPECIAL EVENTS WITH A PERMIT.
   (A)   Consumption in public places unlawful. It shall be unlawful for any
person, who is not an occupant of a motor vehicle, to consume any alcoholic
beverage, including malt beverages, fortified or unfortified wine, mixed
beverages, or other spiritous liquors, all as defined in G.S. § 18B-101, on, or
within, the right-of-way of any public street. It shall also be unlawful for
any person to consume any alcoholic beverage, including malt beverages,
fortified or unfortified wine, mixed beverages, or other spiritous liquors, all
as defined in G.S. § 18B-101, in any public building owned, occupied, or
controlled by the town; on the grounds of any public building owned, occupied,
or controlled by the town; or on any other property owned, occupied, or
controlled by the town, including, but not limited to, public parks,
playgrounds, tot lots, recreation fields, tennis courts, or other athletic
fields.
   (B)   Private premises consumption regulated. It shall be unlawful for any
person to consume any alcoholic beverage, including malt beverages, fortified
or unfortified wine, mixed beverages, or other spiritous liquors, all as
defined in G.S. § 18B-101, upon the private business premises of another
without the permission of the owner, or person in control, of such premises.
   (C)   Open containers prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person, who
is not an occupant of a motor vehicle, to possess an open container of any
alcoholic beverage, including malt beverages, fortified or unfortified wine,
mixed beverages, or other spiritous liquors, all as defined in G.S. § 18B-101,
on, or within, the right-of-way of any public street. It shall also be unlawful
for any person to possess an open container of any alcoholic beverage,
including malt beverages, fortified or unfortified wine, mixed beverages, or
other spiritous liquors, all as defined in G.S. § 18B-101, in any public
building owned, occupied, or controlled by the town; on the grounds of any
public building owned, occupied, or controlled by the town; or on any other
property owned, occupied, or controlled by the town, including, but not limited
to, public parks, playgrounds, tot lots, recreation fields, tennis courts, or
other athletic fields.
   (D)   Special event permit exception. Consumption of malt beverages,
fortified or unfortified wine, mixed beverages, or other spiritous liquors is
permitted during any community-sponsored public function, festival, or
celebration being conducted upon, or within, designated areas of any public
street, sidewalk, or other property owned, or lawfully occupied, by the town,
pursuant to a written special event permit issued by the Town Manager, or his
or her duly authorized designee, to the holder of a valid permit from the
Commission applicable to the community-sponsored public event, function,
festival, or celebration. The permit issued by the Town Manager, or his or her
duly authorized designee, shall be consistent with the permit issued by the
Commission. This permit, when issued, may allow the sale, service, and
distribution of malt beverages, fortified or unfortified wine, mixed beverages,
or other spiritous liquors, on designated streets, sidewalks, and public
property reserved for the event, except parks and recreation fields and
property, subject to all applicable ABC or ALE rules or regulations, or laws of
the state. The permit issued by the town shall designate the boundary of the
area in which the sale, service, distribution, possession, and consumption of
malt beverages, fortified or unfortified wine, mixed beverages, or other
spiritous liquors is permitted, and the specific times during which such sale,
service, distribution, and/or consumption is permitted. The area within which
such sale, service, distribution, and/or consumption is permitted shall be
delineated by barricades, and so constructed as to allow ready control of
patrons, including the viewing of identification; no alcoholic beverage, malt
beverages, fortified or unfortified wine, mixed beverages, or other spiritous
liquors shall be consumed outside of such barricaded area. Proper application
for a special permit to the proper state authorities shall be made so that a
permit will be received prior to the opening of the special event, and such
permit shall be available for inspection by the town and its officers at any
time. However, before any permit is issued under this section, the Town
Manager, or his or her duly authorized designee, shall designate the boundaries
of the event, and provide for the temporary closing of those streets and public
areas within the boundaries for general public use during the times the permit
is to be effective. This subsection (D), shall not apply to any public park,
sports or recreational field or facilities, or the grounds of any sports or
recreational field or facility.
   (E)   Application for permit and liability waiver. Application forms and a
liability waiver form for the permit referred to in subsection (D) above are
available from the Town Manager, and both must be completed, and signed, by the
applicant at least 30 days prior to the opening day of the event.
   (F)   Revocation of permit. The permit issued under subsection (D) above may
be revoked at any time if it is deemed necessary for the safety and protection
of the public.
   (G)   Penalty. If any person shall violate this section, he or she shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor, and punished in accordance with G.S. § 14-4, as
amended. If any person violates this section, he or she shall also be subject
to a civil penalty in the amount of $50 to be recovered by the town in a civil
action in the nature of a debt if the offender does not pay the penalty within
ten calendar days after he or she have been sited for violation of the section.
(Ord. 7-2019, passed 5-14-2019; Ord. 10-2020, passed 5-12-2020)
CHAPTER 4: ANIMALS 1
   Article
      
I.   IN GENERAL
      
II.   RABIES CONTROL
      
III.   REPEALED
      
IV.   REPEALED
      
V.   LIVESTOCK
      
VI.   ANIMAL CRUELTY
 
Notes
  1Cross-reference:
  Removal of dead animals, §
  11-108(F); Human and animal waste, dead animals, §
  12-106; certain
1   animals which emit loud noises prohibited, §
  14-201(D); animals running at large in parks,
    §
  16-205; persons riding animals to obey traffic laws, §
  20-303.
ARTICLE I:  IN GENERAL
Section
   
4-101   Definitions
   
4-102   Animal Control Officer designation
   
4-103   Same: interference with
   
4-104   Restraining
   
4-105   Nuisance
   
4-106   Repealed
   
4-107   Running on owner’s premises
   
4-108   Repealed
   
4-109   Dangerous dogs
   
4-110   Precautions against attacks by dangerous dogs
   
4-111   Penalty for attacks by dangerous dogs and strict liability
   
4-112   Requirements for the confinement of a potentially dangerous, or
dangerous, dog
   
4-113   Removal of vicious dog from town
   
4-114   Animals on town property
   4-115 to 4-199   Reserved
§ 4-101  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   ABANDONED ANIMAL. Any animal that has been left alone for at least 24
continuous hours without having provided for it reasonable sustenance at
regular intervals, and has not had continuous access to potable water shall,
for the purposes of this article, shall be considered ABANDONED.
   ABUSE. The intentional, and willful, physical or mental mistreatment of an
animal by depriving it of adequate shelter and protection from the elements,
failure to provide adequate food, and failure to provide adequate clean and
fresh water, and intentionally and willfully subjecting the animal to
unsanitary conditions by being surrounded by waste, debris, trash, or garbage.
   ADEQUATE SHELTER. An enclosure consisting of a solid floor, walls, and a
roof that is so constructed as to remain dry inside, be structurally sound and
in good repair, and promote the retention of body heat.
   ANIMAL.
      (1)   Includes the male or female, neutered or sterilized.
      (2)   ANIMAL, as used in this article, shall include all warm-blooded,
domesticated mammals.
   ANIMAL OWNER. Every person in possession of, or who harbors, any animal, or
who shall suffer any animal to remain about his or her premises for a period of
five days.
   HARBORING. The occupant of any premises on which an animal is kept, or to
which it customarily returns daily for food and care for a period of three
days, is presumed to be HARBORING, or keeping, the animal within the meaning of
this article.
   NEGLECT. The omission, failure, or refusal to reasonably provide adequate
shelter, food, water, and sanitary conditions, as provided in this article.
   RABIES VACCINATION. The inoculation of a dog, cat, or other animal with a
rabies vaccine approved by the County Department of Health.
   REASONABLE CONTROL. When an animal is accompanied by, and under the
supervision of, its owner, or by some member of the family, or by some
employee, or agent, of the owner.
   RUNNING AT LARGE. To be off the premises of the owner, and not under the
reasonable control of the owner, or of an authorized person, either by leash or
otherwise, but an animal within the automobile, or other vehicle, of its owner
shall be deemed to be upon the owner’s premises.
   VICIOUS DOG. Any dog that inflicts, unprovoked, bites, or attacks human
beings or other animals, either on public or private property, or in a vicious
or terrorizing manner, approaches any person in apparent attitude of attack
upon the streets, sidewalks, or any public grounds or places. (See §
4-113.)
(Code 1976, § 11.8)  (Ord. 5-75, passed 5-5-1975; Ord. 17-2008, passed 7-7-
2008; Ord. 9-2009, passed 4-6-2009)
Cross-reference:
   Definitions and rules of construction generally, §
1-102.
§ 4-102  ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER DESIGNATION.
   The Chief of Police, or his or her designee, is hereby designated as the
Animal Control Officer for the town.
(Code 1976, § 11.33)  (Ord. 5-75, passed 5-5-1975)
Cross-reference:
   Officers and employees, §§
2-401 et seq.
§ 4-103  SAME: INTERFERENCE WITH.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, molest, hinder, or
prevent the Town Animal Control Officer, or his or her authorized
representatives, in the discharge of their duties as prescribed in this
article, or to violate any of the provisions of this article.
(Code 1976, § 11.33)  (Ord. 5-75, passed 5-5-1975)  Penalty, see §
1-111
§ 4-104  RESTRAINING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning, or having charge of, any
dog or other animal, except a domestic house cat, to permit such animal to be
off the owner’s own premises, and not under control either by a leash, cord,
chain, or some other mechanical device whereby the dog, or other animal, is
physically held under the immediate control of the owner, or other responsible
person, as set forth in §
4-101.
   (B)   For the purpose of this article, a dog or other animal shall likewise
be deemed not under reasonable control when:
      (1)   Such dog, or other animal, inflicts damage or injury (by biting,
jumping upon, pollution of vegetation, or by any other means whatsoever) to the
person, or property, of anyone other than the owner, except in the defense of
the owner, his or her family, or property; and
      (2)   Any un-spayed/un-neutered dog is not securely confined in the
owner’s yard, pen, or other enclosure.
(Code 1976, § 11.23) (Ord. 5-75, passed 5-5-1975)  Penalty, see §
1-111
§ 4-105  NUISANCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any animal owner, or keeper, to harbor,
maintain, or permit on any lot, parcel of land, or premises under his or her
control, any dog, or other animal, which by any sound, or cry, shall disturb
the peace and comfort of the inhabitants of the neighborhood, or interfere, in
any manner, with any person in the reasonable and comfortable enjoyment of life
or property.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, or a person having the custody or
care, of an animal to allow the animal to defecate, or deposit, any excretory
matter (waste) on any property other than that of the animal’s owner, or person
having care or custody of the animal, unless such owner, or person with custody
or care, immediately removes the animal waste (feces or solid excretory matter)
using a plastic bag, or other suitable container, and depositing same in a
receptacle suitable for such purpose.
   (C)   Any person who is walking, is in charge of, or is in possession of, an
animal on public property, a public right-of-way, a public park, or private
property without the consent of the owner of the private property, shall have,
in his or her possession, a bag, or other container that closes and which is
suitable for removing feces or solid excretory matter that may be deposited by
the animal, and failure to possess such a bag, or other container, shall be
unlawful.
   (D)   Violations of this section may be enforced by any one, all, or a
combination of the remedies and penalties set forth in §
1-111, including, but not limited to, a civil penalty in the amount of $50 to
be recovered by the town in a civil action in the nature of a debt if the
offender does not pay the penalty within ten calendar days, or such longer
period of time as may be prescribed, after he or she has been cited for
violation of this article.
(Code 1976, § 11.24) (Ord. 5-75, passed 5-5-1975; Ord. 12-94, passed 6-20-1994;
Ord. 3-2018, passed 1-15-2018)  Penalty, see §
1-111
Cross-reference:
   General Provisions,
Ch. 1.
§ 4-106  REPEALED.
[Repealed]
(Code 1976, § 11.25) (Ord. 5-75, passed 5-5-1975; Ord. 17-2008, passed 7-7-
2008)
§ 4-107  RUNNING ON OWNER’S PREMISES.
   The provisions of this article do not prohibit animals from running at large
on the premises of the owner, or person having charge of such animal.
(Code 1976, § 11.26) (Ord. 5-75, passed 5-5-1975)
§ 4-108  REPEALED.
[Repealed]
(Code 1976, § 11.27) (Ord. 5-75, passed 5-5-1975; Ord. 17-2008, passed 7-7-
2008)
Statutory reference:
   Confinement of vicious animals, G.S. § 130A-200.
§ 4-109  DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a
different meaning.
      DANGEROUS DOG. A dog that:
         (a)   Without provocation has killed, or inflicted severe injury, on a
person;
         (b)   Is determined by the person, or board designated by the Town
Council, to be potentially dangerous because the dog has engaged in one, or
more, of the behaviors listed in the definition of POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG
below; or
         (c)   Any dog owned, or harbored, primarily, or in part, for the
purpose of dog fighting, or any dog trained for dog fighting.
      POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG. A dog that the person, or board designated by
the Town Council, determines to have:
         (a)   Inflicted a bite on a person that resulted in broken bones or
disfiguring lacerations, or required cosmetic surgery or hospitalization;
         (b)   Killed, or inflicted severe injury upon, a domestic animal when
not on the owner’s real property; or
         (c)   Approached a person when not on the owner’s property in a
vicious, or terrorizing, manner in an apparent attitude of attack.
      OWNER. Any person, or legal entity, that has a possessory property right
in a dog.
      OWNER’S REAL PROPERTY. Any real property owned, or leased, by the owner
of the dog, but does not include any public right-of-way, or a common area of a
condominium, apartment complex, or townhouse development.
      SEVERE INJURY. Any physical injury that results in broken bones or
disfiguring lacerations, or requires cosmetic surgery or hospitalization.
   (B)   The provisions of this section do not apply to:
      (1)   A dog being used by a law enforcement officer to carry out the law
enforcement officer’s official duties;
      (2)   A dog being used in a lawful hunt;
      (3)   A dog where the injury, or damage, inflicted by the dog was
sustained by a domestic animal while the dog was working as a hunting dog,
herding dog, or predator control dog on the property of, or under the control
of, its owner or keeper, and the damage, or injury, was to a species, or type,
of domestic animal appropriate to the work of the dog; or
      (4)   A dog where the injury inflicted by the dog was sustained by a
person who, at the time of the injury, was committing a willful trespass, or
other tort, was tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the dog, and tormented,
abused, or assaulted the dog, or was committing, or attempting to commit, a
crime.
   (C)   The Town Council shall designate a person, or a board, to be
responsible for determining when a dog is a potentially dangerous dog,
dangerous dog, or vicious dog, and shall designate a separate board to hear any
appeal. The person, or board, making the determination that a dog is a
potentially dangerous dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog must notify the owner,
in writing, giving the reasons for the determination, before the dog may be
considered potentially dangerous under this article. The owner may appeal the
determination by filing written objections with the appellate board within
three days. The appellate board shall schedule a hearing within ten days of the
filing of the objections. Any appeal from the final decision of such appellate
board shall be taken to the superior court by filing notice of appeal, and a
petition for review within ten days of the final decision of the appellate
board. Appeals from rulings of the appellate board shall be heard in the
superior court division. The appeal shall be heard de novo before a superior
court judge sitting in the county in which the appellate board, whose ruling is
being appealed, is located.
(Ord. 23-94, passed 10-3-1994; Ord. 17-2008, passed 7-7-2008)
§ 4-110  PRECAUTIONS AGAINST ATTACKS BY DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for an owner to:
      (1)   Leave a dangerous, or potentially dangerous, dog unattended on the
owner’s real property unless the dog is confined indoors, in a securely
enclosed and locked pen, or in another structure designed to restrain the dog;
or
      (2)   Permit a dangerous, or potentially dangerous, dog to go beyond the
owner’s real property unless the dog is leashed and muzzled, or is otherwise
securely restrained and muzzled.
   (B)   If the owner of a dangerous, or potentially dangerous, dog transfers
ownership, or possession, of the dog to another person, the owner shall provide
written notice to:
      (1)   The authority that made the determination under this article,
stating the name and address of the new owner, or possessor, of the dog; and
      (2)   The person taking ownership, or possession, of the dog, specifying
the dog’s dangerous behavior and the authority’s determination.
   (C)   Violation of this section is a Class 3 misdemeanor.
(Ord. 23-94, passed 10-3-1994; Ord. 17-2008, passed 7-7-2008)  Penalty, see §
4-111
§ 4-111  PENALTY FOR ATTACKS BY DANGEROUS DOGS AND STRICT LIABILITY.
   (A)   The owner of a dangerous, or potentially dangerous, dog that attacks a
person and causes physical injuries requiring medical treatment in excess of
$100 shall be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor.
   (B)   The owner of a dangerous dog shall be strictly liable in civil damages
for any injuries of property damage the dog inflicts upon a person, his or her
property, or another animal.
(Ord. 23-94, passed 10-3-1994; Ord. 17-2008, passed 7-7-2008)
Statutory reference:
   Penalty and strict liability, G.S. §§ 67-4.3 and 67-4.4.
§ 4-112  REQUIREMENTS FOR THE CONFINEMENT OF A POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS, OR
DANGEROUS, DOG.
   The town hereby establishes the following requirements for housing a
potentially dangerous, or dangerous, dog:
   (A)   A fully-enclosed chain link fence of nine-gauge wire with a height of
six feet must be constructed to house the animal;
   (B)   The fence must be cemented at ground level so as to keep the animal
from escaping under the fence;
   (C)   A lock must be kept on the gate of the fence, and must be engaged at
all times;
   (D)   A barrier must be placed over the entire top of the facility, or in
the alternative, barbed wire must be installed along the top of the fence to
keep the animal from escaping; and
   (E)   (1)   The owner shall have 14 calendar days from the date a notice of
violation is issued to comply with this section.
      (2)   If the owner fails to comply within the timeframe, the owner shall
be guilty of a Class 2 misdemeanor.
      (3)   For violations of this section, each day past the time given for
compliance shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 23-94, passed 10-3-1994; Ord. 17-2008, passed 7-7-2008)
§ 4-113  REMOVAL OF VICIOUS DOG FROM TOWN.
   The town hereby establishes the following process for the removal of a
vicious dog:
   (A)   A vicious dog is a dog that is defined in §
4-101 of this article; has been previously determined to be dangerous,
potentially dangerous, or vicious; and fits the following criteria:
      (1)   The dog has bitten a human while off its own premises, causing
physical injury and requiring medical treatment in excess of $300 at least
once; or
      (2)   The dog has approached a person when not on the owner’s property in
a vicious, or terrorizing, manner in an apparent attitude of attack on at least
two separate occasions.
   (B)   The owner will be notified, in writing, of any such occurrence(s) by
the person, or board, designated in §
4-109, and the owner will be afforded the same rights of appeal used in that
section;
   (C)   The dog must be sheltered, in accordance with herewith at the County
Animal Shelter, until such time as a final determination is made;
   (D)   If the final determination is that the dog is vicious, then the owner
must remove the animal from the municipal limits of the town through
perpetuity;
   (E)   If the owner transfers, or surrenders, ownership to another person,
the notification requirements under §
4-110(B) shall apply; and
   (F)   The owner of the dog will surrender the animal in the instance of a
bite under the provisions hereof. Upon conclusion of the quarantine
requirements, the owner may, at the owner’s choosing, lawfully obtain the dog
from the shelter, and take the animal to a new home outside of the corporate
limits of the town, or the owner may relinquish ownership of the dog, and
ownership will revert to the County Animal Control Section for final
disposition. Under no circumstance will a dog removed, under the provisions of
this section, be allowed to re-enter the corporate town limits. Any owner who
brings a vicious dog back into the municipal limits of the town will be guilty
of a Class 1 misdemeanor. The dog brought back into the town limits shall be
immediately seized and delivered to the County Animal Control Facility for
quarantine and disposal.
(Ord. 17-2008, passed 7-7-2008)  Penalty, see §
1-111
Statutory reference:
   Penalty and strict liability, G.S. §§ 67-4.3 and 67-4.4.
§ 4-114  ANIMALS ON TOWN PROPERTY.
   (A)   No persons owning, or having charge, care, or custody of any animal,
shall allow said animal to enter, or remain, in any town-owned building,
unless:
      (1)   The animal is a service animal in use or in training;
      (2)   The animal is in the service of, or contracted for service, by a
law enforcement agency; or
      (3)   Unless otherwise provided by law.
   (B)   No persons owning, or having charge, care, or custody of any animal,
shall allow said animal to enter, or remain, in any of the following town-
sponsored events, excluding animals listed in subsections (A)(1) through (A)(3)
above:
      (1)   Maiden Fall Festival; or
      (2)   Maiden Spring Fest.
   (C)   The first violation of this section is subject to a written warning,
and each subsequent violation is subject to a $50 dollar penalty.
(Ord. 21-2015, passed 10-19-2015)
§§ 4-115 TO 4-199  RESERVED.
ARTICLE II:  RABIES CONTROL
Section
   
4-201   Vaccinations
   
4-202   Designation of qualified persons
   
4-203   Proof
   
4-204   Duty to report
   
4-205   Quarantine of animals
   
4-206   Removal of animals from quarantine
   4-07 to 4-299      Reserved
§ 4-201  VACCINATIONS.
   (A)   Required.
      (1)   Every person owning, or harboring, a dog or cat four months of age
or older for three or more days shall have such dog or cat vaccinated against
rabies with an approved vaccine by a licensed veterinarian.
      (2)   If other species of animals are vaccinated, such vaccination shall
be with a vaccine approved by the County Department of Health.
      (3)   Vaccinations shall be kept current in accord with the requirements
of the County Department of Health.
   (B)   Certificate of vaccination. Upon vaccination, the veterinarian
administering the vaccine shall execute, and furnish to the owner of the
animal, a certificate as evidence of the vaccination.
(Code 1976, § 11.9)
§ 4-202  DESIGNATION OF QUALIFIED PERSONS.
   All veterinarians who are duly registered, and licensed as such, by the
state are hereby designated as authorized to vaccinate animals against rabies,
and to execute certificates of vaccination as provided by law.
(Code 1976, § 11.12) (Ord. 5-75, passed 5-5-1975)
§ 4-203  PROOF.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who owns, or harbors, any dog, cat, or
other animal to fail to refuse to exhibit his or her copy of the certificate of
vaccination upon demand to any person charged with the enforcement of this
article.
(Code 1976, § 11.13) (Ord. 5-75, passed 5-5-1975)  Penalty, see §
1-111
§ 4-204  DUTY TO REPORT.
   Any person having knowledge of an animal bite shall immediately report the
incident to the police, Animal Control Officer, and to the County Department of
Health.
(Code 1976, § 11.14) (Ord. 5-75, passed 5-5-1975; Ord. 17-2008, passed 7-7-
2008)
Statutory reference:
   Confinement of biting animals, notice, G.S. § 130A-196.
§ 4-205  QUARANTINE OF ANIMALS.
   Any animal which has bitten a person shall be observed for a period of ten
days from the date of the bite. Confinement shall be in the County Animal
Shelter, and such confinement shall be at the expense of the owner. Stray
animals, whose owners cannot be located, shall be confined in the County Animal
Shelter. The owner of any animal that has been reported as having inflicted a
bite on any person shall, on demand, produce the animal for quarantine, as
prescribed in this section. Refusal to produce the animal constitutes a
violation of this section, and each day of such refusal shall constitute a
separate, and individual, violation.
(Code 1976, § 11.15) (Ord. 5-75, passed 5-5-1975; Ord. 17-2008, passed 7-7-
2008)
Statutory reference:
   Confinement of biting animals, G.S. § 130A-196.
§ 4-206  REMOVAL OF ANIMALS FROM QUARANTINE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove from any place of isolation,
or quarantine, any animal which has been isolated, or quarantined, as
authorized, without the consent of the impounding agency.
(Code 1976, § 11.16) (Ord. 5-75, passed 5-5-1975)  Penalty, see §
1-111
§§ 4-207 TO 4-299  RESERVED.
ARTICLE III:  REPEALED
   [Repealed]
Editor’s note:
   Ord. 23-2003, adopted July 21, 2003, repealed Art. III §§ 4-301 through 4-
306, which pertained  to dog licenses and derived from Ord. 5-75, originating
May 5, 1975; Code §§ 11.17 through 11.22; and Ord. 9-79.
ARTICLE IV:  REPEALED
   [Repealed]
ARTICLE V:  LIVESTOCK
Section
   
4-501   Horses
   
4-502   Pig pens
Cross-reference:
   Butchering restricted, §
12-101; swine, §
12-105.
§ 4-501  HORSES.
   No person shall ride, or lead, a horse or pony upon the sidewalks within the
corporate limits. Riding, or leading, of horses and ponies shall be restricted
to the roadways.
(Code 1976, § 11.34)
§ 4-502  PIG PENS.
   No person shall maintain a pig pen, or other enclosure for pigs, within 150
feet of any dwelling, or room used for sleeping quarters.
(Code 1976, § 11.35)
Cross-reference:
   Land use and zoning, §§ 17-301 et seq.
ARTICLE VI:  ANIMAL CRUELTY
Section
   
4-601   General
   
4-602   Failure to provide adequate food
   
4-603   Failure to provide adequate water
   
4-604   Failure to provide adequate shelter
   
4-605   Provide reasonable care
   
4-606   Animal cruelty
   
4-607   Cruel restraint prohibited
   
4-608   Leaving animals unattended in vehicles
   
4-609   Authority for Animal Control Officer to act
   
4-610   Penalties
§ 4-601  GENERAL.
   All animals shall be kept, and treated, under sanitary and humane
conditions, and it shall be unlawful for any person to violate one, or more, of
the sections of this article.
Penalty, see §
4-610
§ 4-602  FAILURE TO PROVIDE ADEQUATE FOOD.
   All animals, unless otherwise indicated in this article, shall be given, at
suitable intervals not to exceed 24 hours, a quantity of wholesome foodstuff in
a container suitable for the age, and species, of the animal, and sufficient to
maintain a healthful level of nutrition.
§ 4-603  FAILURE TO PROVIDE ADEQUATE WATER.
   (A)   All animals shall have constant access to a supply of clean, fresh,
potable water, or a supply of clean, fresh potable water provided at suitable
intervals.
   (B)   If access is not constant, then adequate amounts of water must be
provided at least twice in a 24-hour period. If water is provided at intervals,
it must remain in the animal’s enclosure for at least one hour during each
interval.
§ 4-604  FAILURE TO PROVIDE ADEQUATE SHELTER.
   (A)   All animals shall be provided with adequate shelter from the weather
at all times. It shall be within the discretion of the Town Animal Control
Officer to determine what constitutes adequate shelter.
   (B)   Examples of inadequate shelter include, but are not limited to, the
following:
      (1)   Underneath outside steps, decks, and stoops;
      (2)   Underneath houses;
      (3)   Inside, or underneath, motor vehicles;
      (4)   Inside metal, or plastic, barrels;
      (5)   Inside cardboard boxes;
      (6)   Inside temporary animal carriers or crates;
      (7)   Shelters located in flood-prone areas; and
      (8)   Shelters surrounded by waste, debris, obstructions, or impediments
that may endanger an animal.
§ 4-605  PROVIDE REASONABLE CARE.
   Failure, or refusal, of any owner of a sick, diseased, or injured animal to
provide proper medical treatment for the animal is prohibited. A sick,
diseased, or injured animal shall go no longer than 24 hours without veterinary
care.
§ 4-606  ANIMAL CRUELTY.
   Animal cruelty is prohibited. Examples of animal cruelty include, but are
not limited to, the following:
   (A)   Allowing a collar, rope, or chain to become embedded in, or cause
injury to, an animal’s neck;
   (B)   Allowing a choke, or pinch, collar to be used as a primary collar when
the animal is left unsupervised;
   (C)   Allowing a dog, or cat, to be left outside in inclement weather, or
extreme temperatures, without adequate shelter;
   (D)   Intentionally allowing animals to engage in a fight;
   (E)   Allowing animals to live in unsanitary conditions;
   (F)   Allowing animals to live in crowded conditions;
   (G)   Failure, or refusal, to obtain medical treatment for an animal when,
in an Animal Control Officer’s opinion, such treatment is needed;
   (H)   Trapping a dog, or cat, without the use of a recognized humane live
animal trap;
   (I)   Permitting any exhibit, function, or activity where animals are being
cruelly treated, or animals run the risk of causing injury to the public or
themselves. The Town Animal Control Officer shall have the authority to
inspect, and to close down, public exhibits of animals which are part of fairs,
carnivals, festivals, fund raising events, petting zoos, and any other
activity, or function, carried out in the corporate limits of the town if it is
determined that animals are being cruelly treated, abused, or run the risk of
causing injury to the public, or themselves;
   (J)   Animals being confined to, or restrained on, the premises of a vacant,
or abandoned, structure;
   (K)   Failure to provide adequate drainage to prevent surface water from
standing in the area of the pen, or enclosure, where the animal is kept. It
shall be within the discretion of the Town Animal Control Officer as to what
constitutes adequate drainage; and
   (L)   Failure, or refusal, to report injured domestic animals.
§ 4-607  CRUEL RESTRAINT PROHIBITED.
   (A)   An owner shall not chain, or tether, an animal to a stationary object
for a period of time, or under conditions that an Animal Control Officer deems
harmful, or potentially harmful, to the animal.
   (B)    Examples of improper chaining, or tethering include, but are not
limited to, the following:
      (1)   Using a length, or weight, of a chain, or tether, that is not
appropriate for the size, weight, and age of the animal. Guidelines for the
proper weight and length of chains, or tethers, can be obtained from the Town
Animal Control Officer;
      (2)   Using a chain, or tether, made of rope, twine, cord, or similar
material;
      (3)   Using a chain, or tether, that is less than ten feet in length,
and/or does not have swivels on both ends. All chains, or tethers, must be
attached to the animal by means of a properly-fitting harness or collar of not
less than one inch in width;
      (4)   Allowing an animal to be chained, or tethered, such that the animal
is not confined to the owner’s property, or such that the chain, or tether, can
become entangled and prevent the animal from moving about freely, lying down
comfortably, or having access to adequate food, water, and shelter; and
      (5)   Using a chain as a primary collar. All collars used for the purpose
of chaining, or tethering, an animal must be made of nylon or leather.
§ 4-608  LEAVING ANIMALS UNATTENDED IN VEHICLES.
   An owner shall not leave an animal in a closed vehicle, or other enclosure,
for such duration, or at such temperatures as an Animal Control Officer deems
harmful, or potentially harmful, to the animal.
§ 4-609  AUTHORITY FOR ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER TO ACT.
   (A)   If it is determined by the Animal Control Officer that the animal is
not in immediate danger, or the problem which gives rise to the inadequate
treatment, or abuse, can be corrected within 72 hours, the Officer may issue a
written notice of violation, directing the owner, or possessor, of the animal
to correct the problem within 72 hours. If the condition, or problem, is not
corrected within 72 hours, the Animal Control Officer may take action as
outlined below:
      (1)   Seek a magistrate’s order to take possession of the animal; and/or
      (2)   Seek the issuance of criminal process.
   (B)   If it is determined by the Animal Control Officer that the animal is
in imminent danger of death or serious bodily injury, the Animal Control
Officer shall immediately:
      (1)   Seek a magistrate’s order to take immediate possession of the
animal; and/or
      (2)   Seek the issuance of criminal process.
   (C)   If the animal has been abandoned, as defined in this article, the
Animal Control Officer is authorized to immediately take possession of the
animal, and transport it to the County Animal Control Facility for care and
shelter.
   (D)   When it has been determined by the Animal Control Officer that there
has been a violation of one, or more, provisions of state law or this article,
the Officer may initiate a criminal summons or warrant.
   (E)   Any time an animal is taken possession of by authority of this
article, the owner shall be responsible, and liable, for any costs incurred for
shelter, housing, and care of the animal.
§ 4-610  PENALTIES.
   Any person who willfully fails, or refuses, to abide by, or otherwise
violates, this article shall be subject to the following sanctions or
penalties:
   (A)   Violations of this article are deemed to be a misdemeanor, and upon a
verdict or plea of guilty, the violator shall pay a fine of $50 and the costs
of court; and
   (B)   Each additional violation of this article thereafter shall be deemed
to be a separate misdemeanor, and upon a verdict or plea of guilty, the
violator shall pay a fine of $100 per misdemeanor and the costs of court.
(Ord. 9-2009, passed 4-6-2009)
CHAPTER 5: BUILDINGS AND BUILDING REGULATIONS 1
   Article
      
I.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
II.   BUILDING PERMITS AND INSPECTIONS
      
III.   ENERGY CONSERVATION STANDARDS
      
IV.   MINIMUM HOUSING STANDARDS
      
V.   PROPERTY NUMBERING
      
VI.   MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS
      
VII.   ABANDONED MANUFACTURED HOMES
 
Notes
  1Cross-reference:
  Adoption of technical codes, §
  2-211; Fire Protection and Prevention, Ch. 10; Fire limits, §
  10-401;
    debris from new construction, §
  11-108(E); Fair Housing, §§ 13-201 et seq.; construction except
1   between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on weekdays prohibited, §
  14-202(I); Planning,
    Zoning, and Subdivision Control, Ch. 17; house moving, §
  19-206; construction near sidewalk,
    §
  19-304; Utilities, Ch. 21.
  Statutory reference:
  State Building Code, G.S.§ 143-138, Ch. 160D.
ARTICLE I:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
5-101   Building code adopted
   
5-102   Compliance with codes
   
5-103   Copies of codes filed with the County Building Inspector
   
5-104   Inspection services
   5-105 to 5-199   Reserved
§ 5-101  BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   The current edition of the State Building Code, as adopted and periodically
amended by the State Building Code Council, is hereby adopted by reference as
fully as though set forth in this section as the building code of the town, and
its extraterritorial jurisdiction.
(Code 1976, § 8.2)
§ 5-102  COMPLIANCE WITH CODES.
   All buildings or structures which are hereafter constructed, reconstructed,
erected, altered, extended, enlarged, repaired, maintained, used, occupied,
removed, demolished, or moved shall conform to the requirements, minimum
standards, and other provisions of the State Building Code.
(Code 1976, § 8.8)
§ 5-103  COPIES OF CODES FILED WITH THE COUNTY BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   An official copy of the State Building Code, and all amendments
thereto, shall be kept on file in the office of the County Building Inspector.
   (B)   Should the town elect to conduct building inspections instead of
contracting with the county for such services, then a copy of the State
Building Code shall be kept on file in the office of the Town Building
Inspector instead. 
   (C)   Such copy shall be the official copy of the State Building Code.
(Code 1976, § 8.9)
§ 5-104  INSPECTION SERVICES.
   (A)   The town may contract with the county for building inspection services
and enforcement of the town’s building code.
   (B)   If the town contracts with the county, as provided in subsection (A)
above, then, for the purposes of this article, the County Building Inspection
Department shall be deemed the Building Inspection Department of the town.
Cross-reference:
   Permit fees, §
5-209.
§ 5-105 TO 5-199  RESERVED.
ARTICLE II:  BUILDING PERMITS AND INSPECTIONS
Section
   
5-201   Required
   
5-202   Application
   
5-203   Plans and specifications
   
5-204   Limitation on issuance of permits
   
5-205   Issuance of permits
   
5-206   Stop work orders and revocation of permits
   
5-207   Time limitation on validity of permits
   
5-208   Changes in work
   
5-209   Permit fees
   
5-210   Enforcement
   
5-211   Appeals
   5-212 to 5-299   Reserved
Cross-reference:
   Planning, Zoning, and Subdivision Control, Ch. 17.
Statutory reference:
   Permits, G.S. Chapter 160D.
§ 5-201  REQUIRED.
   (A)   Building permit. No person shall commence, or proceed, with the
construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair, removal, or demolition of any
building, or other structure, or any part thereof, without first securing from
the Building Inspector any, and all, permits required by the State Building
Code, and any other state or local laws applicable to the work.
   (B)   Exceptions.
      (1)   No building permit shall be required under the State Building Code
for any construction, installation, repair, replacement, or alteration costing
$5,000 or less in any single-family residence or farm building unless the work
involves: The addition, repair, or replacement of load bearing structures; the
addition (excluding replacement of same capacity) or change in the design of
plumbing; the addition, replacement, or change in the design of heating, air
conditioning, or electrical wiring, devices, fixtures (excluding repair or
replacement of electrical lighting devices and fixtures of the same type),
appliances (excluding replacement of water heaters; provided, that the energy
use rate or thermal input is not greater than that of the water heater which is
being replaced, and there is no change in fuel, energy source, location,
capacity, or routing or sizing of venting and piping), or equipment, the use of
materials not permitted by the State Uniform Residential Building Code; or the
addition (excluding replacement of like grade or fire resistance) of roofing.
The exclusions from building permit requirements set forth in this subsection
(B) for electrical lighting devices and fixtures, and water heaters, shall
apply only to work performed on a one- or two-family dwelling. In addition,
exclusions for electrical lighting devices and fixtures, and electric water
heaters, shall apply only to work performed by a person licensed under G.S. §
87-43, and exclusions for water heaters, generally, to work performed by a
person licensed under G.S. § 87-21.
      (2)   In any one- or two-family dwelling unit, a permit shall not be
required for the connection of a water heater that is being replaced; provided,
that the work is performed by a person licensed under G.S. § 87-21, who
personally examines the work at completion, and ensures that a leak test has
been performed on the gas piping; and, provided, the energy use rate, or
thermal input, is not greater than that of the water heater which is being
replaced, there is no change in fuel, energy source, location, capacity, or
routing or sizing of venting and piping, and the replacement is installed in
accordance with the current edition of the State Building Code.
      (3)   In any one- or two-family dwelling unit, a permit shall not be
required for repair, or replacement, of electrical lighting fixtures or
devices, such as receptacles and lighting switches, or for the connection of an
existing branch circuit to an electric water heater that is being replaced;
provided, that all of the following requirements are met:
         (a)   With respect to electric water heaters, the replacement water
heater is placed in the same location, and is of the same, or less, capacity
and electrical rating as the original;
         (b)   With respect to electrical lighting fixtures and devices, the
replacement is with a fixture or device having the same voltage and the same,
or less, amperage;
         (c)   The work is performed by a person licensed under G.S. § 87-83;
and
         (d)   The repair, or replacement, installation meets the current
edition of the State Building Code, including the State Electrical Code.
      (4)   A permit shall not be required for any other work, or project,
exempted from permitting requirements by the State Building Code.
   (C)   Demolition bond. In all cases of removal, or demolition, of a
building, or structure, a good and sufficient bond in the sum of $1,000 shall
be posted by the property owner, or by his or her contractor, at the time of
application for a permit, to ensure complete removal, or demolition, including
all rubble and debris. Failure on the part of the property owner, or his or her
contractor, to completely demolish, remove, and clear the premises, after 30
days’ notice by the Building Inspector, shall be cause for forfeiture of such
bond.
(Code 1976, § 8.19)
Cross-reference:
   Inspection services, §
5-104; water system, §§ 21-201 et seq.; sewer system, §§ 21-301 et seq.; 
electric power system, §§ 21-401 et seq.
§ 5-202  APPLICATION.
   (A)   Application for a building permit shall be made to the County Building
Inspections Department.
   (B)   (1)   Any individual, or business, seeking a building permit shall
secure all necessary zoning and subdivision approvals from the town before
applying for a building permit.
      (2)   Any individual, or business, seeking a building permit shall
demonstrate compliance with §
21-315, “Grease traps/interceptors”, before, or at the time, application is
made for a building permit.
   (C)   The Building Inspector shall not accept any application for a building
permit until he or she is satisfied that all zoning and subdivision
requirements have been met, and that building, or structure, for which a
building permit is sought complies with §
21-315.
   (D)   Written application shall be made for all permits required by this
article, and shall be made on forms provided by the Inspection Department. Such
application shall be made by the owner of the building, or structure, affected,
or by his or her authorized agent or representative, and, in addition to such
other information, as may be required by the appropriate inspector to enable
him or her to determine whether the permit applied for should be issued, shall
show the following:
      (1)   Name, residence, and business address of owner;
      (2)   Name, residence, and business of the authorized representative, or
agent, if any; and
      (3)   Name, and address, of the contractor, if any, together with
evidence that he or she has obtained a certificate from the appropriate state
licensing board for such contractors, if such be required for the work involved
in the permit for which such application is made.
(Code 1976, § 8.20)
Cross-reference:
   Zoning and Subdivision Regulations, Ch. 17.
§ 5-203  PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   Nothing in this article shall require the town to review, and approve,
residential building plans submitted to the town pursuant to § R-110 of Volume
VII of the State Building Code; provided, that the town may review, and
approve, such residential building plans as it deems necessary. No permits
shall be issued unless the plans, and specifications, are identified by the
name and address of the author thereof, and if the general statutes, the State
Building Code, or any ordinance requires that plans for certain types of work
be prepared only by a registered architect, or registered engineer, no permit
shall be issued unless the plans, and specifications, bear the state seal of a
registered architect, or of a registered engineer. When any provision of the
general statutes, the State Building Code, or any ordinance requires that work
be done by a licensed specialty contractor of any kind, no permit for the work
shall be issued unless the work is to be performed by such a duly licensed
contractor.
(Code 1976, § 8.21)
Statutory reference:
   Certain buildings involving public funds to be designed by architect or
engineer, G.S. § 133-1.1.
§ 5-204  LIMITATION ON ISSUANCE OF PERMITS.
   (A)   No building permit shall be issued for any building, or structure, the
estimated total cost of which is more than $30,000, unless the work is to be
performed by a licensed general contractor.
   (B)   Where detailed plans, and specifications, are required under this
article, no building permit shall be issued unless such plans, and
specifications, have been provided.
   (C)   Pursuant to G.S. § 83A-13, nothing in this article shall be construed
to require plans sealed by an architect where the building, or structure, to be
permitted meets one of the following exceptions:
      (1)   A family residence, up to eight units attached with grade level
exit, which is not a part of, or physically connected with, any other buildings
or residential units;
      (2)   A building upon any farm for the use of any farmer, unless the
building is of such nature, and intended for such use, as to substantially
involve the health, or safety, of the public;
      (3)   An institutional, or commercial, building if it does not have a
total value exceeding $90,000;
      (4)   An institutional, or commercial, building if the total building
area does not exceed 2,500 square feet in gross floor area;
      (5)   Alteration, remodeling, or renovation of an existing building that
is exempt under this section, or alteration, remodeling, or renovation of an
existing building, or building site, that does not alter, or affect, the
structural system of the building; change the building’s access or exit
pattern; or change the live, or dead, load on the building’s structural system;
or
      (6)   The preparation, and use, of details and shop drawings, assembly,
or erection drawings, or graphic descriptions utilized to detail, or
illustrate, a portion of the work required to construct the project in
accordance with the plans, and specifications, prepared, or to be prepared,
under the requirements, or exemptions, of G.S. Chapter 83A.
(Code 1976, § 8.22)
§ 5-205  ISSUANCE OF PERMITS.
   When proper application for a permit has been made, and the Building
Inspector is satisfied that the application, and the proposed work, comply with
the provisions of this article and the State Building Code, he or she shall
issue such permit upon payment of the proper fee, or fees, as provided in §
5-209.
(Code 1976, § 8.23)
§ 5-206  STOP WORK ORDERS AND REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever any building, or structure, or part thereof, is being
demolished, constructed, reconstructed, altered, or repaired in a hazardous
manner; in substantial violation of any state or local building law, including
the zoning provisions of this code; or in a manner that endangers life or
property, the Building Inspector may order the specific part of the work that
is in violation, or presents such a hazard, to be immediately stopped.
      (2)   The stop order shall be in writing, directed to the person doing
the work, and shall state the specific work to be stopped, the specific reasons
therefor, and the conditions under which the work may be resumed. Stop work
orders may be appealed to the State Commissioner of Insurance, or the Town
Board of Adjustment, as appropriate, in accordance with G.S. Chapter 160D.
   (B)   The Building Inspector may revoke, and require the return of, any
permit by notifying the permit holder, in writing, stating the reason for such
revocation. Permits shall be revoked for any substantial departure from the
approved application, plans, or specifications; for refusal, or failure, to
comply with proper orders of the inspector; for refusal, or failure, to comply
with requirements of this article, or the State Building Code; or for false
statements, or misrepresentations, made in securing such permit. Any permit
mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable state or local law may also be
revoked.
(Code 1976, § 8.24)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, G.S. Chapter 160D.
§ 5-207  TIME LIMITATIONS ON VALIDITY OF PERMITS.
   All permits issued under this article shall expire by limitation six months
after the date of issuance if the work authorized by the permit has not been
commenced. If after commencement the work is discontinued for a period of 12
months, the permit shall immediately expire. No work authorized by any permit
which has expired shall, thereafter, be performed until a new permit has been
secured.
(Code 1976, § 8.25)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, G.S. Chapter 160D.
§ 5-208  CHANGES IN WORK.
   After a permit has been issued, no changes, or deviations, from the terms of
the application, plans, or specifications, or the permit, except where changes,
or deviations, are clearly permissible under the State Building Code, shall be
made until specific written approval of proposed changes, or deviations, has
been obtained from the Inspection Department.
(Code 1976, § 8.26)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, G.S. Chapter 160D.
§ 5-209  PERMIT FEES.
   Fees for permits shall be based upon the current county fee schedule at the
time the application is received. The current schedule of fees is located in
the office of the County Building Inspector.
(Code 1976, § 8.27)
§ 5-210  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Every building that shall appear to the Inspector to be especially
dangerous to life because of its liability to fire, or because of bad condition
of walls, overloaded floors, defective construction, decay, unsafe wiring or
heating system, inadequate means of egress, or other causes, shall be held to
be unsafe, and the Inspector shall affix a notice of the dangerous character of
the structure to a conspicuous place on the exterior wall of the building.
   (B)   (1)   If the owner of a building, or structure, that has been
condemned as unsafe, pursuant to subsection (A) above and G.S. Chapter 160D,
shall fail to take prompt, corrective action, the Inspector shall give him or
her written notice, by certified or registered mail to his or her last known
address, or by personal service:
         (a)   That the building, or structure, is in a condition that appears
to meet one, or more, of the following conditions:
            1.   Constitutes a fire, or safety, hazard;
            2.   Is dangerous to life, health, or other property;
            3.   Is likely to cause, or contribute, to blight, disease,
vagrancy, or danger to children; or
         (b)   A hearing will be held before the Inspector at a designated
place and time, not later than ten days after the date of the notice, at which
time the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person, or by counsel, and to
present arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter; and
         (c)   Following the hearing, the Inspector may issue such order to
repair, close, vacate, or demolish the building, or structure, as appears
appropriate.
      (2)   If the name, or whereabouts, of the owner cannot, after due
diligence, be discovered, the notice shall be considered properly, and
adequately, served if a copy thereof is posted on the outside of the building,
or structure, in question at least ten days prior to the hearing, and a notice
of the hearing is published in a newspaper having general circulation in the
town at least once, not later than one week prior to the hearing.
   (C)   If, upon a hearing held pursuant to the notice prescribed in
subsection (B) above and G.S. Chapter 160D, the Inspector shall find that the
building, or structure, is in a condition that constitutes a fire, or safety,
hazard, or renders it dangerous to life, health, or other property, he or she
shall make an order, in writing, directed to the owner of such building, or
structure, requiring the owner to remedy the defective conditions by repairing,
closing, vacating, or demolishing the building, or structure, or taking other
necessary steps, within such period, not less than 60 days, as the Inspector
may prescribe; provided, that where the Inspector finds that there is imminent
danger to life or other property, he or she may order that corrective action be
taken in such lesser period as may be feasible.
   (D)   Whenever any violation is denominated a misdemeanor under the
provisions of G.S. Chapter 160D, the town, either in addition to, or in lieu
of, other remedies, may initiate any appropriate action, or proceedings, to
prevent, restrain, correct, or abate the violation, or to prevent the occupancy
of the building, or structure, involved.
   (E)   (1)   In the case of a building, or structure, declared unsafe under
subsection (A) above and G.S. Chapter 160D, or an ordinance adopted pursuant to
subsection (A) above and G.S. Chapter 160D, the town may, in lieu of taking
action under subsection (D) above, cause the building, or structure, to be
removed or demolished.
      (2)   The amounts incurred by the town in connection with the removal, or
demolition, shall be a lien against the real property upon which the cost was
incurred. The lien shall be filed, have the same priority, and be collected in
the same manner as liens for special assessments provided in G.S. Chapter 160A,
Article 10.
      (3)   If the building, or structure, is removed, or demolished, by the
town, the town shall sell the usable materials of the building, and any
personal property, fixtures, or appurtenances found in, or attached to, the
building. The town shall credit the proceeds of the sale against the cost of
the removal, or demolition. Any balance remaining from the sale shall be
deposited with the Clerk of the County Superior Court of the county where the
property is located, and shall be disbursed by the Court to the person found to
be entitled thereto by final order, or decree, of the Court.
      (4)   The amounts incurred by the town in connection with the removal, or
demolition, shall also be a lien against any other real property owned by the
owner of the building, or structure, and located within the town limits or
within one mile of the town limits, except for the owner’s primary residence.
The provisions of subsections (E)(2) and (E)(3) above apply to this additional
lien, except that this additional lien is inferior to all prior liens, and
shall be collected as a money judgment.
   (F)   If the owner of a building, or structure, fails to comply with an
order issued, pursuant to subsection (C) above and G.S. Chapter 160D, from
which no appeal has been taken, or fails to comply with an order of the Town
Council following an appeal, he or she shall be guilty of a Class 1
misdemeanor, in accordance with G.S. Chapter 160D.
   (G)   If any person shall remove any notice that has been affixed to any
building, or structure, by the Inspector that states the dangerous character of
the building, or structure, he or she shall be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor.
Penalty, see §
1-111
Cross-reference:
   Misdemeanors, §
5-210(F) and (G); appeals, §
5-211; equitable actions, §
5-210(D).
Statutory reference:
   Enforcement, G.S. Chapter 160D.
§ 5-211 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any owner who has received an order under §
5-210(C) and G.S. Chapter 160D may appeal from the order to the Town Council by
giving notice of appeal, in writing, to the Inspector and to the Town Clerk
within ten days following issuance of the order. In the absence of an appeal,
the order of the Inspector shall be final. The Town Council shall hear, and
render, a decision in an appeal within a reasonable time. The Town Council may
affirm, modify and affirm, or revoke the order.
   (B)   Unless otherwise provided by law, appeals from any order, decision, or
determination by a member of the Inspection Department pertaining to the State
Building Code, or other state building laws, shall be taken to the Commissioner
of Insurance, or his or her designee, or other official specified in G.S. §
143-139, by filing a written notice with him or her, and with the Inspection
Department within a period of ten days after the order, decision, or
determination. The Inspector shall forward a copy of any such appeals to the
Town Clerk. Further appeals may be taken to the State Building Code Council, or
to the courts, as provided by law.
Statutory reference:
   Appeals in general, G.S. Chapter 160D.
§§ 5-212 TO 5-299  RESERVED.
ARTICLE III:  ENERGY CONSERVATION STANDARDS
   [Repealed]
Statutory reference:
   Building code insulation and energy utilization standards, G.S. §§ 143-144
et seq.
ARTICLE IV:  MINIMUM HOUSING STANDARDS
Section
   
5-401   Definitions
   
5-402   Findings; purpose
   
5-403   Conflicts
   
5-404   Scope
   
5-405   Alternative remedies
   
5-406   Right of access
   
5-407   Methods of services of complaints and orders
   
5-408   Compliance
   
5-409   Space use
   
5-410   Light and ventilation
   
5-411   Exits
   
5-412   Plumbing
   
5-413   Heating
   
5-414   Electricity
   
5-415   Structural requirements
   
5-416   Property maintenance
   
5-417   Rooming/boarding houses
   
5-418   Inspections; duty of owner and occupants
   
5-419   Refusal to permit entry for inspection
   
5-420   Method of serving complaints, orders
   
5-421   Dwellings in violation; preventive action or proceeding
   
5-422   Petition for temporary injunction
   
5-423   Enforcement by Code Official; assistance from town agencies,
departments
   
5-424   Powers of Code Official
   
5-425   Issue of complaint; hearing; determination of unfit dwelling; abatement
procedure
   
5-426   Appeals from orders of Code Official
   
5-427   Petition to Superior Court
   
5-428   Unauthorized removal of posted complaint, notice, or order
   
5-429   Renting unfit dwelling after notice
   
5-430   Certificate of occupancy
   
5-431   Changes in work after permit issue
   
5-432   Violations; penalty
   5-433 to 5-450   Reserved
Statutory reference:
   Municipal housing standards authorized, G.S. §§ 160A-441 et seq.
§ 5-401  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
      ACCESSORY BUILDING or OUTHOUSE. A building, or structure, the use of
which is incidental to that of the main building, or structure, and which is
located on the same lot, or a contiguous lot.
      ALTER OR ALTERATION. Any change, or modification, in construction or
occupancy.
      BASEMENT. A portion of a building located partly underground, having
direct access to light and air from windows located above the level of the
adjoining ground.
      BUILDING. Any structure built for the support, shelter, or enclosure of
persons, animals, chattels, or property of any kind. The term BUILDING shall be
construed as if followed by the words “or part thereof”.
      CELLAR. A portion of a building located partly, or wholly, underground
having an inadequate access to light and air from windows located partly, or
wholly, below the level of the adjoining ground.
      CODE/BUILDING OFFICIAL. The official, or other person, charged with the
administration, and enforcement, of this article, or duly authorized
representative.
      DWELLING. Any building, structure, manufactured home, or mobile home, or
part thereof, used and occupied for human habitation, or intended to be so
used, and includes any outhouses and appurtenances belonging thereto, or
usually enjoyed therewith, except that it does not include any temporary
dwelling, or any manufactured home or mobile home, which is used solely for a
seasonal vacation purpose. MANUFACTURED HOME or MOBILE HOME means a structure
as defined in G.S. § 143-145(7).
      DWELLING UNIT. Any room, or group of rooms, located within a dwelling,
and forming a single habitable unit with facilities which are used, or intended
to be used, for living, sleeping, cooking, and eating.
      EXIT. A clear and unobstructed way of departure from the interior of a
building, or structure, to the exterior at street, or grade, level.
      EXTERMINATION. The control, and elimination, of insects, rodents, or
other pests by eliminating their harborage places; by removing, or making
inaccessible, materials that may serve as their food, by poisoning, spraying,
fumigating, trapping, or by any other recognized, and legal, pest elimination
methods approved by the Code Official.
      FLOOR AREA. The total area of all habitable space in a building, or
structure.
      GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking, and consumption of food.
      HABITABLE ROOM. A room, or enclosed floor space, used, or intended to be
used, for living, sleeping, cooking, or eating purposes, excluding bathrooms,
water closet compartments, and laundries.
      INFESTATION. The presence, within or around a dwelling, of any insects,
rodents, or other pests.
      MULTIPLE DWELLING. Any building, or portion thereof, which is designed,
built, rented, leased, let, or hired out to be occupied, or which is occupied
as the home, or residence, of more than two families living independently of
each other, and doing their own cooking in the building, and shall include
FLATS and APARTMENTS.
      OCCUPANT. Any person over one year of age living, sleeping, cooking, or
eating in, or having actual possession of, a dwelling unit or rooming unit.
      OPENABLE AREA. The part of a window, porch, or door which is available
for unobstructed ventilation, and which opens directly to the outdoors.
      OPERATOR. Any person who has the charge, care, or control of a building,
or part thereof, in which dwelling units, or rooming units, are let.
      OWNER. Any person who, alone or jointly, or severally with others:
         (a)   Has title to any dwelling, or dwelling unit, with or without
accompanying actual possession thereof; or
         (b)   Has the charge, care, or control of any dwelling, or dwelling
unit, as owner, or agent of the owner, or as executor, administrator, trustee,
or guardian of the estate of the OWNER. Any such person thus representing the
actual OWNER shall be bound to comply with the provisions of this article, and
of rules and regulations adopted pursuant thereto, to the same extent as if he
or she is the OWNER.
      PARTIES IN INTEREST. All individuals, associations, and corporations who
have interest of record in a dwelling, and any who are in possession thereof.
      PLUMBING. Includes all of the following supplied facilities and
equipment: Gas pipes; gas-burning equipment; water pipes; mechanical garbage
disposal units (mechanical sink grinder); waste pipes; water closets; sinks;
installed dishwashers; lavatories; bathtubs; shower baths; installed clothes
washing machines; catch basins; drains; vents; and any other similar supply
fixtures, together with all connections to water, sewer, or gas lines.
      PREMISES. A lot, plat, or parcel of land, including the buildings, or
structures, thereon.
      PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Any housing authority, or any official in charge of any
department or branch of the government of the town, the county, or the state
relating to health, fire, or building regulations, or to other activities
concerning housing in the town.
      REMOVAL. The demolition, and removal, of the entire building, leaving the
premises free and clear of any debris; any excavation properly filled in, and
with no holes or pockets which retain water.
      ROOMING/BOARDING HOUSE. Any dwelling, or part of any dwelling, containing
one, or more, rooming units, in which space is let by the owner or operator to
two, or more, persons, who are not husband and wife, son or daughter, mother or
father, or sister or brother of the owner or operator.
      ROOMING UNIT. Any room, or group of rooms, forming a single habitable
unit used, or intended to be used, for living and sleeping, but not for cooking
or eating.
      RUBBISH. Combustible, or noncombustible, waste materials, except garbage,
including, but not limited to, the residue from the burning of wood, coal,
coke, and other combustible material, paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood,
excelsior, rubber, leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, tin cans, metals,
mineral matter, glass crockery and dust, and discarded appliances.
      STORY. The part of a building between one floor and the floor, or roof,
next above.
      STRUCTURE. That which is built, or constructed, an edifice or building of
any kind, or any piece of work artificially built up, or composed of parts
joined together in some definite manner. The term STRUCTURE shall be construed
as if followed by the words “or part thereof”.
      SUBSTANDARD. Any condition existing in any housing, or structure, which
does not meet the standards of fitness of this article.
      SUPPLIED. Paid for, furnished, or provided by, or under the contract of,
the owner or operator.
      TEMPORARY HOUSING. Any tent, trailer, or other structure used for human
shelter which is designed to be transportable (for example, a motor home), and
which is not attached to the ground, to another structure, or to any utilities
system on the same premises legally for more than 60 consecutive days.
      UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION. Conditions exist in a dwelling which violate,
or do not comply with, one, or more, of the minimum standards of fitness
established by this article.
      VENTILATION. The insufflation and the exsufflation of air by natural
means to, and from, housing.
      VENTILATION, MECHANICAL. Ventilation by power-driven devices.
      VENTILATION, NATURAL. Ventilation by opening to outer air through
windows, sky-lights, doors, louvers, or stacks with, or without, wind-driven
devices.
   (B)   Whenever the words “dwelling”, “dwelling unit”, “rooming house”,
“rooming unit”, and “premises” are used in this article, they shall be
construed as though followed by the words “or any part thereof”.
(Ord. 21-2018, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 5-402  FINDINGS; PURPOSE.
   The Town Council finds, and declares, that there now exists, in the town and
its one-mile jurisdiction, and may reasonably be expected to exist in the
future, housing which is unfit for human habitation because of dilapidation;
defects increasing the hazards of fire, accidents, or other calamities; lack of
ventilation, adequate lighting, or sanitary facilities; or because of
conditions rendering such housing unsafe or unsanitary, or dangerous or
detrimental to the health, safety, or morals, or otherwise inimical, to the
welfare of the residents of the town and its area of jurisdiction; and that a
public necessity exists to exercise police powers of the town, pursuant to G.S.
Chapter 160A, Article 19, and other applicable laws, as now, or hereafter,
amended, to cause the repair and rehabilitation, closing, or demolishing of
such housing in the manner provided in this article; and pursuant to the
exercise for the police power, the Town Council finds as fact, and so declares,
that the ensuing sections of this article are necessary to the implementation
of its purposes hereinabove declared in this section, and that, specifically,
but without limitation, the minimum standards of fitness for dwellings and
dwelling units, as enacted in this article, are reasonable and necessary for
this community, and are all reasonable and necessary criteria for determining
whether dwellings and dwelling units in this town are fit for human habitation.
(Ord. 21-2018, passed 12-3-2018)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, G.S. Chapter 160D.
§ 5-403  CONFLICTS.
   The provisions of this article shall not be construed to conflict with any
other applicable laws, codes, or ordinances pertaining to housing, but are
supplemental thereto, and where the provisions of this article are similar to
provisions of other applicable codes or ordinances, the more stringent
provisions shall apply.
(Ord. 21-2018, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 5-404  SCOPE.
   (A)   Every building used in whole, or in part, as a dwelling unit, or as
two, or more, dwelling units, or as a rooming house, or boardinghouse, shall
conform to the requirements of this article irrespective of the primary use of
such building, and irrespective of when such building may have been
constructed, altered, or repaired.
   (B)   This article establishes minimum standards for occupancy, and does not
replace, or modify, standards otherwise established for construction,
replacement, or repair of buildings, except such as are contrary to the
provisions of this article.
   (C)   In addition to the exercise of police power authorized in this
article, with respect to dwellings, the town shall cause to be repaired,
closed, or demolished any abandoned structure which the Town Council finds to
be a health, or safety, hazard as a result of the attraction of insects or
rodents, conditions creating a fire hazard, dangerous condition constituting a
threat to children, or frequent use by vagrants as living quarters in the
absence of sanitary facilities. The repair, closing, or demolition of such
structures shall be pursuant to the same provisions, and procedures, as are
prescribed in this article for the repair, closing, or demolition of dwelling
found to be unfit for human habitation.
(Ord. 21-2018, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 5-405  ALTERNATIVE REMEDIES.
   Neither this article, nor any of its provisions, shall be construed to
impair, or limit, in any way the power of the town to define, and declare,
nuisances, and to cause their abatement by summary action, or otherwise, or to
enforce this article by criminal process, or otherwise, and the enforcement of
any remedy provided in this article shall not prevent the enforcement of any
other remedy, or remedies, provided in this code, or in other ordinances or
laws.
(Ord. 21-2018, passed 12-3-2018)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, G.S. Chapter 160D.
§ 5-406  RIGHT OF ACCESS.
   (A)   For the purpose of making inspections, the Code Official is hereby
authorized to enter, examine, and survey, at all reasonable times, all
dwellings, dwelling units, rooming units, and premises. The owner, or occupant,
of every dwelling, dwelling unit, or rooming unit, or the person in charge
thereof, shall give the Official free access to such dwelling, dwelling unit,
or rooming unit and its premises, at all reasonable times for the purposes of
such inspection, examination, and survey.
   (B)   Every occupant of a dwelling, or dwelling unit, shall give the owner
thereof, or agent or employee, access to any part of such dwelling, or dwelling
unit, and its premises, at all reasonable times for the purpose of making such
repairs, or alterations, as are necessary to effect compliance with the
provisions of this article, or with any lawful order issued pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 21-2018, passed 12-3-2018)
Statutory reference:
   Power to inspect, G.S. Chapter 160D.
§ 5-407  METHODS OF SERVICES OF COMPLAINTS AND ORDERS.
   Complaints, or orders, issued by the Code Official shall be served upon
persons either personally, or by registered or certified mail, but if the
whereabouts of such persons are unknown, and the same cannot be ascertained by
the Official, he or she shall make an affidavit to that effect, and the serving
of such complaint, or order, upon such person may be made by publishing the
same once each week for two successive weeks in a newspaper, printed and
published in the town. Where service is made by publication, a notice of the
pending proceedings shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises
affected by the complaint, or order.
(Ord. 21-2018, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 5-408  COMPLIANCE.
   Every dwelling, and dwelling unit, used as a human habitation, or held out
for use as a human habitation, shall comply with all of the requirements of
this article. No person shall occupy, as a human habitation, any dwelling, or
dwelling unit, which does not comply with all of the requirements of this
article.
(Ord. 21-2018, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 5-409  SPACE USE.
   The minimum standards for space use are as follows:
   (A)   A principal area shall have not less than 150 square feet;
   (B)   A kitchen-dining room combination, if any, shall have not less than
100 square feet;
   (C)   A first bedroom, if any, shall have not less than 100 square feet;
   (D)   A second bedroom, if any, shall have not less than 70 square feet;
   (E)   Each habitable room shall have at least 70 square feet;
   (F)   At least 150 square feet of floor space in habitable rooms shall be
provided for the first occupant in each dwelling unit; at least 100 square feet
of additional floor space shall be provided for each of the next three
occupants; and at least 75 square feet of additional floor space shall be
provided for each additional occupant over the number of four (children one
year of age and under shall not be counted);
   (G)   At least 70 square feet of bedroom floor space shall be provided for
the first occupant; at least 20 square feet of additional bedroom floor space
shall be provided for the second occupant; and at least 30 square feet of
additional bedroom floor space shall be provided for each occupant over the
number of two (children one year of age and under shall not be counted);
   (H)   Habitable rooms which must be included to meet the foregoing minimum
space standards shall be at least seven feet wide in any part with at least
one-half of the floor area having a ceiling height of at least seven feet. The
portion of any room where the ceiling height is less than five feet shall not
be considered as part of the floor area;
   (I)   No basement space shall be used as a habitable room, or dwelling unit,
unless:
      (1)   The floor and walls are impervious to leakage of underground and
surface runoff water, and are insulated against dampness;
      (2)   The total of window area in each room is equal to at least the
window area sizes prescribed in the following section for habitable rooms; or
      (3)   The total of openable window area in each room is equal to at least
the room area prescribed in the following section for habitable rooms, except
where there is supplied some other device affording adequate ventilation
approved by the Director of Inspections.
   (J)   Toilet and bathing facilities shall be structurally enclosed, and
shall be located so as not to require passage through an openable area;
   (K)   Bathroom walls, toilet room walls, and bedroom walls shall have no
holes, or excessive cracks;
   (L)   Access shall be provided to all rooms within a dwelling unit without
passing through a public space, or another dwelling unit;
   (M)   Doors shall be provided at all doorways leading to bedrooms, toilet
rooms, bathrooms, and at all rooms adjoining a public space;
   (N)   Each living unit shall have a specific kitchen space, which contains a
sink with counter workspace, and has hot and cold running water, and adequate
space for storing cooking utensils; and
   (O)   Electric, water, and sewer must be in working order.
(Ord. 21-2018, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 5-410  LIGHT AND VENTILATION.
   The minimum standards for light and ventilation are as follows:
   (A)   Every habitable room shall have at least one window, or skylight,
facing directly to the outdoors. The minimum total window area measured between
stops for every habitable room shall be 8% of the floor area of such room.
Whenever walls, or other portions, of structures face a window of any such
room, and such light obstruction structures are located less than five feet
from the window, and extend to a level above that of the ceiling of the room,
they shall not be included as contributing to the required minimum total window
area. Whenever the only window in a room is a skylight-type window in the top
of such room, the total window area of such skylight shall equal at least 15%
of the total floor area of such room;
   (B)   Every room in a dwelling unit, and means of egress, shall be
sufficiently illuminated so as to provide safe, and satisfactory, uses;
   (C)   Year-round mechanically ventilating systems may be substituted for
windows, as required herein, but must be approved by the Code Official in rooms
other than rooms used for sleeping purposes;
   (D)   All outside windows and doors used for ventilation shall be screened;
   (E)   All windows and doors shall be made weather-tight;
   (F)   Windows and doors shall have no broken glass, and shall have adequate
operable locks and hardware;
   (G)   Openable window area in each toilet room shall be at least two square
feet, unless served by mechanical ventilation;
   (H)   Natural ventilation of spaces, such as attics and enclosed non-
basement space, shall be provided by openings of sufficient size to overcome
dampness, and to minimize the effect of conditions conducive to decay and
deterioration of the structure, and to prevent excessive heat in attics;
   (I)   Utility spaces containing heat-producing, air-conditioning, and other
equipment shall be ventilated according to the manufacturer’s requirements; and
   (J)   Mechanical ventilation shall be of sufficient size to eliminate
dampness and odors of the area it is serving.
(Ord. 21-2018, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 5-411  EXITS.
   (A)   Two main exits, each at least 30 inches wide, and six feet and eight
inches high, easily accessible to the occupants of each housing unit, shall be
provided, unless a single exit is permitted as an exception by provisions of
the State Building Code, as from time to time amended. All exit doors shall be
easily operable.
   (B)   Platforms, steps, and/or handrails shall be provided to serve exits,
and maintained in a safe condition.
(Ord. 21-2018, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 5-412  PLUMBING.
   The minimum plumbing standards are as follows:
   (A)   The plumbing systems shall be connected to the town sanitary sewer
system, where available; otherwise, the plumbing system shall be connected onto
an approved septic tank;
   (B)   All plumbing fixtures shall meet the standards of the Town Plumbing
Code, and shall be maintained in a state of good repair and in good working
order;
   (C)   There shall be provided a hot water heater (minimum 30-gallon
capacity) furnishing hot water to each tub or shower, lavatory, and kitchen
sink;
   (D)   Installed water supply inside the building shall be provided for each
housing unit;
   (E)   Installed water closet, tub or shower, lavatory, and sink shall be
provided for each dwelling unit;
   (F)   Separate toilet facilities shall be provided for each dwelling unit;
   (G)   Toilet and bathing facilities shall be structurally protected from the
weather;
   (H)   All water piping shall be protected from freezing by proper
installation in protected space;
   (I)   At least one main vent of a minimum diameter of two inches shall be
properly installed for each building; and
   (J)   Sewer and water lines shall be properly supported with no broken or
leaking lines.
(Ord. 21-2018, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 5-413  HEATING.
   The minimum heating standards are as follows:
   (A)   [Reserved];
   (B)   Every dwelling unit shall have heating facilities which are properly
installed, are maintained in safe, and good, working condition, and are capable
of safely, and adequately, heating all habitable rooms and bathrooms in every
dwelling unit located therein to a temperature of at least 68F at a distance
three feet above floor level, under ordinary minimum winter conditions;
   (C)   All gas-heating and oil-heating equipment installed on the premises
shall be of a type approved by the Underwriters’ Laboratories, or by the
American Gas Association, and shall be installed in accordance with the
provisions of the State Building Code;
   (D)   Liquid fuel stored on the premises shall be stored in accordance with
the provisions of the National Fire Prevention Association standards;
   (E)   Chimneys and fireplaces shall have no loose bricks;
   (F)   Flues shall have no holes;
   (G)   There shall be no hanging masonry chimneys;
   (H)   Thimbles shall be grouted in tight;
   (I)   Thimbles shall be installed high enough for stovepipe to rise one-
fourth inch per foot minimum;
   (J)   Hearths shall be at least 20 inches deep, and seven inches beyond each
side of the fireplace opening;
   (K)   No combustible materials shall be within seven inches beyond each side
of the fireplace opening;
   (L)   If the fireplace opening is closed because of hazardous conditions,
the closure shall be of masonry, or other approved material, as determined by
the Code Official;
   (M)   Any stove shall be within six feet of the thimble serving it;
   (N)   Stovepipes and vents shall comply with volume three of the State
Building Code; and
   (O)   No unvented combustible space heaters shall be used.
(Ord. 21-2018, passed 12-3-2018)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, G.S. § 136-138.
§ 5-414  ELECTRICITY.
   The minimum electrical standards are as follows:
   (A)   Every dwelling, and dwelling unit, shall be wired for electric lights
and convenience receptacles, which shall be connected in such manner as
determined by the National Electric Code, as adopted by the town;
   (B)   No receptacles, ceiling fixtures, or other fixtures shall be broken or
hanging loose;
   (C)   All toggle switches and fixtures shall be safely operable;
   (D)   At least two duplex convenience outlets, as remote from each other as
practicable, shall be provided per habitable room;
   (E)   At least one light outlet in each bathroom, hall, kitchen, and porch,
and over exterior steps to the second floor, shall be provided;
   (F)   There shall be no bare wires, open joints, or spliced cables;
   (G)   Flexible cords shall not be used as a substitute for the fixed wiring
of a structure, nor shall flexible cords be run through holes in walls,
ceilings, or floors, through doorways, windows, or similar openings, or be
attached to building surfaces, or concealed behind building walls, ceilings, or
floors;
   (H)   No branch circuits shall be overloaded;
   (I)   A minimum of three branch circuits, plus separate circuits for each
fixed appliance, shall be provided in each dwelling unit;
   (J)   There shall be provided service equipment and a lighting panel of
adequate capacity and size (minimum of 60-ampere capacity) to accommodate the
existing, or the required, number of branch circuits, and the equipment shall
be properly grounded;
   (K)   Outlets in kitchens and bathrooms shall be ground-fault interrupter
device protected;
   (L)   All residences shall have a smoke detector on each livable floor. The
property owner shall be responsible for installing a fresh battery with change
in tenants; the tenant shall be responsible for maintaining the unit, and shall
not commit any act that shall render the unit inactive; and
   (M)   All rental dwelling units having a fossil fuel burning heater or
appliance, or fireplace shall provide a minimum of one operable carbon monoxide
detector per unit per level. A carbon monoxide detector is also required for an
attached garage. The landlord shall install, replace, or repair the carbon
monoxide monitor(s), unless the landlord and tenant have a written agreement to
the contrary.
(Ord. 21-2018, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 5-415  STRUCTURAL REQUIREMENTS.
   The minimum structural standards shall be as follows:
   (A)   Foundation.
      (1)   A foundation shall support the building at all points, and shall be
free of holes and cracks which admit rodents, water, or dampness to the
interior of the building, or which lessen the capability of the foundation to
support the building;
      (2)   The foundation shall be on firm, reasonably dry ground, and there
shall be no water standing, or running, under the building;
      (3)   Footings shall be sound, and have adequate bearing capacity;
      (4)   Piers shall be sound;
      (5)   No wood stiff knees, or other improper piers, shall be allowed; and
      (6)   All structures shall be underpinned or enclosed in an approved
manner, such as aluminum, galvanized asbestos, or masonry.
   (B)   Floors.
      (1)   No rotted or termite-damaged sills shall be allowed;
      (2)   No broken, overloaded, or sagging sills shall be allowed;
      (3)   Sills shall be reasonably level;
      (4)   Sills shall be properly, and sufficiently, supported;
      (5)   Sills shall clear the ground by at least 18 inches;
      (6)   No rotted or termite-damaged joists shall be allowed;
      (7)   No broken, or sagging, joists shall be allowed;
      (8)   Flooring shall be weather tight without holes or cracks which
permit air to excessively penetrate rooms;
      (9)   Flooring shall be reasonably smooth, not rotten or worn through;
      (10)   No loose flooring shall be allowed; and
      (11)   Floors shall be reasonably level.
   (C)   Walls, exterior.
      (1)   Every exterior wall shall be protected with paint, or other
protective covering, to prevent the entrance, or penetration, of moisture or
the weather;
      (2)   No studs which are rotted, or termite-damaged, shall be allowed;
      (3)   No broken, or cracked, structural members shall be allowed;
      (4)   No loose siding shall be allowed;
      (5)   Walls used as partitions shall not lean or buckle; and
      (6)   No deteriorated siding or covering shall be allowed.
   (D)   Walls, interior.
      (1)   The interior finish shall be free of holes and cracks, which permit
air to excessively penetrate rooms;
      (2)   No loose plaster, loose boards, or other loose wall materials shall
be allowed;
      (3)   There shall be no cardboard, newspaper, or other highly combustible
material allowed as a wall finish;
      (4)   No studs shall be rotted or termite-damaged; and
      (5)   No broken or cracked studs, or other broken or cracked structural
members, shall be allowed.
   (E)   Ceilings.
      (1)   No joists shall be rotted, broken, or sagging, or have improperly
supported ends;
      (2)   There shall be allowed no holes or cracks, which permit air to
excessively penetrate rooms;
      (3)   No loose plaster, loose boards, loose sheetrock, or other loose
ceiling finish shall be allowed; and
      (4)   There shall be allowed, as ceiling finishes, no cardboard or other
highly combustible material.
   (F)   Roofs.
      (1)   Rafters shall not be rotted, broken, or sagging, or have improperly
supported ends;
      (2)   No rafters seriously fire-damaged shall be allowed;
      (3)   Attics shall be properly vented;
      (4)   No rotted, loose, or sagging sheathing shall be allowed;
      (5)   No loose roof covering shall be allowed, nor shall there be allowed
any holes or leaks, which could cause damage to the structure or rooms; and
      (6)   Walls and chimneys shall have proper flashing.
   (G)   Stairs and steps.
      (1)   Stairs and steps shall be free of holes, grooves, and cracks large
enough to constitute accident hazards;
      (2)   Stairwells, and flights of stairs, more than four risers, or having
risers more than 30 inches high, shall have rails not less than two feet and
six inches measured vertically from the nose of the treads to the top of the
rail;
      (3)   Every rail shall be firmly fastened, and maintained, in good
condition;
      (4)   No flight of stairs settled more than one inch out of its intended
position, or pulled away from supporting or adjacent structures, shall be
allowed; and
      (5)   No rotting, sagging, or deteriorated supports shall be allowed.
   (H)   Porches and appurtenances.
      (1)   Every outside and inside porch, and any appurtenance thereto, shall
be safe to use, and capable of supporting the load that normal use may cause,
to be kept in sound condition and good repair; and
      (2)   Protective railings shall be required on any unenclosed structure
over three feet from the ground level.
   (I)   Accessory structures. All accessory buildings, and structures,
including detached garages, shall be maintained structurally sound and in good
repair, or shall be raised to grade level, and the debris therefrom removed
from the premises; and
   (J)   Supplied facilities. Every supplied facility, piece of equipment, or
utility, which is required under this article, shall be so constructed, or
installed, that it will function safely and effectively, and shall be
maintained in satisfactory working condition.
(Ord. 21-2018, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 5-416  PROPERTY MAINTENANCE.
   The minimum property maintenance standards are as follows:
   (A)   Buildings and structures.
      (1)   Exterior wood surfaces not inherently resistant to deterioration
shall be treated with a protective coating of paint, or other suitable
preservative, with sufficient frequency to prevent deterioration; and
      (2)   Floors, walls, ceilings, and fixtures shall be maintained in a
clean, and sanitary, condition.
   (B)   Public areas. Every owner of a structure containing two, or more,
dwelling units shall be responsible for maintaining, in a clean and sanitary
condition, the shared, or public, areas of the structure and premises thereof;
   (C)   Rubbish and garbage. Every person who occupies, and controls, a
dwelling unit shall dispose of all rubbish and garbage in a clean, and
sanitary, manner by placing it in proper storage facilities;
   (D)   Premises.
      (1)   Fences, and other minor structures, shall be maintained in safe,
and substantial, condition;
      (2)   Yards and courts shall be kept clean, and free, of physical
hazards, rubbish, trash, and garbage;
      (3)   No heavy undergrowth, or accumulations of plant growth which are
noxious or detrimental to health, shall be allowed;
      (4)   Every premises shall be provided with all-weather vehicular access
to, and from, the premises at all times by an abutting public, or private,
street;
      (5)   Walks and steps, constructed so as to provide safety, reasonable
durability, and economy of maintenance, should be provided for convenient all-
weather access to the structure;
      (6)   Access to the rear yard from each dwelling unit shall be required.
Such access is not, however, acceptable where it is dependent upon passage
through another dwelling unit. Each building shall be provided with access to
the rear yard. This access for a detached dwelling shall be directly from a
street; and
      (7)   Any nonresidential use of the premises shall be subordinate to its
residential use and character.
   (E)   Infestation.
      (1)   Premises, buildings, and structures shall, by generally accepted
methods of extermination, be maintained free of vermination and rodent
harborage, and infestation;
      (2)   Every basement or cellar window used, or intended to be used, for
ventilation, and every other opening to a basement or cellar, which might
provide an entry for rodents, shall be supplied with screens installed, or with
such other approved devices as will effectively prevent entrance by rodents;
and
      (3)   Every head-of-household occupant of a structure containing a
single-dwelling unit shall be responsible for the extermination of any insects,
rodents, or other pests therein, or on the premises; and every head-of-
household occupant of a dwelling unit in a structure containing more than one
dwelling unit shall be responsible for such extermination whenever the dwelling
unit is the only one infested. Whenever infestation is caused by failure of the
owner to maintain a structure in a rodent proof, or reasonably insect proof,
condition, extermination shall be the responsibility of the owner. Whenever
infestation exists in two, or more, of the dwelling units in any structure, or
in the shared or public parts of any structure containing two, or more,
dwelling units, extermination shall be the responsibility of the owner.
   (F)   Cleanliness. Every occupant of a dwelling, or dwelling unit, shall
keep in a clean and sanitary condition the part of the dwelling, dwelling unit,
and premises thereof which he or she occupies and controls;
   (G)   Supplied plumbing fixtures. Every occupant of a dwelling unit shall
keep all supplied plumbing fixtures therein in a clean and sanitary condition,
and shall be responsible for the exercise of reasonable care in the proper use,
and operation, of same; and
   (H)   Care of facilities, equipment, and structure. No occupant shall
willfully destroy, deface, or impair any of the facilities, or equipment, of
any part of the structure of a dwelling, or dwelling unit.
(Ord. 21-2018, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 5-417  ROOMING/BOARDING HOUSES.
   All of the provisions of this article, and all of the minimum standards and
requirements of this article, shall be applicable to rooming houses, and to
every person who operates a rooming house, or who occupies, or lets to another
for occupancy, any rooming unit in any rooming house, except as provided in the
following subsections:
   (A)   At least one flush water closet, lavatory basin, and bathtub or
shower, properly connected to a water and sewer system, and in good working
condition, shall be supplied for each four rooms within a rooming house
whenever such facilities are shared. All such facilities shall be located on
the floor they serve within the dwelling so as to be reasonably accessible from
a common hall, or passageway, to all persons sharing such facilities;
   (B)   Every lavatory basin and bathtub, or shower, shall be supplied with
hot water at all times;
   (C)   Every room occupied for sleeping purposes by one person shall contain
at least 70 square feet of floor space, and every room occupied for sleeping
purposes by more than one person shall contain at least 50 square feet of floor
space for each occupant thereof;
   (D)   Every rooming unit shall have safe, unobstructed means of egress
leading to safe and open space at ground level, as required by the laws of the
governed area, or of the state;
   (E)   (1)   The operator of every rooming house shall be responsible for the
sanitary maintenance of all walls, floors, and ceilings, and for maintenance of
a sanitary condition in every part of the rooming house.
      (2)   He or she shall be further responsible for the sanitary maintenance
of the entire premises when the entire structure, or building, is leased, or
occupied, by the operator;
   (F)   No person shall operate a rooming house unless he or she holds a valid
rooming house license, and keeps same posted on the premises; and
   (G)   The Code Official, on a quarterly basis, shall inspect rooming houses.
(Ord. 21-2018, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 5-418  INSPECTIONS; DUTY OF OWNER AND OCCUPANTS.
   Every occupant of a dwelling, or dwelling unit, shall give the owner
thereof, or agent or employee, access to any part of such dwelling, or dwelling
unit, and its premises, at all reasonable times for the purpose of making such
repairs, or alterations, as are necessary to effect compliance with the
provisions of this article, or with any lawful order issued pursuant to the
provisions of this article.
(Ord. 21-2018, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 5-419  REFUSAL TO PERMIT ENTRY FOR INSPECTION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, or person in possession of
premises on which housing is located in the town, to refuse, after being
presented with a warrant, as issued in accordance with state law, to permit the
Code Official, or duly appointed agents, to enter upon the premises for the
purpose of making examinations, as authorized by this article.
   (B)   Violation of this section shall subject the offender to a civil
penalty.
(Ord. 21-2018, passed 12-3-2018)  Penalty, see §
1-111
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, G.S. § 15-27.2.
§ 5-420  METHODS OF SERVING COMPLAINTS, ORDERS.
   Complaints, or orders, issued by the Code Official, or designee, under this
article shall be served upon persons either personally, or by registered or
certified mail. When service is made by registered or certified mail, a copy of
the complaint, or order, may also be sent by regular mail. Service shall be
deemed sufficient if the registered, or certified, mail is unclaimed or
refused, but the regular mail is not returned by the post office within ten
days after the mailing. If regular mail is used, a notice of the pending
proceedings shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises affected. If
the identities of any owners, or the whereabouts of persons, are unknown and
cannot be ascertained by the public official in the exercise of reasonable
diligence, or, if the owners are known, but have refused to accept service by
registered, or certified, mail, and the Code Official makes an affidavit to
that effect, then the serving of the complaint, or order, upon the owners, or
other persons, may be made by publication in a newspaper having general
circulation in the town at least once, no later than the time at which personal
service would be required under the provisions of the part. When service is
made by publication, a notice of the pending proceedings shall be posted in a
conspicuous place on the premises thereby affected.
(Ord. 21-2018, passed 12-3-2018)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, G.S. Chapter 160D.
§ 5-421  DWELLINGS IN VIOLATION; PREVENTIVE ACTION OR PROCEEDING.
   If any dwelling is erected, constructed, altered, repaired, converted,
maintained, or used in violation of this article, or any valid order, or
decision, of the Code Official made pursuant to this article, the Official may
institute any appropriate action, or proceeding, to prevent the unlawful
erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, or use, to restrain,
correct, or abate the violation, to prevent the occupancy of the dwelling, or
to prevent any illegal act, conduct, or use in, or about, the premises of the
dwelling.
(Ord. 21-2018, passed 12-3-2018)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, G.S. Chapter 160D.
§ 5-422  PETITION FOR TEMPORARY INJUNCTION.
   Any person aggrieved by an order issued by the Code Official may petition
the Superior Court for an injunction restraining the Official from carrying out
the order, or decision, and the Court may, upon such petition, issue a
temporary injunction restraining the Official, pending a final disposition of
the case. The petition shall be filed within 30 days after issuance of the
order, or rendering of the decision. Hearings shall be had by the Court on a
petition with 20 days, and shall be given preference over other matters on the
Court calendar. The Court shall hear, and determine, the issues raised, and
shall enter such final order, or decree, as law and justice may require. It
shall not be necessary to file bond in any amount before obtaining a temporary
injunction.
(Ord. 21-2018, passed 12-3-2018)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, G.S. Chapter 160D.
§ 5-423  ENFORCEMENT BY CODE OFFICIAL; ASSISTANCE FROM TOWN AGENCIES,
DEPARTMENTS.
   (A)   The Code Official shall be responsible for the enforcement of this
article.
   (B)   The Code Official shall have authority to request the advice, and
assistance, of the Town Planning Board, the Housing Authority, the Fire
Department, the Health Department, and any other public authority may be deemed
appropriate, in determining those areas of the town in which substandard
housing may be prevalent, and designate, and schedule, such areas for
comprehensive inspection under this article. This procedure shall be in
addition to regular, town-wide inspections under this article.
(Ord. 21-2018, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 5-424  POWERS OF CODE OFFICIAL.
   The Code Official is authorized to exercise any powers necessary, or
convenient, to carry out, and effectuate, the purpose and provisions of this
article, including the following powers, in addition to others granted:
   (A)   To investigate the dwelling conditions in the town in order to
determine which dwellings therein are unfit for human habitation;
   (B)   To administer oaths, affirmations, examine witnesses, and receive
evidence;
   (C)   To enter upon premises for the purpose of making examinations in a
manner that will do the least possible inconvenience to the persons in
possession;
   (D)   To appoint and fix the duties of officials, agents, and employees
necessary to carry out the purposes of the ordinances; and
   (E)   To delegate any of the functions, and powers, under the article to
other officials, and other agents.
(Ord. 21-2018, passed 12-3-2018)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, G.S. § 160A-448.
§ 5-425  ISSUE OF COMPLAINT; HEARING; DETERMINATION OF UNFIT DWELLING;
ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Whenever a petition is filed with the Code Official by a public
authority, or by at least five residents of the town charging that any
dwelling, or dwelling unit, is unfit for human habitation, or whenever it
appears to the Official that any dwelling, or dwelling unit, is unfit for human
habitation, the Code Official shall, if the preliminary investigation discloses
a basis for such charges, issue, and cause to be served upon the owner of, and
parties in interest in, such dwelling, or dwelling unit, a complaint stating
the charges, and containing a notice that a hearing will be held before the
Official at a place within the county not less than ten, nor more than 30, days
after the serving of the complaint. The owner, or any party in interest, shall
have the right to file an answer to the complaint, and to appear in person, or
otherwise, and give testimony at the place, and time, fixed in the complaint.
Notice of such hearing shall also be given to at least one of the persons
signing a petition relating to such dwelling. Any person desiring to do so may
attend such hearing, and give evidence relevant to the matter being heard. The
rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law, or equity, shall not be
controlling in hearings before the Official.
   (B)   If after such notice, and hearing, the Official determines that the
dwelling under consideration is unfit for human habitation, the Code Official
shall state, in writing, the findings of fact in support of such determination,
and shall issue, and cause to be served upon the owners, an order as follows:
      (1)   If the repair, alteration, or improvement of the dwelling can be
made at a cost not to exceed 50% of the value of the dwelling, requiring the
owner, within the time specified, to repair, alter, or improve the dwelling in
order to render it fit for human habitation, or to vacate and close the
dwelling as a human habitation;
      (2)   If the repair, alteration, or improvement of the dwelling cannot be
made at a cost not to 50% of the value of the dwelling, requiring the owner,
within the time specified in the order, to remove, or demolish, such dwelling;
and
      (3)   If a house has been closed, and/or boarded, for a period of one
year or longer, after being closed following proceedings under the substandard
housing regulations, and Town Council determines that the owner has abandoned
the intent, and purpose, to render it fit for human habitation, and that
continuation of the dwelling in its vacated, and closed, status would be
inimical to the health, safety, morals, and welfare of the community in that
the dwelling would continue to deteriorate, would create a fire, and safety,
hazard, would be a threat to children and vagrants, would cause, or contribute,
to blight and deterioration of property values in the area, then in such
circumstances, the Town Council may, after the expiration of such one-year
period, enact an ordinance, and serve such ordinance on the owner, setting
forth the following:
         (a)   If it is determined that the repair of the dwelling to render it
fit for human habitation can be made at a cost not exceeding 50% of the then
current value of the dwelling, the ordinance shall require that the owner
either repair, or demolish and remove, the dwelling within 90 days; or
         (b)   If it is determined that the repair of the dwelling to render it
fit for human habitation cannot be made at a cost not exceeding 50% of the then
current value of the dwelling, the ordinance shall require the owner to
demolish, and remove, the dwelling within 90 days.
   (C)   The Official is authorized to fix the reasonable value of any housing,
and to estimate the cost of repairs, alterations, or improvements for the
purposes of this section.
   (D)   If the owner fails to comply with an order to repair, alter, or
improve, or to vacate and close the dwelling, the Official may cause such to be
repaired, altered, or improved, or to be vacated and closed, and may cause to
be posted on the main entrance of any dwelling so closed a placard with the
following words: “This building is unfit for human habitation; the use or
occupation of this building for human habitation is prohibited and unlawful”.
Occupation of a building so posted shall constitute a misdemeanor.
   (E)   If the owner fails to comply with an order to remove, or demolish, the
dwelling, the Official may cause such dwelling to be removed, or demolished;
provided, however, that the powers of the Official set forth in subsection (D)
above, and this subsection, shall not be exercised until the Town Council has,
by ordinance, ordered the Official to proceed to effectuate the purpose of this
article with respect to the particular property, or properties, which the
Official has found to be unfit for human habitation, and which shall be
described in the ordinance. No such ordinance shall be adopted to require
demolition of a dwelling until the owner has first been given a reasonable
opportunity to bring it into conformity with the housing code. Such ordinance
shall be recorded in the Office of the Register of Deeds of the county, and
shall be indexed in the name of the property owner in the grantor index.
   (F)   The amount of the cost of such repairs, alterations, or improvements,
or vacating and closing, or removal or demolition, by the Official shall be a
lien against the real property upon which the cost was incurred, which lien
shall be filed, have the same priority, and be collected as the lien for
special assessment provided in G.S. Chapter 160A, Article 10. If the dwelling
is removed, or demolished, by the Official, he or she shall sell the materials
of such dwelling, any personal property, fixtures, or appurtenances found in,
or attached to, the dwelling, and shall credit the proceeds of such sale
against the cost of the removal, or demolition, and any balance remaining shall
be deposited in the Superior Court by the Official, shall be secured in such
manner as may be directed by the Court, and shall be disbursed by the Court to
the persons found to be entitled thereto by final order, or decree, of the
Court.
   (G)   If any occupant fails to comply with an order to vacate a dwelling,
the Code Official may file a civil action in the name of the town to remove
such occupant. The action to vacate the dwelling shall be in the nature of
summary ejectment, and shall be commenced by filing a complaint naming as
parties-defendant any person occupying such dwelling. The Clerk of Superior
Court shall issue a summons requiring the defendant to appear before a
magistrate at a certain time, date, and place not to exceed ten days from the
issuance of the summons to answer the complaint. The summons and complaint
shall be served as provided in G.S. § 42-29. The summons shall be returned
according to its tenor, and if, on its return, it appears to have been duly
served, and if at the hearing the Code Official produces a certified copy of an
ordinance adopted by the governing body pursuant to subsection (E) above,
authorizing the Official to proceed to vacate the occupied dwelling, the
magistrate shall enter judgment ordering that the premises be vacated, and that
all persons be removed. The judgment ordering that the dwelling be vacated
shall be enforced in the same manner as the judgment for summary ejectment
entered under G.S. § 42-30. An appeal from any judgment entered hereunder by
the magistrate may be taken, as provided in G.S. § 7A-228, and the execution of
such judgment may be stayed, as provided in G.S. § 7A-227. An action to remove
an occupant of a dwelling who is a tenant of the owner may not be in the nature
of a summary ejectment proceeding pursuant to this subsection (G), unless such
occupant was served with notice at least 30 days before the filing of the
summary ejectment proceeding that the governing body has ordered the Code
Official to proceed to exercise duties under subsections (D) and (E) to vacate
and close, or remove and demolish the dwelling.
   (H)   Any violation of this section shall additionally subject the offender
to a civil penalty to be recovered by the town pursuant to §
1-111(b).
(Ord. 21-2018, passed 12-3-2018)
Statutory reference:
   Abatement procedures, G.S. Chapter 160D.
§ 5-426  APPEALS FROM ORDERS OF CODE OFFICIAL.
   (A)   An appeal from any decision, or order, of the Code Official may be
taken by any person who is the subject of the decision or order. Any appeal
from the Official shall be taken within ten days from the rendering of the
decision, or notice, of the order, and shall be taken by filing a notice of
appeal with the Planning Department, which shall specify the grounds upon which
the appeal is based. Upon the filing of any notice of appeal, the Official
shall forthwith transmit to the Board of Adjustment all papers constituting the
record upon which the decision appealed from was made. When an appeal is from a
decision of the Code Official refusing to allow the person aggrieved thereby to
do any act, the decision shall remain in force until modified, or reversed.
When any appeal is from a decision of the Code Official requiring the person
aggrieved to do any act, the appeal shall have the effect of suspending the
requirement until the hearing of the Board of Adjustment, unless the Official
certifies to the Board of Adjustment, after the notice of appeal is filed with
him or her, that by reason of the facts stated in the certificate, a copy of
which shall be furnished the appellant, a suspension of the requirement would
cause imminent peril to life or property, in which case the requirement shall
not be suspended, except by a restraining order, which may be granted for due
cause shown upon not less than one days’ written notice to the Code Official,
by the Board of Adjustment, or by a court of record upon petition made pursuant
to G.S. Chapter 160D, and the provisions of this article.
   (B)   The Board of Adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of
all appeals, shall give due notice to all the parties, and render its decision
within a reasonable time. Any party may appear in person, or by agent or
attorney. The Board may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the
decision, or order, appealed from, and may make such decision, and order, as,
in its opinion, ought to be made in the matter, and to that end it shall have
all the powers of the Official, but the concurring vote of four members of the
Board shall be necessary to reverse, or modify, any decision, or order, of the
Official. The Board shall have power also in passing upon appeals, in any case
where there are practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships in the way of
carrying out the strict letter of the ordinance, to adapt the application of
the ordinance to the necessities of the case to the end that the spirit of the
ordinance shall be observed, public safety and welfare secured, and substantial
justice done.
(Ord. 21-2018, passed 12-3-2018)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, G.S. Chapter 160D.
§ 5-427  PETITION TO SUPERIOR COURT.
   Any person aggrieved by an order issued by the Code Official, or a decision
rendered by the Board of Adjustments, shall have the right, within 30 days
after issuance of the order, or rendering of the decision, to petition the
Superior Court for a temporary injunction restraining the Official pending a
final disposition of the cause.
(Ord. 21-2018, passed 12-3-2018)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, G.S. Chapter 160D.
§ 5-428  UNAUTHORIZED REMOVAL OF POSTED COMPLAINT, NOTICE, OR ORDER.
   No person, without the written consent of the Town Manager, or appointed
agent, shall remove, or permit the removal of, any complaint, notice, or order
posted in accordance with the provisions of this article. Any person violating,
or failing to comply, with the provisions of this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(Ord. 21-2018, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 5-429  RENTING UNFIT DWELLING AFTER NOTICE.
   When the Code Official finds that a dwelling is unfit for human habitation
within the meaning of this article, and has notified the owner to such effect,
and the time limit set by the Official for the repair, alteration, improvement,
removal, demolition, or vacating and closing the same has expired, no person
shall receive rentals, or offer for rent or occupancy, such dwelling, or
dwelling unit, as a human habitation until such time as the order of the
Official is obeyed, or reversed by a court of competent jurisdiction, in
accordance with the law. Each day such offense continues shall be deemed a
separate offense. Any violation of this section shall subject the offender to a
civil penalty.
(Ord. 21-2018, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 5-430  CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   The town shall not provide, nor permit another to provide, either
public or private, utility services such as water, gas, electricity, sewer, and
the like, to any dwelling unit becoming vacant until such dwelling unit has
been inspected, brought into compliance with this article, and a valid
certificate of occupancy, as required, has been issued. This requirement shall
not preclude the temporary use of such utility services for alteration. The
Building Official shall be responsible for making the determination as to when
such temporary services may be necessary.
   (B)   (1)   No certificate of occupancy may be issued for any single-family
or multi-family residential building on which construction is begun on, or
after, January 1, 1978, until it has been certified as being in compliance by
the Energy and Insulation Official with the minimum insulation standards for
residential construction, as prescribed in the State Building Code.
      (2)   For structures built prior to 1978 and no insulation exists, the
attic shall be insulated to an R-30 value. If insulation exists in a structure
built before 1978, it must have an R-19 value.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person to occupy, or allow another to
occupy, or offer for rent, a dwelling, or dwelling unit, until a valid
certificate of occupancy has been issued.
(Ord. 21-2018, passed 12-3-2018)  Penalty, see §
1-111
§ 5-431  CHANGES IN WORK AFTER PERMIT ISSUED.
   After a permit has been issued, no changes or deviations from the terms of
the application and permit, or changes or deviations from the plans, or
specifications, involving any work under the jurisdiction of this article,
shall be made until specific written approval of such changes, or deviations,
has been obtained from the appropriate official.
(Ord. 21-2018, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 5-432  VIOLATIONS; PENALTY.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dwelling, or dwelling unit, to
fail, neglect, or refuse to repair, alter, or improve the same, or to vacate
and close, and remove or demolish the same, upon order of the Code Official
duly made, and served, as provided in this article, within the time specified
in the order. Each day that any such failure, neglect, or refusal to comply
with such order continues shall constitute a separate, and distinct, offense.
It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dwelling, or dwelling unit, with
respect to which an order has been issued pursuant to this section, to occupy,
or permit the occupancy, of the same after the time prescribed in the order for
its repair, alteration, or improvement, or its vacation and closing, or removal
or demolition. Each day that such occupancy continues after the prescribed time
shall constitute a separate, and distinct, offense.
(Ord. 21-2018, passed 12-3-2018)  Penalty, see §
1-111
§§ 5-433 TO 5-450  RESERVED.
ARTICLE V:  PROPERTY NUMBERING
Section
   
5-501   Numbering system
   
5-502   Property to display number
   
5-503   Numbers for future buildings
   
5-504   Unlawful to deface number
Editor’s note:
   Ord. 7-87, adopted June 15, 1987, did not specifically amend the code, hence
inclusion herein as Art. V, §§ 5-501-5-504, was at the discretion of the
editor.
§ 5-501  NUMBERING SYSTEM.
   (A)   Main Avenue is hereby designated as the north-south axis, and Main
Street is hereby designated as the east-west axis, and all avenues, streets,
and alleys running generally north and south shall be numbered from the east-
west axis consecutively. Avenues, streets, or alleys running generally east and
west shall be numbered from the north-south axis in the same manner. Wherever
possible, 100 numbers shall be allowed to each block so that the number of each
consecutive block shall commence with consecutive hundreds and one.
   (B)   One whole number shall be assigned for every 25 feet of ground,
whether improved property or vacant lot, on every street within the corporate
limits. Odd numbers shall be assigned to the east side of the street on all
north-south streets, and even numbers to the west, and odd numbers shall be
assigned to the north side of the street, and even numbers to the south side.
(Ord. 7-87, passed 6-15-1987)
§ 5-502  PROPERTY TO DISPLAY NUMBER.
   Each property owner of improved property shall on, or before, the effective
date of this article, be assigned a number in accordance with the property
numbering system described in §
5-501, and shall display the assigned number in a conspicuous place on said
property. Numbers shall be provided by the town.
(Ord. 7-87, passed 6-15-1987)
§ 5-503  NUMBERS FOR FUTURE BUILDINGS.
   All residence and business buildings erected after the adoption of this
article shall be assigned a number in accordance with this property numbering
system, described in §
5-501, and shall display such number, as provided in §
5-502.
(Ord. 7-87, passed 6-15-1987)
§ 5-504  UNLAWFUL TO DEFACE NUMBER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to alter, deface, or take down any
number placed on any property in accordance with this article, except for
repair, or replacement, of such number.
(Ord. 7-87, passed 6-15-1987)  Penalty, see §
1-111
ARTICLE VI:  MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR
NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS
Section
   
5-601   Exercise of police powers; authority
   
5-602   Definition of abandoned and/or unsafe structure
   
5-603   Procedure for enforcement
   
5-604   Appeal; finality of order if not appealed
   
5-605   Securing, closing, and demolition by the town
   
5-606   Actions by Town Council
   
5-607   Failure to comply with order
   
5-608   Lien on property
   
5-609   Other unlawful actions
   
5-610   Alternative remedies
   
5-611   Conflicts with other provisions
   
5-612   Unsafe buildings condemned
   
5-613   Appeals in general
   
5-614   Changes in work after permit issued
   
5-615   Report of owner’s failure to comply with Code Official’s order
   5-616 to 5-620 Reserved
§ 5-601  EXERCISE OF POLICE POWERS; AUTHORITY.
   The Town Council hereby finds, and declares, that there exists within the
town limits, and its environs, unsafe structures which are a health, or safety,
hazard as a result of the attraction of insects or rodents, conditions creating
a fire hazard, dangerous conditions constituting a threat to children, or
frequent use by vagrants as living quarters in the absence of sanitary
facilities. In order to alleviate these unsafe and dangerous conditions for the
health, safety, and welfare of the citizens, and its environs, a public
necessity exists to exercise the police powers conferred upon the town for the
repair, closing, or demolition of such structures.
(Ord. 21-2018, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 5-602  DEFINITION OF ABANDONED AND/OR UNSAFE STRUCTURE.
   An ABANDONED AND/OR UNSAFE STRUCTURE is defined as a nonresidential
building, or structure, which has not been occupied by authorized persons for
at least six months, and which persistently, or repeatedly, becomes unprotected
or unsecured, or which has been occupied by unauthorized persons, or which
presents a danger of structural collapse, fire, disease, or a threat to
children.
(Ord. 21-2018, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 5-603  PROCEDURE FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Duty of Code Official. It shall be the duty of the Code Official to
examine nonresidential structures located in the town, and its environs, where
conditions described in §
5-601 exist for the purpose of locating, and taking action, with respect to
such structures as appear to be a health or safety hazard. In exercising this
power, department members shall have the right to enter on any premises within
the jurisdiction of the department at all reasonable hours for purposes of
inspection, or other enforcement action, upon presentation of proper
credentials.
   (B)   Notice of complaint.
      (1)   If the inspection discloses health or safety hazards, as described
in this article, the Code Official shall affix a notice of unsafe character in
a conspicuous place on the exterior wall of the structure, giving notice of its
unsafe, or dangerous, conditions, and cause to be served upon the owner of, and
parties in interest to, the structure a complaint stating the charges and
containing a notice. If the owner of a building, or structure, that has been
condemned as unsafe, pursuant to G.S. Chapter 160D, shall fail to take prompt
corrective measures, the Official shall give him or her written notice, by
certified, or registered, mail to the last known address, or by personal
service, that the building, or structure, is in a condition that appears to
meet one, or more, of the following conditions:
         (a)   Constitutes a fire and safety hazard;
         (b)   Is dangerous to life, health, or other property;
         (c)   Is likely to cause, or contribute, to blight, disease, vagrancy,
or danger to children; or
         (d)   Has a tendency to attract persons intent on criminal activities,
or other activities which would constitute a public nuisance.
      (2)   (a)   A hearing will be held before the Official at a designated
place therein fixed, not less than ten, nor more than 30, days after serving of
said complaint. If the name or whereabouts of the owner cannot, after due
diligence, be discovered, the notice shall be considered properly, and
adequately, served if a copy thereof is posted on the outside of the building,
or structure, in question at least ten days prior to the hearing, and a notice
of the hearing is published in a newspaper having general circulation in the
town at least once, not later than one week prior to the hearing.
         (b)   No oversight, or dereliction, of duty on the part of any
official, or employee, of the town shall be deemed to legalize the violation of
any provision of this article, or any provision of any regulatory code adopted
in this chapter.
   (C)   Hearing. The owner, or any party in interest, shall have the right to
file an answer to the complaint, and to appear in person, or otherwise, and
give testimony at the place, and time, fixed in the complaint. Any person
desiring to do so may attend the hearing, and give evidence relevant to the
matter being heard. The rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law or equity
shall not be controlling in hearings before the Official.
   (D)   Procedure after hearing. After such hearing, if the Official finds
that a structure constitutes a health, or safety, hazard, the Code Official
shall state, in writing, the findings of fact in support of such determination.
In such case, the Official shall issue, and cause to be served upon the owner
thereof, an order directing, and requiring, the owner to repair, close, vacate,
or demolish the structure as necessary to correct the health, or safety, hazard
within a specified period of time.
(Ord. 21-2018, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 5-604  APPEAL; FINALITY OF ORDER IF NOT APPEALED.
   Any owner who has received an order under G.S. § 160A-429 may appeal from
the order to the Board of Adjustment by giving notice of appeal, in writing, to
the Code Official and to the Town Clerk within ten days following issuance of
the order. In the absence of an appeal, the order of the Official shall be
final. The Board of Adjustment shall hear, and render a decision, in an appeal
within a reasonable time. The Board of Adjustment may affirm, modify and
affirm, or revoke the order.
(Ord. 21-2018, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 5-605  SECURING, CLOSING, AND DEMOLITION BY THE TOWN.
   If the owner fails to comply with an order of the Code Official to repair,
secure and close, vacate, or demolish, the Official shall take one, or more, of
the following actions as necessary:
   (A)   Secure the issuance of a warrant charging such owner with violation of
this article;
   (B)   Secure, and close, said structure;
   (C)   Cause such structure to be repaired, altered, or improved; or
   (D)   Cause such structure to be demolished.
(Ord. 21-2018, passed 12-3-2018)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, G.S. § 15-27.2.
§ 5-606  ACTIONS BY TOWN COUNCIL.
   (A)   The powers of the Code Official, as set forth in §
5-605(C) and (D), shall not be exercised until the Town Council has, by
ordinance, ordered the Official to proceed to effectuate the purpose of this
article with respect to the particular property, or properties, which the
Official has found to be a health, or safety, hazard, and which shall be
described in the ordinance. Such ordinance shall be recorded in the Office of
the Register of Deeds of the county, and shall be indexed in the name of the
property owner in the grantor index.
   (B)   The amount of the cost of such repairs, alterations, or improvements,
or vacating and closing, or removal or demolition, by the Official shall be a
lien against the real property upon which the cost was incurred, which lien
shall be filed, have the same priority, and be collected as the lien for
special assessment provided in G.S. Chapter 160A, Article 10. If the structure
is removed, or demolished, by the Official, he or she shall sell the materials
of such structure, any personal property, fixtures, or appurtenances found in,
or attached to, the structure, and shall credit the proceeds of such sale
against the cost of the removal, or demolition, and any balance remaining shall
be deposited in the Superior Court by the Official, shall be secured in such
manner as may be directed by the Court, and shall be disbursed by the Court to
the persons found to be entitled thereto by final order, or decree, of the
Court.
(Ord. 21-2018, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 5-607  FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH ORDER.
   If the owner of a building, or structure, fails to comply with an order
issued pursuant to G.S. § 160A-429 from which no appeal has been taken, or
fails to comply with an order of the Town Council following an appeal, he or
she shall be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor, additionally subject the offender
to civil penalty to be recover by the town pursuant article G.S. § 14-4; every
day such person shall willfully fail, or refuse, to comply with any final
order, or direction, of the Code Official or Town Council made by virtue, and
in pursuance of this article, shall constitute a separate, and distinct,
offense.
(Ord. 21-2018, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 5-608  LIEN ON PROPERTY.
   The amount of the cost of such repair, alterations, improvements, vacating
and closing, or demolition ordered by the Town Council, or by the Official,
shall be a lien against the real property upon which such cost was incurred;
said lien shall be filed, have the same priority, and be collected, or
foreclosed upon, in the same manner as is provided for assessments, pursuant to
G.S. Chapter 160A, Article 10.
(Ord. 21-2018, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 5-609  OTHER UNLAWFUL ACTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall remove, or permit the removal of, any complaint,
notice, or order posted in accordance with the provisions of §
5-603 of this article.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any building upon whom a notice,
complaint, or order has been served, to sell, transfer, mortgage, lease, or
otherwise dispose of said building, unless one of the following actions have
been taken:
      (1)   Compliance with the provisions of the notice, complaint, or order;
or
      (2)   Furnish a copy of any notice, complaint, or order to the
transferee, lessee, or mortgagee, and give written notice to the Official of
said action.
(Ord. 21-2018, passed 12-3-2018)  Penalty, see §
1-111
§ 5-610  ALTERNATIVE REMEDIES.
   Neither this article, nor any of its provisions, shall be construed to
impair, or limit, in any way the power of the town to define, and declare,
nuisance and to cause their abatement by summary action, or otherwise, or the
enforcement of any other remedy, or remedies, provided, or in other ordinances
of laws.
(Ord. 21-2018, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 5-611  CONFLICTS WITH OTHER PROVISIONS.
   In the event any provision, standard, or requirement of this article is
found to be in conflict with a provision of any other ordinance, or code, of
the town, the provision which establishes the higher standard, or more
stringent requirement for the promotion and protection of the health and safety
of the residents of the town and environs, shall prevail.
(Ord. 21-2018, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 5-612  UNSAFE BUILDINGS CONDEMNED.
   The Code Official may declare a nonresidential building, or structure,
within a community development target area designated by the Town Council, or
within a development zone authorized by G.S. § 160A-503(10), to be unsafe if it
meets both of the following conditions:
   (A)   It appears to the Official to be vacant or abandoned; and
   (B)   It appears to the Official to be in such dilapidated condition as to
cause, or contribute, to blight, disease, vagrancy, fire, or safety hazard, to
be a danger to children, or tend to attract persons intent on criminal
activities, or other activities which would constitute a public nuisance.
(Ord. 21-2018, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 5-613  APPEALS IN GENERAL.
   Unless otherwise provided by law, appeals from any order, decision, or
determination by a member of a local inspection department pertaining to the
State Building Code, or other state building laws, shall be taken to the
Commissioner of Insurance, or appointed designee, or other official specified
in G.S. § 143-139, by filing a written notice with him or her, and with the
inspection department within a period of ten days after the order, decision, or
determination. Further appeals may be taken to the State Building Code Council
or the courts, as provided by law.
(Ord. 21-2018, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 5-614  CHANGES IN WORK AFTER PERMIT ISSUED.
   After a permit has been issued, no changes, or deviations, from the terms of
the application and permit, or changes, or deviations, from the plans or
specifications involving any work under the jurisdiction of this article, shall
be made until specific written approval of such changes, or deviations, has
been obtained from the appropriate official.
(Ord. 21-2018, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 5-615  REPORT OF OWNER’S FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH CODE OFFICIAL’S ORDER.
   If the owner does not appeal from the final order, or direction, of the Code
Official requiring that the building, or structure, be demolished and removed,
or the taking of such other steps, as may be required, to abate the nuisance
and remove the hazards, and fails, or refuses, to comply with such order and
direction, it shall be the duty of the Official to file a written report
thereof with the Town Manager, who shall cause such report to be placed on the
agenda for action by the Town Council at its next ensuing regular meeting, or
at some subsequent meeting to which the Town Council may continue the same. The
Code Official shall mail a copy of such report by certified, or registered,
mail to the owner’s last known address, or have a copy of such report delivered
to such owner. Such report shall specify the date of the meeting of the Town
Council for which the matter will be docketed for action.
(Ord. 21-2018, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 5-616 TO 5-620  RESERVED.
ARTICLE VII:  ABANDONED MANUFACTURED HOMES
Section
   
5-701   Intent
   
5-702   Abandoned, nuisance, and junked mobile homes unlawful
   
5-703   Notice requirements for abandoned manufactured homes
   
5-704   Removal of abandoned manufactured homes
   
5-705   Protection against criminal or civil liability
   
5-706   Appeals
§ 5-701  INTENT.
   (A)   The intent of this article is to protect the public health, and
environment, through the deconstruction of abandoned manufactured homes to
reduce blight and unattractive nuisances.
   (B)   It is a policy of the town to promote the removal of reusable, or
recyclable, materials to reduce the impact of such solid wastes, and production
of said materials, on the environment.
(Ord. 21-2018, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 5-702  ABANDONED, NUISANCE, AND JUNKED MOBILE HOMES UNLAWFUL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner, or person entitled to
possession of a manufactured home, and for the owner, lessee, or occupant of
the real property upon which the manufactured home is located to leave, allow,
or suffer the manufactured home to remain on the property after it has been
declared an abandoned manufactured home, or a public nuisance.
   (B)   A manufactured home shall be deemed to be an abandoned manufactured
home for the purposes of this article in the following circumstances: Any
manufactured home that is either vacant, or in need of extensive repair; and an
unreasonable danger to public health, safety, welfare, or the environment.
   (C)   A manufactured home shall be considered abandoned when it has not been
occupied for at least 120 days, and meets any of the following criteria:
      (1)   Provides a location for loitering, vagrancy, unauthorized entry, or
other criminal activity;
      (2)   Has been boarded up for at least 30 days;
      (3)   Has taxes in arrears for a period of time exceeding 365 days; and/
or
      (4)   Has all utilities disconnected or not in use.
(Ord. 21-2018, passed 12-3-2018)  Penalty, see §
1-111
§ 5-703  NOTICE REQUIREMENTS FOR ABANDONED MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   The town shall notify the responsible party and the land owner for each
identified abandoned manufactured home, in writing, and shall be sent to the
person in the form of certified mail.
(Ord. 21-2018, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 5-704  REMOVAL OF ABANDONED MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   (A)   The owner, or responsible party, shall be given 60 days from receipt
of the written notice to dispose of the abandoned manufactured home in a legal
manner.
   (B)   If the owner, or responsible party, fails to comply with this order,
the town shall take any action it deems reasonably necessary to dispose of the
abandoned manufactured home, including entering the property where the
abandoned manufactured home is located and arranging to have the home
deconstructed, and disposed of, in a manner consistent with the town’s garbage
collection and disposal provisions.
   (C)   If the property owner does not remove said abandoned manufactured home
a lien will be placed against the real property if not paid within 30 days, and
shall be collected as unpaid taxes.
(Ord. 21-2018, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 5-705  PROTECTION AGAINST CRIMINAL OR CIVIL LIABILITY.
   No person shall be held to answer in any civil, or criminal, action to any
owner, or other person legally entitled to the possession of an abandoned,
nuisance, or junked manufactured home, for disposing of such manufactured home
as provided in this article.
(Ord. 21-2018, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 5-706  APPEALS.
   (A)   Within the 60-day period mentioned in §
5-704(A), the owner of the property where the nuisance exists may appeal the
findings of the Code Official to the Board of Adjustment by giving written
notice of appeal to the Code Official, the appeal to stay the abatement of the
nuisances by the Code Official until a final determination by the Board of
Adjustment. In the event no appeal is taken, the Code Official may proceed to
abate the nuisance.
   (B)   The Board of Adjustment, in the event an appeal is taken, as provided
in subsection (A) above, may, after hearing all interested persons and
reviewing the findings of the Code Official, reverse the finding made pursuant
to §
5-704, but if the Board of Adjustment shall determine that the findings of the
Code Official, pursuant to §
5-704(A) and (B), are correct and proper, it shall declare the condition
existing on the property to be a danger and hazard to the health, safety,
morals, and general welfare of the inhabitants of the town and a public
nuisance, and direct the Code Official to cause the conditions to be abated.
(Ord. 21-2018, passed 12-3-2018)
CHAPTER 6: BUSINESSES AND TRADES 1
   Article
      
I.   IN GENERAL
      
II.   TAXICABS
      
III.   AMUSEMENT DEVICES AND PLACES OF AMUSEMENT
      
IV.   PEDDLING, SOLICITING, AND ITINERANT MERCHANTS
      
V.   MASSAGE PARLORS, HEALTH SALONS, AND CLUBS
      
VI.   SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES
      
VII.   RETAIL SHORT-TERM LEASE OR RENTAL OF VEHICLES
      
VIII.   FARMERS’ MARKET
 
Notes
  1Cross-reference:
  Administration, Ch. 2; Town to appoint a tax collector, §
  2-407; Hours of businesses selling malt beverages or wine regulated, §
  3-102; Buildings and Building Regulations, Ch. 5; Cable Communications, Ch.
  8; Transportation of garbage and refuse by private citizens,  §
1 11-109; businesses to be kept in sanitary condition, §
  12-103; display of goods on sidewalks  restricted, §
  19-302; franchises, App. D.
  Statutory reference:
  Authority to regulate and license businesses, trades, and the like, G.S. §
  160A-194.
ARTICLE I:  IN GENERAL
Section
   
6-101   Certificate of occupancy required
   6-102 to 6-199   Reserved
§ 6-101  CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY REQUIRED.
   A certificate of occupancy must be obtained for any business prior to the
issuance of a zoning permit. If, pursuant to the State Building Code, no
certificate of occupancy is required, then the applicant must provide a
certification from the County Building Inspector of that fact.
Cross-reference:
   Building inspections generally,
Ch. 5, Art. II.
§§ 6-102 TO 6-199  RESERVED.
ARTICLE II:  TAXICABS
Section
Division 1. Generally
   
6-201   Taxicab defined
   6-202 to 6-215   Reserved
Division 2. Certificate of Convenience and Necessity
   
6-216   Unlawful to operate without certificate
   
6-217   Application required
   
6-218   Council issues certificates
   
6-219   Duration of certificate
   
6-220   Determination of convenience and necessity
   
6-221   Hearing, notices
   
6-222   Burden of proof
   
6-223   Failure to begin operations
   
6-224   Transfer
   
6-225   Revocation of certificate
   
6-226   Substitution of vehicles
   
6-227   No person or business to hold more than one certificate
   6-228 to 6-299   Reserved
Cross-reference:
   Traffic and motor vehicles, Ch. 20.
Statutory reference:
   Regulation of taxis by town, G.S. § 160A-304.
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
§ 6-201  TAXICAB DEFINED.
   TAXICAB, when used in this article, shall be defined as any motor vehicle
seating nine or fewer passengers, operated upon any street or highway on call
or on demand, accepting or soliciting passengers indiscriminately for hire
between such points along streets or highways, as may be directed by the
passenger, or passengers, so being transported, and shall not include motor
vehicles or motor vehicle carriers regulated by the State Utility Commission.
(Code 1976, § 10.17)
Cross-reference:
   Definitions and rules of construction generally, §
1-102.
§§ 6-202 TO 6-215  RESERVED.
DIVISION 2. CERTIFICATE OF CONVENIENCE AND NECESSITY
§ 6-216  UNLAWFUL TO OPERATE WITHOUT CERTIFICATE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a taxicab upon, and over, the
streets of the town without first having applied for, and secured from the Town
Council, a certificate of convenience and necessity, as set forth in this
division.
(Code 1976, § 10.18)  Penalty, see §
1-111
§ 6-217  APPLICATION REQUIRED.
   Every person desiring to operate a taxicab upon, and over, the streets of
the town shall file, on forms supplied by the Town Clerk, an application for
certificate of convenience and necessity.
(Code 1976, § 10.19)
§ 6-218  COUNCIL ISSUES CERTIFICATE.
   The Town Council shall have the authority to issue certificates of
convenience and necessity for taxicabs. Such certificates shall be issued
pursuant to §
6-220. If the Town Council determines that only a portion of the requested
taxicab service is needed in town, it may issue a certificate authorizing a
lesser amount of service than requested by the applicant.
(Code 1976, § 10.20)
§ 6-219  DURATION OF CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   A certificate shall constitute a franchise from the town for the
operation of taxicabs within the town for two years, unless a shorter period of
time is specified in the certificate.
   (B)   Applications for renewal shall be filed annually, and a hearing shall
be conducted as provided in this division.
(Code 1976, § 10.21)
§ 6-220  DETERMINATION OF CONVENIENCE AND NECESSITY.
   (A)   In determining whether the public convenience, and necessity, require
the franchising of such taxicab, the Council shall, among other things, take
into consideration the following factors:
      (1)   Whether or not the public convenience, and necessity, requires such
proposed, or additional, taxicab service within the town;
      (2)   The financial responsibility of the applicant, and the likelihood
of the proposed service being permanent, responsible, and satisfactory;
      (3)   The number, and condition, of vehicles and other equipment proposed
to be used;
      (4)   If required by the Council, the schedule of proposed rates to be
charged;
      (5)   The number of taxicabs now operated and the demand for increased
service, if any, and whether or not the safe use of the streets by the public,
both vehicular and pedestrian, will be preserved, and whether or not adequate
provision has been made for off-street parking of such taxicabs;
      (6)   The experience of the applicant in the taxicab business;
      (7)   The names and driver’s license numbers of all persons who will be,
or may be, operating taxicabs; and
      (8)   Such other relative facts as may be deemed necessary and advisable.
   (B)   Before making any decision with respect to the issuance of a
certificate of convenience and necessity, the Council, or a committee thereof,
shall make a full, and complete, investigation of all facts and, if it so
desires, subpoena witnesses and utilize the services of the Chief of Police, or
any other officer or employee of the town.
(Code 1976, § 10.22)
§ 6-221  HEARING, NOTICES.
   Each application for a certificate of convenience and necessity shall be
scheduled for a hearing not later than 30 days after the same is filed, and the
applicant shall be notified by the Town Clerk, by mail to the business address
set forth in the application, of the date and time of such hearing. Such
notification shall be sent at least ten days before the date set for the
hearing. The Town Clerk shall also, within the same time, notify all persons
who, at the time, hold certificates of convenience and necessity for the
operation of taxicabs within the municipality of the date and time for such
hearing, and the name of the applicant. In addition, the Town Clerk shall
publish, at least once, in a newspaper of general circulation, at least ten
days before the hearing, a notice setting forth the name of the applicant and
the date and time of hearing. The cost of such publication shall be paid by the
applicant.
(Code 1976, § 10.23)
§ 6-222  BURDEN OF PROOF.
   The burden of proof shall be upon the applicant to establish the existence
of public convenience and necessity for the operation of the taxicab, or
taxicabs, specified in his or her application, and all other facts required for
the granting of a certificate.
(Code 1976, § 10.24)
§ 6-223  FAILURE TO BEGIN OPERATIONS.
   If a certificate is granted to an applicant, and the applicant shall fail,
in accordance with the provisions of the certificate, to begin operations
within 60 days after the date of the certificate, then the certificate shall
become null and void, and no refund of any amount paid by the applicant will be
made by the town.
(Code 1976, § 10.25)
§ 6-224  TRANSFER.
   A certificate is not transferable without the consent, and approval, of the
Council. Applications for a permit to transfer shall be filed in the same
manner as an application for a certificate of convenience and necessity. The
proceedings upon such application for transfer shall be the same as those
prescribed for the issuance of a certificate, except that the question of
public convenience and necessity need not be proved.
(Code 1976, § 10.26)
§ 6-225  REVOCATION OF CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   The Town Council may, at any time after a public hearing, revoke any
certificate issued by authority of this article for any one, or more, of the
following causes:
      (1)   Failure to operate the taxicab specified in the certificate in such
manner as to serve the public adequately and efficiently;
      (2)   Failure to maintain the vehicle and other equipment in good repair;
      (3)   Failure to carry liability insurance or bond, as required by law;
      (4)   Failure to pay the town taxes or license fees imposed upon such
taxicabs, as set out in the fee schedule in Appendix G;
      (5)   Repeated and persistent violation by the taxicab drivers of local
and state traffic, and safety, ordinances, or state laws relating to alcoholic
beverages or prostitution;
      (6)   Failure to report accidents; and
      (7)   Willful failure to comply with any provision of this article, or
other ordinances or state laws relating to the operation of taxicabs, whether
such ordinances and laws be now in force, or hereafter enacted into ordinances
and into laws.
   (B)   No certificate shall be revoked until the Council holds a public
hearing to consider the matter. The owner shall receive notice of the hearing
at least five days prior to the hearing by personal service or certified mail,
return receipt requested, of the charges against him or her, and of the time
and place of the hearing. If, after the hearing, it is found that the owner is
guilty of one, or more, of the offenses listed in this section, the Council
shall have the power to revoke the certificate, or to condition a revocation
upon non-compliance with its order within any time fixed by it.
(Code 1976, § 10.27)
§ 6-226  SUBSTITUTION OF VEHICLES.
   The person, or business, to whom a certificate has been issued may, by
proper endorsement thereon by the Town Clerk, substitute another vehicle for
the vehicle for which certificate was granted.  In such instance, the liability
insurance, or bonds, shall also be transferred to such substitute vehicle.
(Code 1976, § 10.28)
§ 6-227  NO PERSON OR BUSINESS TO HOLD MORE THAN ONE CERTIFICATE.
   The Council reserves the right to issue only one such certificate to any one
person, or business. The person, or business, holding such certificate shall be
required to operate the taxicab himself or herself, or, in the case of a
business, the operators of the taxicabs shall be employees of the business, and
shall be under the direct supervision, and control, of the business.
(Code 1976, § 10.29)
§§ 6-228 TO 6-299  RESERVED.
ARTICLE III:  AMUSEMENT DEVICES AND PLACES OF AMUSEMENT
Section
Division 1. General Provisions
   
6-301   Definitions
   
6-302   Operation of amusement devices and places of amusement
   
6-303   Employees and agents of licensee
   
6-304   Exceptions
   6-305 to 6-350   Reserved
Division 2. Enforcement
   
6-351   Inspection
   
6-352   Criminal penalties
   
6-353   Civil penalties
   
6-354   Equitable relief
   
6-355   Multiple remedies
   
6-356   Responsibility for enforcement
   6-357 to 6-399   Reserved
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate places of amusement, G.S. § 160A-181; authority to
license and regulate forms of amusement and entertainment, G.S. § 160A-194.
DIVISION 1. GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 6-301  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this division, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   AMUSEMENT DEVICE. Any pool, billiard, bagatelle, pigeonhole, or similar
table; bowling alley; pinball machine; or mechanical, or electronic, amusement
device which is, or may be, operated for, or upon, the payment of money, trade
token, or slug, either directly, or indirectly, and which operates, or may be
operated, by retail patrons as a game, or contest of skill or amusement of any
kind, or description, and which contains no automatic payoff device for the
return of money, trade token, or slug, or for which no provision whatever is
made for the return of money to the player.
   MECHANICAL or ELECTRONIC AMUSEMENT DEVICE. Any machine which, upon insertion
of a coin, trade token, or slug, or upon other activation for payment, or
promise of payment, in money, operates, or may be operated, by retail patrons
as a game, or contest of skill or amusement of any kind, or description, and
which contains no automatic payoff device for the return of money, trade token,
or slug, or which makes no provision whatsoever for the return of money to the
player. A MECHANICAL or ELECTRONIC AMUSEMENT DEVICE is hereby further defined
as any machine, apparatus, or contrivance which is used, or which may be used,
as a game of skill and amusement, wherein or whereby the player initiates,
employs, or directs any force, action, or image generated by, on, or in the
machine.
   OPERATION. The keeping, or maintaining, for use or play by retail patrons of
an amusement device, or the maintenance or management of a place of amusement.
   PLACE OF AMUSEMENT. Any premises where one, or more, amusement devices are
kept, or maintained, for retail patrons.
(Code 1976, § 10.41) (Ord. 4-82, passed 9-6-1982; Ord. 23-99, passed 8-16-1999)
§ 6-302  OPERATION OF AMUSEMENT DEVICES AND PLACES OF AMUSEMENT.
   (A)   No play, or use, of an amusement device shall be allowed between the
hours of 1:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. each day.
   (B)   No amusement device shall be operated unless the place of amusement
where the device is to be located is equipped with one well-lighted and well-
ventilated toilet facility, plainly lettered and marked, which the facility
shall be maintained in a sanitary condition. Notwithstanding the preceding
sentence, all places of amusement shall provide restroom and other sanitary
facilities as required by the State Building Code.
   (C)   No amusement device shall be operated at any place at which there is
suffered, or permitted, on the premises any:
      (1)   Gambling;
      (2)   Sale or use of any racing, football, or other sport or parlay
cards;
      (3)   Gambling boards or sheets; or
      (4)   Attachment to, or placement on, any pool or billiard table of any
keely board, keno board, or any similar board or device.
   (D)   No owner, operator, or employee of a place of amusement shall:
      (1)   Suffer, or permit, the place of amusement to become disorderly, or
permit any profane, obscene, or indecent language therein; or
      (2)   Employ in carrying on the business any person who, within the five
years next preceding the effective date of the license, has been convicted of
any crime of moral turpitude, or of unlawfully possessing, selling, or using
any alcoholic beverage or controlled substance.
   (E)   Any place of amusement shall be operated only on the ground floor of a
building, and any amusement device shall be located within the place of
amusement such that a clear view of the amusement device may be had from the
main entrance at all times. No partitions, screens, or other obstructions
forming rooms, or enclosures, where persons other than those actually playing,
or using, the amusement device can congregate shall be permitted; provided,
this shall not be construed so as to prohibit the maintenance of closets, or
storage rooms, to which public access is prohibited, or of restrooms.
   (F)   No amusement device shall be operated except in a place of amusement
which is in compliance with the provisions of the land use and zoning
ordinances of the town, and which otherwise complies with all applicable local,
county, state, and federal laws and regulations.
   (G)   Any place of amusement shall, whenever open, be supervised, and
operated, by a person over 18 years of age.
(Code 1976, § 10.43) (Ord. 4-82, passed 9-6-1982; Ord. 22-2004, passed 8-16-
2004)
§ 6-303  EMPLOYEES AND AGENTS OF LICENSEE.
   The acts, conduct, and omissions of the agents, and employees, of the
licensee shall be deemed to be the acts of the licensee for the purposes of
this article.
(Code 1976, § 10.44) (Ord. 4-82, passed 9-6-1982)
§ 6-304  EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Nothing in this article shall apply to the state lottery, or the sale
of products as part of said lottery.
   (B)   This article shall not prohibit amusement devices that are
specifically authorized by statute or by order of a court of law, including,
but not limited to, cyber sweepstakes machines and electronic gaming machines.
Such machines, however, shall be considered amusement devices, and shall be
subject to the requirements of this article to the extent permitted by law.
§§ 6-305 TO 6-350  RESERVED.
DIVISION 2. ENFORCEMENT
§ 6-351  INSPECTION.
   Any place of amusement shall be subject to periodic inspection during
regular hours of operation by officers of the Police Department, or other
designee of the Town Manager, to ensure compliance with the provisions of this
article.
(Code 1976, § 10.46(a)) (Ord. 4-82, passed 9-6-1982)
§ 6-352  CRIMINAL PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate this article, or any provision hereof,
shall be liable for a misdemeanor and criminal penalties, as provided in §
1-111 and G.S. § 14-4.
   (B)   Each day, or portion thereof, during which a violation of this article
occurs shall be considered a separate, and distinct, offense; likewise, the
operation of each amusement device at a place of amusement in violation of this
article shall be considered a separate, and distinct, offense.
(Code 1976, § 10.46(b)) (Ord. 4-82, passed 9-6-1982)
Cross-reference:
   General penalty, §
1-111.
§ 6-353  CIVIL PENALTIES.
   If any person shall violate this article, or any portion hereof, he or she
shall be subject to a civil penalty in the amount of $100 for each day, or
portion thereof. Further, the operation of each amusement device in violation
of this article shall constitute a separate, and distinct, offense. The Town
Manager, or his or her designee, shall give written notice of such violations
by certified mail, return receipt requested, or by personal delivery to the
operator of the place of amusement, the manager thereof, or to the owner, or
operator, of the amusement device. The business operator, manager, or owner or
operator of the amusement device shall have five days from the date of the
notice to correct the violations. If the violations are not corrected within
five days, a civil penalty levied pursuant to this article may be recovered by
the town in a civil action in the nature of debt.
(Code 1976, § 10.46(c)) (Ord. 4-82, passed 9-6-1982)
§ 6-354  EQUITABLE RELIEF.
   Pursuant to §
1-111 and G.S. § 160A-175(d) and (e), this article may be enforced by any
appropriate equitable remedy available from, and through, the General Court of
Justice, Superior Court Division.
(Code 1976, § 10.46(d)) (Ord. 4-82, passed 9-6-1982)
§ 6-355  MULTIPLE REMEDIES.
   The town may exercise any, or all, of the remedies available under this
division to secure enforcement of this article, and the exercise, or non-
exercise, of any one, or more, of the available remedies shall not preclude, or
waive, the right of the town to exercise any other available remedies at any
time.
(Code 1976, § 10.46(1)) (Ord. 4-82, passed 9-6-1982)
§ 6-356  RESPONSIBILITY FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   The Police Department and the Town Manager, or his or her designee, are
authorized to enforce the terms of this article, and specific additional
authorization of the Town Council shall not be required.
(Code 1976, § 10.46(g)) (Ord. 4-82, passed 9-6-1982)
§§ 6-357 TO 6-399  RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV:  PEDDLING, SOLICITING, AND ITINERANT MERCHANTS
Section
   
6-401   Peddler defined
   
6-402   Solicitors, peddlers, and the like
   
6-403   Selling merchandise on streets and sidewalks
   
6-404   Selling merchandise on private property
   
6-405   Public begging
   6-406 to 6-499   Reserved
Cross-reference:
   Shouting and crying of peddlers in neighborhoods prohibited, §
14-202(N); selling, peddling in parks, §
16-208.
Statutory reference:
   Regulation of solicitation campaigns and itinerant merchants, G.S. § 160A-
178.
§ 6-401  PEDDLER DEFINED.
   The word PEDDLER, as used in this article, shall include any person, whether
a resident of the town or not, traveling by foot, automotive vehicle, wagon, or
any other type of conveyance, from place to place, offering for sale, directly
or indirectly, any merchandise, goods, services, or any other type of sales.
The word PEDDLER shall include the words HAWKER, HUCKSTER, and ITINERANT
MERCHANT.
(Code 1976, § 10.51) (Ord. 7-77, passed 6-1-1977)
Cross-reference:
   Definitions and rules of construction generally, §
1-102.
§ 6-402  SOLICITORS, PEDDLERS, AND THE LIKE.
   The practice of going in, and upon, private residences, and the premises
thereof, by solicitors, peddlers, hawkers, itinerant merchants, and vendors of
merchandise, not having been requested, or invited, to do so by the owner, or
occupant, of such private residences and premises, for the purpose of
soliciting orders for the sale of goods and merchandise, or the purpose of
disposing of, or peddling or hawking the same, is hereby prohibited.
(Code 1976, § 10.52) (Ord. 7-77, passed 6-1-1977)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prohibit peddling and soliciting, G.S. § 160A-178.
§ 6-403  SELLING MERCHANDISE ON STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   No person shall sell, or offer for sale, merchandise, or services, of
any description from the streets, sidewalks, or public property for any
commercial purpose.
   (B)   The Chief of Police may grant concessions to this article for
religious, fraternal, civic, or educational organizations that are classified
by the State Department of Revenue as nonprofit organizations.
   (C)   It shall be a misdemeanor for any person to fraudulently offer for
sale, either directly or indirectly, any merchandise, or services, under the
guise of the organizations mentioned in subsection (B) above.
(Code 1976, § 10.53) (Ord. 7-77, passed 6-1-1977)
Cross-reference:
   Streets, Sidewalks, and Other Public Places, Ch. 19.
§ 6-404  SELLING MERCHANDISE ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   Persons selling, or offering for sale, merchandise or services of any
description from private property must first obtain a peddler’s permit from the
Planning Department. Organizations, as defined in §
6-403(B), are exempt.
   (B)   The applicant for the peddler’s permit must provide written consent of
the owner of the land upon which the applicant proposes to conduct business.
   (C)   Peddler permits are $25 per day, and are valid for up to three days.
§ 6-405  PUBLIC BEGGING.
   (A)   Intent. The purpose of this section is to regulate, and ensure, the
safety of vehicular and pedestrian traffic flow, and to promote roadway safety
and sidewalk safety, and promote, protect, and preserve the health, safety, and
general welfare of the people of the town, and to help regulate public begging.
The provisions of this section shall not apply to bona fide members of
charitable, religious, educational, civic, or fraternal organizations.
   (B)   Time. Any person who begs, or solicits, alms for his or her own
personal gain after sunset, or before sunrise, is guilty of a misdemeanor. Any
person who begs, or solicits, alms for his or her own personal gain in a school
zone during the time of arrival of students at the beginning of the school day,
and/or during the time of the departure of students at the end of the school
day, is guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (C)   Place. Any person who begs, or solicits, alms for his or her own
personal gain when the person is in any of the following places is guilty of a
misdemeanor:
      (1)   In any vehicle on the street;
      (2)   On private property, unless the person has written permission from
the owner of the property to beg, or solicit alms, on the property;
      (3)   On any sidewalk adjacent to a restaurant, a place of business, any
valid licensed vendor location, or where a line of patrons has formed;
      (4)   At any road intersection or controlled access highway;
      (5)   On any town-owned property during hours of operation;
      (6)   Within 50 feet in any direction from an automatic teller machine,
or entrance to a bank;
      (7)   Within 20 feet of any crosswalk; or
      (8)   While under the influence of alcohol, or after having illegally
used any controlled substance, as defined in the State Controlled Substance
Act, being G.S. §§ 90-86 et seq.
   (D)   Manner. Any person who begs, or solicits, alms for his or her own
personal gain in any of the following manners is guilty of a misdemeanor:
      (1)   By coming within three feet of the person being solicited, until
that person has clearly indicated that he or she wants to make a donation;
      (2)   By blocking the path of the person being solicited along a sidewalk
or street;
      (3)   By following the person being solicited after they have walked
away;
      (4)   By using profane or abusive language, either during the
solicitation, or following a refusal;
      (5)   By soliciting in a group of two, or more, people; or
      (6)   By any statement, gesture, or other form of communication by which
a reasonable person in the situation of the person solicited would perceive to
be a threat.
   (E)   False or misleading solicitation.
      (1)   Any person who knowingly makes any false, or misleading,
representation in the course of soliciting a donation, or begging for alms, is
guilty of a misdemeanor.
      (2)   False or misleading representations include, but are not limited to
the following:
         (a)   Stating that the donation is needed to meet a specific need,
when the solicitor already has sufficient funds to meet that need and does not
disclose that fact;
         (b)   Stating that the solicitor is from out of town and stranded,
when that is not true;
         (c)   Wearing a military uniform, or other indication of military
service, when the solicitor is neither a present, nor former, member of the
service indicated;
         (d)   Wearing, or displaying, an indication of physical or mental
disability, when the solicitor does not suffer the disability indicated;
         (e)   Use of any makeup, or device, to simulate any deformity; or
         (f)   Stating that the solicitor is homeless, when he or she is not.
   (F)   Violations. This section establishes a single offense. Evidence which
establishes that the defendant violated this section is sufficient for
conviction, and need not establish which division was violated. Any violation
of this article shall be a misdemeanor, and may be enforced by any one, or
more, of the remedies authorized by the provisions of G.S. § 14-4 or G.S. §
160A-175, with a maximum fine of $500 for each offense.
(Ord. 22-2015, passed 10-19-2015)
§§ 6-406 TO 6-499  RESERVED.
ARTICLE V:  MASSAGE PARLORS, HEALTH SALONS, AND CLUBS
Section
Division 1. Generally
   
6-501   Purpose of article
   
6-502   Definition
   6-503 to 6-515   Reserved
Division 2. License
   
6-516   State license required
   6-517 to 6-521   Repealed
   6-522 to 6-549   Reserved
Division 3. Operation of Business
   
6-550   Required information
   
6-551   Hours of operation
   
6-552   Minors; unlicensed persons
   
6-553   Forms
   
6-554   Records
   6-555 to 6-600   Reserved
Statutory reference:
   General police power, G.S.§ 160A-174; regulation of businesses, G.S. § 160A-
194, regulation of massage therapists, G.S. Ch. 90, Art. 36., esp. § 90-636,
and 21 N.C.A.C. Ch. 30.
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
§ 6-501  PURPOSE OF ARTICLE.
   To protect the general health, safety, and welfare, the following licensing
provisions hereinafter specified are ordained for the privilege of carrying on
the business, trade, or profession of masseur, or masseuse, and for the
operation, or carrying on, of the businesses, trades, or professions commonly
known as massage parlors, health salons, physical culture studios, clubs, or
establishments, or similar establishments by whatever name designated, wherein
physical culture, massage, hydrotherapy, or other physical treatment of the
human body is carried on, or practiced. The provisions of this article shall
not apply to a regularly established, and licensed, hospital, sanitarium,
nursing home, or medical clinic, nor to the office or clinic operated by a duly
qualified, and licensed, medical practitioner, osteopath, or chiropractor in
connection with his or her practice or medicine, chiropractic or osteopathy;
provided, however, that such office or clinic is regularly used by such medical
practitioner, chiropractor, or osteopath as the principal location for his or
her practice of medicine, chiropractic, or osteopathy.
(Code 1976, § 10.71) (Ord. 4-75, passed 4-21-1975)
§ 6-502  DEFINITION.
   A male person who applies manual, or mechanical, massage or similar
treatment to the human body, trunk, or limbs shall be deemed, within the terms
of this article, a MASSEUR, and a female person so engaged, a MASSEUSE. These
terms are synonymous with MASSAGE THERAPIST, BODYWORK THERAPIST, and related
terms, as defined in G.S. §§ 90-622 and 90-623.
(Code 1976, § 10.72) (Ord. 4-75, passed 4-21-1975)
Cross-reference:
   Definitions and rules of construction generally, §
1-102.
§§ 6-503 TO 6-515  RESERVED.
DIVISION 2. LICENSE
§ 6-516  STATE LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Any person desiring to engage in a business regulated by this article shall,
before beginning operations, obtain a license from the state for such work,
pursuant to G.S. § 90-623.
(Code 1976, § 10.731) (Ord. 4-75, passed 4-21-1975)
§§ 6-517 TO 6-521  REPEALED.
§§ 6-522 TO 6-549  RESERVED.
DIVISION 3. OPERATION OF BUSINESS
§ 6-550  REQUIRED INFORMATION.
   Before the town may issue a business privilege license or a zoning permit to
any business regulated by this article, the business shall file the following
information with the Town Manager:
   (A)   The names and state license numbers of each masseur, or masseuse, that
will be working for the business. The business shall be under a continuing
obligation to provide the names and state license number of each new masseur,
or masseuse, hired by the business after it obtains all required licenses, and
approvals, from the town; and
   (B)   Proof that the business maintains a minimum of $50,000 in professional
liability insurance.
§ 6-551  HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No masseur, or masseuse, or any person or party engaging in any of the
businesses regulated by this article, shall engage in such business, trade,
profession, occupation, or calling except within, and between, the hours of 8:
00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.; nor shall any operator of a massage parlor or
establishment, or business above enumerated and not specifically excepted
hereunder, operate the same except within, and between, the aforesaid hours.
(Code 1976, § 10.78) (Ord. 4-75, passed 4-21-1975)
§ 6-552  MINORS; UNLICENSED PERSONS.
   (A)   Restricted. It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 18
years to patronize any massage parlor, or similar establishment, licensed
hereunder unless such minor shall first present express written authorization
for such treatment signed by both parents or general guardian, or adult person
having authority over the minor.
   (B)   Duty of operator. It shall be the duty of the operator of such massage
parlor, or similar establishment, licensed under this article to determine, and
have verification, of the age of the person patronizing such establishment, and
violation of this article shall be grounds for the revocation of the license of
the establishment.
(Code 1976, § 10.79) (Ord. 4-75, passed 4-21-1975)  Penalty, see §
1-111
§ 6-553  FORMS.
   The written forms required by this article shall contain, as a minimum, the
following (consent to treat a minor):
   CONSENT
   We, the undersigned ______________________________________________,
                  (Parent, guardian, etc.)
   do hereby give our permission for ___________________________________
                        (name of minor)
   to receive massage treatment(s) at the_________________________________,
                        (place of business)
   this the___day of_____________, 20__.
   _______________________
   Parent/guardian
   _______________________
   Parent/guardian
(Code 1976, § 10.80) (Ord. 4-75, passed 4-21-1975)
§ 6-554  RECORDS.
   (A)   The operator of a business regulated by this article shall be required
to maintain, on file at the physical location of the business, for at least 90
days, records of treatments which shall include, at a minimum: date of
treatment; name of customer; name of masseur/masseuse; treatment rendered; and
length of treatment. Such records must be made available for inspection by the
Town Manager, or his or her designated representative, and must be maintained
subject to civil process by a customer in the event of injury. To the extent
these records are deemed to be medical records, the business shall comply with
all state and federal laws pertaining to the privacy, and confidentiality, of
said records.
   (B)   The operator of a business regulated by this article shall also keep
on file at the physical location of the business, a copy of his or her current
professional liability insurance policy, which must be kept available for
inspection by the Town Manager, or his or her designee.
(Code 1976, § 10.81) (Ord. 4-75, passed 4-21-1975)
§§ 6-555 TO 6-600  RESERVED.
ARTICLE VI:  SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
   
6-601 to 6-622   Repealed
§§ 6-601 TO 6-622  REPEALED.
   Repealed, transferred to Chapter 17.
ARTICLE VII:  RETAIL SHORT-TERM LEASE OR
RENTAL OF VEHICLES
Section
   
6-701   Tax on gross receipts from retail short-term lease or rental of
vehicles
Statutory reference:
   Gross receipts tax on short-term leases or rentals, G.S. § 160A-215.1.
§ 6-701  TAX ON GROSS RECEIPTS FROM RETAIL SHORT-TERM LEASE OR RENTAL OF
VEHICLES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this article, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CUSTOMER. Any person that leases, or rents, a vehicle on a short-term
lease, or rental, basis.
      GROSS RECEIPTS. The amount that is, or would be, reported as GROSS
RECEIPTS on a business’s state income tax return, or on the federal income tax
return filed with the state income tax return if the state return does not
separately state gross receipts for the most recently completed tax year. Taxes
collected hereunder are not subject to the tax herein imposed, and are not
included in GROSS RECEIPTS.
      LEASE or RENTAL. A transfer, for consideration, of the use, but not the
ownership, of property to another for a period of time.
      LONG-TERM LEASE or RENTAL. A lease or rental made under a written
agreement to lease, or rent, property to the same person for a period of a
least 365 continuous days.
      PERSON. Any individual, trustee, executor, other fiduciary, corporation,
unincorporated association, partnership, sole proprietorship, company, firm, or
other legal entity.
      SHORT-TERM LEASE or RENTAL. Any lease, or rental, of a vehicle that is
not a long-term lease or rental.
      TAX COLLECTOR. The individual appointed by the Town Council pursuant to
G.S. § 105-349, and the provisions of the municipal charter, to collect taxes
on behalf of the town, and any other person authorized to carry out the duties,
and functions, of such individual.
      TAX PAYER. Any person liable for the taxes imposed by this article.
      VEHICLE.
         (a)   A motor VEHICLE of the private passenger type, including a
passenger van, minivan, or sport utility vehicle;
         (b)   A motor VEHICLE of the cargo type, including a cargo van, pick
up truck, or truck with a gross vehicle weight of 26,000 pounds or less used
predominantly in the transportation of property for other than commercial
freight, and that does not require the operator to possess a commercial
driver’s license; or
         (c)   A trailer or semi-trailer with a gross weight of 6,000 pounds or
less.
   (B)   Levy of tax. A tax is hereby imposed, and levied, in an amount equal
to 1.5% of the gross receipts derived from the short-term lease, or rental, of
vehicles at retail to the general public. This tax on gross receipts is in
addition to the privilege taxes.
   (C)   Collection of the tax. Every person engaged in the business of the
short-term lease, or rental, of vehicles at retail to the general public shall
collect, at the time of the lease or rental, the tax herein levied, place the
tax so collected in a segregated account, and thereafter remit such tax to the
tax collector in accordance with the provisions of this article. The taxpayer
shall include a provision in each retail short-term lease, or rental agreement
stating that the percentage amount enacted by this article of the total lease,
or rental, price, excluding highway use tax, is being charged as a tax on gross
receipts. The amount of the tax shall be stated separately from the lease, or
rental, and shown separately on the taxpayer’s records. The tax shall be paid
by the customer to the taxpayer as trustee for, and on account of, the town.
The taxpayer shall be liable for the collection thereof, and for his or her
payment to the tax collector, and the taxpayer’s failure to charge, or to
collect, said tax from the customer shall not affect the liability.
   (D)   Report and payment of tax. Taxes levied under this article are due,
and payable, when a return is required to be filed. Every taxpayer shall,
within the time specified, submit a return to the tax collector on the form
prescribed by the tax collector. A return must be signed by the taxpayer, or
the taxpayer’s agent. Returns of taxpayers are due to the tax collector each
month on, or before, the fifteenth day of the month following the month in
which the tax accrues. As provided in G.S. § 160A-208.1, a return shall not be
considered a public record, and information contained in a return may be
disclosed only in accordance therewith.
   (E)   Taxpayer to keep records. The taxpayer shall keep, and preserve,
suitable records of the gross receipts received by such taxpayer in the conduct
of business, and such other books, or accounts, as may be necessary to
determine the amount of the tax for which such taxpayer is liable under the
provisions of this article. It shall be the duty of the taxpayer to keep, and
preserve, for a period of three years all such records of gross receipts, and
other books and accounts described. All records, books, and accounts herein
described shall be open for examination at all reasonable hours during the day
by the tax collector, or his or her duly authorized agent.
   (F)   Tax collector to provide forms. The tax collector shall design,
prepare, print, and make available to all taxpayers operating within the
municipal boundaries of the town forms, and instructions, for filing returns to
ensure a full collection of, and an accounting for, taxes due. The failure of
any taxpayer to obtain, or receive, forms shall not relieve such taxpayer from
the payment of the tax at the time, and in the manner, provided.
   (G)   Situs. The transaction giving rise to the tax herein levied shall be
deemed to have occurred at the location of the entity from which the customer
takes delivery of the vehicle.
   (H)   Penalties and remedies. The provisions, with respect to remedies and
penalties applicable to G.S. Chapter 105, Subchapter VIII (“Local Government
Sales and Use Tax”), apply to a tax levied under this article. The Town Council
may exercise any power the Secretary of Revenue may exercise in collecting
local sales, and use, taxes.
   (I)   Interest. In addition to penalties for late filing and/or late payment
of this tax, interest will be charged in accordance with G.S. § 105-241.21.
   (J)   Administration. The tax levied by this article shall be collected by
the town, but otherwise shall be administered in the same manner as the tax
levied under G.S. § 105-164.4.(a)(2).
(Ord. 18-2000, passed 6-19-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, G.S. §§ 105-164.3(17), 105-187.1(a)(3a) and (a)(4),160A-
215.1(e)(2), 160A-215.1(b), 160A-215.1(d), 160A-215.1(e)(2), 160A-215.1(f).
ARTICLE VIII:  FARMERS’ MARKET
Section
   
6-801   Farmers’ market defined
§ 6-801  FARMERS’ MARKET DEFINED.
[Reserved]
(Ord. 8-2009, passed 4-20-2009)
Editor’s note:
   This ordinance expired on November 1, 2009 and was not re-adopted.
CHAPTER 7: CEMETERIES 1
   Article
      
I.   IN GENERAL
      
II.   SALE OF LOTS
      
III.   RULES AND REGULATIONS
 
Notes
  1Statutory reference:
1 Cemeteries, G.S. §§ 160A-341 et seq.; regulation of city cemeteries, G.S. §
  160A-348.
ARTICLE I:  IN GENERAL
Section
   
7-100   Authority to purchase; applicability of provisions
   
7-101   Control of the town cemetery; covenant
   
7-102   Superintendent
   
7-103   Burial regulated
   
7-104   Interment; disinterment
   
7-105   Plantings
   
7-106   Family monument
   
7-107   Trees, shrubbery
   
7-108   Landscaping
   
7-109   Structures
   
7-110   Conduct; hours
   
7-111   Vehicles
   
7-112   Rubbish, and the like
   
7-112.1   Construction materials
   
7-113   Damaging gravestones or other monuments
   
7-114   Cleaning after funerals
   
7-115   Burial permits
   
7-116   Prerequisite to a burial permit
   
7-117   Number of bodies to buried in one grave
   
7-118   Vault or grave liner required
   
7-119   Flower regulations and cleaning after funerals
   
7-120   Animals prohibited
   
7-121   Ornamentation
   7-122 to 7-199   Reserved
§ 7-100  AUTHORITY TO PURCHASE; APPLICABILITY OF PROVISIONS.
   (A)   As used in this article, and except as provided in subsection (C)
below, the terms CEMETERY and TOWN CEMETERY shall refer to any, and all,
cemeteries owned, and/or operated, by the town.
   (B)   The town may acquire real estate to be used for cemetery purposes.
   (C)   The following sections apply to all cemeteries within the town: §§
7-103,
7-112,
7-113, and
7-120. The remaining sections of this article apply only to cemeteries owned,
and/or operated, by the town.
(Ord. 26-94, passed 11-7-1994)
§ 7-101  CONTROL OF THE TOWN CEMETERY; COVENANT.
   All lots within the town’s cemetery, and within any extension of the
cemetery at any time hereafter made, whether owned by the town, or by any other
person, shall be subject to, and regulated and controlled by, the provisions of
this article, and in all deeds of conveyance by the town to any person for any
lot, the following provisions shall be included therein as a covenant running
with the land:
 
“This conveyance is made subject to an ordinance of the Town of Maiden adopting
rules and regulations for the control of the cemetery and providing penalties in
relation thereto. The grantee herein, his heirs and assigns agree that upon the
breach of any of its provisions, the title to said property shall revert to the
Town of Maiden. This lot may not be sold to any other person, except with the
written permission of the town manager, and it shall not be sold for more than
the original purchase price of the lot.”
 
(Code 1976, § 9.49) (Ord. 12-75, passed 10-20-1975)
§ 7-102  SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Town Manager to appoint some suitable
person as superintendent of the cemetery.
   (B)   The superintendent shall have such powers and duties, as shall be
conferred upon him or her, by this section, and any ordinance, resolution, or
order of the Town Council at any time hereafter adopted or made.
   (C)   The superintendent shall:
      (1)   Have charge of the upkeep, protection, and preservation of the
cemetery;
      (2)   Supervise the digging of all graves, the interment and disinterment
of bodies, and the erection of monuments and markers;
      (3)   Supervise the planting of any, and all, shrubbery, trees, and
flowers; and
      (4)   Make provision for the entrance, and exit, of persons and vehicles
to, and from, the cemetery.
(Code 1976, § 9.38) (Ord. 12-75, passed 10-20-1975)
§ 7-103  BURIAL REGULATED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to bury any human being on any
lot, or premises, within the corporate limits, except within an approved
cemetery, and in accordance with all applicable laws and regulations.
   (B)   No person shall dig any grave, put up any gravestone or board, or make
any erections, or dig up any sod on any private burial lot, except under the
direction, or by the consent, of the owner thereof.
(Code 1976, § 9.51) (Ord. 12-75, passed 10-20-1975)  Penalty, see §
1-111
§ 7-104  INTERMENT; DISINTERMENT.
   All graves shall be dug under the supervision of the superintendent.
(Code 1976, § 9.39) (Ord. 12-75, passed 10-20-1975)
§ 7-105  PLANTINGS.
   No person shall plant or set any tree, shrub, flower, grass, or other plant
of any kind in the cemetery except with the approval of, and under the
supervision of, the superintendent.
(Code 1976, § 9.40) (Ord. 12-75, passed 10-20-1975)
§ 7-106  FAMILY MONUMENT.
   (A)   Only one family marker shall be allowed on a family plot. Individual
grave markers are allowed, but shall not exceed two feet in length, and one
foot in width. Individual grave markers shall be placed at the end of the grave
farthest from the family marker.
   (B)   All markers (with the exception of markers in the old section on
Cemetery Street) in all town-maintained cemeteries (whether individual grave
marker or family marker) shall be laid flush with the ground. No coping,
fencing, hedging, grave mounds, borders, or curb of any kind shall be allowed
on any burial lot.
(Code 1976, § 9.41) (Ord. 12-75, passed 10-20-1975)
§ 7-107  TREES, SHRUBBERY.
   The pruning or cutting of all trees and shrubbery is hereby prohibited
unless done under the immediate supervision of the superintendent.
(Code 1976, § 9.42) (Ord. 12-75, passed 10-20-1975)
§ 7-108  LANDSCAPING.
   All grading, landscaping, and improvements of every kind shall be made, or
done, by the town only.
(Code 1976, § 9.43) (Ord. 12-75, passed 10-20-1975)
§ 7-109  STRUCTURES.
   No mausoleum, tomb, building, or other structure of any kind shall be
erected on any lot within the cemetery, or within any extension of the
cemetery; provided, however, mausoleums and tombs may be constructed on lots
which may be designated on the plat and plan of the cemetery, from time to time
by the Council, as lots to be used exclusively for mausoleums and tombs. Should
any mausoleum, monument, or tomb at any time become unsafe, unsightly, or in
need of repair or resetting, the superintendent shall so notify the owner of
such lot, or any person having an interest in such lot, and shall request such
person to make the needed repairs under his or her supervision, and if such
person shall fail to make such repairs, within 30 days thereafter, the Council
may order such repairs to be made, or remove the same from such lot as the
Council may elect.
(Code 1976, § 9.44) (Ord. 12-75, passed 10-20-1975)
§ 7-110  CONDUCT; HOURS.
   (A)   No person shall disturb the quiet, repose, and good order of the
cemetery, nor shall any person deface, remove, disturb, injure, or destroy any
tree, plant, or shrub therein, except in the manner provided in this article.
   (B)   No person shall remove the stakes from a burial lot.
   (C)   Trespassing within the cemetery is hereby prohibited.
   (D)   The hours of the cemetery shall be from sun up to sunset.
(Code 1976, § 9.46) (Ord. 12-75, passed 10-20-1975; Ord. 23-92A, passed 11-2-
1992)
§ 7-111  VEHICLES.
   Vehicles shall be driven only upon the roadways within the cemetery, and at
a rate of speed not in excess of 15 mph. No vehicles shall enter the cemetery
except for the purpose of attending funerals, visiting graves, or other lawful
mission.
(Code 1976, § 9.47) (Ord. 12-75, passed 10-20-1975)
Cross-reference:
   Traffic and Motor Vehicles, Ch. 20.
§ 7-112  RUBBISH, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Pursuant to G.S. § 14-148, it is unlawful to willfully:
      (1)   Throw, place, or put any refuse, garbage, or trash in, or on, any
cemetery;
      (2)   Take away, disturb, vandalize, destroy, or change the location of
any stone, brick, iron, or other material, or fence enclosing a cemetery,
without authorization of law or consent of the town, or in the case of
cemeteries not own, and/or operated, by the town, the surviving spouse, or next
of kin of the deceased; and/or
      (3)   Take away, disturb, vandalize, destroy, or tamper with any
shrubbery, flowers, plants, or other articles planted, or placed, within any
cemetery to designate where human remains are interred, or to preserve, and
perpetuate, the memory and name of any person, without authorization of law, or
the consent of the surviving spouse or next of kin.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to:
      (1)   Ordinary maintenance, and care, of a cemetery by the owner,
caretaker, or other person acting to facilitate cemetery operations by keeping
the cemetery free from accumulated debris, or other signs of neglect; or
      (2)   A professional archaeologist, as defined in G.S. § 70-28(4), acting
pursuant to the provisions of G.S. Chapter 70, Article 3.
   (C)   Violation of this section is a Class I felony if the damage caused by
the violation is $1,000 or more. Any other violation of this section is a Class
1 misdemeanor.
Penalty, see §
1-111
§ 7-112.1  CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS.
   All materials carried within the cemetery, and not used in the erection of
monuments, markers, or other lawful structures authorized herein, shall be
promptly removed therefrom by the owner of the lot upon which such monument,
marker, or structure shall be located.
(Code 1976, § 9.48) (Ord. 12-75, passed 10-20-1975)
§ 7-113  DAMAGING GRAVESTONES OR OTHER MONUMENTS.
   (A)   Pursuant to G.S. § 14-149, it is a Class I felony, without
authorization of law, or the consent of the surviving spouse or next of kin of
the deceased, to knowingly, and willfully:
      (1)   Open, disturb, destroy, remove, vandalize, or desecrate any casket,
or other repository of any human remains, by any means including plowing under,
tearing up, covering over, or otherwise obliterating, or removing any grave, or
any portion thereof;
      (2)   Take away, disturb, vandalize, destroy, tamper with, or deface any
tombstone, headstone, monument, grave marker, grave ornamentation, or grave
artifacts erected, or placed, within any cemetery to designate the place where
human remains are interred, or to preserve, and perpetuate, the memory, and the
name, of any person. This subsection (A)(2) shall not apply to the ordinary
maintenance, and care, of a cemetery.
   (B)   Pursuant to G.S. § 14-149, it is a Class H felony, without
authorization of law, or the consent of the surviving spouse or next of kin of
the deceased, to knowingly and willfully disturb, destroy, remove, vandalize,
or desecrate any human remains that have been interred in a cemetery.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to a professional
archaeologist, as defined in G.S. § 70-28(4), acting pursuant to the provisions
of G.S. Chapter 70, Article 3.
(Code 1976, § 9.52) (Ord. 12-75, passed 10-20-1975)
Cross-reference:
   Garbage and refuse, Ch. 11.
Statutory reference:
   Defacing, or desecrating, grave sites, G.S. § 14-148; desecrating, plowing
over, or covering up graves, G.S. § 14-149.
§ 7-114  CLEANING AFTER FUNERALS.
[Repealed]
(Code 1976, § 9.53) (Ord. 12-75, passed 10-20-75)
§ 7-115  BURIAL PERMITS.
   No dead body of any human being, the cremated remains of a human being, an
empty casket, or an empty cremation urn shall be interred, or otherwise
disposed of, in any tomb or vault without a permit from the Town Clerk, and no
person shall conduct a funeral service on the grounds for the purpose of
disposing of any human body, or cremated remains thereof, without having filed
said permit with the town.
(Ord. 26-94, passed 11-7-1994)
§ 7-116  PREREQUISITE TO A BURIAL PERMIT.
   A permit will be issued for burial of a dead human body within the town
cemetery upon complying with the following requirements:
   (A)   The grave shall be fully paid for before any usage is made of same;
   (B)   The town retains ownership of the real estate, but issues a deed
granting permission for use of the grave site;
   (C)   The uppermost part of the burial vault, or other encasement, for each
grave shall be a minimum of four feet in depth below the ground surface, except
that for the remains of cremated bodies the uppermost part of the burial vault,
or other encasement, shall be a minimum of 28 inches in depth below the ground
surface; and
   (D)   All bodies interred shall be interred in a vault using a concrete
liner or a metal vault, except that the remains of cremated bodies may also be
interred in basic poly-urethane used by the crematory, or a concrete, marble,
or steel enclosure.
(Ord. 26-94, passed 11-7-1994; Ord. 6-99, passed 4-19-1999)
§ 7-117  NUMBER OF BODIES TO BE BURIED IN ONE GRAVE.
   (A)   Only one dead body of a human being shall be interred in any one grave
of any town cemetery. Up to two dead, uncremated human bodies may be interred
in any one grave in the following cemeteries: none at this time.
   (B)   The remains from up to three cremations may be interred in any one
grave of a town cemetery. Each cremation burial shall be identified using a 12-
by 18-inch flat foot-marker.
   (C)   No cremation remains may be placed in the same grave as the uncremated
remains of a human being under any circumstances.
(Ord. 26-94, passed 11-7-1994; Ord. 6-99, passed 4-19-1999)
§ 7-118  VAULT OR GRAVE LINER REQUIRED.
[Repealed]
(Ord. 26-94, passed 11-7-1994; Ord. 6-99, passed 4-19-1999)
§ 7-119  FLOWER REGULATIONS AND CLEANING AFTER FUNERALS.
   (A)   Floral decorations, frames, and toys shall be removed from the grave
site within five days of the interment by those legally entitled to them. Any
unclaimed placements will be removed, and disposed of, by the town personnel.
   (B)   Flower arrangements will be removed twice per year at specified dates,
as will be established by the cemetery supervisor. The first flower cleanup of
the year will be approximately four weeks before Easter, at which time all
Christmas flowers will be removed from lots. The second flower cleanup of the
year will be four weeks before Thanksgiving, at which time all Easter, spring,
and summer arrangements will be removed from the lots. Notification of specific
dates will be posted, and notices placed in local newspapers. Owners who want
to save arrangements should remove them prior to schedule dates of clean up.
   (C)   Cut flowers, potted plants, memorial wreaths, sprays, baskets, or toys
may be placed on graves at any time, but must be placed on the headstone. The
cemetery supervisor shall have the authority to removal floral designs,
flowers, plants, and containers from lots when, in his or her judgment, they
become faded, unsightly, or weather damaged, and distract from the general
appearance of the cemetery.
   (D)   Glass containers for floral, or other, arrangements will not be
allowed in the cemetery, and will be disposed of when found. (See §
7-121.)
(Ord. 26-94, passed 11-7-1994)
§ 7-120  ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, or person having the care or
custody of an animal, to allow said animal to enter, or remain, in a graveyard
or cemetery that is owned, or operated, by the town. This section shall not
apply to, or prohibit, the use of animals that are service and/or assistance
animals for handicapped persons, pursuant to G.S. § 168-4.2 or federal law.
   (B)   Violations of this section may be enforced by any one, all, or a
combination of the remedies and penalties set forth in §
1-111, including, but not limited to, a civil penalty in the amount of $50 to
be recovered by the town in a civil action in the nature of a debt if the
offender does not pay the penalty within ten calendar days, or such longer
period of time, as may be prescribed, after he or she has been cited for
violation of this section.
(Ord. 2-2018, passed 1-15-2018)  Penalty, see §
1-111
§ 7-121  ORNAMENTATION.
   Glass, or breakable vessels and/or vases, shall not be allowed. No boxes,
shells, glassware, sprinkling cans, receptacles, or similar articles shall be
permitted on any grave, lot, or tree. No wooden or cast-iron bench or chair, or
any wooden or wire trellis, shall be permitted to be brought upon the grounds.
Chairs may be permitted during an interment to be removed as soon as service is
concluded.
(Ord. 26-94, passed 11-7-1994)
§§ 7-122 TO 7-199  RESERVED.
ARTICLE II:  SALE OF LOTS
Section
   
7-201   Deed for lot
   
7-202   Transfer of lots
   
7-203   Lot charges
   7-204 to 7-210   Reserved
§ 7-201  DEED FOR LOT.
   (A)   All persons desiring to purchase a lot in the town cemetery shall
apply to the Town Manager on an appropriate application form provided by the
town.
   (B)   In the event a lot is being purchased for immediate use, the adjoining
lot(s) may be held for a period of time not to exceed 60 days from original
purchase, at which time payment in full shall be tendered. No more than three
lots will be held at a time.
   (C)   The Town Clerk shall issue, in the name of the purchaser, a
certificate of sale showing the lot number and the section, or map, number of
the burial space referring to a map, or plat, thereof. A record of the sale,
the lot purchased, and the name of the purchaser shall be kept in a permanent
record book in the town office.
   (D)   No certificate of ownership for a grave site shall be issued until the
full purchase price has been paid.
   (E)   A resident of the town shall be allowed to purchase, at resident
rates, a maximum number of cemetery lots equal to four lots, or the number of
members of the resident’s immediate family residing in the home of the
resident/purchaser at the time of purchase, whichever is greater.
      (1)   IMMEDIATE FAMILY is defined as spouse, child, and/or dependent.
      (2)   Persons buried in said lot(s) shall not be limited to the resident,
or his or her immediate family member(s).
(Code 1976, § 9.37) (Ord. 12-75, passed 10-20-1975; Ord. 26-94, passed 11-7-
1994; Ord. 2-2000, passed 2-7-2000; Ord. 15-02, passed 4-15-2002)
§ 7-202  TRANSFER OF LOTS.
   No person who shall purchase any lot in the cemetery from the town shall
thereafter convey or alienate, the same to any other person, except upon the
written permission of the Town Manager, nor in any event for a greater
consideration than that paid for the same lot by the grantor.
(Code 1976, § 9.45) (Ord. 12-75, passed 10-20-1975; Ord. 2-2000, passed 2-7-
2000)
§ 7-203  LOT CHARGES.
   (A)   The Town Council shall adopt fees for the purchase of lots in the
town-operated cemetery.
   (B)   The prices for lots are set out in the fee schedule in Appendix G.
(Code 1976, § 9.50) (Ord. 12-75, passed 10-20-1975)
§§ 7-204 TO 7-210  RESERVED.
ARTICLE III:  RULES AND REGULATIONS
Section
   
7-301   Generally
   
7-302   Modifications and amendments
§ 7-301  GENERALLY.
   In addition to the rules and regulations set forth above, the following
shall also apply to the town cemetery:
   (A)   The town shall not be responsible for theft, or damage, to anything
placed on graves, or lots;
   (B)   The town, and its agents, shall have the authority to enter any lot,
and to remove any objectionable thing, or any erection, that may have been
placed there contrary to the regulations of said cemetery, and the town may
remove any dead, or damaged, tree, shrub, or vine, or any of same which has
taken over the grave, or covered the monument;
   (C)   All persons are reminded that the grounds are sacredly devoted to the
burial of the dead, and that the provisions, and penalties, of law, as provided
by statute, will be strictly enforced in all cases of wanton injury,
disturbance, and disregard of the rules;
   (D)   No digging shall be allowed, other than authorized by burial permit;
   (E)   No children will be permitted in the cemetery unless attended by an
adult who will be responsible for their conduct. They will not be allowed to
run over the graves or lots;
   (F)   No person may intentionally disrupt any funeral service, or disturb
the quiet and good order of the cemetery, by extremely loud or boisterous
conduct. Except in the case of military funerals and veterans, or military
commemorative exercises, no person may carry, or discharge, firearms in the
cemetery;
   (G)   No person may post, or attach, any bills, posters, placards, pictures,
or other form of political, or commercial, advertising within any cemetery, or
on the inside, or outside, of any wall or fence enclosing the same;
   (H)   No person may engage in recreational activities in the cemetery. For
purposes of this section, recreational activities shall include, but not be
limited to, the throwing of balls or Frisbees, playing games or engaging in
sports activities, running or jogging, walking dogs, allowing dogs, or other
animals, to run at large, and other similar activities inconsistent with the
use of a cemetery as a cemetery;
   (I)   The Town Council reserves the right to change this section, and the
regulations contained herein, at any time; and
   (J)   The town is not liable for geological, hydrological, or any other
natural conditions that may prevent burial in any grave.
(Ord. 26-94, passed 11-7-1994)
§ 7-302  MODIFICATIONS AND AMENDMENTS.
   The town may, and hereby expressly reserves the right, at any time or times,
with or without notice to owners, to adopt new rules and regulations, or to
amend, alter, and/or repeal any rule, regulation, and/or article, section,
paragraph, and/or sentence in this chapter.
(Ord. 26-94, passed 11-7-1994)
CHAPTER 8: CABLE COMMUNICATIONS 1
   [Repealed]
 
Notes
  1Editor’s note:
  Ord. 12-95, adopted Mar. 6, 1995 repealed Ch. 8 in its entirety and enacted
  similar provisions as
    herein set out. Former Ch. 8, §§ 8-101-8-107, 8-201-8-214, 8-301-8-306, 8-
  401-8-405, 8-521, and
    8-531-8-537 derived from Ord. 287, § 6A-1016A-108, 6A-111-6A-116, 6A-120-6-
  124, 6A-130, and
    6A-140-145, adopted Jan. 19, 1987.
1 Cross-reference:
  Businesses and Trades, Ch. 6; Planning, Zoning, and Subdivision Control, Ch.
  17; Franchises, App.
    D.
  Statutory reference:
  The town cable franchise has been terminated and pursuant to G.S. § 66-351, the
  town no longer
    has authority to require a local cable franchise.
   
CHAPTER 9: EMERGENCY PROCEDURES 1
Section
   
9-101   State of emergency
   
9-102   Authorized restrictions
   
9-103   Application of restrictions; exceptions
   
9-104   Enforcement
   
9-105   End of state of emergency
   
9-106   Natural disasters
 
Notes
  1Cross-reference:
  Fire Protection and Prevention, Ch. 10; flood damage prevention, §§ 17-401 et seq.
  Statutory reference:
1 Powers of municipality to enact ordinances to deal with emergencies, G.S. § 14-
  288.11; emergency
    management, G.S. §§ 166A-19 et seq.; local emergency authorization, G.S. §§
  166A-19 et seq.
§ 9-101  STATE OF EMERGENCY.
   (A)   A state of emergency shall be deemed to exist whenever there is a
disaster, which shall include an occurrence, or imminent threat, of widespread,
or severe, damage, injury, or loss of life or property resulting from any
natural, or human-made, accidental, military, or paramilitary cause.
   (B)   In the event of an existing or threatened state of emergency
endangering the lives, safety, health, and welfare of the people within the
town, or threatening damage to, or destruction of, property, the Mayor is
hereby authorized, and empowered, to issue a public proclamation declaring to
all persons the existence of such a state of emergency, and, in order to more
effectively protect the lives, safety, and property of people within the town,
to place in effect any, or all, of the restrictions authorized by this chapter.
   (C)   Any proclamation may be extended, altered, or repealed in any
particular during the continued, or threatened, existence of a state of
emergency by the issuance of a subsequent proclamation.
   (D)   During the existence of a proclaimed state of emergency, it shall be
unlawful for any person to violate any provision of any restriction imposed by
any proclamation authorized by this chapter, and such violation shall be
punishable as a Class 3 misdemeanor.
(Code 1976, § 2.26(a), (b), (10), (g))  Penalty, see §
1-111
Cross-reference:
   Town Council, §§ 2-201 et seq.
§ 9-102  AUTHORIZED RESTRICTIONS.
   During the existence of a proclaimed state of emergency, the Mayor may
impose, by proclamation, any, or all, of the following restrictions:
   (A)   Prohibit, or regulate, the buying, or selling, of beer, wine, or
intoxicating beverages of any kind, and their possession, or consumption, off
one’s own premises;
   (B)   Prohibit, or regulate, any demonstration, parade, march, vigil, or
participation therein from taking place on any of the public ways, or upon any
public property;
   (C)   Prohibit, or regulate, the sale of gasoline, kerosene, naphtha, or any
other explosive, or inflammable, fluids or substances;
   (D)   Prohibit, or regulate, travel upon any public street, alley, or
roadway, or upon any other public property except by those in search of medical
assistance, food, or other commodity, or service necessary to sustain the well-
being of themselves or their families, or some member thereof;
   (E)   Prohibit, or regulate, the participation in, or carrying on, of any
business activity, and prohibit, or regulate, the keeping open of places of
business, places of entertainment, and any other places of public assembly;
   (F)   Direct, and compel, the evacuation of all, or part, of the population
from any stricken, or threatened, area within the jurisdiction of the town;
   (G)   Prescribe routes, modes of transportation, and destinations in
connection with evacuation; and
   (H)   Control ingress, and egress, of a disaster area, and the movement of
persons within the area.
(Code 1976, § 2.26(e)) (Ord. 7-2020, passed 2-11-2020)
§ 9-103  APPLICATION OF RESTRICTIONS; EXCEPTIONS.
   The Mayor is hereby authorized, and empowered, to limit by the proclamation
the application of all, or any part, of the restrictions authorized by this
chapter to any area specifically designated, or described, within the corporate
limits of the town, and to specific hours of the day or night; and to exempt
from all, or any, part of such restrictions:
   (A)   Law enforcement officers, firefighters, and other public employees,
doctors, nurses, employees of hospitals, and other medical facilities;
   (B)   On-duty military personnel, whether state or federal;
   (C)   On-duty employees of public utilities, public transportation
companies, and newspaper, magazine, radio broadcasting, and television
broadcasting corporations operated for profit;
   (D)   Such other classes of persons as may be essential to the preservation
of public order, and immediately necessary to serve the safety, health, and
welfare needs of the people within the town.
(Code 1976, § 2.26(c))
§ 9-104  ENFORCEMENT.
   The Mayor, and in his or her absence, the Mayor Pro Tempore, and in the
absence of both such officials, the Town Manager, are hereby authorized to
enforce the preceding sections for such periods of time as they shall deem
necessary.
(Code 1976, § 2.27)
§ 9-105  END OF STATE OF EMERGENCY.
   The Mayor shall proclaim the end of such state of emergency, or all or any
part of the restrictions imposed, as soon as circumstances warrant, or when
directed to do so by the Town Council.
(Code 1976, § 2.26(d))
§ 9-106  NATURAL DISASTERS.
   The Town Manager shall have the authority to make necessary budget
amendments to ensure the health, safety, and welfare of the public following a
natural disaster, but only when the Town Council is incapable of assembling to
take such action, and the Governor and/or President of the United States have
declared a state of emergency in an area including all, or part, of the town.
CHAPTER 10: FIRE PROTECTION AND PREVENTION 1
   Article
      
I.   IN GENERAL
      
II.   FIRE DEPARTMENT
      
III.   FIRE HAZARDS
      
IV.   FIRE LIMITS
      
V.   BONFIRES AND OUTDOOR  RUBBISH FIRES
 
Notes
  1Cross-reference:
  Buildings and Building Regulations, Ch. 5; fires in parks, §
  16-215; Planning, Zoning, and
    Subdivision Control, Ch. 17; Flood Damage Prevention, §§ 17-401 et seq.;
1 Traffic and Motor
    Vehicles, Ch. 20; following fire apparatus, §
  20-801; crossing fire hose, §
  20-802; Utilities, Ch.
    21.
   
ARTICLE I:  IN GENERAL
Section
   
10-101   Fire prevention code
   10-102 to 10-199   Reserved
§ 10-101  FIRE PREVENTION CODE.
   As provided in G.S. § 143-138 and G.S. Chapter 160A, Article 19, Part 5, the
town shall enforce the State Fire Prevention Code.
(Code 1976, § 4.17)
Statutory reference:
   In addition to the statutes cited above, see G.S. § 143-151.13, “Required
standards and certificated for code-enforcement officials”.
§§ 10-102 TO 10-199  RESERVED.
ARTICLE II:  FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
10-201   Organization
   
10-202   Duties of chief
   
10-203   Fire inspector
   
10-204   General authority to fight fires; traffic
   
10-205   Following fire equipment
   
10-206   Interfering with firefighters or fire apparatus
   
10-207   Only firefighters may ride on trucks without permission
   
10-208   Interfering with fire alarm apparatus
   
10-209   Giving false alarm of fire forbidden
   
10-210   Protection of fire hose
   
10-211   Fire protection outside of town
   10-212 to 10-299   Reserved
Cross-reference:
   Officers and employees, §§ 2-401 et seq.; authority of police and fire
department officials, §
20-301; authorized emergency vehicles, §§ 20-306 et seq.
Statutory reference:
   “Fire Protection” and “Municipal Firefighters”, G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 14 and
14A.
§ 10-201  ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   The Fire Department shall consist of the Chief of the Fire Department,
and a sufficient number of firefighters, voluntary, part- or full-time, to
maintain and operate the Department. The Town Manager shall appoint the Fire
Chief, and approve the appointment to the Department of all members.
   (B)   The Department may, from time to time, adopt its own rules and
regulations governing the Department, subject to the approval of the Town
Council.
   (C)   However, any such rules and regulations may include provisions for at
least one training period each month, and that any member who is absent for two
consecutive meetings without a bona fide reason be dropped from the Department.
(Code 1976, § 4.1)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to appoint Fire Chief and firefighters, G.S. § 160A-291.
§ 10-202  DUTIES OF CHIEF.
   The duties of the Fire Chief, subject to supervision by the Town Manager,
shall be as follows:
   (A)   To exercise general control of the Department, the personnel,
apparatus, and fire alarm systems;
   (B)   To command the Department, and supervise the firefighting and
extinguishing of all fires, and to have the authority to keep away from the
vicinity of all fires any, and all idle, disorderly, or suspicious persons;
   (C)   To inspect, or cause to be inspected, all trucks and other equipment
of the Fire Department each and every week to ascertain that such equipment is
being kept in proper condition, and report annually to the Town Council the
condition of all equipment;
   (D)   To inspect, or cause to be inspected, all fire hydrants and fire alarm
systems at least once every three months, and make a report of such inspection
to the Manager;
   (E)   To serve as, or to delegate, the responsibilities for the Fire
Inspector. (See §
10-203); and
   (F)   To perform such other duties and tasks as required by law, or
otherwise assigned by the Town Manager.
(Code 1976, § 4.2(1)-(4))
§ 10-203  FIRE INSPECTOR.
   The Fire Chief is to assume the functions of Fire Inspector, and as such,
the Chief, or his or her designee, shall have authority to enter any, and all,
premises, at a reasonable time, for the purposes of the following inspections:
   (A)   Routine inspection. The Inspector shall make annual inspections of all
structures located within the fire district;
   (B)   State Fire Code inspections. The Inspector shall inspect all
structures, including ones under construction, as required, or necessitated, by
the State Fire Prevention Code;
   (C)   Inspections upon complaint. The Inspector shall, upon receipt of a
complaint, forthwith investigate;
   (D)   Records. The Inspector shall investigate the causes of fires, and
shall keep records of his or her findings as to origin, location, owner, extent
of damage, injury, and amount of insurance carried. The findings must be
reported to the State Insurance Commissioner at regular intervals; and
   (E)   Orders for removal of fire hazards. The Inspector shall cause the
removal of fire hazards by serving a proper order to the owner(s) or agent(s)
of the premises in question, with such order stating a reasonable time limit
for compliance.
(Code 1976, § 4.2(5))
§ 10-204  GENERAL AUTHORITY TO FIGHT FIRES; TRAFFIC.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, or persons, to congregate on the
streets or alleys near a fire in a manner which would interfere with the
activities of the Fire Department.
   (B)   In the event of an alarm of fire, the apparatus of the Fire Department
responding to it shall have the right-of-way in, and upon, all streets, lanes,
alleys, and other public ways.
   (C)   The drivers of vehicles, upon the approach of fire apparatus, shall
immediately bring their vehicles to a stop on the right-hand side of the street
in the direction in which they are facing, and shall not move their vehicles
until such apparatus has passed.
   (D)   Violations of subsections (B) and (C) above shall be violations G.S.
§§ 20-156 and 20-157 respectively, and are not subject to civil penalties
pursuant to this code.
(Code 1976, § 4.3)  Penalty, see §
1-111
§ 10-205  FOLLOWING THE FIRE EQUIPMENT.
   It shall be unlawful to follow any fire apparatus which is responding to a
call, by automobile or any other vehicle, unless such is used for transporting
firefighters to the scene of fire, at a distance closer than one town block, or
to pass such apparatus, or to park within the same block in which fire is in
progress. A violation of this section shall be a violation of G.S. § 20-157,
and is not subject to civil penalties pursuant to this code.
(Code 1976, § 4.4)  Penalty, see §
1-111
Cross-reference:
   Crossing fire hose, §
20-801.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, G.S. § 20-157(b), (c).
§ 10-206  INTERFERING WITH FIREFIGHTERS OR FIRE APPARATUS.
   (A)   No person shall willfully interfere with a firefighter in the
discharge of his or her duty, or hinder him or her in the performance of such
duty. A violation of this subsection is a violation of G.S. § 58.82-1, and is
not subject to civil penalties pursuant to this code.
   (B)   No person, other than members of the Fire Department, may loiter about
any fire station, or change, handle, or meddle in any manner with the fire
engine, or any other fire apparatus.
(Code 1976, § 4.5)
§ 10-207  ONLY FIREFIGHTERS MAY RIDE ON TRUCKS WITHOUT PERMISSION.
   No person, other than a bona fide member of the Fire Department, shall mount
any fire engine, wagon, or apparatus before it leaves the station, or while on
its way to, or from, a fire, or at any other time, unless by permission of the
driver, or officer in command of such engine, wagon, or other apparatus.
(Code 1976, § 4.6)
§ 10-208  INTERFERING WITH FIRE ALARM APPARATUS.
   No person shall interfere carelessly, or willfully, with the fire alarm
system, or injure the poles, wires, boxes, or other apparatus connected
therewith. A violation of this section shall be a violation of G.S. § 14-286,
and is not subject to civil penalties pursuant to this code.
(Code 1976, § 4.7)
§ 10-209  GIVING FALSE ALARM OF FIRE FORBIDDEN.
   No person shall give, or cause to be given, any false alarm of fire by means
of the fire alarm system or otherwise. A violation of this section is a
violation of G.S. § 14-286, and is not subject to civil penalties pursuant to
this code.
(Code 1976, § 4.8)
§ 10-210  PROTECTION OF FIRE HOSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive over, or in any way damage or
mutilate, any fire hose while in use at a fire or otherwise.
(Code 1976, § 4.9)  Penalty, see §
1-111
Cross-reference:
   Crossing fire hose, §
20-802.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, G.S. § 20-157(d).
§ 10-211  FIRE PROTECTION OUTSIDE OF TOWN.
   If the town agrees with the county, or the owners of property outside the
town, to provide fire protection thereon, any employee of the Fire Department,
while engaged in any duty or activity outside the corporate limits of the town,
pursuant to orders of the Fire Chief or Town Council, shall have all of the
jurisdiction, authority, rights, privileges, and immunities, including coverage
under the Workers’ Compensation Laws, being G.S. Chapter 97, which they have
within the corporate limits of the town.
(Code 1976, § 4.10)
Statutory reference:
   Fire protection outside of town limits, G.S. § 160A-293.
§§ 10-212 TO 10-299 RESERVED.
ARTICLE III:  FIRE HAZARDS
Section
   
10-301   Encumbrances before or on fire exit
   
10-302   Exit signs in theatres and motion picture houses
   
10-303   Passageways in places of public assemblage to be kept open; exit doors
not to be fastened
   
10-304   Lots to be kept free from fire hazard
   
10-305   Depositing of wood shavings prohibited
   10-306 to 10-399   Reserved
§ 10-301  ENCUMBRANCES BEFORE OR ON FIRE EXIT.
   (A)   No person shall, at any time, place any encumbrances of any kind
whatsoever before, or upon, any fire escape, balcony, or ladder intended as a
means of escape from fire.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of every member of the Police Department and Fire
Department, who shall discover any fire escape encumbered in any manner, to
forthwith report the same through his or her department channels to the Chief
of the Fire Department, who shall immediately notify the owners, their agents,
or tenants, to remove such encumbrance, and encumbrances shall thereupon be
immediately removed.
(Code 1976, § 4.11)
§ 10-302  EXIT SIGNS IN THEATRES AND MOTION PICTURE HOUSES.
[Repealed]
(Code 1976, § 4.12)
§ 10-303  PASSAGEWAYS IN PLACES OF PUBLIC ASSEMBLAGE TO BE KEPT OPEN; EXIT
DOORS NOT TO BE FASTENED.
[Repealed]
(Code 1976, § 4.13)
§ 10-304  LOTS TO BE KEPT FREE FROM FIRE HAZARD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit, or suffer, rubbish, refuse,
or articles of combustible, or inflammable, nature to accumulate, or remain, on
any lot or premises.
(Code 1976, § 4.14)  Penalty, see §
1-111
§ 10-305  DEPOSITING OF WOOD SHAVINGS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall deposit wood shavings in any place out of doors within the
corporate limits of the town within 80 feet of any building; provided, however,
this section shall not apply to buildings under construction or repair.
(Code 1976, § 4.15)
§ 10-306 TO 10-399  RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV:  FIRE LIMITS
Section
   
10-401   Fire limits
   10-402 to 10-500   Reserved
Statutory reference:
   Fire limits, G.S. Chapter 160D.
§ 10-401  FIRE LIMITS.
   The primary fire limits of the town shall be from the northeastern edge of
the intersection of West Main Street and “A” Avenue eastward to the western
edge of the old S.M. Finger property on both sides of West Main Street and East
Main Street, for a distance of 150 feet from the northern edge of West and East
Main Streets.
(Code 1976, § 4.16)
Cross-reference:
   Buildings and Building Regulations, Ch. 5.
Statutory reference:
   Primary fire limits, G.S. Chapter 160D.
§§ 10-402 TO 10-500  RESERVED.
ARTICLE V:  BONFIRES AND OUTDOOR RUBBISH FIRES
Section
   
10-501   Permit required
   
10-502   Location restricted
   
10-503   Attendance of open fires
   
10-504   Fire Chief may prohibit
§ 10-501  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall kindle, or maintain, any bonfire or rubbish fire, or
authorize any such fire to be kindled, or maintained, on, or in, any public
street, alley, road, or other public ground without a permit, or other proper
authorization. During construction or demolition of buildings or structures, no
waste materials or rubbish shall be disposed of by burning on the premises, or
in the immediate vicinity, without having obtained a permit, or other proper
authorization.
(Ord. 10-91, passed 11-4-1991)
§ 10-502  LOCATION RESTRICTED.
   No person shall kindle, or maintain, any bonfire or rubbish fire, or
authorize any such fire to be kindled, or maintained, on any private land
unless:
   (A)   The location is not less than 50 feet from any structure, and adequate
provision is made to prevent fire from spreading to within 50 feet of any
structure; or
   (B)   The fire is contained in a waste burner approved by the Fire Chief,
and located safely not less than 15 feet from any structure.
(Ord. 10-91, passed 11-4-1991)
§ 10-503  ATTENDANCE OF OPEN FIRES.
   (A)   Bonfires and rubbish fires shall be constantly attended by competent
persons until such fires are extinguished.
   (B)   This person shall have a garden hose connected to the water supply, or
other fire extinguishing equipment, readily available for use.
(Ord. 10-91, passed 11-4-1991)
§ 10-504  FIRE CHIEF MAY PROHIBIT.
   The Chief of the Fire Department may prohibit any, or all, bonfires and
outdoor rubbish fires when atmospheric conditions, or local circumstances, make
such fires hazardous.
(Ord. 10-91, passed 11-4-1991)
CHAPTER 11: SOLID WASTE 1
   Article
      
I.   IN GENERAL
 
Notes
  1Editor’s note:
  Ordinance 16-92, adopted August 3, 1992, amended Ch. 11 in its entirety to read
  as herein set out.
    Former Ch. 11, §§ 11-101-11-112 pertained to similar subject matter, and
  derived from Code 1976,
    §§ 9-15-9-26-9-36.
  Cross-reference:
  Rubbish in the cemetery, §
1 7-112; Health and Sanitation, Ch. 12; Nuisances, Ch. 14; dumping
    garbage, etc., in parks, §
  16-216; Planning, Zoning, and Subdivision control, Ch. 17; throwing
    or burning trash on streets prohibited, §
  19-101; abandoned vehicles, §
  20-1201 et seq.
  Statutory reference:
  Littering, G.S. § 14-399; regulation of trash and garbage, G.S. §§ 130A-
  309.09A, 130A-309.10,
    160A-303.1; solid waste collection as a public enterprise, G.S. § 160A-311.
ARTICLE I:  IN GENERAL
Section
   
11-101   Definitions
   
11-102   Town to collect garbage; exceptions
   
11-103   Collection to be supervised by Director of Public Works
   
11-104   Preparation and collection of garbage, rubbish, and trimmings
   
11-105   Refuse containers
   
11-106   Refuse to be stored in containers; scattering of refuse in public
place prohibited
   
11-107   Points of collection
   
11-108   Special solid waste problems; prohibited solid waste disposal
   
11-109   Refuse collection by actual producers, franchised collectors, and
outside collectors
   
11-110   Refuse property of town
§ 11-101  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning:
   ASHES. The residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke, or other
combustible materials.
   BUILDING MATERIALS. Scrap building material from the construction,
reconstruction, remodeling, or repair of a building, walkway, driveway, sign,
and other structure, including, but not limited to, excavated earth, tree
stumps, rocks, gravel, bricks, plaster, concrete, lumber, or any other similar
material used in construction, or the containers or wrappings thereof.
   COMMERCIAL OR BUSINESS UNIT. Any building, or structure, in or from which a
business, trade, or commerce is conducted.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of Public Works of the town.
   GARBAGE. All putrescible wastes, including animal and vegetable matter,
animal offal and carcasses, and recognizable industrial by-products, but
excluding sewage and human wastes.
   HAZARDOUS REFUSE. Any materials such as poison, acids, caustics, reactive
chemicals, infected material, radioactive, or explosives.
   MULTIPLE RESIDENTIAL UNIT. Any duplex apartment, or group of apartments,
under a single roof and used for dwelling places for more than one family.
   REFUSE. All putrescible and non-putrescible wastes, except body wastes,
including garbage, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead animals, abandoned
automobiles, and solid market and industrial wastes.
   REQUIRED CONTAINER. A covered container not to exceed 96 gallons designed
for use by residential units for storage of garbage and other miscellaneous
refuse.
   RUBBISH. Non-putrescible solid wastes, excluding ashes, consisting of both
combustible and noncombustible wastes, such as paper, cardboard, tin cans, yard
clippings, wood, glass, bedding, crockery, and similar materials.
   SINGLE RESIDENTIAL UNIT. Any dwelling place occupied by one family.
   SMALL DEAD ANIMALS. Cats, dogs, and small household pets of 70 pounds, or
less, in weight.
   SOLID WASTE. Garbage, refuse, rubbish, trash, and other discarded solid
materials, including solid waste materials resulting from homes, businesses,
industrial, commercial, and agricultural operations, and from community
activities, but does not include solids or dissolved materials in domestic
sewage, or other significant pollutants in water resources, such as silt,
dissolved or suspended solids in industrial waste water effluents, dissolved
materials in irrigation return flows, or other common water pollutants.
(Ord. 16-92, passed 8-3-1992)
§ 11-102  TOWN TO COLLECT GARBAGE; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Town to collect garbage. Except as provided by subsection (B) below,
all refuse accumulated in the town shall be collected, conveyed, and disposed
of by the town, or its authorized contractor. Except as authorized herein, no
person shall collect, convey over any of the streets or alleys of the town, or
dispose of any refuse accumulated in the town.
   (B)   Exceptions.
      (1)   This article shall not prohibit the actual producers of refuse, or
the owners of premises on which refuse has accumulated, from personally
collecting, conveying, and disposing of solid waste generated on the premises;
provided, the producers, or owners, comply with the provisions of this article,
and with any other governing law or ordinances.
      (2)   This article shall not prohibit any person operating under a
license, franchise, or contract expressly granted by the governing authorities
of the county, or operating pursuant to the provisions of this article, from
collecting, conveying, and disposing of refuse; provided, the persons comply
with the provisions of this article, and with any other governing law or
ordinances.
      (3)   This article shall not prohibit collectors of refuse from outside
of the town from hauling refuse over the town streets; provided, the collectors
comply with the provisions of this article, and with any other governing law or
ordinances.
(Ord. 16-92, passed 8-3-1992)
§ 11-103  COLLECTION TO BE SUPERVISED BY DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS.
   All refuse accumulated in the town shall be collected, conveyed, and
disposed of by the town under the supervision of the Director of Public Works,
with the exceptions noted in §
11-102(B).
§ 11-104  PREPARATION AND COLLECTION OF GARBAGE, RUBBISH, AND TRIMMINGS.
   The following regulations shall govern the preparation of refuse for
collection and disposal.
   (A)   Garbage. All garbage and refuse shall have the liquid drained
therefrom, and shall be wrapped in paper, plastic, or other like material
before it is placed in the container for collection. Ashes and cinders shall be
placed in a separate container provided for that purpose, and no ashes shall be
deposited in any container until they are cold. Containers which fail to have a
top, as required in this article, or which become rusted or broken, and
therefore are unable to contain garbage and refuse in a satisfactory manner,
shall not be used.
   (B)   Rubbish. All rubbish shall be drained of liquid before being deposited
for collection.
   (C)   Trimmings. Tree trimmings, hedge clippings, and similar materials
shall be cut to a length not to exceed eight feet, and a diameter of no more
than eight inches, and shall be hand placed at the edge of the yard with the
cut end towards the road for easy pickup. Trunk cut lengths shall not exceed
three feet in length. It shall be unlawful for any person to place, or allow to
be placed, any tree or shrubbery trimmings on any streets or sidewalks in the
town so as to obstruct free passage of persons and vehicles thereon.
   (D)   Yard waste.
      (1)   Tree limbs, brush, shrubbery, cuttings, leaves, and other yard
refuse will be collected without charge so long as the amount does not exceed
18 cubic yards in a one week (seven days) time span. All yard debris/refuse
must have originated on site, and be place within five feet of the street/
sidewalk. At no time can yard debris/refuse be placed in the street or on the
sidewalk. By placing debris/refuse out for collection, the citizens/property
owner agrees to hold the town harmless for any minor damage to their yard and/
or property as a direct result of removing the yard debris/refuse. Any
collection above and beyond the 18 cubic yard threshold will be collected on a
first come, first serve basis. Nothing in this article would prohibit any
citizens/property owner from hiring contractors for removal of yard debris/
refuse at their own expense.
      (2)   Property owners may rent a dumpster from the town, when available,
to dispose of larger accumulations. No stumps will be picked up.
   (E)   Special bulk collection of loose matter. Any property owner desiring
special bulk collections of loose matter not in closed containers, or tied in
bundles, may request a special collection for which a charge will be made. If
sufficient workforce and equipment is/are available, town personnel are
authorized to make such special collections; provided, the person making the
request agrees to pay for the labor and equipment used at the rate adopted,
from time to time, by the Town Council. Alternately, property owners may rent a
dumpster from the town, when available, to dispose of special bulk collections.
   (F)   Large rocks, tree trunks, tree stumps, tree limbs, construction, and
demolition debris. No large rocks, tree trunks, tree limbs of more than eight
feet in length, or any other heavy objects shall be collected by the town. No
waste construction and demolition debris structures under construction or
recently completed. Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, the town will
collect construction and demolition debris if:
      (1)   The debris was generated by a home owner working on his or her own
home; or
      (2)   If the debris fits within the size limitations set forth in this
subsection (F) and subsection (D) above.
   (G)   Special collections. Material to be collected by special collections
shall be placed in neat piles and so located that such refuse can be easily
loaded on trucks for disposal. Materials shall not block sidewalks or roadways.
   (H)   Limitations on town pickup. Any person or business requiring regular
pickup of more than three 55-gallon garbage cans of solid waste, or an amount
of equivalent thereto, must contract with a private solid waste collector for
pickup.
   (I)   Recycling. Materials to be recycled shall be placed in receptacles
provided by the town, and shall be subject to such requirements and limitations
as the town may impose.
(Ord. 16-92, passed 8-3-1992; Ord. 33-2003, passed 11-3-2003; Ord. 4-2006,
passed 2-6-2006; Ord. 30-2014, passed 8-4-2014)
§ 11-105  REFUSE CONTAINERS.
   (A)   The occupant of every building or premises where garbage and refuse
does, or may, exist shall be provided, by either the town and/or a contractor
representing the town for waste collections, one 96-gallon garbage container,
and one 96-gallon recycle container in which shall be deposited all garbage and
refuse existing at such building or premises. Each container shall be placed
within four feet of the street, with the lid completely closed, and the wheels
facing away from the street by 6:00 a.m. on the day of collections. The
containers shall also be placed so that no obstacles are located within four
feet of each container.
   (B)   (1)   The level of garbage service provided by the town shall not
exceed one 96-gallon can per establishment picked up one time per week.
      (2)   Any residential establishment that exceeds this level of service
shall contract with the town and/or a contractor representing the town for
waste collections, for an additional container (maximal of two 96-gallon
containers total) at their own cost. Any customer may request an additional
recycle container as well, following the same regulations as for garbage
collections. Churches and small commercial establishments shall request an
additional container at no additional cost, for a maximal of two 96-gallon
containers. Any customer exceeding 192 gallons of waste per week must use a
commercial garbage collection system. Industrial garbage or trash will not be
collected by the town, and private collectors must be used.
(Ord. 16-92, passed 8-3-92; Ord. 24-98, passed 7-20-98; Ord. 32-98, passed 9-
21-98; Ord. 36-2014, passed 11-17-2014)
§ 11-106  REFUSE TO BE STORED IN CONTAINERS; SCATTERING OF REFUSE IN PUBLIC
PLACE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   All refuse which readily fits into a container shall be placed into a
container referred to in §
11-105 for pickup by the town’s garbage collection crews.
   (B)   No person shall place any refuse in any street, alley, or other public
place, or on any private property, whether owned by the person or not, within
the town except in proper containers for collection, or under express approval
granted by the Director of Public Works; nor shall any person throw, or
deposit, any solid waste in any stream, or other body of water.
   (C)   No person shall throw, place, sweep, or deposit anywhere within the
town any solid waste in such a manner that it may be carried, or deposited, by
the elements on any street, sidewalk, alley, sewer, parkway, or other public
place, or into any occupied premises within the town.
(Ord. 16-92, passed 8-3-1992)
§ 11-107  POINTS OF COLLECTION.
   (A)   Where the container required by §
11-105 is used, the owner, tenant, lessee, or occupant of the premises shall be
responsible for causing the container to be placed at the curb, or side, of the
street, but not in the portions of the street used for vehicular travel, at a
place readily accessible for collection by the town’s garbage collection crews.
   (B)   Pick up schedules for each area of the town are available at Town
Hall. Containers must be placed at curbside of the day of pickup by 6:00 a.m.
Plastic bags may be used, but must be kept in containers except the day of the
pick up, and shall not exceed the equivalent of three 55-gallon cans.
Containers shall not be placed adjacent to the street or sidewalk except on the
days on which garbage is to be collected. Garbage containers shall be removed
from their positions adjacent to the street after the contents have been
emptied on that same day. Town equipment shall not go onto private property for
the purpose of garbage collection.
   (C)   No person shall disturb, or interfere with, the content of any
container, or the container itself, which has been set out for collection, and
removal, by the town.
(Ord. 16-92, passed 8-3-1992)
§ 11-108  SPECIAL SOLID WASTE PROBLEMS; PROHIBITED SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Contagious disease refuse. The removal of wearing apparel, bedding, or
other refuse from homes or other places where highly infectious, or contagious,
diseases have prevailed should be performed under the supervision, and
direction, of the County Health Officer. This refuse shall not be placed in
containers for regular collections.
   (B)   Inflammable or explosive refuse. Highly inflammable or explosive
materials shall not be placed in containers for regular collection, but shall
be disposed of as directed by the Director of Public Works at the expense of
the owner, or possessor, thereof.
   (C)   Leaves. The town will collect leaves between October 1 and January 15
of each year if piled in accessible locations at the street, or alley, from
which other collections are normally made. Leaf collections, other than between
the above dates, shall be in a container approved by the town. Leaves shall not
be raked onto sidewalks, curbs, or into the streets.
   (D)   Tires. Automobile, truck tractor, or implement tires shall not be
placed in containers for collection, and will be collected under the following
circumstances. To be acceptable for collection, the owner of such tires will
contact the Public Works Department and request that they be picked up. There
will be a charge for these tires to offset landfill disposal fees. No tires
will be picked up from tire dealers, garages, or other commercial enterprise.
   (E)   Building materials and the like. All construction and demolition
debris remaining both as a result of the repair of any new buildings, or of the
erection, and completion, of any new buildings, shall be removed by the
property owner within ten days from the completion of the work.
   (F)   Removal of dead animals. Dead animals will be removed from any
premises by the town upon notice to the Director of Public Works of the
existence of such dead animal.
   (G)   Hazardous waste. No hazardous solid, or liquid, waste shall be put in
any receptacle for collection by the town.
   (H)   Grass. Grass clippings, as a result of mowing or raking, shall not be
thrown into the street, curb, or on the sidewalks. The town will not collect
any cut grass, or grass of any kind, piled by the road, or placed in any other
location in the town. To be accepted for collection, grass which has been cut
must be placed in a clear plastic bag with the top securely tied, and placed by
the side of the road in a place where garbage, or other refuse, is usually
collected.
   (I)   Prohibited disposals.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly dispose of the following solid wastes in
landfills or in garbage cans for collection by the town, except in accordance
with G.S. § 130A-309.130 et seq.:
         (a)   Used oil;
         (b)   Yard trash, except in landfills approved for the disposal of
yard trash under rules adopted by the State Commission for Public Health. Yard
trash that is source separated from solid waste may be accepted at a solid
waste disposal area where the area provides, and maintains, separate yard trash
composting facilities;
         (c)   White goods;
         (d)   Antifreeze (ethylene glycol);
         (e)   Aluminum cans;
         (f)   Whole scrap tires. The prohibition on disposal of whole scrap
tires in landfills applies to all whole pneumatic rubber coverings, but does
not apply to whole solid rubber coverings;
         (g)   Lead-acid batteries;
         (h)   Beverage containers that are required to be recycled under G.S.
§ 18B-1006.1;
         (i)   Motor vehicle oil filters;
         (j)   Recyclable rigid plastic containers that are required to be
labeled, as provided in G.S. § 130A-309.10(e), that have a neck smaller than
the body of the container, and that accept a screw top, snap cap, or other
closure. The prohibition on disposal of recyclable, rigid plastic containers in
landfills does not apply to rigid plastic containers that are intended for use
in the sale, or distribution, of motor oil;
         (k)   Wooden pallets, except that wooden pallets may be disposed of in
a landfill that is permitted to only accept construction and demolition debris;
         (l)   Oyster shells;
         (m)   Discarded computer equipment, as defined in G.S. § 130A-309.91;
         (n)   Discarded televisions, as defined in G.S. § 130A-309.91;
         (o)   Steel or metal alloys; or
         (p)   Any other items banned at the county landfill.
      (2)   From time to time, the town may prohibit other items for solid
waste disposal. While every effort will be made to keep this article updated,
the most current list of prohibited items shall be available at Town Hall. The
list provided at Town Hall shall be deemed to preempt the list contained in
this subsection (I).
(Ord. 16-92, passed 8-3-1992)
Statutory reference:
   Prohibited items, G.S. § 130A-309.10.
§ 11-109  REFUSE COLLECTION BY ACTUAL PRODUCERS, FRANCHISED COLLECTORS, AND
OUTSIDE COLLECTORS.
   The following provisions shall govern the collection of solid waste by
persons authorized to do so pursuant to §
11-102(B).
   (A)   Requirements for vehicles. Vehicles shall be operated, and solid waste
shall be so enclosed and/or covered so as to prevent offensive odors escaping
therefrom, and solid waste from being blown, dropped, or spilled.
   (B)   Disposal. Solid waste shall be disposed of only in authorized
landfills, recycling centers, or otherwise in accordance with state law.
   (C)   Rules and regulations. The Director of Public Works shall have the
authority to make any other reasonable regulations concerning individual
collection and disposal, and relating to the hauling of solid waste over town
streets.
§ 11-110  REFUSE PROPERTY OF TOWN.
   Ownership of refuse material set out for collection by the town shall be
vested in the town.
(Ord. 16-92, passed 8-3-1992)
CHAPTER 12: HEALTH AND SANITATION 1
   Article
      
I.   IN GENERAL
 
Notes
  1Cross-reference:
  Solid Waste, Ch. 11; Nuisances, Ch. 14; Human and animal waste, dead animals,
  §
1 12-106;
    throwing or burning trash on streets prohibited, §
  19-101.
  Statutory reference:
  Regulating and licensing businesses, G.S. § 160A-194
ARTICLE I:  IN GENERAL
Section
   
12-101   Butchering restricted
   
12-102   Removal of stagnant waters
   
12-103   Businesses to be kept in sanitary condition
   
12-104   Town water tank
   
12-105   Swine
   
12-106   Human and animal waste; dead animals
§ 12-101  BUTCHERING RESTRICTED.
   (A)   No person shall butcher any cattle, hogs, or sheep within the
corporate limits of the town.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to persons that butcher cattle, or hogs
or sheep, for non-commercial home purposes.
   (C)   Bona fide farms may slaughter animals a maximum of six days per year;
provided, that such activities shall be accessory to the primary bona fide farm
use. This subsection (C) does not authorize commercial animal slaughtering
operations, which are permitted only to the extent they are allowed by Chapter
17, “Planning, Zoning, and Subdivision Control”, of this code.
(Code 1976, § 9.7)
Cross-reference:
   Livestock, §§ 4-501 et seq.
Statutory reference:
   Meat inspection and slaughtering, G.S. Ch. 106, Art. 49B.
§ 12-102  REMOVAL OF STAGNANT WATERS.
   Stagnant water in cellars, or upon lots, shall be removed on notice from the
Town Manager, or his or her designee, to the person permitting the same to
remain.
(Code 1976, § 9.8)
§ 12-103  BUSINESSES TO BE KEPT IN SANITARY CONDITION.
   All persons doing business in the town shall keep their premises in a
sanitary condition. Garbage, including fish boxes, decayed meats, fruits,
vegetables, or any other thing which attracts flies, or creates offensive
odors, shall be made ready for regular trash pickup by the town.
(Code 1976, § 9.10)
Cross-reference:
   Businesses and Trades, Ch. 6; Solid Wastes, Ch. 11.
§ 12-104  TOWN WATER TANK.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than persons employed by the
town, to climb up the water tank in the town.
(Code 1976, § 9.13)  Penalty, see §
1-111
Cross-reference:
   Water system, §§ 21-201 et seq.
§ 12-105  SWINE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain a hog pen, hog lot, or other
enclosure for swine within 150 feet of any residence.
(Code 1976, § 9.14)  Penalty, see §
1-111
Cross-reference:
   Animals, Ch. 4.
Statutory reference:
   Feeding garbage to swine, G.S. §§ 106-405.1 et seq.
§ 12-106  HUMAN AND ANIMAL WASTE; DEAD ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to urinate or deposit any human
waste on any street, lot, or premises except in an approved sanitary facility.
No butcher, fishmonger, huckster, or vendor of merchandise of any kind shall
leave any solid waste on the streets, or uncovered by earth, on the lots of the
town. All putrid or decayed animals, or vegetable matter, must be removed from
all cellars and outbuildings at least once every 48 hours during the months of
May, June, July, August, and September, and at least once a week during the
other months of the year.
   (B)   No animal that died by disease or accident, and no meat therefrom, nor
any animal or meat therefrom killed while feverish, bruised, disabled, injured
with broken bones, or otherwise heavy with young, jaded, or fatigued from long
driving or shipping, or killed, or kept, in some building, or in so close
proximity with fumes of gas, or disease, or spoiled meat as to become
contaminated therefrom, or rendered unwholesome or unhealthy thereby, or
manipulated with tools used on diseased, or other dead, carcasses as aforesaid,
shall be brought into town, held, or offered for sale as food therein.
   (C)   Owners of animals dying in the town, weighing less than 40 pounds,
shall, upon notice of their death, immediately contact the Public Works
Department for removal of same.
(Code 1976, § 9.4) (Ord. 5-90, passed 3-5-1990)  Penalty, see §
1-111
Cross-reference:
   Animals, Ch. 4; Solid Wastes, Ch. 11.
Statutory reference:
   Meat inspection and slaughtering, G.S. Ch. 106, Art. 49B and 49D.
CHAPTER 13: HUMAN RIGHTS
   Article
      
I.   IN GENERAL
      
II.   FAIR HOUSING
ARTICLE I:  IN GENERAL
Section
   13-101 to 13-199   Reserved
§§ 13-101 TO 13-199  RESERVED.
ARTICLE II:  FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
13-201 to 13-206   Repealed
Cross-reference:
   Buildings and Building Regulations, Ch. 5
Statutory reference:
   Article II has been preempted by the State Fair Housing Act, G.S. Ch. 41A,
which was adopted in 1983.
§§ 13-201 TO 13-206  REPEALED.
[Repealed]
(Code 1976, § 2A)
CHAPTER 14: NUISANCES
   Article
      
I.   IN GENERAL
      
II.   NOISE
      
III.   COMMUNITY APPEARANCE STANDARDS
ARTICLE I:  IN GENERAL
Section
   
14-101   Definitions
   
14-102   Nuisance
   
14-103   Exceptions
   
14-104   Notice
   
14-105   Removal or abatement of nuisances
   
14-106   Chronic violator
   
14-107   Removal or abatement of other conditions
   
14-108   Appeal
   
14-109   Removal by town
   
14-110   Emergency action
   
14-111   Penalties
   
14-112   Right of entry
   
14-113   Cost of abatement declared lien
   
14-114   Open burning
§ 14-101  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   AGENT. The person who manages, or has custody of, a business building, or
the person to whom rent thereon, if any, is paid.
   APARTMENT or APARTMENT HOUSE or TENEMENT HOUSE. Every house, building, or
portion thereof which is rented, leased, let, or hired out to be occupied, or
is occupied, as the house, home, or residence of more than two families, living
independently of each other and doing their cooking on the premises, or by more
than one family upon a floor, so living and cooking, but having no common right
in the halls, stairways, yards, water closets, or privies.
   ASHES. The residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke, or other
combustible material. ASHES shall not include cremated human remains.
   ATTACHED BUSINESS UNIT. A structure of two, or more, business offices
constructed as one unit, such as a dental office, medical office, insurance
office, or any other business in which the major activity is providing a
service, or is clerical in nature and does not in itself produce a product.
   BRUSHWOOD. Large, heavy yard trimmings resulting from heavy pruning or shrub
removal, with maximum six-inch diameter at large end.
   BUILDING MATERIAL. Lumber, brick, stone, dirt, carpet, plumbing materials,
plaster, concrete, floor coverings, roofing material, gutters, and other
materials, or substances, accumulated as a result of new construction, repairs,
remodeling, or additions to existing structures or accessory structures, or
demolition of such.
   BULK CONTAINER. A commercially made metal container designed to store, and
hold, rubbish and solid waste until the same can be collected for disposal,
generally having a capacity of not less than four cubic yards, nor more than
eight cubic yards, and capable of being serviced, and emptied, by automated
machinery.
   BULK SERVICE. A customer that stores, and disposes of, rubbish and solid
waste in a bulk container.
   BUSINESS BUILDING. Any structure, whether public or private, in the town
that is adapted for occupancy for transaction of business, for rendering of
professional service, for amusement, for the display, sale, or storage of
goods, wares, or merchandise, or for the performance of work or labor,
including, but not being limited to, hotels, office buildings, public
buildings, stores, theaters, markets, restaurants, grain elevators, abattoirs,
warehouses, workshops, factories in business areas, and all outhouses, sheds,
barns, and other structures on premises used for business purposes.
   COLLECTION. The act of removing solid waste from a point of generation to an
approved disposal site.
   COLLECTION ON PRIVATE PROPERTY. The act of removing solid waste from private
developments for an additional fee from a point of generation to an approved
disposal site. COLLECTION shall be made at a mutually established location
approved by the property manager and the Town Manager, or appointed designee
for automated collection.
   COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT. Any structure or location, whether public or
private, that is adapted for occupancy for the transaction of business, for the
rendering of professional services, for amusement, for the display, sale, or
storage of goods, wares, or merchandise, or for the performance of work or
labor, including hotel rooms, rooming houses, office buildings, public
buildings, stores, theaters, markets, restaurants, grain elevators, abattoirs,
warehouses, workshops, factories, and all other houses, sheds, barns, and other
structures on premises used for business purposes. COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT
shall also include churches, houses of worship, or other religious, or
eleemosynary, institutions, regardless of size.
   CONDOMINIUM. Real estate, portions of which are designated for separate
ownership, and the remainder of which is designated for common ownership solely
by the owners of those portions. Real estate is not a CONDOMINIUM unless the
undivided interests in the common elements are vested in the unit owners.
   CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION WASTE. Solid waste incident to maintenance,
remodeling, or new construction, including, but not limited to, mineral matter,
wood, sheetrock, shingles, and metal, but specifically excluding any substance
which is contaminated by asbestos, lead based paint, or any other substance,
the disposal of which is regulated as a toxic or hazardous material.
   DISABLED PERSON. Any person who, by reason of infirmity, or other physical
or mental impairment, is incapable of complying with the provisions of this
article as it relates to the placement of refuse containers curbside. Included
in the definition are children 12 years of age and under.
   FAMILY LIVING UNIT. Single-family residences, single mobile homes, single-
family living units in duplexes, apartments, and other multi-family dwellings,
but shall not include hotels or motels.
   FEE. The charge by the town associated with a good, or service, provided to,
or for, the benefit of a customer.
   GARBAGE. All putrescible wastes except sewage and body wastes, including all
meat, vegetables, and fruit refuse commonly resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food, from, or on, any premises within
the town limits.
   GRAFFITI.
      (1)   Writings, drawings, inscriptions, figures, or marks of paint, ink,
chalk, dye, or other similar substances on public, or private, buildings,
sidewalks, streets, structures, or places which such marking are not
authorized, or permitted, by the property owner or possessor. For the purpose
of this article, GRAFFITI shall include drawings, writings, markings, or
inscriptions regardless of the content, or the nature, of the materials used in
the act.
      (2)   Nothing in this article shall be construed to prevent temporary,
easily removable chalk, or other water soluble markings, on public, or private,
sidewalks, streets, or other paved surfaces which are used in connection with
typical children’s activities, such as drawings, or bases for stick ball,
kickball, handball, hopscotch, or other similar activities. Nothing in this
article shall be construed to prohibit temporary, easily removable chalk, or
other water soluble markings, used in connections with any lawful business or
public purpose, or activity.
   HAZARDOUS HOUSEHOLD WASTE. Any of the following materials existing in a home
because of their use in that home: pesticides; herbicides; petroleum products
(epoxy resins, coal tar, polishes, thinners, mineral spirits, varnish, grease,
and caulking materials); solvents; acids (muriatic, hydrochloric, sulfuric, and
phosphoric); poisons (arsenic, lead, chrome, and warfarin compounds); alkaline
material (photo developers, sodium hydroxide, and bleaches); oil based paints
and stains, but not latex paints; batteries of all kinds, for cars,
flashlights, smoke detectors, hearing aids, toys, watches, and similar
batteries; antifreeze; and used motor oil.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIAL OR HAZARDOUS WASTE. The following is an explanation of
hazardous waste as published in the State Hazardous Waste Management Law
adopted for the Federal Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), being G.S. §§
130A-290 et seq. For the purposes of this article, the definition HAZARDOUS
WASTE has been condensed. The terms defined are not inclusive of all items
specified by the EPA regulations.
      (1)   HAZARDOUS WASTE is defined as potentially dangerous byproducts of
our highly industrialized society which cannot be handled, treated, or disposed
of without special precautions.
      (2)   It includes ignitable, corrosive, reactive, and toxic waste such as
acetone, gasoline, and industrial alcohol, alkaline cleaners, acids, cyanide
and chlorine, arsenic, pesticide wastes, paint, caustics, infected material,
offal, fecal matter (human and animal), and explosives.
   HEALTH OFFICIAL. The Chief Health Official of the County Health Department,
or any health department including county, or any person whom he or she has
authorized to perform any of the powers, or duties, conferred upon him or her
by this article.
   HOTELS AND MOTELS. Places of business whose primary business, and the one in
which they are normally and customarily engaged in, supplying temporary living
quarters with limited family living facilities for short periods of time.
   HOUSEHOLD SHARP MEDICAL WASTE. Any type of product capable of puncturing, or
lacerating, the skin that is designed, or used, to treat, diagnose, or prevent
a disease or medical condition, including, but not limited to, scalpels and
hypodermic needles.
   INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL WASTE. Wastes, including solids, semisolids,
sludge, and liquids generated by an industry, commercial establishment, or
other manufacturing enterprise that is not classified as a hazardous waste, or
requires special handling such as oils, acids, and the like.
   INFECTIOUS WASTE. A solid waste capable of producing an infectious disease.
Examples of waste designated as INFECTIOUS are: micro-biological waste;
pathological waste; blood products; improperly packaged sharps; and all other
waste as defined in the medical waste management regulation under 15A N.C.A.C.
13B.1201 in the State Solid Waste Management Rules.
   LIQUID WASTE. Any waste material that is determined to contain free liquid
as defined in method 9095, Paint Filter Liquid Test, as described in Test
Methods for Evaluating Solid Waste, Physical/Chemical Method, as published in
the Environmental Protection Agency Publication, No. SW-846, or any successor
or equivalent publication.
   LITTER. Any discarded human-made materials including, but not limited to,
solid waste materials, industrial materials, household trash, business trash,
building materials, scrap materials, and hazardous waste, as such terms are
defined in this article, and not properly containerized, or prepared, for
collection and disposal.
   MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL UNIT. Two, or more, single-family dwellings
constructed as one unit, such as apartment houses, motels, mobile home parks,
townhouses, patio houses, or condominiums. Duplexes/triplexes built on public
streets are not considered MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL UNITS.
   NUISANCE. Any condition, or use, of property, or any act, or omission,
affecting the condition, or use, of property, which directly threatens the
safety of citizens; adversely affects the general health, happiness, security,
and welfare of others; or is detrimental to the rights of others to the full
use of their own property and their own comfort and happiness, because of
decreased property values and the unattractiveness, and livability, of
neighborhoods. Further, the Town Council finds, and declares, that the
following specific conditions are prejudicial to the general health, safety,
and welfare of the town and its citizens; lessen the attractiveness and
livability of the town; and, when located on any lot or parcel of land within
the town limits, are a NUISANCE.
   OCCUPANT. The individual, firm, partnership, or corporation that has the use
of, controls, or occupies any business building, apartment house, or tenement
house, or any portion thereof, whether owner or tenant. In the case of vacant
business buildings, apartment houses, or tenement houses, or any vacant portion
of a business building, apartment house, or tenement house, the owner, agent,
or other person having custody of the building shall have the responsibilities
of an OCCUPANT of a building.
   OCCUPANT. The person who has the use of, or occupies, any business building,
or any part thereof, or who has the use, or possession, actual or constructive,
of the premises, whether the actual owner or tenant. In the case of vacant
business buildings, or any vacant portion of a business building, or in case of
occupancy in whole, or in part, by the owner and agent of the building, such
owner or agent shall be deemed to be, and shall have the responsibility of, an
OCCUPANT of such building.
   OPEN PLACE. Constitutes any portion, or area, of a property not enclosed by
walls; this shall include, but not be limited to, carports, patios, porches,
decks, terraces, lean-tos, outbuildings, and the like, which are exposed to the
exterior and/or public view, including, but not limited to, front, side, and/or
rear yards. Tarps, plastic sheeting, canvas sheeting, unfinished building
materials, or the like shall not constitute walls.
   OPENING. Any opening in foundation, sides, or walls, ground or first floor,
or basement, including chimneys, eaves, grills, windows, ventilators, walk
grates, elevators, and any pipes, wires, or other installations through which a
rat may enter.
   OWNER. The person owning the business building or premises, or agent of the
building or premises, or the person to whom rent is paid; whether an
individual, firm, partnership, or corporation. In the case of business
buildings leased, or rented, with a covenant in the lease, or other agreement
under which the lessee is responsible for maintenance and repairs, the lessee
shall also be considered in such cases as the OWNER for the purpose of this
article.
   PHYSICAL DISABILITY. A medical condition, verified by a registered
physician, that makes an individual physically unable to bring the automated
refuse/automated recycling container to the curbside for collection, and where
there is no one else residing in the household capable of taking the containers
to the curbside.
   PREMISES. Business houses, boardinghouses, rooming houses, offices,
theaters, hotels, tourist camps, apartments, restaurants, cafs, bars, eating
houses, hospitals, schools, private residences, mobile home parks, vacant lots,
and other places where garbage, trash, or rubbish accumulates.
   PRIVATE STREET. A street not open to public use, on private property, and
not maintained by any governmental agency.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. All of that property, as described and set out in an
owner’s deed, including, but not limited to, yards, grounds, driveways,
entrances or passageways, parking areas, storage areas, vacant land, and bodies
of water, and including sidewalks, grass strips, one-half of alleys, curbs, or
rights-of-way up to the edge of the pavement of any public street.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. All that property, except private property as herein
defined, including, but not limited to, highways, streets, parks, recreation
areas, sidewalks, grass strips, medians, curbs, or rights-of-way up to the edge
of the pavement of any public street or body of water.
   PUBLIC STREET. The entire width between property lines, whatever nature,
when any part thereof is dedicated, or open, to the use of the public as a
matter of right for the purpose of vehicular, or pedestrian, traffic.
   QUALIFYING CUSTOMER. A single-family detached home, duplex, or condominium
regardless of the size of complex, or an apartment, tenement house, or townhome
which, when combined with all other units located on the premises, is comprised
of not more than six family living units.
   RAT ERADICATION. The removal, killing, destruction, and extermination of
rats by systematic use of traps, or by poisons and by other methods.
   RAT HARBORAGE. Any condition which provides shelter or protection for rats,
thus favoring their multiplication and continued existence in, under, or
outside of a structure of any kind, including, but not limited to, conditions
on vacant lots, creeks, branches, ditches, rubbish heaps, junkyards, and any
other places inside, or outside, of structures which afford shelter, or provide
a place, or situation, favoring the breeding, multiplication, or continued
existence of rats.
   RAT STOPPAGE or RAT-PROOFING. A form of construction to prevent ingress of
rats into business buildings from the exterior, or from one building to
another; it consists essentially of the closing, with material impervious to
rat gnawing, of all openings in the exterior walls, ground or first floors,
basements, roofs, and foundations that may be reached by rats from the ground
by climbing, or by burrowing.
   REFUSE. All solid wastes, including garbage, rubbish, and trash.
   ROLLOUT CONTAINER. A plastic or fiberglass container, having wheels for ease
of movement and a lid which securely covers the bin designed to keep flies, and
other vermin, from refuse, which is approximately 95 gallons in size, and
designed for the automatic collection of refuse by town machinery.
   RUBBISH or TRASH. Matter that is worthless or useless, or of no substantial,
practical value, or matter that is of value only when it has decayed, or has
been recycled. RUBBISH is solid waste, exclusive of garbage or ashes,
including, but not limited to, leaves, pine needles, twigs, limbs, and other
such parts of trees not useful as timber, and shall include the trunks and
limbs of trees, even though useful for timber, when the same have been blown
down or felled, either partially or totally, and which have become dried and
flammable; tin or aluminum cans, bottles, papers, paper boxes or cartons, small
light wood or crafting materials, rags, excelsior, rubber, leather, metals,
wire or wire scraps, glass and crockery, but shall not include salvage
automobiles, buses, or other items which, in the judgment of the town, is
likely to cause damage to equipment of the town or injury to employees of the
town, or is likely, because of the nature, size, or weight of the material, to
handicap, or overburden, the automated equipment.
   SHARPS CONTAINER. A container specifically manufactured for the disposal of
sharp medical waste.
   SINGLE BUSINESS UNIT. Any single, nonresidential unit that generates no more
garbage per week than can be placed, or stored, in a maximum of one rollout
container, with a total capacity of no more than 95 gallons, when accumulated
between collections, such as a dental office, medical office, insurance office,
or another business in which the major activity is providing a service, or is
clerical in nature, and does not in itself produce a product.
   SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL UNIT. Any dwelling place occupied by one family,
and not defined as a multi-family residential unit.
   SOLID WASTE. Useless, unwanted, or discarded solid material with
insufficient liquid content to be free flowing, including, by way of example
and not by limitation, rubbish, garbage, commercial and industrial waste, scrap
materials, junk, refuse, demolition and construction debris, and landscape
refuse, but shall not include sludge from air or water pollution control
facilities, septic tank sludge, or agricultural or unacceptable waste.
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITY. Any land or structure, or combination of land
area and structures, including dumps, landfills, and transfer stations used for
storing, transferring, collecting, separating, processing, recycling,
recovering, treating, salvaging, reducing, incinerating, or disposing of solid
wastes.
   STATIONARY BULK COMPACTOR. Any town approved container made of watertight
construction that contains a packing mechanism and an internal, or external,
power unit, and constructed so that the container can be emptied mechanically
by means of automated equipment for the purpose of collection of solid waste.
   TOWNHOME or TOWNHOUSE. An apartment, or other family living unit, which is
capable of ownership separate, and apart, from other portions of the structure
to which it is conjoined, or of which it may be a part, but of which there is
no ownership interest in the common areas of the facility in the owner of the
individual dwelling unit.
   UNACCEPTABLE WASTE. Items which are not appropriate for disposal through
this means, and includes, but is not limited to, sewage and its derivatives,
special nuclear or by-product materials within the meaning of the Atomic Energy
Act of 1954, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 2011 et seq., as amended, and hazardous waste.
   UNIT. One single-family residence, or an individual apartment, motel room or
suite, mobile home, townhouse, patio house, condominium, or cluster home in a
multi-family residence, unless otherwise specified by the town.
   WASTE. All useless, unwanted, or discarded materials resulting from
industrial, commercial, agricultural, and residential activities.
   WHITE GOODS. Large household appliances, regardless of actual color,
including, but not limited to, refrigerators, stoves, washers, dryers, and the
like.
   YARD WASTE. Vegetative matter, and other materials generated while providing
normal maintenance to the yard areas adjacent to a single-family residential
unit without earth, soil, or other mineral matter attached thereto, including,
but not limited to, leaves, grass, twigs, limbs, hedge trimmings, plant
trimmings, and shrubs. This shall not include plastic or synthetic fibers,
lumber, rocks, gravel, dirt, or tree or shrubbery remains, except as
specifically authorized herein, or soil contaminated with hazardous waste.
(Ord. 22-2018, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 14-102  NUISANCE.
   Any condition specifically declared to be a danger to the public health,
safety, morals, and general welfare of inhabitants of the town and a public
nuisance by the Town Council, or is in violation of any town, county, or state
health regulation, is considered to be a nuisance as follows, but not limited
to:
   (A)   Unfit habitat.
      (1)   Whatever renders the air, food, or water unwholesome;
      (2)   Whatever building, erection, structure, or part of cellar thereof
is overcrowded, or not provided with adequate means of ingress and egress, or
is not sufficiently supported, ventilated, drained, cleaned, or lighted; and
      (3)   An occupied or used improvement thereon without utility services
resulting in conditions which are detrimental to the health, safety, or welfare
of citizens, and the peace and dignity of the town.
   (B)   Unsanitary, stagnant, or inhibited water.
      (1)   Any stagnant water, to include all cellars and foundations of
houses whose bottoms contain stagnant or putrid water;
      (2)   DISEASE VECTORS, an open place of collection of water where insects
tend to breed; permitting of any stagnant water, filth, or any other matter
harmful to health or comfort to remain on the premises of the owner, or
premises under control by the owner or person in control within the corporate
limits after 24 hours’ notice of such condition;
      (3)   All business organizations, such as public motor vehicle garages,
service stations, dry cleaning establishments, and any other businesses or
industrial organizations which shall discharge any petroleum products,
chemicals, or other such substances which would, or could, pollute any creek or
stream within the zoning jurisdiction of the town;
      (4)   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct the flow of water
in any stream or drainage way within the town by throwing, or placing, stumps,
brush, rubbish, litter, or other material within, or along, the banks of any
such stream or natural drainage way; and
      (5)   Any improper, or inadequate, drainage on private property which
causes flooding, interferes with the use of, or endangers in any way, the
streets, sidewalks, parks, or other town-owned property of any kind; provided,
that the notices required, and powers conferred, by this article by and on the
public official in abating the nuisances defined by this subsection (B)(5)
shall be given, and exercised, by the Town Manager or the Director of Public
Works.
   (C)   Rats, snakes, carcasses, and feral animals.
      (1)   Any building or premises which is constructed, or maintained, in
such a manner so as to provide food, shelter, or protection for rats;
      (2)   Firewood, if stored outdoors, shall be stacked orderly to prevent
wildlife habitat; and
      (3)   Hides, dried or green; provided, the same may be kept for sale in
the town when thoroughly cured and odorless.
   (D)   Junk.
      (1)   Any furniture originally intended for indoor or interior use, or
outdoor furniture in disuse or disrepair;
      (2)   Seating removed from motor vehicles;
      (3)   Storage containers;
      (4)   Automotive parts and/or supplies;
      (5)   Inoperable appliances, or exercise equipment;
      (6)   Other metal products of any kind, or nature, kept within an open
place which have jagged edges of metal or glass, or areas of confinement; and
      (7)   Junked motor vehicles on public grounds and private property. (See
Chapter 10, Article XII, “Abandoned, Junk, and Nuisance Motor Vehicles”.)
   (E)   Plant overgrowth.
      (1)   Weeds, grasses, and/or other vegetation on one’s residential,
business, or vacant lot which is over eight inches in height on the average, or
to permit such lot to serve as a breeding place for mosquitoes, as a refuge for
rats and snakes, as a collecting place for trash and litter, or as a fire
hazard.
It will be the responsibility of the owner to cut, and remove, all weeds and
other overgrown vegetation as often as necessary so as to comply with the
provisions of this article. This provision shall not apply to lots greater than
one acre, but shall be maintained in accordance with this provision to a depth
of 20 feet from its property lines if, and only if, the adjacent property is
occupied by a dwelling, or other structure located within 50 feet of such
property. This provision will not apply to wooded vacant lots that are more
than 75% covered with mature trees, or property that consist of ravines, creek
banks, or severe slopes which may cause the maintenance dangerous or unsafe.
Furthermore, this provision will not apply to vacant lots that are larger than
three acres in size (for example, golf courses, farmland, vineyards, and the
like). Natural means of plant removal is permitted on parcels of land greater
than 200 acres;
      (2)   A place of vines, shrubs, or other vegetation over eight inches in
height when such vines, shrubs, or vegetation are a focal point for any other
nuisance enumerated in this article; provided, the nuisance herein defined by
this section shall be cleared and cut only when it is necessary to abate any
other nuisance described in this section;
      (3)   A place of growth of noxious vegetation, including poison sumac
(Rhus Vernix), poison ivy (Rhus Radicans), or poison oak (Rhus Toxicodendron),
in a location likely to be accessible to the general public; and
      (4)   Any hedge, shrubbery, tree, or plant along any street, alley, or
sidewalk planted closer than 18 inches, or extending closer than 12 inches, or
lower than 14 1/2 feet to such street, alley, or sidewalk, or any of the above-
mentioned vegetation that obscures clear vision as located within the protected
sight distance triangle.
   (F)   Trash and waste. The storage of garbage and trash in containers, as
prescribed by this article, and the regular collection thereof by the town upon
payment of fees and charges, as provided in this article, are hereby declared
to be essential to the efficient operation of the town, and to the prevention
of disease and protection to the public health. Any accumulation of rubbish or
trash causing, or threatening to cause, the inhabitation therein of rats, mice,
snakes, or vermin of any kind;
      (1)   Scattering of garbage or trash, storage of garbage or trash, except
in containers as provided by this article, or the accumulation of trash by
reason of nonpayment of fees or charges for its removal, is hereby declared to
be a nuisance and a violation of this article;
      (2)   Under no circumstances shall trash or garbage be allowed to
accumulate, or be stored, for a period longer than 30 days;
      (3)   Under no circumstances shall trash or garbage be dumped, or stored,
on any right-of-way or in any alley, or on any lot without being placed in
proper containers as prescribed herein;
      (4)   No industrial wastes, manure, debris from construction or repair
work, leaves, trees, or tree trimmings may be dumped, or stored, within any
right-of-way or in any alley;
      (5)   No owner or occupant of any premises shall prohibit, or prevent,
weekly solid waste collection services at the premises; and
      (6)   An open place of collection of garbage, food waste, animal waste,
or any other rotten or putrescible matter of any kind.
   (G)   Public streets maintenance.
      (1)   Failure to clean or clear a public street, property, and adjoining
sidewalks of any earth, sand, or mud and debris related to a construction,
timbering, or other similar land use project within 12 hours after notification
by the town for major and minor thoroughfares, or within 24 hours after such
notification for collector and local streets; however, if it is found by the
town that the situation is causing a clear and present danger, or hazard, to
traffic or the general public, such cleaning or clearing may be required to
take place as soon after notification as practicable. This provision does not
preempt any applicable federal, state, or county regulations applicable to said
events; and
      (2)   Property owners are required to maintain any area of their property
which is located between a public sidewalk and the curb of a paved street in
accordance with the guidelines set forth in this section.
   (H)   Odor.
      (1)   Unsightly litter, foul, or offensive odors which remain upon, or
emanate from, a property; and
      (2)   Maintaining animals in an unsanitary environment which results in
unsightly or offensive animal waste, litter, or odor which would disturb a
reasonable person.
   (I)   Construction materials. Lumber and building supplies, earth, sand,
and/or gravel on construction sites where the work is discontinued for a period
of 60 days;
   (J)   Graffiti. It shall be unlawful for any person owning property, acting
as manager or agent for the owner of property, or in possession, or control, of
property to fail to remove, or effectively obscure, any graffiti;
   (K)   Animal sanitation.
      (1)   Any person owning, harboring, walking, in possession of, or in
charge of, a dog, which defecates on public property, public park property,
public right-of-way property, or any private property without the permission of
the private property owners, shall remove all feces immediately after it is
deposited by the dog. All feces removed in accordance with this subsection (K)
shall be placed in a suitable bag or other container that closes, and disposed
of in a lawful manner;
      (2)   Any person, while harboring, walking, in possession of, or in
charge of, a dog on public property, public park property, public right-of-way,
or any private property without the permission of the private property owner,
shall have, in possession, a bag or other container that closes, which is
suitable for removing feces deposited by the dog; and
      (3)   The provisions of this subsection (K) shall not apply to visually
impaired persons using dogs as guides.
   (L)   Abandoned manufactured homes. See Chapter 5, Article VII.
(Ord. 22-2018, passed 12-3-2018)  Penalty, see §
14-111
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, G.S. § 160A-193.
§ 14-103  EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions contained in §
14-102(D) and (F) shall not apply to commercial property owners, including, but
not limited to, junk yard dealers, salvage companies, yard waste recycling
operations, cement, quarry, or other mining type businesses, whose operations
include the accumulation, storage, sale, repair, or maintenance of such
materials or objects, and who have obtained all applicable zoning and operating
permits, and are following all applicable ordinances contained within the code
of ordinances and the zoning ordinance. In addition, the provision contained in
§
14-102(G)(1) shall not apply to stockpiled rock, stone, gravel, sand, earth, or
other similar materials on sites utilized, and maintained, by the State
Department of Transportation, or the municipality.
(Ord. 22-2018, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 14-104  NOTICE.
   (A)   Whenever the Code Official, or appointed designee, has determined that
the conditions on a particular lot, or parcel of land, are a nuisance and
should be abated, or otherwise corrected, the Code Official, or appointed
designee, shall give notice to the owner, lessee, or other person in possession
of the premises, in writing, setting forth the findings, and describing the
appropriate corrective action. The Code Official, or appointed designee, may
establish a deadline, not to exceed 60 days, for the abatement of the nuisance.
   (B)   The notice may be served upon the owner, occupant, or person in
possession of the premises by at least one of the following methods:
      (1)   By delivering a copy of the notice to the person, or by leaving
copies of the notice at the person’s residence with some person of suitable age
and discretion then residing on the premises;
      (2)   By mailing a copy of the notice by registered, or certified, mail,
return receipt requested, addressed to the person to be served, and delivered
to the addressee;
      (3)   By delivering a copy of the notice to any official, employee, or
agent of a corporation, partnership, or business; or
      (4)   If, after a due and diligent effort, the person cannot be located,
by posting a copy of the written notice in a prominent place upon the real
property.
(Ord. 22-2018, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 14-105  REMOVAL OR ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES.
   Upon investigation and discovery of any of the conditions deemed a nuisance,
the Code Official, or appointed designee, shall make a written report of his or
her findings, and may order that appropriate corrective action be taken,
including the removal, or abatement, of such conditions by the person creating
the nuisance, or by the owner, occupant, or other person in possession of the
premises on which the nuisance is located. Prompt abatement is required within
ten days from the receipt of such written notice.
(Ord. 22-2018, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 14-106  CHRONIC VIOLATOR.
   The town may notify a chronic violator of the town’s public nuisance
ordinance that, if the violator’s property is found to be in violation of the
article, the town shall, without further notice in the calendar year in which
notice is given, take action to remedy the violation, and the expense of the
action shall become a lien upon the property, and shall be collected as unpaid
taxes. The notice shall be sent by certified mail. A CHRONIC VIOLATOR is a
person who owns property whereupon, in the previous calendar year, the town
gave notice of violation at least three times under any provision of the public
nuisance ordinance.
(Ord. 22-2018, passed 12-3-2018)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, G.S. § 160A-200.1.
§ 14-107  REMOVAL OR ABATEMENT OF OTHER CONDITIONS.
   Prior to ordering the removal of conditions which do not threaten the public
safety, or pose a general threat to the health, safety, and general welfare of
the citizens of the town, the Code Official, or appointed designee, shall first
determine that such conditions are visible from adjacent property, or from a
nearby street or highway, and that the benefits of removing, or correcting, the
conditions outweigh the burdens imposed upon the private property owner. Such
findings shall be based upon a balancing of the monetary loss of the owner
against the corresponding gain to the public by promoting, or enhancing, the
community, neighborhood, or area appearance, including protection of property
values, indirect protection of public health and safety, preservation of the
character and integrity of the community, and the promotion of comfort and
quality of life of area residents.
(Ord. 22-2018, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 14-108  APPEAL.
   Within the time period stated in the notice to abate, the owner or occupant
of the property where the nuisance exists may appeal the findings of the Code
Official to the Board of Adjustment (BOA) by appearing before the BOA at the
appeal hearing date and time given on said notice. The abatement of the
nuisance will be postponed by the Code Official until the final determination
for the appeal is made by the BOA. The BOA will need to make a four-fifths
finding to overturn the Code Official’s ruling. In the event no appeal is taken
within the time period stated to abate, the Code Official may proceed to abate
the nuisance.
(Ord. 22-2018, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 14-109  REMOVAL BY TOWN.
   If any person, having been ordered to abate a public nuisance pursuant to
this article, fails, neglects, or refuses to abate, or remove, the condition
constituting the nuisance within 15 days from receipt of such order, the
designee may cause such condition to be removed, or otherwise remedied, by
having employees of the town, or contracted work, go upon such premises and
remove, or otherwise abate, such nuisance under the supervision of an official,
or employee designated by the Code Official. Any person who has been ordered to
abate a public nuisance may, within the time allowed by this article, request
the town, in writing, to remove such condition, the cost of which shall be paid
by the person making such request. The town may require such requestor to
deposit some, or all, of the estimated cost of such removal prior to doing the
work, or may require the requestor to execute an agreement giving security for
the payment of such costs.
(Ord. 22-2018, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 14-110  EMERGENCY ACTION.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of §
14-109, the Code Official, or appointed designee, shall have authority to
summarily remove, abate, or remedy, or cause to be removed, abated, or
remedied, any condition that is dangerous, or prejudicial, to the public health
or public safety.
(Ord. 22-2018, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 14-111  PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any violation of the articles of this chapter shall subject the
offender to a civil penalty in the amount of $50. Violators shall be issued a
written citation which must be paid within 72 hours of receipt. Such citation
shall be served by either first class mail, personal service, or posted at the
front door. Any of these methods of service shall be conclusively presumed to
be valid, and no owner or occupant shall refuse service of the citation.
   (B)   Each day’s continuing violation shall be considered a separate, and
distinct, offense.
   (C)   Notwithstanding subsection (A) above, provisions of this article may
be enforced through equitable remedies issued by a court of competent
jurisdiction.
   (D)   In addition to, or in lieu of, remedies authorized in subsections (A)
and (C) above, violations of any articles of this chapter may be prosecuted as
a misdemeanor, or otherwise, in accordance with G.S. § 160A-175.
(Ord. 22-2018, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 14-112  RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The Code Official, or appointed designee, is hereby given full power and
authority to enter upon the premises upon which a nuisance is found to exist
under the provisions of this article for the purpose of abating the nuisance,
as provided in this article.
(Ord. 22-2018, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 14-113  COST OF ABATEMENT DECLARED LIEN.
   (A)   The actual cost incurred by the town in removing, or otherwise
remedying, a public nuisance shall be charged to the owner of such lot, or
parcel of land, and it shall be the duty of the Finance Department or Public
Services Department to mail a statement of such charges to the owner, or other
person in possession of such premises, with instructions that such charges are
due, and payable, within 30 days from the receipt thereof.
   (B)   If charges for the removal, or abatement, of a public nuisance are not
paid within 30 days after the receipt of a statement of charges, such charges
shall become a lien upon the land, or premises, where the public nuisance
existed, and shall be collected as unpaid taxes.
   (C)   The procedure set forth in this article shall be in addition to any
other remedies that may exist under law for the abatement of public nuisances,
and this article shall not prevent the town from proceeding in a criminal
action against any person violating the provisions of this article.
   (D)   All ordinances, or parts of ordinances, in conflict with this article
are hereby repealed. If any part of this article shall be adjudged invalid,
such adjudication shall apply only to such part so adjudged, and the remainder
of the article shall be deemed valid and effective.
(Ord. 22-2018, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 14-114  OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   Open burning shall be permitted only in accordance with 15A
N.C.A.C.02D.1903, and such other statutes and rules as may be adopted by the
state. The statute 15A N.C.A.C.02D.1903 authorizes open burning without a state
permit for several purposes, including, but not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Open burning of leaves, tree branches, or yard trimmings, excluding
logs and stumps, if the following conditions are met:
         (a)   The material burned originates on the premises of private
residences, and is burned on those premises;
         (b)   There are no public pick up services available;
         (c)   Non-vegetative materials, such as household garbage, lumber, or
any other synthetic materials, are not burned;
         (d)   The burning is initiated no earlier than 8:00 a.m., and no
additional combustible material is added to the fire between 6:00 p.m. on one
day and 8:00 a.m. on the following day;
         (e)   The burning does not create a nuisance; and
         (f)   Material is not burned when the Division of Forest Resources has
banned burning for that area.
      (2)   Open burning for land clearing or right-of-way maintenance if the
following conditions are met:
         (a)   The wind direction at the time that the burning is initiated,
and the wind direction as forecasted by the National Weather Service at the
time that the burning is initiated, are away from any area, including public
roads within 250 feet of the burning, as measured from the edge of the pavement
or other roadway surface, which may be affected by smoke, ash, or other air
pollutants from the burning; and
         (b)   The location of the burning is at least 1,000 feet from any
dwelling, group of dwellings, or commercial or institutional establishment, or
other occupied structure not located on the property on which the burning is
conducted.
   (B)   For a complete list of open burning activities authorized without a
state permit, a property owner should contact either the Code Enforcement
Officer, or the staff at the NC DENR, Division of Air Quality.
(Ord. 22-2018, passed 12-3-2018)
ARTICLE II:  NOISE
Section
   
14-201   Unnecessary noises prohibited
   
14-202   Same: noise expressly prohibited
   
14-203   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate noise, G.S. § 160A-184.
§ 14-201  UNNECESSARY NOISES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to create, or assist in creating, permit, continue, or
permit the continuance of, any unreasonably loud, disturbing, and unnecessary
noise in the town. Noise of such character, intensity, and duration as to be
detrimental to the life or health of any individual is prohibited.
(Code 1976, § 11.2)  Penalty, see §
14-203
§ 14-202  SAME: NOISE EXPRESSLY PROHIBITED.
   The following acts, among others, are declared to be loud, disturbing, and
unnecessary noises in violation of this article, but this enumeration shall not
be deemed to be exclusive, namely:
   (A)   The sounding of any horn or signal device on any automobile,
motorcycle, bus, or other vehicle while not in motion, except as a danger
signal if another vehicle is approaching apparently out of control, or if in
motion only as a danger signal after, or as brakes are being applied, and
deceleration of the vehicle is intended; the creation by means of any such
signal device of any unreasonably loud or harsh sound; and the sounding of such
device for an unnecessary, and unreasonable, period of time;
   (B)   The use of any gong or siren upon any vehicle, other than police,
fire, or other emergency vehicle;
   (C)   The use or operation of any piano, manual or automatic, phonograph,
radio, loudspeaker, or any other instrument, or sound amplifying devices, so
loudly as to disturb persons in the vicinity thereof, or in such a manner as
renders the same a public nuisance; provided, however, that upon application to
the Town Manager, permits may be granted to responsible organizations to
produce programs in music, speeches, or general entertainment; church chimes
and bells operated between the hours of 7:00 a.m. through 11:00 p.m. shall not
violate this article;
   (D)   The keeping of any animal or bird which, by causing frequent or loud
continued noise, shall disturb the comfort and repose of any person in the
vicinity;
   (E)   The use of any automobile, motorcycle, or other vehicle so out of
repair, so loaded, or in such manner as to create loud or unnecessary grating,
grinding, rattling, or other noise;
   (F)   The blowing of any steam whistle attached to any stationary boiler,
except to give notice of the time to begin, or stop, work, or as a warning of
danger;
   (G)   The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any steam engine,
stationary internal combustion engine, or motor vehicle, except through a
muffler or other device which will effectively prevent loud, or explosive,
noises therefrom;
   (H)   The use of any mechanical device operated by compressed air, unless
the noise created thereby is effectively muffled and reduced;
   (I)   The erection (including excavation), demolition, alteration, or repair
of any building in a residential district, other than between dawn until dusk,
except in the case of urgent necessity in the interest of public safety, and
then only with a permit from the Town Manager, which permit may be renewed for
a period of three days, or less, while the emergency continues;
   (J)   The creation of any excessive noise on any street adjacent to any
school, institution of learning, or court while the same is in session, or
within 150 feet of any hospital, which unreasonably interferes with the working
of such institution; provided, conspicuous signs are displayed in such streets
indicating that the same is a school, court, or hospital street;
   (K)   The creation of any excessive noise on Sabbath days on any street
adjacent to any church, or other religious institution; provided, conspicuous
signs are displayed in such streets adjacent to churches, or other religious
institutions, indicating that a church, or other religious institution, is
located on the street;
   (L)   The creation of loud and excessive noise in connection with loading,
or unloading, any vehicle, or the opening and destruction of bales, boxes,
crates, and containers;
   (M)   The sounding of any bell or gong, attached to any building or premises
which disturbs the quiet or repose of persons in the vicinity thereof;
   (N)   The shouting and crying of peddlers, barkers, hawkers, and vendors
which disturbs the quiet and peace of the neighborhood;
   (O)   The use of any drum, loudspeaker, or other instrument, or device, for
the purpose of attracting attention by creation of noise to any performance,
show, or sale, or display of merchandise;
   (P)   The use of any mechanical loudspeakers or amplifiers on trucks, or
other moving vehicles, for advertising purposes, or other purposes except where
specific license is received from the Board;
   (Q)   The conducting, operating, or maintaining of any garage, or filling
station, in any residential district so as to cause loud, or offensive, noises
to be emitted there from between the hours of 1l:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.;
   (R)   The firing, or discharging, of squibs, crackers, gunpowder, or other
combustible substance in the streets, or elsewhere, for the purpose of making
noise or disturbance, except by permit from the Town Manager; and
   (S)   It shall be unlawful for any person to play, use, or otherwise
operate, either from a motor vehicle or as a pedestrian, any radio, tape
player, or other sound amplification device emitting sound that is audible from
a distance of 50, or more, feet from the source of the sound, unless such
device is being used to request assistance, or warn against an unsafe
condition.
(Code 1976, § 11.3) (Ord. 17-93, passed 10-18-1993; Ord. 30-98, passed 8-31-
1998)  Penalty, see §
14-203
Cross-reference:
   Animals, Ch. 4; Buildings and Building Regulations, Ch. 5; peddlers,
soliciting, and itinerant merchants, §§ 6-401 et seq.; firearms regulated, §
15-101; Streets, Sidewalks, and Other Public Places, Ch. 19; Traffic and Motor
Vehicles, Ch. 20.
§ 14-203  PENALTY.
   Violation of this article shall be a misdemeanor. The penalty for any
offense shall be a fine of $50. This article may also be enforced by any, or
all, method set forth in §
1-111.
(Ord. 17-93, passed 10-18-1993; Ord. 5-98, passed 2-16-1998)
ARTICLE III:  COMMUNITY APPEARANCE STANDARDS
   [Repealed]
Cross-reference:
   The provisions of this article have been moved to §
14-101.
CHAPTER 15: OFFENSES 1
Section
   
15-101   Firearms regulated
   
15-102   Posting bills or other advertising
   
15-103   Fire bombs prohibited
   
15-104   Yard sales (garage sale, attic sale, rummage sale, porch sale)
 
Notes
  1Cross-reference:
  General penalty, §
  1-111; public consumption of alcoholic beverages, §
  3-101; removal of bitten
    animals from quarantine, §
1 4-206; discharging firecrackers and other explosives prohibited,
    §
  14-202(R); gambling in parks, §
  16-210; disorderly conduct in parks, §
  16-211; indecent
    behavior in parks, §
  16-218.
§ 15-101  FIREARMS REGULATED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any firearm or air rifle of
any type within the corporate limits, except by a law enforcement officer in
the performance of his or her duty, or by a private citizen in defense of
person or property, or pursuant to lawful directions of law-enforcement
officers.
(Code 1976, § 11.4)  Penalty, see §
1-111
Cross-reference:
   Firearms in parks, §
16-204.
Statutory reference:
   Authority of city to regulate discharge of firearms, G.S. § 160A-189.
§ 15-102  POSTING BILLS OR OTHER ADVERTISING.
   No person shall stick, paint, brand, stamp, write, or put upon any house,
fence, wall, pavement, post, or upon any property owned by any person, or owned
by the town any printed, written, painted, or other advertisement, bill,
notice, sign, or poster without first having obtained the written permission of
the owner of such property.
(Code 1976, § 11.5)
Cross-reference:
   Advertising, notices, bills in parks, §
16-202; use of nails and tacks on poles restricted, §
19-106.
§ 15-103  FIRE BOMBS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The provisions of this section shall be in addition to any state and
federal law and, where applicable, shall be preempted by state and federal law,
including, but not limited to G.S. § 14-284.1.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
      FIREBOMB. Any type of object designed, or constructed, so that, upon
being propelled, it will explode, or ignite, its area of impact.
      MOLOTOV COCKTAIL. Any breakable container, or any container which is
designed in such a manner that upon being propelled, it will, at impact, empty
its contents which is filled with an inflammable fluid, or substance, and which
is fitted with a fuse or wick.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person, or persons, to manufacture,
possess, transport, or use any Molotov cocktail, or other firebomb.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person, or group of persons, to possess
all the items, or materials, needed to manufacture Molotov cocktails, or other
firebombs, except that individual components that are lawful for other purposes
(for example, gasoline and kerosene) may be kept in a secure location.
(Code 1976, § 11.6)  Penalty, see §
1-111
§ 15-104  YARD SALES (GARAGE SALE, ATTIC SALE, RUMMAGE SALE, PORCH SALE).
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, YARD SALE shall mean an occasional
sale at which surplus, and primarily used, household goods and/or clothing are
sold. In cases where such sales are conducted on the same property more than
six days per calendar year, or in cases when new, or used, merchandise
purchases for resale are resold, it shall be deemed a flea market and not a
YARD SALE.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct, or permit to be
conducted, on his or her property in the town, more than six yard sales per
calendar year, with each yard sale limited to one 24-hour day.
   (C)   A permit must be issued to the property owner by the Code Enforcement
Officer, and must be posted in a highly visible place at the yard sale. All
apparatus, racks, shelves, tables, signs, and other appurtenances associated
with the sale shall be removed the same day as the sale.
   (D)   Flea markets are not permitted. For the purposes of this section, a
FLEA MARKET is any commercial market where individual vendors sell a variety of
inexpensive goods or secondhand items, either indoors or outdoors. This
definition does not include antique malls operating within a fully enclosed
space; events that occur once a year, such as a church bazaar or town-sponsored
festival; or yard sales, as described above.
(Ord. 27-94, passed 11-7-1994)  Penalty, see §
1-111
CHAPTER 16: PARKS AND RECREATION 1
   Article
      
I.   IN GENERAL
      
II.   USE OF PARKS
      
III.   COMMUNITY RECREATION ADVISORY COMMITTEE
 
Notes
  1Cross-reference:
  Town Council, §§ 2-201 et seq.; Town Manager, §
1 2-403; Planning, Zoning and Subdivision Control,
    Ch. 17; Streets, Sidewalks, and Other Public Places, Ch. 19.
  Statutory reference:
  Recreation enabling law, G.S. §§ 160A-350 et seq.
ARTICLE I:  IN GENERAL
Section
   
16-101   Designation of town parks
   
16-102   Policies and procedures
   16-103 to 16-199   Reserved
§ 16-101  DESIGNATION OF TOWN PARKS.
   (A)   The Town Council hereby establishes the following town parks to be
utilized for the purpose of public recreation:
      (1)   Union Street Park;
      (2)   South “D” Avenue Park; and
      (3)   Maiden Municipal Park.
   (B)   The parks listed in subsection (A) above are for use by the public
through approved recreation programs, as authorized by the Town Council and the
Town Manager, and in accordance with town ordinances and such policies, rules,
and regulations as may be adopted pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 2-85, passed 4-1-1985)
§ 16-102  POLICIES AND PROCEDURES.
   The Town Council, upon recommendation of the Town Manager, shall adopt, from
time to time, in addition to the regulations set forth in this chapter,
policies and procedures governing the use of municipal park and recreation
facilities, which are referred to in this chapter as parks. These policies and
procedures, together with the regulations codified in this chapter, do not
apply to privately-owned and operated parks and recreational facilities. Those
policies and procedures, together with the regulations codified in §§ 16-201 et
seq., shall be made available to the public in such appropriate form as the
Manager, or his or her designee, may determine.
(Ord. 2-85, passed 4-1-1985)
§§ 16-103 TO 16-199  RESERVED.
ARTICLE II:  USE OF PARKS
Section
Division 1. Generally
   
16-201   Use of vehicles restricted
   
16-202   Advertising, notices, bills
   
16-203   Destruction of park property
   
16-204   Firearms
   
16-205   Animals running at large
   
16-206   Same: molesting
   
16-207   Fish and aquatic life
   
16-208   Selling, peddling, and the like
   
16-209   Political speeches
   
16-210   Gambling
   
16-211   Disorderly conduct
   
16-212   Alcoholic beverages
   
16-213   Games and sports
   
16-214   Excavations
   
16-215   Fires
   
16-216   Dumping
   
16-217   Plant material
   
16-218   Indecent behavior
   
16-219   Use at night regulated
   
16-220   Adoption and enforcement of regulations
   
16-221   Regulating smoking at town parks and on town park grounds
   16-222 to 16-240   Reserved
Division 2. Third Parties
   
16-241   Statement of policy
   
16-242   Procedures
   16-243 to 16-299   Reserved
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
§ 16-201  USE OF VEHICLES RESTRICTED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive, or propel, any motor
vehicle, or other vehicle, in, over, or through any park, except along and upon
regularly established roadways and parking lots. Bicycles are permitted on
designated paths. It shall be unlawful for any person to park, or permit to be
parked, any vehicle anywhere except upon designated parking areas authorized by
the Town Manager, or his or her designee.
   (B)   For the purpose of this division, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Includes, but is not limited to, automobiles, trucks,
minibikes, go-carts, golf carts, motorbikes, motorcycles, or any other self-
propelled motorized vehicle.
      OTHER VEHICLE. Includes, but is not limited to, bicycles.
(Ord. 2-85, passed 4-1-1985)  Penalty, see §
1-111
Cross-reference:
   Traffic and Motor Vehicles, Ch. 20.
§ 16-202  ADVERTISING, NOTICES, BILLS.
   The town government may post, in any park, directional and information signs
that provide information such as, but not limited to, hours of park operation,
and park rules. Otherwise, it shall be unlawful for any person to place, or
erect, any structure, sign, bulletin board, post, pole, or advertising device
of any kind whatsoever in any park, or to attach any notice, bill, poster,
sign, wire, or cord to any tree, shrub, fence, railing, post, or structure
within any park.
(Ord. 2-85, passed 4-1-1985)  Penalty, see §
1-111
Cross-reference:
   Posting bills or other advertising, §
15-102.
§ 16-203  DESTRUCTION OF PARK PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove, destroy, mutilate, or deface
any structure, monument, statue, planter, fountain, wall, fence, railing,
vehicle, bench, tree, plant, or any other property in any park.
(Ord. 2-85, passed 4-1-1985)  Penalty, see §
1-111
§ 16-204  FIREARMS.
   Persons with concealed carry permits may carry concealed handguns onto the
premises of municipal parks and their adjacent parking lots. This section shall
solely apply to the carrying of handguns. It is unlawful for any person with,
or without, a permit to carry other types of firearms, or other weapons, into
municipal parks and their respective parking lots. It shall also be unlawful to
carry a firearm, with or without a permit, into athletic fields or recreational
facilities.
Penalty, see §
1-111
Cross-reference:
   Firearms regulated, §
15-101.
Statutory reference:
   Firearms regulated, G.S. § 14-409.40, 160A-189, and 160A-190.
§ 16-205  ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow, or permit, any horses, dogs,
or other animals to be in any park, except in designated areas such as dog
parks, and it shall be unlawful to ride horses in any park except upon
designated, and marked, bridle trails.
(Ord. 2-85, passed 4-1-1985; Ord. 24-2001, passed 7-2-2001)  Penalty, see §
1-111
Cross-reference:
   Animals, Ch. 4.
Statutory reference:
   Regulating animals running at large, G.S. §§ 160A-186 and 160A-187.
§ 16-206  SAME: MOLESTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to trap, catch, wound, or kill, or cause
to be injured, treated cruelly, or teased, or attempt to trap, catch, wound,
kill, injure, or tease any bird or animal, or rob any nest of any bird or any
lair, den, or burrow of any animal in, or upon, any land owned by the town,
except as may be specifically authorized by the Town Manager.
(Ord. 2-85, passed 4-1-1985)  Penalty, see §
1-111
§ 16-207  FISH AND AQUATIC LIFE.
   It shall be unlawful to fish in any waters owned, or administered, by the
town except such portion thereof as may be designated by the Town Manager, or
his or her designee, under such policies and regulations as may be adopted by
the town, and conforming to the laws of the state, nor shall it be lawful for
any person to remove or capture, or attempt to remove or capture, whether by
use of seine, trap, or other device, any fish or other aquatic life in, or
from, any of the waters within any park, or park lands. (Ord. 2-85, passed 4-1-
1985)  Penalty, see §
1-111
§ 16-208  SELLING, PEDDLING, AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in soliciting, peddling,
begging, or selling goods or merchandise, or to sell, hawk, or vend food or
drink within the parks unless written authority is given by the Town Manager,
or his or her designee, and unless such selling, peddling, soliciting, and the
like, is in accordance with other applicable provisions of this code, and state
and local laws and regulations.
(Ord. 2-85, passed 4-1-1985)  Penalty, see §
1-111
Cross-reference:
   Peddling, soliciting, and itinerant merchants, §
6-401.
Statutory reference:
   Regulating businesses, G.S. § 160A-194.
§ 16-209  POLITICAL SPEECHES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, or persons, to organize, or sponsor,
political gatherings or rallies, or make political speeches of any kind in any
park without first securing a written permit from the Town Manager, or his or
her designee.
(Ord. 2-85, passed 4-1-1985)  Penalty, see §
1-111
§ 16-210  GAMBLING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct, or carry on, any game of
chance at which any money, property, or other thing of value is bet, whether
the same be in stake or not, in any park.
(Ord. 2-85, passed 4-1-1985)  Penalty, see §
1-111
§ 16-211  DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use any boisterous, or insulting,
language, or to be guilty of disorderly conduct of any kind in any park.
(Ord. 2-85, passed 4-1-1985)  Penalty, see §
1-111
Cross-reference:
   Offenses, Ch. 15.
§ 16-212  ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to consume, or to display
publicly, any alcoholic beverage in any park; and it shall be unlawful for any
person under the influence of alcoholic beverages to enter, or remain, in any
park.
   (B)   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE, as used in this section, is defined the same as
the term is defined in G.S. § 18B-101, or its successor.
(Ord. 2-85, passed 4-1-1985)  Penalty, see §
1-111
Cross-reference:
   Alcoholic Beverages, Ch. 3.
Statutory reference:
   Sale, possession, and consumption of alcohol, G.S. §§ 18B-300 and 18B-301.
§ 16-213  GAMES AND SPORTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to play football, golf, baseball, or
other games of like character in any area in any park when signs are posted in
such area specifically prohibiting such games. At no time, and under no
circumstances, shall such games be played in such proximity to playground
equipment or park structures as to threaten harm to persons using the park, or
damage to the park structures.
(Ord. 2-85, passed 4-1-1985)  Penalty, see §
1-111
§ 16-214  EXCAVATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make an excavation in any park for
any purpose without written permission from the Town Manager, or his or her
designee.
(Ord. 2-85, passed 4-1-1985)  Penalty §
1-111
§ 16-215  FIRES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make, or kindle, a fire in any park
except in a regularly constructed, or an appropriate, portable fireplace or
grill. It shall be unlawful for any person to leave any fire unattended, or to
fail to completely extinguish a fire, and all the embers thereof, before
leaving such fire.
(Ord. 2-85, passed 4-1-1985)  Penalty, see §
1-111
Cross-reference:
   Fire Protection and Prevention, Ch. 10.
§ 16-216  DUMPING.
   No person shall deposit, dump, throw, cast, lay, or place, or cause to be
deposited, dumped, thrown, cast, laid, or placed, any ashes, trash, rubbish,
soil or earth, paper, garbage, refuse, debris, plant clippings, limbs or
leaves, or other solid waste of any kind in, or upon, any park or park lands,
or in any watercourse, lake, pond, or slough within such park lands.
(Ord. 2-85, passed 4-1-1985)
Cross-reference:
   Solid Waste, Ch. 11.
§ 16-217  PLANT MATERIAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to dig, cut, bruise, mutilate, or cause
to be transplanted, cut, bruised, debarked, or mutilated, any plant material of
all, and any, description within any park land without written permission of
the Town Manager, or his or her designee.
(Ord. 2-85, passed 4-1-1985)  Penalty, see §
1-111
§ 16-218  INDECENT BEHAVIOR.
   No person shall make indecent, or vulgar, motions, or do any indecent, or
vulgar, acts whatever, or exhibit any indecent, vulgar, or lewd articles, or
pictures, in view of any person within any parks in the town.
(Ord. 2-85, passed 4-1-85)
Cross-reference:
   Offenses, Ch. 15.
§ 16-219  USE AT NIGHT REGULATED.
   (A)   Normal hours of operation of town parks and recreation facilities
shall be established, from time to time, by the Town Manager, or his or her
designee, and shall be conspicuously posted as may be appropriate.
   Unless otherwise posted by the town, public use of any portion of the town
parks during the hours of 10:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. is prohibited. All parks
shall close by 10:00 p.m. until 7:00 a.m., unless the Town Recreation
Department has planned, and supervised, activities that would run later than
10:00 p.m.
(Ord. 2-85, passed 4-1-1985; Ord. 8-92, passed 6-1-1992)
§ 16-220  ADOPTION AND ENFORCEMENT OF REGULATIONS.
[Repealed]
§ 16-221  REGULATING SMOKING AT TOWN PARKS AND ON TOWN PARK GROUNDS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a
different meaning.
      GROUNDS. An unenclosed area owned by the town. This includes town-owned
parking lots, and town grounds immediately surrounding town-owned recreation
buildings and parks.
      PARK. Any active, or passive, recreation areas, recreation center, or
building owned by the town. This includes all ball fields, playgrounds,
greenways, dog parks, water entertainment, and other areas incorporated, or
adjacent to, any recreation facility.
      SMOKE OR SMOKING. The inhaling, exhaling, vaporizing, burning, or
carrying of a lighted pipe, cigar, cigarette, e-cigarette, or other nicotine-
based product used to simulate the experience of smoking tobacco.
   (B)   Smoking regulated at town parks and on town park grounds. It shall be
unlawful for any person to smoke on the premises of any town park, or on town
park grounds.
   (C)   Penalties. Violation of this section shall constitute a misdemeanor,
punishable in accordance with G.S. § 14-4, including a fine not exceeding $50,
and shall also subject the person in violation to a payment of a civil penalty
in the amount of $50, which penalty is to be paid to the Town Finance
Department.
   (D)   Enforcement. This section may be enforced by one, or both, of the
remedies authorized, and prescribed, by this section.
(Ord. 17-2019, passed - -)
§§ 16-222 TO 16-240  RESERVED.
DIVISION 2. THIRD PARTIES
§ 16-241  STATEMENT OF POLICY.
   It is the policy of the Town Council to make town park and recreation
facilities available to as many residents of the town and vicinity as is
reasonably possible, and to do so in a manner which does not discriminate
against any person, or group, by reason of age, sex, race, religion, political
affiliation, or national origin, but which does recognize the obligation of the
town to first attempt to meet the needs of its citizens before responding to
the requests of nonresident individuals and groups.
(Ord. 2-85, passed 4-1-1985)
§ 16-242  PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Town Manager, or his or her designee, is authorized to permit the
use of town facilities to groups, or individuals, as deemed necessary and
appropriate. These facilities shall be rented in accordance with fee schedules
adopted, and amended from time to time, by the Town Council. Such fees may
include the cost to staff, organize, conduct, and supervise all recreational
activities and events.
   (B)   The Manager, or his or her designee, shall not permit the use of town
facilities by any group, or individual, on a continual basis from day to day,
week to week, month to month, or year to year. Recreational activities, or
events, that are proposed on a continual basis, and sponsored by the town or
supported by other governmental entities or public institutions, shall only be
approved by the Town Council.
   (C)   The Town Council, upon recommendation of the Manager, shall adopt, or
shall authorize the Manager to adopt, policies and procedures governing access
to, and use of, town parks and recreational facilities. Those policies, and
procedures, shall be consistent with this article.
(Ord. 2-85, passed 4-1-1985; Ord. 04-2007, passed 2-12-2007)
§§ 16-243 TO 16-299  RESERVED.
ARTICLE III:  COMMUNITY RECREATION ADVISORY COMMITTEE
Section
   
16-301   Creation, membership
   
16-302   Committee powers and duties
   
16-303   Appointment of the Committee
   
16-304   Ex officio members
   
16-305   Terms of membership
   
16-306   Meetings
   
16-307   Attendance of members
   
16-308   Compensation
   
16-309   Officers
   
16-310   Officers’ duties
   
16-311   Committees
   
16-312   By-laws
Cross-reference:
   Administration, Ch. 2.
§ 16-301  CREATION, MEMBERSHIP.
   There is hereby created the Town Community Recreation Advisory Committee
composed of five voting members. The voting membership shall consist of one
town elected official, and four other members, three of which must live within
town limits.
(Ord. 8-86, passed 4-21-1986; Ord. 6-2016, passed 5-2-2016)
§ 16-302  COMMITTEE POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Town Community Recreation Advisory Committee shall advise the Town
Council, Town Manager, and Director of the Department of Parks and Recreation
on matters having to do with the town’s overall recreation and leisure
programs, its Department of Parks and Recreation, and the town’s various
recreation facilities.
   (B)   The Community Recreation Advisory Committee’s duties and
responsibilities shall include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Serving as a liaison between the community’s citizens and the Town
Council, Manager, and Department Director;
      (2)   Reviewing, and recommending, to the Town Council, Manager, and
Department Director policies for the operation of the town’s recreation and
leisure programs, and the town’s various park and recreation facilities,
including the establishment of plans and programs for supervised, and
unsupervised, use of the Town Community Center, ball fields, and other park and
recreation facilities of the town;
      (3)   Consulting with, and advising, the Town Council and Management
regarding long- and short-range planning for recreation and leisure
programming, current programs and activities, personnel needs, finances,
property acquisition and operation, and similar matters; and
      (4)   Encouraging community interest and participation in a broad-based
recreation and leisure program, and encouraging financial support for such a
program from members of the public and the business community.
(Ord. 8-86, passed 4-21-1986; Ord. 6-2016, passed 5-2-2016)
§ 16-303  APPOINTMENT OF THE COMMITTEE.
   Each member of the Community Recreation Advisory Committee shall be
appointed by the Mayor, with the approval of the Town Council.
(Ord. 8-86, passed 4-21-1986; Ord. 6-2016, passed 5-2-2016)
§ 16-304  EX OFFICIO MEMBERS.
   Non-voting members shall include the Town Manager, the Director of Parks and
Recreation, and any parks and recreation staff whose participation is deemed
necessary by the Committee.
(Ord. 8-86, passed 4-21-1986; Ord. 6-2016, passed 5-2-2016)
§ 16-305  TERMS OF MEMBERSHIP.
   Each member of the Community Recreation Advisory Committee shall be
appointed for a three-year term, except that the initial appointments shall be
arranged so that approximately one-third of the terms will expire each year.
There shall be initially one person with a one-year term, two people with two-
year terms, and one person with a three-year term.
(Ord. 8-86, passed 4-21-1986; Ord. 6-2016, passed 5-2-2016)
§ 16-306  MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings. Commission meetings shall be held bi-monthly unless
otherwise determined by the Committee. Meetings shall be held at a time, and
location, set by the Committee.
   (B)   Special meetings. The Chairperson may call a special meeting of the
Committee at any time by giving each member a 48-hour notice, and special
meetings may also be called upon request of four, or more, Committee members.
Any special meeting called shall comply with the public notice requirements of
G.S. § 143-318.12.
   (C)   Quorum. A quorum of the Committee shall be required to constitute an
official meeting. A quorum is at least one more than the number of the
appointed members who are absent.
(Ord. 8-86, passed 4-21-1986; Ord. 6-2016, passed 5-2-2016)
§ 16-307  ATTENDANCE OF MEMBERS.
   An appointed member of the Community Recreation Advisory Committee who
misses more than three consecutive regular meetings loses his or her status as
a member of the Committee, unless reappointed by the Mayor under §
16-303. Absences due to sickness, death, or similar circumstances shall be
excused absences, and shall not affect the member’s status on the Committee,
except that in the event of numerous absences, a member may be replaced by the
Mayor upon recommendation of the Committee Chairperson.
(Ord. 8-86, passed 4-21-1986; Ord. 6-2016, passed 5-2-2016)
§ 16-308  COMPENSATION.
   Community Recreation Advisory Committee members shall serve without
compensation. Members shall be reimbursed for travel and subsistence expenses
incurred in attending professional recreation meetings, conferences, and
workshops. Such reimbursement shall be made in accordance with the general
policies of the town which shall include pre-attendance approval of the meeting
by the Town Manager. (Ord. 8-86, passed 4-21-1986; Ord. 6-2016, passed 5-2-
2016)
§ 16-309  OFFICERS.
   (A)   There shall be a Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson of the Community
Recreation Advisory Committee who shall be chosen annually by the Committee
members at the regular monthly meeting in July.
   (B)   Officers shall serve one-year terms and may be reelected. New officers
shall take office at the next regular meeting following their election. Officer
vacancies shall be filled by the Committee at the meeting following the
occurrence of the vacancy.
   (C)   The Secretary of the Committee shall be selected annually by the
Committee members at the regular monthly meeting in July.
(Ord. 8-86, passed 4-21-1986; Ord. 6-2016, passed 5-2-2016)
§ 16-310  OFFICERS’ DUTIES.
   (A)   Chairperson. The Community Recreation Advisory Committee Chairperson
shall preside at all meetings, and sign all documents relative to action taken
by the Committee. The Chairperson shall appoint all subcommittees, including a
nominating committee to be composed of two Committee members, and to be
appointed at least 30 days prior to the July meeting.
   (B)   Temporary Chairperson. When the Chairperson is absent, the Vice-
Chairperson shall perform the duties of the Chairperson. When both the
Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson are absent, a Temporary Chairperson shall be
selected by those members who are present.
   (C)   Secretary. The Secretary to the Committee shall be selected by the
Committee. The Secretary shall mail to all members copies of official reports,
and the official minutes of all regular and special meetings prior to the next
scheduled meeting.
(Ord. 8-86, passed 4-21-1986; Ord. 6-2016, passed 5-2-2016)
§ 16-311  COMMITTEES.
   (A)   Executive Committee. The Executive Committee of the Community
Recreation Advisory Committee shall consist of the Chairperson, Vice-
Chairperson, and Secretary.
   (B)   Subcommittees. The Committee Chairperson is authorized to appoint such
subcommittees as he or she deems necessary. Standing Committee suggestions are:
      (1)   Program and activities;
      (2)   Areas and structures;
      (3)   Budget;
      (4)   Personnel; and
      (5)   Policies and procedures.
   (C)   Temporary and project committees. Temporary and project committees
shall be appointed as needed.
(Ord. 8-86, passed 4-21-1986; Ord. 6-2016, passed 5-2-2016)
§ 16-312  BY-LAWS.
   The Community Recreation Advisory Committee may adopt such by-laws in
accordance with the town code as it deems necessary and appropriate.
(Ord. 8-86, passed 4-21-1986; Ord. 6-2016, passed 5-2-2016)
CHAPTER 17:  PLANNING, ZONING, AND
SUBDIVISION CONTROL
Section
   
17-101   Adopted by reference
§ 17-101  ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The town’s land use provisions, including the ordinance that makes up
Chapter 17 (the “Unified Development Ordinance”), and any and all amendments,
are hereby adopted by reference and incorporated as an appendix herein as if
set out in full.
(Ord. 30-2012, passed 8-6-2012; Ord. passed 6-6-2016; Ord. 6-2017, passed 3-20-
2017; Ord. 10-2018, passed 4-16-2018; Ord. 1-2019, passed 2-12-2019; Ord. 18-
2019, passed 7-9-2019; Ord. 16-2020, passed 6-9-2020; Ord. 17-2020, passed 6-9-
2020)
CHAPTER 18: POLICE 1
   Article
      
I.   IN GENERAL
      
II.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
      
III.   BACKGROUND CHECKS
 
Notes
  1Cross-reference:
  General penalty, §
  1-111; officers and employees, §§ 2-401, et seq.; Fire Protection and
  Prevention,
    Ch. 10; Nuisances, Ch. 14; Offenses, Ch. 15; parades and pickets, §§ 19-321 et
1 seq.; Traffic
    Division established, §
  20-201.
  Statutory reference:
  Criminal procedure act, G.S. Ch. 15A; law enforcement in municipalities, G.S. Ch
  160A-281 et seq.
   
ARTICLE I:  IN GENERAL
Section
   
18-101   Resisting police prohibited
   
18-102   Extraterritorial jurisdiction
   
18-103   Auxiliary Police Division
   18-104 to 18-499   Reserved
§ 18-101  RESISTING POLICE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall resist the police while in the discharge of their duty, by
force, words, or threats, or any attempt to excite others to resistance, or in
any other manner obstruct them in the performance of their duty. Such acts
shall be punishable as a Class 2 misdemeanor, as provided in G.S. § 14-223.
(Code 1976, § 3.7)
Statutory reference:
   Resisting arrest with deadly weapon or deadly force, G.S. § 15A-401(F).
§ 18-102  EXTRATERRITORIAL JURISDICTION.
   (A)   In addition to their authority within the corporate limits, police
officers shall have all the powers invested in law enforcement officers by
statute or common law within one mile of the corporate limits of the town, and
on all property owned by, or leased to, the town wherever located.
   (B)   When any offense is committed within the corporate limits of the town,
or within its extraterritorial jurisdiction, under circumstances that would
authorize a police officer to arrest the offender without a warrant, the
officer may pursue the offender outside the corporate limits, and outside the
town’s extraterritorial jurisdiction, as may be reasonably required for the
purposes of making an arrest. Any officer pursuing an offender outside the
corporate limits, or extraterritorial jurisdiction, of the town shall be
entitled to all of the privileges, immunities, and benefits to which he or she
would be entitled if acting within the town, including coverage under the
Workers’ Compensation Laws, being G.S. Chapter 97.
(Code 1976, § 3.6)
Statutory reference:
   Extraterritorial jurisdiction of police officers, G.S. § 160A-286.
§ 18-103  AUXILIARY POLICE DIVISION.
   (A)   Pursuant to G.S. § 160A-282(a) and (b), a town or city may, by
ordinance, provide for the organization of an Auxiliary Police Department made
up of volunteer members; and by enactment of an ordinance, may provide that,
while undergoing official training and while performing duties on behalf of the
town, auxiliary law enforcement personnel shall be entitled to benefits under
the State Workers’ Compensation Act, being G.S. Chapter 97, and to any fringe
benefits for which such volunteer personnel qualify.
   (B)   The Town Council hereby establishes, within the Town Police
Department, as a division thereof, an Auxiliary Police Division. The Auxiliary
Police Division shall be a volunteer organization, whose members shall serve
without compensation, composed of no more than ten members to be determined by
the Chief of Police, and approved by the Town Manager.
(Ord. 10-2004, passed 5-17-2004)
§§ 18-104 TO 18-199  RESERVED.
ARTICLE II:  POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
18-201   Chief of Police
   
18-202   Organization
   
18-203   Manager to supervise
   
18-204   Uniforms
   
18-205   Powers and duties
   18-206 to 18-300   Reserved
Cross-reference:
   Authority of Police and Fire Department officials, §
20-301; authorized emergency vehicles, §
20-306.
Statutory reference:
   Law enforcement in municipalities, G.S. §§ 160A-281 et seq.
§ 18-201  CHIEF OF POLICE.
   The Chief shall have control over the Police Department under the
supervision of the Town Manager. The Chief shall keep the Manager informed of
the Department’s activities, and make such reports as the Manager, from time to
time, may require, and he or she shall perform such other duties as may be
required of him or her by the Manager. The Chief shall have his or her primary
residence within the corporate limits of the town.
(Code 1976, § 3.3) (Ord. 20-90, passed 12-17-1990)
§ 18-202  ORGANIZATION.
   The Police Department shall consist of a Chief, and as many police officers
as the Town Council shall, from time to time, determine.
(Code 1976, § 3.1)
§ 18-203  MANAGER TO SUPERVISE.
   The Town Manager shall have general supervision over the Police Department.
(Code 1976, § 3.2)
Cross-reference:
   Town Manager, §
2-403.
Statutory reference:
   Powers of Manager, G.S. § 160A-148.
§ 18-204  UNIFORMS.
[Repealed]
(Code 1976, § 3.4)
§ 18-205  POWERS AND DUTIES.
   Each police officer shall:
   (A)   Have, within the corporate limits of the town, all of the powers
invested in law enforcement officers by statute or common law;
   (B)   Enforce all laws, ordinances, and regulations of the town and the
state, and report each and every violation thereof to the Chief; and
   (C)   At all times preserve the peace, and protect the property and the
safety of the citizens of the town.
(Code 1976, § 3.5)
Statutory reference:
   Powers and duties of police officers, G.S. § 160A-285.
§§ 18-206 TO 18-300  RESERVED.
ARTICLE III:  BACKGROUND CHECKS
Section
   
18-301   Definitions
   
18-302   Scope
   
18-303   Criminal history background checks
   
18-304   Applicant denial
   
18-305   Background check procedure
Editor’s note:
   Adopted 11-18-2010. The sections in this article have been renumbered.
§ 18-301  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   ADULT ESTABLISHMENTS/SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES. An adult arcade, adult
bookstore or adult video store, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult motion
picture theater, adult theater, escort agency, nude model studio, sexual
encounter center, or any combination of the foregoing.
   MASSAGE PARLOR. See ADULT ESTABLISHMENTS.
   PRECIOUS METAL DETECTOR. A person or company operating a business under G.S.
Chapter 66, Article 25.
§ 18-302  SCOPE.
   (A)   The provisions of this article, and regulatory codes herein adopted,
shall apply for the purpose of providing policy and procedures for conducting
finger printing and criminal history checks through the State Bureau of
Investigation/Division of Criminal Investigation (SBI/DCI).
   (B)   The use of criminal history checks shall be limited to final
applicants for the town, and those wishing to operate, or gain employment, with
a specific business listed in §
18-303(C).
§ 18-303  CRIMINAL HISTORY BACKGROUND CHECKS.
   Final applicants for employment with the town specified below, final
applicants for employment or volunteers with the Town Fire Department as
specified below, and specified business, all owners, and employees, of
businesses listed below shall require a criminal history and fingerprinting,
pursuant to the authority vested in the town by the General Assembly of the
state in G.S. §§ 153A-11 and 153A-12.
   (A)   The Town Police Chief, or designee, may conduct an investigation in
accordance with the town updated personnel policy and/or the Town Recreation
Department personnel policy of any final candidate for a full-time position,
part-time position, intern, or volunteer position, including, but not limited
to, those working directly with children.
   (B)   The Town Police Chief, or designee, may conduct an investigation in
accordance with the town updated Fire Department personnel policy and by-laws
of any final candidate for a full-time position, part-time position, or
volunteer position with the Town Fire Department.
   (C)   Private business owners, stockholders, and all employees of an
establishment conducting business within the town corporate limits within the
following definitions: precious metal dealer; ice cream venders (mobile);
massage parlors; persons applying for permits, or license, to operate adult
establishments; and pawn brokers.
§ 18-304  APPLICANT DENIAL.
   Any individual may be denied employment and/or permits to open an
establishment if the applicant has been convicted of any crime against a
person, or crimes against property where intent is an element, or any drug or
gambling related offense.
§ 18-305  BACKGROUND CHECK PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Persons subject to §
18-303 shall, upon request, provide fingerprints and all other necessary
personal identification, including a birth certificate, Social Security number,
and driver’s license (if available) so that the Town Manager, or designee, may
cause a thorough search to be made of local and state criminal records to
determine if the applicant has a history of criminal convictions, or the crimes
enumerated in §
18-304 by use of the Division of Criminal Information Network (DCI).
   (B)   The Town Police Department shall provide the findings from the use of
the DCI to the Town Manager, or designee; provided, that all necessary
agreements with the State Bureau of Investigations Division of Criminal
Information have been executed.
   (C)   An evaluation of any crime for purposes of employment, volunteerism,
internships, approval of permits, or licenses, the Town Manager, or designee,
will take into account the nature and circumstances of the offense, and the
timeframe of the offense as it relates to the essential job function, or the
position applied, or volunteered, for.
   (D)   Prior to denial or termination of employment as a full-time employee,
part-time employee, volunteer, or intern with the town, the Town Recreation
Department or the Town Fire Department, or prior to denial or termination of a
volunteer, or prior to the denial or termination of a person performing a
volunteer internship, or prior to denial of a permit or license to operate a
business within the town of any person based upon criminal history record
information (CHRI) received from the Town Police Department, the Town Manager
shall verify the existence of a record by either obtaining a certified public
record, or by submitting a fingerprint card of the individual to the criminal
information and identification section for verification that the CHRI record
belongs to the individual.
Editor’s note:
   The section title “Background check procedure” has been added by the editor
for ease of reference., Sidewalks, and Other Public Places
CHAPTER 19: STREETS, SIDEWALKS, AND OTHER
PUBLIC PLACES 1
   Article
      
I.   IN GENERAL
      
II.   DAMAGING STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
III.   OBSTRUCTIONS
      
IV.   RAILROAD CROSSINGS
      
V.   STREET NAMES
      
VI.   STORM DRAIN SYSTEM
 
Notes
  1Cross-reference:
  No person to ride or lead horse or pony upon the sidewalks, §
  4-501; selling merchandise on streets
    and sidewalks, §
  6-403; Cemeteries, Ch. 7; creation of excessive noises in certain areas prohibited,
    §
  14-202; Parks and Recreation, Ch. 16; Planning, Zoning, and Subdivision control, Ch.
1 17;
    Traffic and Motor Vehicles, Ch. 20; vehicles shall not be driven on sidewalks, §
  20-806; Utilities,
    Ch. 21; Streets and Sidewalks, App. A; Traffic, App. B.
  Statutory reference:
  Roads and highways, G.S. Ch. 136; authority of municipality to regulate, G.S. § 136-
  66.4; municipal
    streets, G.S. §§  160A-296 et seq.; special assessments, G.S. §§ 160A-216 et seq.
ARTICLE I:  IN GENERAL
Section
   
19-101   Throwing or burning trash on street prohibited
   
19-102   Tree trimmings
   
19-103   Snow and ice removal
   
19-104   Bicycles and motorized vehicles on sidewalks prohibited
   
19-105   Playing in streets prohibited
   
19-106   Use of nails and tacks restricted
   
19-107   Use of horses on town streets
   
19-108   Skateboarding
   19-109 to 19-199   Reserved
§ 19-101  THROWING OR BURNING TRASH ON STREET PROHIBITED.
   No paper, straw, lemon peel, banana peel, watermelon rind, or any trash of
any kind shall be thrown, or swept upon, any sidewalk or street of the town,
nor shall any trash, refuse, or rubbish be burned thereon.
(Code 1976, § 5.36)
Cross-reference:
   Garbage and refuse, Ch. 11; health and sanitation, Ch. 12.
Statutory reference:
   Regulation of garbage on public streets, G.S. § 160A-303.1.
§ 19-102  TREE TRIMMINGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, or allow to be placed, any
tree trimmings or shrubbery on any street or sidewalk in the town.
(Code 1976, § 5.37)  Penalty, see §
1-111
§ 19-103  SNOW AND ICE REMOVAL.
   Every occupant of a store building in front of which the sidewalk is paved
with stone, brick, asphalt, or cement, shall remove snow, ice, or other
obstruction from such sidewalk at the earliest possible time, and as soon as
the weather permits.
(Code 1976, § 5.38)
§ 19-104  BICYCLES AND MOTORIZED VEHICLES ON SIDEWALKS PROHIBITED.
[Repealed]
(Ord. 27-2006, passed - -)
§ 19-105  PLAYING IN STREETS PROHIBITED.
   No person, or group of persons, shall play any games whatsoever on any of
the streets of the town, or use any street as a play area.
(Code 1976, § 5.40)
Statutory reference:
   Regulation of pedestrian activity, G.S. § 160A-300.
§ 19-106  USE OF NAILS AND TACKS RESTRICTED.
   It is hereby declared unlawful for any person to drive any nails or tacks in
the telephone, telegraph, or electric light poles, or in any house or store
situated on any sidewalk or street of the town, except with the permission of
the owner.
(Code 1976, § 5.42)  Penalty, see §
1-111
Cross-reference:
   Advertising, §
15-102.
§ 19-107  USE OF HORSES ON TOWN STREETS.
   Drivers of horse-drawn carriages, or individual horseback riders, shall
ensure that such horses are equipped with diapers, or other similar devices, or
that other methods are used to prevent manure and other wastes of the horses
from falling, or collecting, on town streets.
Statutory reference:
   Violation of local ordinances misdemeanor, G.S. § 14-4.
§ 19-108  SKATEBOARDING.
   Skateboarding is prohibited on all town-owned property.
(Ord. 24-2016, passed 12-19-2016)
§§ 19-109 TO 19-199  RESERVED.
ARTICLE II:  DAMAGING STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
   
19-201   Permit to dig in streets
   
19-202   Sidewalk construction
   
19-203   Street repair
   
19-204   Excavations; leaving unprotected
   
19-205   Streets not to be damaged
   
19-206   House moving
   
19-207   Moving structures upon streets
   
19-208   Damage to bridges and culverts
   
19-209   Damage to lights and signs
   19-210 to 19-299   Reserved
§ 19-201  PERMIT TO DIG IN STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to dig any hole, ditch, or excavation of
any kind whatsoever, on any street or sidewalk in the town, without first
securing the written approval of the Town Director of Public Works.
(Code 1976, § 5.1)  Penalty, see §
19-201
§ 19-202  SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   No sidewalk of any description shall be built by any person of any brick,
wood, or other material without a written permission from the town, which
permission may be part of a subdivision, conditional use permit or other
approval.
(Code 1976, § 5.2)
§ 19-203  STREET REPAIR.
   It shall be the duty of every person who shall open or dig a ditch, trench,
or hole in any street, public alley, or sidewalk of the town, to put such
street, public alley, or sidewalk in as good condition in all respects as it
was before.
(Code 1976, § 5.3)
§ 19-204  EXCAVATIONS; LEAVING UNPROTECTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person making any excavation for any purpose
whatsoever in any of the streets or sidewalks, to fail to securely cover
excavations with plank, or place ropes, around the same three feet from the
ground, or shall fail to place a sufficient number of red lights around such
excavation before dark, and to keep such light burning all night, every night,
such excavation shall be open.
(Code 1976, § 5.4)  Penalty, see §
1-111
§ 19-205  STREETS NOT TO BE DAMAGED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drag, or run, or cause to be dragged
or run, any harrow, or other implement, engine, machine, or tool upon any
asphalt, bithulithic, warrenite, or other permanently paved street of the town
which shall be likely, in any way, to injure, or cut, the surface thereof. It
shall also be unlawful to injure any dirt street in the same manner.
(Code 1976, § 5.5)  Penalty, see §
1-111
§ 19-206  HOUSE MOVING.
   No person shall move any house, or building, upon or across the public
streets, or sidewalks, without the written consent of the Town Public Works
Director, and the refundable deposit of a good, and sufficient, bond in the sum
of $1,000 to cover damage done to such street, or sidewalk, or to any property
of any person.
(Code 1976, § 5.6)
§ 19-207  MOVING STRUCTURES UPON STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to move, or have moved, any structure
upon the streets of the town without first obtaining written permission from
the town to do so.
(Code 1976, § 5.41)  Penalty, see §
1-111
§ 19-208  DAMAGE TO BRIDGES AND CULVERTS.
   No person shall injure or misplace any part of any bridge, culvert, ditch,
or drain, or other property belonging to, or used by, the town, or shall place
any obstruction in any culvert, ditch, or drain, to prevent the free flow of
water on, or over, the streets of the town.
(Code 1976, § 5.7)
Statutory reference:
   Obstructing highway drains, G.S. § 136-92.
§ 19-209  DAMAGE TO LIGHTS AND SIGNS.
   No person shall injure, tamper with, remove, or paint upon, or deface, any
sign, signpost, streetlight, traffic signal, or bulletin board, or other
municipal property, upon the streets and sidewalks, except employees of the
town in performance of their duties.
(Code 1976, § 5.8)
Cross-reference:
   Traffic and Motor Vehicles, Ch. 20.
§§ 19-210 TO 19-299  RESERVED.
ARTICLE III:  OBSTRUCTIONS
Section
Division 1. Generally
   
19-301   Assembly on sidewalk
   
19-302   Display of goods restricted
   
19-303   Placing objects on streets and sidewalks
   
19-304   Construction near sidewalks
   
19-305   Sheds and awnings
   19-306 to 19-320   Reserved
Division 2. Parades and Pickets
   
19-321   Definitions
   
19-322   Permit required
   
19-323   Requirements and issuance of permits
   
19-324   Certain activities prohibited
   
19-325   Revocation of permit
   
19-326   Interference prohibited
   
19-327   Additional regulations applicable to picketing
   
19-328   Exceptions
Division 3. Filming
   
19-329   Purpose
   
19-330   Definitions
   
19-331   Application
   
19-332   Exceptions
   
19-333   Film permit
   
19-334   Change in plans
   
19-335   Permit amendments
   
19-336   Permitting and notification procedure
   
19-337   Notification requirements
   
19-338   Business or resident concerns
   
19-339   Permit issuance
   
19-340   Permit amendments
   
19-341   Insufficient notice
   
19-342   Street closures
   
19-343   Traffic control
   
19-344   Special effects, explosives, and similar devices
   
19-345   Removal of vegetation
   
19-346   Clean up
   
19-347   General restrictions
   
19-348   Insurance
   
19-349   Disclaimer of liability; indemnity
   
19-350   Permits, fees, and deposits
Division 4. Special Events
   
19-351   Definitions
   
19-352   Permit required
   
19-353   Application
   
19-354   Requirements for issuance
   
19-355   Denial of permit request; alternative permit; appeal
   
19-356   Standards applicable to special events
   
19-357   Responsibility of participants and person in charge
   
19-358   Revocation of permit
   19-359 to 19-399   Reserved
Cross-reference:
   Police, Ch. 18.
Statutory reference:
   Obstructing highways and roads, G.S. §§ 136-90, 136-91.
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
§ 19-301  ASSEMBLY ON SIDEWALK.
   All crowds, or assemblages, of persons that shall congregate on the streets
or sidewalks of the town, thereby obstructing the street to the inconvenience
of pedestrians, shall be dispersed by the police, and any person who refuses to
obey the warning of the officer shall be deemed to violate this section. This
section shall apply to groups that have obtained permit pursuant to Division 2
of this article, as well as to unpermitted groups.
(Code 1976, § 5.16)
§ 19-302  DISPLAY OF GOODS RESTRICTED.
   No person shall place, for display or sale, any goods, wares, or merchandise
of any kind upon any of the sidewalks of the town, which shall extend out on
the sidewalks, except in front of his or her own place of business, and in
accordance with the requirements of
Chapter 17, “Planning, Zoning, and Subdivision Control”, of this code.
(Code 1976, § 5.25)
Cross-reference:
   Businesses and Trades, Ch. 6.
§ 19-303  PLACING OBJECTS ON STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   No brick, stone, or wood, or other substances obstructing the free passage
of persons and vehicles, shall be placed, or suffered, to lie in any of the
alleyways, streets, or other routes of the town, nor shall any person place on,
or in, any of the streets, sidewalks, or alleyways of the town any boxes,
crates, casks, or barrels of any description, or any other obstruction of any
kind; provided, that any person erecting a building may, with written
permission from the Town Public Works Director, place building material for
immediate use on the streets in such a way as to not interfere with the usual
traffic.
(Code 1976, § 5.26)
§ 19-304  CONSTRUCTION NEAR SIDEWALKS.
   Before building, or remodeling, at any place where the same is in close
proximity to the sidewalk, an overhead covered passageway shall be constructed
so as to leave the sidewalk unobstructed, and provide safe and easy passage.
Such passageway shall comply with the requirements of the State Building Code.
(Code 1976, § 5.27)
Cross-reference:
   Buildings and Building Regulations, Ch. 5.
§ 19-305  SHEDS AND AWNINGS.
   No person shall erect, or repair, over any sidewalk, or street, any wooden
shed or awning, or any wooden shed for the support of an awning, or erect upon
any street, or sidewalk, any post for the support of any awning. If any person
shall violate this section, then each day that the above forbidden structure
shall remain after notice shall constitute a separate violation; provided, that
this shall not be construed to prevent the erection over the sidewalk of cloth
awnings supported upon metallic frames firmly suspended from the building;
attached wooden or metal awnings; or covered colonnades or arcades. Any
structure extending over a sidewalk shall be built in compliance with the State
Building Code.
(Code 1976, § 5.28)
§§ 19-306 TO 19-320  RESERVED.
DIVISION 2. PARADES AND PICKETS.
§ 19-321  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this division, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   BLOCK. The portion of any street lying between its intersections with other
streets.
   GROUP DEMONSTRATION. Any assembly together, or concert of action between, or
among, two or more persons for the purpose of protesting any matter, or of
making known any position, or promotion of such persons, or of, or on behalf
of, any organization, or class of persons, or for the purpose of attracting
attention of such assembly.
   PARADE. Any assemblage of two, or more, persons participating in, or
operating any vehicle in, any march, ceremony, show, exhibition, or procession
of any kind in, or upon, the public streets, sidewalks, alleys, parks, or other
public grounds or places.
   PICKET LINE. Any two, or more, persons formed together for the purpose of
making known any position, or promotion of such persons, or on behalf of any
organization, or class of persons.
(Code 1976, § 5.17)
Cross-reference:
   Definitions and rules of construction generally, §
1-102.
§ 19-322  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to organize, conduct, or participate in
any parade, picket line, or group demonstration in, or upon, any street,
sidewalk, alley, or other public place within the town unless a permit therefor
has been issued by the town in accordance with the provisions of this division.
(Code 1976, § 5.18)  Penalty, see §
1-111
§ 19-323  REQUIREMENTS AND ISSUANCE OF PERMITS.
   (A)   The Chief of Police, or his or her designee, shall issue permits as
required in §
19-322, and in the issuance thereof he or she shall:
      (1)   Require a written application for permit to be filed not less than
24 hours in advance of such parade, picket line, or group demonstration, which
application shall specify the time and place for the commencement of any such
picket line, and the time, place, route, and duration of any such parade, or
group demonstration;
      (2)   Refuse to issue such permits for parades, picket lines, or group
demonstrations to commence before 6:00 a.m., or terminate later than 30 minutes
after sundown;
      (3)   Refuse to issue such permits for parades, or group demonstrations,
to be held at the same time and place as those designated in a permit issued
pursuant to a written application previously received by the Chief of Police,
or his or her designee;
      (4)   Require that the application for a permit specify whether or not
minors below the age of 18 years will be permitted to participate; and
      (5)   Require that the application for a permit shall specify, and the
permit shall designate, the person in charge of the activity. Such person shall
be required to accompany the parade, picket line, or group demonstration, and
shall carry such permit with him or her at that time.
   (B)   Such permit shall not be valid in the possession of any other person.
(Code 1976, § 5.19)
§ 19-324  CERTAIN ACTIVITIES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The following acts or activities, when performed, or undertaken, in
conjunction with, or as a part of, any parade, picket line, or group
demonstration, are hereby prohibited and declared unlawful:
      (1)   The carrying on, or about, the person of any firearm, or any item
which, by their use, might constitute a deadly weapon; and
      (2)   The taking, or keeping, of a dog, or other vicious animal, whether
leashed or unleashed.
   (B)   Subsection (A)(1) above does not apply to an individual who possesses
a valid concealed carry permit, and who is carrying a handgun in compliance
with the terms, and conditions, of that permit, and in a concealed manner.
   (C)   The purpose of this section is not to restrict, or prohibit,
expression protected by the First Amendment. Where the display of firearms or
other weapons, or the taking or keeping of a viscous animal, is primarily to
convey a message protected by the First Amendment, such acts shall be permitted
if:
      (1)   The person, or group, accurately describes the proposed act(s) in
the application for the permit required by §
19-322; and
      (2)   If the person, or group, can demonstrate, to the satisfaction of
the Chief of Police, that the proposed act(s)will not present a threat to
public safety.
(Code 1976, § 5.20) (Ord. 6-2020, passed 2-11-2020)  Penalty, see §
1-111
§ 19-325  REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police shall revoke any permit granted for a parade, picket
line, or group demonstration for any of the following causes:
   (A)   The violation by any participant of §
19-324; or
   (B)   The failure to comply with the terms, and conditions, of the permit.
(Code 1976, § 5.21)
§ 19-326  INTERFERENCE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall hamper, obstruct, impede, or interfere with any parade,
picket line, or group demonstration being conducted under authority of a permit
duly issued by the Chief of Police.
(Code 1976, § 5.22)
§ 19-327  ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS APPLICABLE TO PICKETING.
   Picket lines and picketing shall be subject to the following additional
regulations:
   (A)   Picketing may be conducted only on the sidewalks reserved for
pedestrian movement, and may not be conducted on the portion of a street used
primarily for vehicular travel;
   (B)   Not more than ten pickets promoting the same objective shall be
permitted to use either of the two sidewalks within a single block at any one
time;
   (C)   Pickets may carry written, or printed, placards or signs not exceeding
two feet in width, and two feet in length, promoting the objective for which
the picketing is done;
   (D)   Pickets must march in single file and not abreast, and must not march
closer together than 15 feet, except in passing one another. Pickets shall not
be allowed to walk more than five feet from the curb line, and shall be in
continuous motion;
   (E)   If pickets promoting different objectives desire to use the same
sidewalk for picketing, and such use would result in the presence of more than
ten pickets thereon, the Chief of Police shall allot time to each group of
pickets for the use of such sidewalk on an equitable basis; and
   (F)   Pickets shall not target a private residence.
(Code 1976, § 5.23)
§ 19-328  EXCEPTIONS.
   This division shall not apply to:
   (A)   Funeral processions; or
   (B)   Any governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
(Code 1976, § 5.24)
DIVISION 3. FILMING
§ 19-329  PURPOSE.
   (A)   The town recognizes film production as an important economic activity
which benefits the community. However, such activity requires regulation to
ensure that citizens, property, traffic flow, and public safety are protected,
and the least amount of disruption to the community occurs.
   (B)   The purpose of these regulations is to facilitate advance planning,
coordinate scheduling, and arrange for appropriate town services and operations
to serve the film production event in an efficient manner. To serve this
purpose, film production companies are required to secure a film permit in
advance of any film production activity.
§ 19-330  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this division, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   CHARITABLE. Motion pictures, television programs, or video tapes produced by
a nonprofit organization which qualifies under § 501(c)(3) of the Internal
Revenue Code, being 26 U.S.C. § 501(c)(3), as a charitable organization.
   FILM LIAISON. The town staff member who administers the film ordinance and
permit application process, the Town Manager, or his or her designee.
   FILM PERMIT. A document issued by the town upon completion of the
application process that officially approves the film production, and
identifies requirements for appropriate town services and operations, and after
payment of any required fees.
   FILM PRODUCTION. All activity attendant to staging, or shooting, motion
pictures, television shows or programs, commercials, videotapes, or similar
productions. FILM PRODUCTION shall be deemed to include all activity attendant
to the arrival, and set up, of base camps, equipment, and vehicles, and the
take down, and departure, of same.
   LOCATION MANAGER. A representative of the film organization, or the
individual in charge of planning, and implementing, the film production. The
person submitting the permit application must be an adult age 18 years or
older.
   NEWS MEDIA. The photographing, filming, or videotaping for the purpose of
television news broadcast, or reporting for print media, by reporters,
photographers, or camerapersons.
   PRODUCTION COMPANY. The film production organization which is planning, and
implementing, the film production.
   STUDENT FILM PRODUCTION. The photographing, filming, or videotaping for
educational purposes, with a letter from the student’s school verifying the
student’s status.
   TOWN SERVICES. Services provided by the town in support of special events,
including regular and over-time staff hours, supplies, and other services.
§ 19-331  APPLICATION.
   This division shall apply to any film production activities taking place
within the town limits, whether on public or private property. Examples of film
production activities include, but are not limited to, staging or shooting
motion pictures, television shows or programs, videotapes, and commercials.
§ 19-332  EXCEPTIONS.
   This division shall not apply to:
   (A)   News media activities;
   (B)   Charitable film production; or
   (C)   Student film production.
§ 19-333  FILM PERMIT.
   (A)   At the beginning of the film planning process, the location manager
should contact the film liaison to discuss the planned film production, and to
obtain a copy of the film application. Prior to the submittal of the
application, a pre-production meeting is required between the film liaison and
the location manager. Other agencies may be included in this meeting as needed.
A complete listing of all anticipated locations with tentative dates is
requested at this time, as the film liaison, or other agency representatives,
may know of possible conflicts with town services, local events, or other
filming activities of which the location manager may not be aware.
   (B)   The production company should complete the application with required
attachments, and return it to the film liaison no later than 30 days prior to
film production. The film liaison will review the application for completeness,
and route the application to the appropriate town staff for acknowledgment of
service, and operations support for the event and for comment. When all
requirements listed on the application have been met, the film liaison will
issue a film permit to the location manager for the specific film production
activity at the specified times and locations. The town reserves the right to
deny film activities that, in the town’s view, pose a threat to public health
and safety, and/or if determined that the production company will be unable to
provide adequate services to ensure public health and safety during the
activity. The film liaison may convene the appropriate town staff to meet with
the location manager prior to issuing the permit, and as needed after the
permit is issued to facilitate coordination of activities and services.
§ 19-334  CHANGE IN PLANS.
   The permit is issued based on the conditions outlined in the permit
application. The location manager must notify the film liaison about any
changes in plans, activities, and/or service requirements no later than three
weeks prior to the event so that accommodations can be made, if feasible. If
accommodations for the proposed changes are not feasible, then the location
manager must follow the arrangements specified in the permit application.
§ 19-335  PERMIT AMENDMENTS.
   The film liaison should document changes in plans, in writing, as an
amendment to the film permit, and circulate to respective town departments.
§ 19-336  PERMITTING AND NOTIFICATION PROCEDURE.
   The production company is responsible for notifying all businesses and
residents affected by the film production. Notification shall take place
following the town’s review of the application, and no less than ten business
days prior to any film production activity. The production company must notify
affected businesses and residents of the planned activity. The film liaison
shall determine the extent of the required notification.
§ 19-337  NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Notification shall include a copy of the film permit application and a
cover letter from the production company, and shall include detailed
information concerning the location, and duration, of the filming activities,
as well as specifics regarding lights, noise, traffic, and parking where
applicable, and contact phone numbers. Maps and other pertinent information may
be included as well.
   (B)   The cover letter provided by the production company shall provide
notice of a five business day call-in period, as outline in §
19-338.
§ 19-338  BUSINESS OR RESIDENT CONCERNS.
   (A)   Businesses and residents within the required notification area shall
have a five business day call-in period, during which they may contact the film
liaison to ask any questions, or express concerns or objections.
   (B)   The film liaison will attempt to address objections and concerns in
consultation with the location manager.
§ 19-339  PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   At the end of the call-in period, the film liaison will issue the film
permit if all reported concerns, and objections, have been adequately
addressed.
§ 19-340  PERMIT AMENDMENTS.
   If the film production activities differ substantially from the film permit
application, the production company shall re-notify affected businesses and
residents, in accordance with §§
19-336,
19-337, and
19-338.
§ 19-341  INSUFFICIENT NOTICE.
   The town reserves the right to deny, or revoke, permits where insufficient
time has been allowed for proper notification, or when the notification process
has been improperly applied.
§ 19-342  STREET CLOSURES.
   Production companies who wish to temporarily close a street inside the town
limits must also complete a street closure application. Applications for
closures of town-maintained streets must be submitted a minimum of 30 days
prior to the requested closure date. The production company may be responsible
for town costs involved in closing the street. If the request involves closure
of a state-maintained street, the application would also need to be submitted
in advance to the State Film Commission for approval.
§ 19-343  TRAFFIC CONTROL.
   Traffic control, if needed, shall be handled by off-duty police officers
hired by the production company, or as otherwise approved by the Town Police
Department. The Town Police Department reserves the right to determine the
number of officers needed.
§ 19-344  SPECIAL EFFECTS, EXPLOSIVES, AND SIMILAR DEVICES.
   No film activity which involves the use of explosives, pyrotechnics, fire,
smoke making machines, or other special effects of a similar nature may be
undertaken unless specifically approved by the Town Fire Department. The Town
Fire Department reserves the right to require the presence of off-duty fire
personnel during any film activity which involves the use of hazardous
materials.
§ 19-345  REMOVAL OF VEGETATION.
   Removal, or alteration, of vegetation in the public right-of-way, or on
town-owned lands, is prohibited unless specifically approved by the film
permit.
§ 19-346  CLEAN UP.
   The production company is fully responsible for clean up and proper disposal
of all waste and materials produced.
§ 19-347  GENERAL RESTRICTIONS.
   The following restrictions and standards apply to film production in the
town:
   (A)   Clear access must be provided, and maintained, for all emergency
vehicles;
   (B)   Production vehicles and equipment shall not block fire hydrants,
driveways, or other access ramps unless authorized by the town, and/or affected
businesses or residents;
   (C)   Production vehicles and equipment must be parked in such a way as to
not impede safe lines of vision at intersections, and comply with all town
ordinances regarding on-street parking;
   (D)   Lighting for filming, both during the day and at night, should not
interfere with the safe movement of traffic;
   (E)   Production companies blocking, or holding, traffic on streets
schedules for trash/recycling pickup or leaf collection must allow trucks to
access those areas for normal pickup;
   (F)   Production companies are responsible for returning any public rights-
of-way used for filming, base camp, or other purposes to their original
condition in a timely manner, and for repairing damage to foliage, grass, or
public property;
   (G)   The town reserves the right to require the presence of police officers
or fire personnel during, or before, any filming;
   (H)   In the event of natural or civil disasters, the town reserves the
right to cancel all outstanding film permits on both public, and private,
properties within town limits. Should evacuation of a street or neighborhood be
deemed necessary by fire, police, or other emergency authorities, all
outstanding permits for that area are null and void. Permits will be re-granted
as soon as possible following a safety evaluation by the town;
   (I)   The town reserves the right to change, modify, update, or waive the
provisions of these standards where necessary for the public’s safety; and
   (J)   The town reserves the right to cancel filming permits, and/or take
further restrictive actions where necessary to assure adherence to these
standards.
§ 19-348  INSURANCE.
   (A)   All film productions are required to maintain liability insurance
policies for filming on location within the town. The following minimal policy
amounts are required:
 
Type of Insurance                              Amount to be Paid
Automobile liability                           $1,000,000
General liability insurance                    $1,000,000
Workers’ compensation and employer’s liabil$1,000,000
 
   (B)   While these minimum insurance amounts found in subsection (A) above
are required, each filming will be treated on a case-by-case basis. If the
production company has high hazard events planned, then these amounts may be
increased. Examples of high hazard events include, but are not limited to,
using a vehicle to jump a railroad track, using a significant amount of
explosives or pyrotechnics, or demolition of a building or vehicle. The film
liaison will determine if insurance amounts need to be increased.
§ 19-349  DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY; INDEMNITY.
   (A)   Every production company to whom a filming permit is issued, and every
person who participates in filming events acknowledges, and agrees, that the
town, its elected officials, and employees shall not be held liable for any
injury, loss, damage, liability, or obligation arising out of, or connected in
any manner with, the planning, permitting, or conduct of the film production.
   (B)   Every production company to whom a filming permit is issued, as a
condition of the issuance of the filming permit, agrees to indemnify, and hold
harmless, the town, its elected officials, and employees with respect to any,
and every, claim, demand, cause of action, injury, loss, damage, liability, and
obligation arising out of, or connected in any manner with, the planning,
permitting, or conduct of the film production. The town shall require written
acknowledgment of the disclaimer of liability and the indemnity set out herein.
§ 19-350  PERMITS, FEES, AND DEPOSITS.
   Some film productions may include activities that require the issuance of
one, or more, permits by the town, as outlined in the town fee schedule. Other
charges may include:
   (A)   Off-duty city personnel. Some film productions may require the use of
off-duty town police or fire personnel. Such personnel may be hired directly by
the production company for four-hour minimum periods of time;
   (B)   Use of town services or facilities. Production companies that wish to
use town services or facilities will be charged the same fee as others for the
service or facility used. Production companies that wish to use town services,
for which a fee has not been established, will be charged at the discretion of
the town on the basis of time, equipment, and materials. The town reserves the
right to deny requests for use of town services or facilities; and
   (C)   Deposit required. Prior to the granting of any film permits, the town
will require production companies to assure their financial responsibility
through a $5,000 cash deposit. Upon completion of filming, the deposit will be
returned after the production company has paid all outstanding bills owed to
the town.
DIVISION 4. SPECIAL EVENTS
§ 19-351  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this division, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   PERMIT. A written authorization, as required by this division.
   SPECIAL EVENT. Any planned or organized event intended to attract, and/or
assemble, ten or more persons on town-owned property, or within state or town
rights-of-way, for festivals, celebrations, concerts, shows, exhibitions, or
similar occurrences.
   TOWN MANAGER. The Town Manager, and his or her designee.
   VENUES. The streets and properties either owned by the town or for which the
town has joint use, or potential joint use, suitable for the assembly of
citizens for parades and/or special events.
§ 19-352  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall engage in, participate in, aid, form, or start, any
special event unless a permit shall have been obtained from the Town Manager;
and, provided further, that no person may conduct, or otherwise participate in,
any special event between 10:30 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to:
      (1)   Funeral processions;
      (2)   Any governmental agency acting within the scope of its function; or
      (3)   Temporary closing of streets by a department of the town for
activities related to maintenance, repair, construction, alteration, or other
official duties of such department.
§ 19-353  APPLICATION.
   (A)   General. An individual seeking issuance of a permit shall file an
application with the Town Manager on forms provided by the town.
   (B)   Filing period. An application for a permit shall be filed with the
Town Manager at least 30 business days, and no more than 180 days prior to the
time at which it is proposed to conduct the parade or special event. The Town
Manager shall not approve any application for a permit when the Town Manager
finds that there is a conflict in both schedule and location (venue) with some
other event for which a permit has been previously granted.
   (C)   Contents. The application for a permit shall set forth the following
information:
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number of the individual seeking
to conduct such parade or special event;
      (2)   If the special event is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of,
or by an organization, then the name, address, and telephone number of the
headquarters of the organization, and of the authorized, and responsible, heads
of such organization;
      (3)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person to be in
charge of the special event, and who will accompany him or her, and carry the
permit at all times;
      (4)   The date on which the parade, or special event, is to be conducted,
and the hours that such special event will start and terminate;
      (5)   If the proposed activity involves closing a town road, then the
proposed route to be traveled, including the starting point and the termination
point, shall be denoted on the application. The applicant shall include a
statement as to whether the special event is proposed to occupy all, or any,
portion of the width of any street within the town. If the road is a state
street, written permission must be provided from the State Department of
Transportation;
      (6)   The approximate number of persons who, and animals and vehicles
which, will constitute such special event; the general type of animals, and
general description of the vehicles;
      (7)   If the parade, or special event, is designed to be held by, or on
behalf of, or for any individual or entity other than the applicant, the
applicant for such permit shall file, with the Town Manager, a written document
from the person, or entity, proposing to hold the special event, authorizing
the applicant to apply for the permit on the person’s, or entity’s, behalf; and
      (8)   The location by address, or commonly known name of any assembly
area that the applicant proposes as the venue, together with a description of
the activities planned during the event, including, but not limited to, a
description of any sound amplification equipment that will be used during the
assembly.
§ 19-354  REQUIREMENTS FOR ISSUANCE.
   Within ten business days after the filing thereof, the Town Manager shall
issue a permit, as provided in this section, if:
   (A)   The applicant for the permit has agreed to abide by the standards set
forth in this division, or any other town ordinance, which are necessary
measures to promote the health, safety, and welfare of the community;
   (B)   The location proposed for the event appears to be a proper venue,
taking into consideration the number of expected participants, the type of
event, any resources requested of the town, the volume of sound, the length of
the proposed event, and the anticipated parking needed; and, the venue can be
used for such an event so that the reasonable expectations of residents, and
businesses, can be balanced against the reasonable needs of the applicant;
   (C)   No other special event has previously been issued a permit for the
same date and location as requested in the application. If two or more
applications request the same date for a parade, or special event, the Town
Manager shall consider the applications in the order they were filed;
   (D)   The proposed special event does not conflict with the temporary
closing of streets by a department of the town for activities related to
maintenance, repair, construction, alteration, or other official duties of such
department; and
   (E)   The time, route, or size of the proposed special event will not
disrupt the use of a public vehicular street ordinarily subject to significant
congestion or traffic, unless reasonable provision can be made by the town for
the safe, and orderly, movement of vehicular and pedestrian traffic along
alternate routes during the proposed special event;
   (F)   The conduct of the special event will not require the diversion of so
great a number of Town Police Officers to properly police the parade, or
special event, and the areas contiguous thereto, as to prevent normal police
protection in the town;
   (G)   General liability insurance is provided for the event; and/or
   (H)   All effected town departments have approved the proposed special
event.
§ 19-355  DENIAL OF PERMIT REQUEST; ALTERNATIVE PERMIT; APPEAL.
   (A)   If the Town Manager disapproves the application, he or she shall
notify the applicant of the decision, stating the reasons for the denial of the
permit. Upon the denial of an application for a permit made pursuant to this
division, the applicant may appeal to the Town Council within five business
days from the date notice of the denial is mailed to the applicant, by first-
class mail, to the address of the applicant on the application. Appeal may be
made, in writing, to the Town Manager who shall set the appeal for hearing by
the Town Council for the next regularly scheduled Council meeting.
   (B)   The Town Manager, in approving an application for a permit, may
authorize the special event at a date, time, route, or location different from
that proposed by the applicant. The Town Manager shall state the reasons for
the issuance of the alternative permit location based on the criteria listed in
§
19-354. An applicant desiring to accept a permit for a place and/or time
differing from that proposed shall, within five days of the issuance of the
permit, file a written notice of acceptance of the same with the Town Manager.
Appeal of location may be made by filing an appeal, in writing, to the Town
Manager who shall set the appeal for hearing by the Town Council for the next
regularly scheduled Council meeting.
§ 19-356  STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO SPECIAL EVENTS.
   (A)   The person designated by the applicant as the person responsible for
the physical conduct of the parade, or special event, shall be physically
present, and accept responsibility for compliance with any, and all, terms of
the permit.
   (B)   The applicant shall file with the Town Manager a waiver signed by the
applicant releasing, and saving, the town and its employees harmless for any
claims, actions, and lawsuits arising out of the conduct of the parade, or
special event, excepting injuries or damages proximately caused by the town.
   (C)   Every special event shall remain in the parameters designated, and
approved, by the Town Manager.
   (D)   No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, impede, or interfere
with any special event, or with any person, vehicle, or animal participating,
or used, in a special event.
   (E)   The person designated in the application as responsible for the
special event shall be responsible for ensuring that any booths, stands, or
other equipment used in the special event are removed from the area within a
reasonable amount of time.
§ 19-357  RESPONSIBILITY OF PARTICIPANTS AND PERSON IN CHARGE.
   Participants in a special event are required to abide by this division and
the terms of the permit issued pursuant to this division. Willful violation
thereof will constitute a violation of this division, and is punishable as
provided by law.
§ 19-358  REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The Town Manager, or his or her designee, may revoke any permit granted for
a special event if:
   (A)   Any participant in a special event violates the standards for the
conduct of special events set out herein; or
   (B)   Any participant in a special event fails to comply with the formation,
terms, or conditions set out in the application and permit, or fails to comply
with the terms of this division.
§§ 19-359 TO 19-399  RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV:  RAILROAD CROSSINGS
Section
   
19-401   Regulation
   
19-402   Bridges and underpasses
   19-403 to 19-499   Reserved
Cross-reference:
   Traffic and motor vehicles, Ch. 20.
Statutory reference:
   State control of railroad crossings, G.S. § 136-20.1; municipal control of
railroad crossings, G.S. § 160A-298.
§ 19-401  REGULATION.
   (A)   The Council may direct, control, and prohibit the laying of railroad
tracks and switches in public streets and alleys. All railroad tracks,
crossings, and bridges shall be constructed so as not to interfere with
drainage patterns, or with the ordinary travel and use of the public streets
and alleys.
   (B)   The costs of constructing, reconstructing, and improving public
streets and alleys, including the widening thereof, within areas covered by
railroad cross-ties, including cross timbers, shall be borne equally by the
town and the railroad company. The costs of maintaining, and repairing, such
areas after construction shall be borne by the railroad company.
   (C)   For those grade crossings listed in
Appendix A, § 101 of this code, which is hereby made a part of this section,
the railroad operating trains or locomotives, or rolling stock of any kind over
the same, shall maintain, at all times, suitable crossing gates, which shall be
closed when any train, locomotive, or other rolling stock is passing over, or
approaching, near to the crossing for the purpose of passing over the same. In
lieu of the foregoing, the railroad may install and maintain highway grade
crossing automatic flashing light signals with, or without, short arm gates.
The costs of installing, and maintaining, safety devices shall be apportioned
between the town and the railroad company, as provided in G.S. § 160A-298(c).
   (D)   For those grade crossings listed in
Appendix A, § 102 of this code, which is hereby made a part of this section,
the railroad operating trains, locomotives, or rolling stock of any kind over
the same shall either:
      (1)   Give timely warning of the approach of each train, locomotive, or
other rolling stock, by a crossing watchman then on duty; or
      (2)   Cause each train, locomotive, or other rolling stock to be brought
to a stop before entering onto the crossing, and to be preceded by a flagman on
foot who shall give timely warning that it is about to enter upon the crossing.
   (E)   (1)   For those grade crossings listed in
Appendix A, § 103 of this code, which is hereby made a part of this section,
the railroad operating trains, locomotives, or other rolling stock of any kind
over the same shall do one of the following:
         (a)   Give timely warning of the approach of each train, locomotive,
or other rolling stock by a crossing watchman then on duty;
         (b)   Cause each train, locomotive, or other rolling stock to be
brought to a stop before entering on such crossing, and to be preceded by a
flagman on foot who shall give timely warning that it is about to enter upon
the crossing; or
         (c)   Install and maintain highway grade crossing automatic flashing
light signals with, or without, short arm gates.
      (2)   The costs of installing, and maintaining, safety devices shall be
apportioned between the town and the railroad company, as provided in G.S. §
160A-298(c).
(Code 1976, § 5.29)
§ 19-402  BRIDGES AND UNDERPASSES.
   (A)   (1)   The Council may require that a grade crossing be eliminated, and
replaced, by a railroad bridge, or by a railroad underpass, if the Council
finds as a fact that the grade crossing constitutes an unreasonable hazard to
vehicular or pedestrian traffic. In such event, the town shall bear 90% of the
costs, and the railroad company shall bear 10% of the costs. If the town
constructs a new street which requires a grade separation, and which does not
replace an existing street, the town shall bear all of the costs. If a railroad
company constructs a new track across at grade, or under, or over, an existing
street, the railroad company shall pay the entire cost thereof.
      (2)   The town shall pay the costs of maintaining street bridges which
cross over railroads. Railroad companies shall pay the cost of maintaining
railroad bridges over streets, except that the town shall pay the costs of
maintaining street pavement, sidewalks, street drainage, and street lighting
where streets cross under railroads.
   (B)   Whenever the widening, improving, or other changes in a street require
that a railroad bridge be relocated, enlarged, heightened, or otherwise
reconstructed, the town shall bear 90% of the costs, and the railroad company
shall bear 10% of the costs.
(Code 1976, § 5.30)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, G.S. § 160A-298(d), (e).
§§ 19-403 TO 19-499  RESERVED.
ARTICLE V:  STREET NAMES
Section
   
19-501   New streets named
   
19-502   Confirmation of existing street names
   
19-503   Changing existing street names
   19-504 to 19-599   Reserved
§ 19-501  NEW STREETS NAMED.
   The name of any new street created in a subdivision by means of plat
approval, or in any other manner, shall be subject to approval by the Planning
Board. New street names shall not duplicate, or be deceptively similar to,
existing street names in the town or vicinity. Existing street names, however,
shall be continued where existing streets are extended.
(Ord. 9-84, passed 10-8-1984)
Cross-reference:
   Subdivisions, §§ 17-501 et seq.
§ 19-502  CONFIRMATION OF EXISTING STREET NAMES.
   The names of streets within the town, as the same are shown on the town’s
zoning map as of October 8, 1984, are confirmed as the official names of those
streets. A current map of the town showing the names of streets within the town
shall be maintained in Town Hall, and available for public inspection.
(Ord. 9-84, passed 10-8-1984)
§ 19-503  CHANGING EXISTING STREET NAMES.
   (A)   Names of existing streets may be changed by the Town Council upon its
own initiative, or upon receipt of a valid petition signed by at least 51% of
the owners of property abutting the street right-of-way at issue. To be valid,
a petition to change a street name shall be accompanied by a fee (see fee
schedule), and shall contain a commitment from one, or more, property owners to
pay the fee estimated by the town at the time the petition is submitted for
each sign which would have to be changed if the street name is altered.
   (B)   Upon receipt of a valid petition, the Planning Board, which shall give
notice to the owners of property abutting the affected street of the request
for change, and of a public hearing which the Planning Board shall conduct on
the issue. Based upon the comments and information received at the public
hearing, and other relevant factors, the Planning Board shall make a report and
recommendation upon the matter to the Town Council.
   (C)   After receipt of the Planning Board’s report and recommendation, the
Town Council shall conduct a public hearing upon the proposal prior to making
any determination as to whether to approve, or deny, a change in the street
name. The final decision to approve, or deny, a request shall be in the
discretion of the Council.
(Ord. 9-84, passed 10-8-1984)
§§ 19-504 TO 19-599  RESERVED.
ARTICLE VI:  STORM DRAIN SYSTEM
Section
   
19-601   Storm drainage
   
19-602   Ditch lines
   
19-603   Drain tile
   
19-604   Tie-ins
§ 19-601  STORM DRAINAGE.
   (A)   STORM DRAINAGE is defined as water runoff as a result of an act of
God, consisting of any accumulation of water that may cause flooding of a town
roadway and/or town right-of-way.
   (B)   The town shall provide a drainage system that will carry a flow of
water from the roadway, preventing any build up of stormwater on the roadway,
causing a danger to traffic flow, or damage to the roadway.
   (C)   The flow of stormwater shall be allowed to take a natural path as to
the terrain of the land. At such time that the stormwater flow reaches a low
point along the roadway, it shall be directed away from the roadway.
   (D)   At which time the stormwater flow is directed away from the road
right-of-way, it shall then become the responsibility of the land owner to
disperse of the water at the land owner’s expense.
(Ord. 14-2003, passed 5-19-2003)
§ 19-602  DITCH LINES.
   (A)   DITCH LINES are defined as an indentation, ditch, or trough parallel
with a road right-of-way, or turning away from the roadway where the primary
purpose is to carry stormwater off, and away, from the roadway.
   (B)   The town will maintain all ditch lines running parallel to public
streets controlled, and maintained, by the town.
   (C)   Maintenance shall include keeping ditch lines clear of any
obstructions that may give reason for overflow or flooding. ditch lines will be
kept as straight as possible with the roadway, and graded down to the point
that any drain tile can, and will, receive a full flow of water if necessary.
   (D)   Drainage ditches that turn away from the roadway, and/or original
ditch line parallel with the roadway, shall be the responsibility of the
property owner. The property owner shall be responsible for keeping the ditch
line clean of any debris that will obstruct the flow of stormwater, or that may
cause stormwater to back up in the roadway, resulting in flooding.
   (E)   By the owner’s choice, and acceptance by the town, the land owner may
give the town permission to keep a private ditch line clean. Permission shall
include a signed agreement giving the town a right-of-way easement of at least
15 feet on each side of the ditch line to get equipment on the property to do
necessary clean up and maintenance. If the ditch line represents the property
line between two land owners, an easement agreement will be necessary from each
property owner. If an agreement from both property owners cannot be reached,
the agreeing party will have to dedicate additional property for the easement
width. Any other specific terms of the easement agreement shall be determined
by the Town Public Works Director, or his or her designee, but the Town Council
must give final approval for any easement agreement established pursuant to
this subsection.
   (F)   The town will not be responsible for maintenance, or make any
improvements on private property, except as stated in subsection (E) above.
(Ord. 14-2003, passed 5-19-2003)
§ 19-603  DRAIN TILE.
   (A)   DRAIN TILE shall be defined as a cylindrical pipe used to carry
stormwater in the direction necessary to move water off, and away, from a
roadway.
   (B)   All drain tiles serving a public roadway shall be a minimum of 15-inch
diameter reinforced concrete tile, or 16-gauge corrugated metal pipe. Plastic
piping may be used at the discretion of the Public Works Director. In some
cases, a larger diameter sized pipe may be required depending upon drainage
conditions, as determined by the Public Works Director, or his or her designee.
   (C)   If drain tile is needed, or requested, by the property owner for a
drainage ditch, driveway, or driveway extension, the town may reply only
according to the following guidelines:
      (1)   If the ditch, driveway, or driveway extension is parallel with the
public roadway, or connects with the public roadway directly, the town will
install such pipe as needed if the property owner pays for, and provides, the
pipe;
      (2)   The town will provide the equipment and labor required to complete
the installation. This also includes dirt and/or gravel that is required to
backfill around the pipe and headwalls. Grass seed will be sewn in as
necessary, and in the discretion of the Public Works Director. In any case, the
town will not provide materials that were not directly removed by the town,
including, but not limited to, extra asphalt, concrete, and gravel. Any extra
materials must be provided solely by the property owner;
      (3)   The town shall not install drain tile for new construction. New
construction shall include any residence or business less than one year old.
This shall be the responsibility of the property owner. In addition, the
property owner is responsible for the installation of a drainage system for new
subdivisions according to town, or state, standards; and
      (4)   The town shall only install drain tiles up to 20 feet in length to
accommodate a standard driveway entrance. Drain tiles beyond the entrance of
the driveway shall not be installed by the town.
   (D)   In cases where a drainage ditch runs directly away from the roadway
and onto, or through, a property owner’s land, it will be the property owner’s
responsibility to install, and maintain, drain tile. drain tiles and ditch
lines connecting to town maintained ditch lines and drain tiles must meet town
specifications, and the requirements of this policy.
   (E)   If a property owner enters into an agreement with the town for the
maintenance of a ditch line, and if at any time thereafter the property owner
constructs in a ditch covered by the agreement a pipeline that turns away from
the roadway, the agreement shall become null and void. The maintenance of the
pipe line shall then become the responsibility of the property owner, and the
town shall have no further maintenance obligations with regard to the ditches
previously covered by the agreement.
   (F)   The town will not be responsible for maintenance, or make any
improvements on private property except as stated above.
(Ord. 14-2003, passed 5-19-2003)
§ 19-604  TIE-INS.
   (A)   TIE-INS shall be defined as any pipe of any kind connecting into a
drain tile or line that is primarily used to carry stormwater.
   (B)   The town shall not permit a property owner to tie a drain of any kind
into a storm drain. Drains such as fountain drains, gutter drains, basement
drains, or any other drain that may carry water from the property owner’s home,
business, accessory buildings, or landscape must be cut loose, and removed, so
that it empties away from any drain tile or catch basin.
   (C)   The town cannot, and will not, accept responsibility for such a tied
in storm drain if the drain should back up and cause any damage in any way.
   (D)   If a property owner chooses to pipe a ditch line and wishes to connect
to a town drain, it must be done in a manner that is in accordance with this
policy.
(Ord. 14-2003, passed 5-19-2003)
CHAPTER 20: TRAFFIC AND MOTOR VEHICLES 1
   Article
      
I.   IN GENERAL
      
II.   ADMINISTRATION
      
III.   ENFORCEMENT AND OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
IV.   TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
      
V.   SPEED REGULATIONS
      
VI.   TURNING
      
VII.   ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS
      
VIII.   DRIVING RULES
      
IX.   PEDESTRIANS
      
X.   BICYCLES
      
XI.   PARKING, STOPPING, OR STANDING
      
XII.   ABANDONED, NUISANCE, AND JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES
      
XIII.   GOLF CARTS
 
Notes
  1Cross-reference:
  Any ordinance regulating traffic or vehicles at specific locations saved from
  repeal, §
  1-107;
    taxicabs, §§ 6-201 et seq.; vehicles in the cemetery, §
  7-111; Emergency Procedures, Ch. 9; Fire
    Protection and Prevention, Ch. 10; specific vehicle noises prohibited, §
  14-202; use of vehicles
1   restricted in parks, §
  16-201; Planning, Zoning, and Subdivision control, Ch. 17; bicycle and
    motorized vehicles on sidewalks prohibited, §
  19-104; damage to traffic lights and signs, §
  19-209;
    railroad crossings, §§ 19-401 et seq.; traffic, App. B.
  Statutory reference:
  Motor vehicles, G.S. Ch. 20; motor vehicles and traffic in municipalities,
  G.S. §§ 160A-300 et seq.
ARTICLE I:  IN GENERAL
Section
   
20-101   Definitions
   20-102 to 20-199   Reserved
§ 20-101  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A thoroughfare through the middle of a block.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Vehicles of the Fire Department, police
vehicles, and such ambulances and emergency vehicles of municipal departments,
or public service corporations, as are designated, or authorized, by the Chief
of Police.
   BICYCLE. Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may
ride, having two tandem wheels, either of which is over 20 inches in diameter.
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE. Every vehicle designed, maintained, or used primarily
for the transportation of property.
   CROSSWALK. The part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
highway measured from the curbs, or in the absence of curbs from the edges of
the traversable roadway. A CROSSWALK includes any portion of a roadway at an
intersection, or elsewhere, distinctly indicated for pedestrian crossing by
lines, or other markings, on the surface.
   DRIVER. Every person who drives, or is in actual physical control of, a
vehicle. This term shall have the same meaning as OPERATOR, as used in G.S. §
20-4.01(25).
   HIGHWAY, CONTROLLED ACCESS. Every highway, street, or roadway in respect to
which owners, or occupants, of abutting property, or lands, and other persons
have no legal right of access to, or from, the same, except at such points
only, and in such manner, as may be determined by the public authority having
jurisdiction over such highway, street, or roadway.
   HIGHWAY, THROUGH. Every street or highway, or portion thereof, at the
entrances to which vehicular traffic from intersecting streets, or highways, is
required by law to stop before entering, or crossing, the same, and when stop
signs are erected, as provided in this article.
   INTERSECTION. The area embraced within the prolongation of the lateral
curblines, or, if none, then the lateral edge of the roadway lines of the two
highways which join one another at any angle whether or not one such roadway
crosses the other. Where a highway includes two roadways 30 feet, or more,
apart, then every crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by an
intersecting highway shall be regarded as a separate INTERSECTION. If such
intersecting highway also includes two roadways 30 feet, or more, apart, then
every crossing of two roadways of such highways shall be regarded as a separate
INTERSECTION.
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle having a saddle for the use of the rider,
and designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the
ground, including motor scooters and motor-driven bicycles, but excluding
tractors, utility vehicles equipped with an additional form of device designed
to transport property, three-wheeled vehicles while being used by law
enforcement agencies, and mopeds, as defined in G.S. §§ 20-4.01(h) and 105-
164.3.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled, and every vehicle
designed to run upon the highways, which is pulled by a self-propelled vehicle.
This shall not include mopeds, as defined in G.S. § 20-4.01. This definition
shall not apply to Article XII, “Abandoned, Nuisance, and Junked Motor
Vehicles”, of this chapter.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, markings, and devices
not inconsistent with this chapter placed, or erected, by authority of a public
body, or official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating, warning,
or guiding traffic.
   PARK WHEN PROHIBITED. The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of, and while actually engaged in,
loading or unloading.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer of the municipal police department, or any
officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic, or to make arrests for
violations of traffic regulations.
   PRIVATE ROAD or DRIVEWAY. Every road, or driveway, not open to the use of
the public as a matter of right for the purpose of vehicular traffic.
   RAILROAD. A carrier of persons, or property, upon cars, other than
streetcars, operated upon stationary rails.
   RAILROAD TRAIN. A steam engine, electric, or other motor, with or without
cars coupled thereto, operated upon rails, except streetcars.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a street or highway improved, designed, or
ordinarily used for vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. If a
highway includes two, or more, separate roadways, the term ROADWAY, as used
herein, shall refer to any such roadway separately, but not to all such
ROADWAYS collectively.
   ROADWAY, LANED. A roadway which is divided into two, or more, clearly marked
lanes for vehicular traffic.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curblines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines intended for the use of
pedestrians.
   STOP. Complete cessation of movement.
   STOP, STOPPING, or STANDING, WHEN PROHIBITED. Any stopping or standing of a
vehicle, whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict with
other traffic, or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or
traffic-control sign or signal.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained roadway when any part thereof is open to the use of the
public for purposes of vehicular travel.
   STREETCAR. A car, other than a railroad train, for transporting persons or
property, and operated upon rails principally within a municipality.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars, and
other conveyances either singly, or together, while using any street for
purposes of travel.
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL. Any device, whether manually, electrically, or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and to
proceed.
   TRAFFIC DIVISION. The Traffic Division of the Police Department of this
town, or in the event a TRAFFIC DIVISION is not established, then the term
whenever used in this chapter shall be deemed to refer to the Police Department
of this town.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon, or by which any person, or property, is, or
may be, transported, or drawn, upon a highway, except devices moved by human
power, or used exclusively upon fixed rails or tracks; provided, that for the
purposes of this chapter, bicycles shall be deemed VEHICLES, and every rider of
a bicycle upon a highway shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter
applicable to the driver of a VEHICLE, except those which by their nature can
have no application. This term shall not include a device which is designed
for, and intended to be used as, a means of transportation for a person with a
mobility impairment, or who uses the device for mobility enhancement, is
suitable for use both inside and outside a building, including on sidewalks,
and is limited by design to 15 mph when the device is being operated by a
person with a mobility impairment, or who uses the device for mobility
enhancement. This term shall not include an ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE
MOBILITY DEVICE, as defined in G.S. § 20-4.01(7a).
   ZONE, CURB LOADING. A space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive
use of vehicles during the loading, or unloading, of passengers or materials.
   ZONE, FREIGHT CURB LOADING. A space adjacent to a curb for the exclusive use
of vehicles during the loading, or unloading, of freight or passengers.
   ZONE, PASSENGER CURB LOADING. A place adjacent to a curb reserved for the
exclusive use of vehicles during the loading, or unloading, of passengers.
   ZONE, SAFETY. The traffic island, or other space, officially set apart
within a roadway for the exclusive use of pedestrians, and which is protected,
or is so marked or indicated, by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all
times while set apart as a safety zone.
(Code 1976, §§ 7.1-7.6, 7.8-7.14)
Cross-reference:
   Definitions and rules of construction generally, §
1-102.
Statutory reference:
   Definitions, G.S. § 20-4.01.
§§ 20-102 TO 20-199  RESERVED.
ARTICLE II:  ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
20-201   Traffic Division established
   
20-202   Duty of Traffic Division
   
20-203   Records of traffic violations
   
20-204   Traffic Division to investigate accidents
   
20-205   Traffic accident studies
   
20-206   Traffic accident reports
   
20-207   Drivers’ files to be maintained
   
20-208   Traffic Division to submit annual traffic-safety report
   
20-209   Traffic Division to designate method of identifying funeral
processions
   20-210 to 20-299   Reserved
§ 20-201  TRAFFIC DIVISION ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established in the Police Department a Traffic Division to
be under the control of a police officer appointed by, and directly responsible
to, the Chief of Police.
(Code 1976, § 7.16)
Cross-reference:
   Police,
Ch. 18.
§ 20-202  DUTY OF TRAFFIC DIVISION.
   It shall be the duty of the Traffic Division with such aid as may be
rendered by other members of the Police Department to enforce the street
traffic regulations, and all of the state vehicle laws applicable to street
traffic, to make arrests for traffic violations, to investigate accidents, and
to cooperate with the Town Traffic Engineer, and other officers, in the
administration of the traffic laws and in developing ways, and means, to
improve traffic conditions, and to carry out those duties specially imposed
upon the Division by this chapter.
(Code 1976, § 7.17)
§ 20-203  RECORDS OF TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The Police Department, or the Traffic Division thereof, shall keep a
record of all violations of the traffic ordinances, or of the state vehicle
laws of which any person has been charged. Such record shall be so maintained
as to show all types of violations, and the total of each. The record shall be
kept in accordance with the Municipal Record Retention and Disposition Schedule
published by the State Department of Cultural Resources.
   (B)   All such records and reports shall be public records.
(Code 1976, § 7.18)
§ 20-204  TRAFFIC DIVISION TO INVESTIGATE ACCIDENTS.
   It shall be the duty of the Traffic Division, assisted by other police
officers of the Department, to investigate traffic accidents, to attest, and to
assist, in the prosecution of those persons charged with violations of law
causing, or contributing, to such accidents.
(Code 1976, § 7.19)
§ 20-205  TRAFFIC ACCIDENT STUDIES.
   Whenever the accidents at any particular location become numerous, the
Traffic Division, in conjunction with other appropriate town staff, shall
conduct studies of such accidents, and determine remedial measures.
(Code 1976, § 7.20)
§ 20-206  TRAFFIC ACCIDENT REPORTS.
   The Traffic Division shall maintain a suitable system of filing traffic
accident reports. Accident reports, or cards referring to them, shall be filed
alphabetically by location.
(Code 1976, § 7.21)
§ 20-207  DRIVERS FILES TO BE MAINTAINED.
   (A)   The Police Department, or the Traffic Division thereof, shall maintain
a suitable record of all traffic accidents, warnings, arrests, convictions, and
complaints reported for each driver, which shall be filed alphabetically under
the name of the driver concerned.
   (B)   Such records shall be kept a minimum of five years, and in accordance
with the Municipal Record Retention and Disposition Schedule published by the
State Department of Cultural Resources.
(Code 1976, § 7.22)
§ 20-208  TRAFFIC DIVISION TO SUBMIT ANNUAL TRAFFIC-SAFETY REPORT.
   The Traffic Division shall annually prepare a traffic report which shall be
filed with the Town Manager.
§ 20-209  TRAFFIC DIVISION TO DESIGNATE METHOD OF IDENTIFYING FUNERAL
PROCESSIONS.
[Repealed]
Statutory reference:
   Funeral processions, G.S. § 20-157.1.
§§ 20-210 TO 20-299  RESERVED.
ARTICLE III:  ENFORCEMENT AND OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
20-301   Authority of Police and Fire Department officials
   
20-302   Obedience to Police and Fire Department officials
   
20-303   Persons propelling push carts or riding animals to obey traffic
regulations
   
20-304   Use of coasters, roller skates, and similar devices restricted
   
20-305   Public employees to obey traffic regulations
   
20-306   Authorized emergency vehicles
   20-307 to 20-399   Reserved
§ 20-301  AUTHORITY OF POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENT OFFICIALS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the officers of the Police Department, or such
officers as are assigned by the Chief of Police, to enforce all street traffic
laws, and all of the state vehicle laws applicable to street traffic.
   (B)   Officers of the Police Department, or such officers as are assigned by
the Chief of Police, are hereby authorized to direct all traffic by voice,
hand, or signal in conformance with traffic laws; provided, that in the event
of a fire or other emergency, or to expedite traffic or to safeguard
pedestrians, officers of the Police Department may direct traffic as conditions
may require, notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws.
   (C)   Officers of the Fire Department, when at the scene of a fire, may
direct, or assist, the police in directing traffic there, or in the immediate
vicinity.
(Code 1976, § 7.27)
Cross-reference:
   Fire department, §§ 10-201 et seq.; police department, §§ 18-201 et seq.
Statutory reference:
   Firemen as traffic officers, G.S. § 20-114.1(b).
§ 20-302  OBEDIENCE TO POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENT OFFICIALS.
   No person shall willfully fail, or refuse to comply with, any lawful order,
or direction, of a police officer or Fire Department official.
(Code 1976, § 7.28)
§ 20-303  PERSONS PROPELLING PUSH CARTS OR RIDING ANIMALS TO OBEY TRAFFIC
REGULATIONS.
   Every person propelling any push cart, or riding an animal upon a roadway,
and every person driving any animal-drawn vehicle, shall be subject to the
provisions of this chapter applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except
those provisions of this article which, by their very nature, can have no
application.
(Code 1976, § 7.29)
Cross-reference:
   Animals, Ch. 4.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, G.S. § 20-171.
§ 20-304  USE OF COASTERS, ROLLER SKATES, AND SIMILAR DEVICES RESTRICTED.
   No person upon roller skates, or riding in, or by, means of any coaster, toy
vehicle, or similar device, shall go upon any roadway except while crossing a
street on a crosswalk, and when so crossing such person shall be granted all of
the rights, and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to
pedestrians. This section shall not apply upon any street while set aside as a
play street, as authorized by ordinance.
(Code 1976, § 7.30)
§ 20-305  PUBLIC EMPLOYEES TO OBEY TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   In accordance with G.S. § 20-168, the provisions of this article shall apply
to the driver of any vehicle owned by, or used in, the service of the federal
government, this state, county, or town, and it shall be unlawful for any
driver to violate any of the provisions of this article, except as otherwise
permitted in this article, or by state statute.
(Code 1976, § 7.31)  Penalty, see §
1-111
Cross-reference:
   Officers and employees, §§ 2-401 et seq.
§ 20-306  AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   The driver of an emergency vehicle, as defined in G.S. §§ 20-145 and
20-156, when responding to an emergency call, or when in the pursuit of an
actual suspected violator of the law, or when responding to, but not upon
returning from, a fire alarm, may exercise the privileges set forth in this
section, but subject to the conditions herein stated.
   (B)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may:
      (1)   Park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   Proceed past a red or stop signal, or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
      (3)   Exceed the prima facie speed limits, so long as he or she does not
endanger life or property; and
      (4)   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement, or turning,
in specified directions.
   (C)   As provided in G.S. § 20-156(b), the driver of a vehicle upon the
highway shall yield the right-of-way to Police and Fire Department vehicles,
and public and private ambulances, vehicles used by an organ procurement
organization, or agency, for the recovery or transportation of human tissues
and organs for transplantation, or a vehicle operated by a transplant
coordinator who is an employee of an organ procurement organization, or agency,
when the transplant coordinator is responding to a call to recover, or
transport, human tissues or organs for transplantation, and to rescue squad
emergency service vehicles, and vehicles operated by County Fire Marshals and
civil preparedness coordinators when the operators of said vehicles are giving
a warning signal by appropriate light and by bell, siren, or exhaust whistle
audible under normal conditions from a distance not less than 1,000 feet. When
appropriate warning signals are being given, as provided in this subsection, an
emergency vehicle may proceed through an intersection, or other place when the
emergency vehicle is facing a stop sign, a yield sign, or a traffic light which
is emitting a flashing strobe signal or a beam of steady, or flashing, red
light.
   (D)   The foregoing provisions shall not relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons, nor shall such provisions protect the driver from the consequences of
his or her reckless disregard for the safety of others.
(Code 1976, § 7.32)
Cross-reference:
   Fire Department, §§ 10-201 et seq.; Police Department, §§ 18-201 et seq.
Statutory reference:
   Local control of speed limits, G.S. § 20-169; when speed limit not
applicable, G.S. § 20-145; right-of-way exception, G.S. § 20-156(b).
§§ 20-307 TO 20-399  RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV:  TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
Section
   
20-401   Authority to install traffic-control devices
   
20-402   Specifications for traffic-control devices
   
20-403   Obedience to official traffic-control devices
   
20-404   When traffic devices required for enforcement purposes
   
20-405   Display of unauthorized signs, signals, markings
   
20-406   Interference with official traffic-control devices, or railroad signs
or signals
   
20-407   Authority to establish play streets
   
20-408   Traffic lanes
   20-409 to 20-499   Reserved
Statutory reference:
   Authority for traffic-control devices, traffic-control legend, G.S. §§ 20-
158 and 20-158.1; pedestrian-control signals, G.S. § 20-172.
§ 20-401  AUTHORITY TO INSTALL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   The town shall place, and maintain, traffic-control signs, signals, and
devices when, and as required under the traffic chapter and ordinances, to make
effective the provisions of such ordinances, and may place, and maintain, such
additional traffic-control devices to regulate traffic under the traffic
ordinances of this town or under state law, or to guide or warn traffic.
(Code 1976, § 7.34)
§ 20-402  SPECIFICATIONS FOR TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   All traffic-control signs, signals, and devices shall conform to state
regulations.
   (B)   All signs and signals required under this article for a particular
purpose shall, so far as practicable, be uniform as to type and location.
   (C)   All traffic-control devices so erected, and not inconsistent with the
provisions of state law or this article, shall be official traffic-control
devices.
(Code 1976, § 7.35)
§ 20-403  OBEDIENCE TO OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   The driver of any vehicle, and the motorman of any streetcar, shall obey the
instructions of any official traffic-control device applicable thereto, placed
in accordance with this article and state law, unless otherwise directed by a
police officer, or other authorized emergency personnel, subject to the
exceptions granted to the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle by §
20-306(C) and G.S. § 20-156. (Code 1976, § 7.36)
§ 20-404  WHEN TRAFFIC DEVICES REQUIRED FOR ENFORCEMENT PURPOSES.
   No provision of this article for which signs are required shall be enforced
against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the alleged violation,
an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen
by an ordinarily observant person.
(Code 1976, § 7.37)
§ 20-405  DISPLAY OF UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS, SIGNALS, OR MARKINGS.
   (A)   No person shall place, maintain, or display upon, or in view of, any
highway or other public street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or
device which purports to be, or is an imitation of, or resembles an, official
traffic-control device or railroad sign or signal, or which attempts to direct
the movement of traffic, or which hides from view, or interferes with, the
effectiveness of any official traffic-control device, or any railroad sign or
signal.
   (B)   No person shall place, or maintain, nor shall any public authority
permit upon any highway any traffic sign, or signal, bearing thereon any
commercial advertising.
   (C)   This section shall not be deemed to prohibit the erection upon private
property adjacent to highways of signs giving useful directional information,
and of a type that cannot be mistaken for official signs.
   (D)   Every such prohibited sign, signal, or marking is hereby declared to
be a public nuisance, and the authority having jurisdiction over the highway is
hereby empowered to remove the same, or cause it to be removed without notice.
(Code 1976, § 7.41)
§ 20-406  INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES, OR RAILROAD SIGNS
OR SIGNALS.
   No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to, or in fact alter,
deface, injure, knock down, or remove any official traffic-control device, or
any railroad sign or signal, or any inscription, shield, or insignia thereon,
or any other part thereof.
(Code 1976, § 7.42)
§ 20-407  AUTHORITY TO ESTABLISH PLAY STREETS.
   (A)   The Council shall have authority to declare any street, or part
thereof, a play street, and to place appropriate signs, or devices, in the
roadway indicating, and helping to protect, the same.
   (B)   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating any street, or part
thereof, as a play street, no person shall drive a vehicle upon any such
street, or portion thereof, except drivers of vehicles having business, or
whose residences are within such closed area, and then any such driver shall
exercise the greatest care in driving upon any such street, or portion thereof.
(Code 1976, § 7.43)
Statutory reference:
   Control over streets, G.S. § 160A-296.
§ 20-408  TRAFFIC LANES.
   As provided in G.S. §§ 20-150, 20-150.1, and 20-153, where traffic lanes
have been marked, it shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to fail,
or refuse, to keep such vehicle within the boundaries of any such lane, except
when lawfully passing another vehicle, or preparatory to making a lawful
turning movement.
(Code 1976, § 7.44)  Penalty, see §
1-111
§§ 20-409 TO 20-499  RESERVED.
ARTICLE V:  SPEED REGULATIONS
Section
   
20-501   Generally
   
20-502   Exceptions
   20-503 to 20-599   Reserved
Statutory reference:
   Local control of traffic and speed limits, G.S. §§ 20-141(e), 20-169, and
160A-300.
§ 20-501  GENERALLY.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this article, it shall be unlawful to
operate a vehicle in excess of 35 mph inside the corporate limits of the town.
   (B)   A violation of the speed limits established in this article shall be
punishable, as provided in G.S. § 20-141 and other applicable state law, and is
not subject to civil penalties pursuant to this code.
(Code 1976, § 7.45)  Penalty, see §
1-111
§ 20-502  EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle in excess of the
speeds listed below upon the streets, or portions of streets, of the state
highway system listed in each designated appendix, hereby made a part hereof:
         (a)   Twenty mph (Appendix B, § 214);
         (b)   Twenty-five mph (Appendix B, § 215);
         (c)   Thirty mph (Appendix B, § 216);
         (d)   Forty mph (Appendix B, § 217);
         (e)   Forty-five mph (Appendix B, § 218);
         (f)   Fifty mph (Appendix B, § 219); and
         (g)   Fifty-five mph (Appendix B, § 220).
      (2)   Any change to speed limits on streets that are part of the state
highway system shall be made in accordance with G.S. § 20-141(f).
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle in excess of the speeds
listed below upon the streets, or portions of streets, not a part of the state
highway system, listed in each designated appendix, hereby made a part hereof:
      (1)   Twenty mph (Appendix B, § 221);
      (2)   Twenty-five mph (Appendix B, § 222);
      (3)   Thirty mph (Appendix B, § 223);
      (4)   Forty mph (Appendix B, § 224);
      (5)   Forty-five mph (Appendix B, § 225);
      (6)   Fifty mph (Appendix B, § 226); and
      (7)   Fifty-five mph (Appendix B, § 227).
(Code 1976, § 7.46) (Ord. 24-2004, passed 9-20-2004; Ord. 28-2004, passed 10-
18-2004)  Penalty, see §
1-111
§§ 20-503 TO 20-599  RESERVED.
ARTICLE VI:  TURNING
Section
   
20-601   Turning markers
   
20-602   Authority to place restricted turn signs
   
20-603   Obedience to no-turn signs
   
20-604   Limitations on turning around
   20-605 to 20-699   Reserved
Statutory reference:
   Turning at intersections and power of local authorities and department of
transportation, G.S. § 20-153(c); control of traffic, G.S. § 160A-300.
§ 20-601  TURNING MARKERS.
   When authorized markers, buttons, or other indications are placed within an
intersection indicating the course to be traveled by vehicles turning thereat,
no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of such indications.
(Code 1976, § 7.48)
§ 20-602  AUTHORITY TO PLACE RESTRICTED TURN SIGNS.
   (A)   The Council shall determine those intersections at which drivers of
vehicles shall not make a right, left, or U-turn, and shall place proper signs
at such intersections.
   (B)   The making of such turns may be prohibited between certain hours of
any day, and permitted at other hours, in which event the same shall be plainly
indicated on the signs, or they may be removed when such turns are permitted.
   (C)   Restrictions on turning movements shall be as specified in Appendix B,
§§ 210 through 213, hereby incorporated herein.
(Code 1976, § 7.49)
Statutory reference:
   Turning at intersections and power of local authorities and department of
transportation, G.S. § 20-153(c).
§ 20-603  OBEDIENCE TO NO-TURN SIGNS.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left turn,
or U-turn, is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of
any such sign.
(Code 1976, § 7.50)
§ 20-604  LIMITATIONS ON TURNING AROUND.
   The driver of any vehicle shall not turn such vehicle so as to proceed in
the opposite direction upon any street in a business district, and shall not
upon any other street so turn a vehicle unless such movement can be made in
safety, and without interfering with other traffic.
(Code 1976, § 7.51)
§ 20-605 TO 20-699  RESERVED.
ARTICLE VII:  ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS
Section
   
20-701   Authority to place signs on one-way streets and alleys
   
20-702   One-way streets and alleys
   20-703 to 20-799   Reserved
Statutory reference:
   Traffic control, G.S. § 160A-300.
§ 20-701  AUTHORITY TO PLACE SIGNS ON ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   Whenever any ordinance designates any one-way street or alley, there shall
be signs giving notice thereof, and no such regulation shall be effective
unless such signs are in place. Signs indicating the direction of lawful
traffic movement shall be placed at every intersection where movement of
traffic in the opposite direction is prohibited.
(Code 1976, § 7.52)
§ 20-702  ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   Upon those streets and parts of streets, and in those alleys described in
Appendix B, § 209, hereby made a part hereof, vehicular traffic shall move only
in the indicated direction when signs indicating the direction of traffic are
erected, and maintained, at every intersection where movement in the opposite
direction is prohibited.
(Code 1976, § 7.53)
§§ 20-703 TO 20-799  RESERVED.
ARTICLE VIII:  DRIVING RULES
Section
   
20-801   Following the fire apparatus
   
20-802   Crossing fire hose
   
20-803   Driving through funeral or other procession
   
20-804   Drivers in a procession
   
20-805   Funeral processions to be identified
   
20-806   Vehicles shall not be driven on a sidewalk
   
20-807   Limitations on backing
   
20-808   Riding on motorcycles
   
20-809   Clinging to vehicles
   
20-810   Controlled access
   20-811 to 20-899   Reserved
§ 20-801  FOLLOWING THE FIRE APPARATUS.
   It shall be unlawful to follow any fire apparatus, which is responding to a
call, by automobile or any other vehicle, unless such is used for transporting
firefighters to the scene of fire, at a distance closer than one town block, or
to pass such apparatus, or to park within the same block in which fire is in
progress. A violation of this section shall be a violation of G.S. § 20-157,
and is not subject to civil penalties pursuant to this code.
(Code 1976, § 7.62)  Penalty, see §
1-111
Cross-reference:
   Fire Protection and Prevention, Ch. 10, especially §
10-205.
§ 20-802  CROSSING FIRE HOSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive over, or in any way damage or
mutilate, any fire hose while in use at a fire or otherwise.
(Code 1976, § 7.63)  Penalty, see §
1-111
Cross-reference:
   Fire protection and prevention, Ch. 10, especially §
10-206.
Statutory reference:
   Driving over fire hose, G.S. § 20-157(d).
§ 20-803  DRIVING THROUGH FUNERAL OR OTHER PROCESSION.
   No driver of a vehicle shall drive between the vehicles comprising a
funeral, or other, authorized procession while they are in motion, and when
such vehicles are conspicuously designated. This provision shall not apply at
intersections where traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals or police
officers. (Code 1976, § 7.64)
Statutory reference:
   Funeral processions, G.S. § 20-157.1.
§ 20-804  DRIVERS IN A PROCESSION.
   Each driver in a funeral, or other, procession shall drive as near to the
right-hand edge of the roadway as practical, and shall follow the vehicle ahead
as close as is practical and safe.
(Code 1976, § 7.65)
Statutory reference:
   Funeral processions, G.S. § 20-157.1.
§ 20-805  FUNERAL PROCESSIONS TO BE IDENTIFIED.
   A funeral composed of a procession of vehicles shall be identified as such
by the display upon the outside of each vehicle of a pennant or other
identifying insignia, or by such other method as may be determined, and
designated, by the Traffic Division.
(Code 1976, § 7.66)
Statutory reference:
   Funeral processions, G.S. § 20-157.1.
§ 20-806  VEHICLES SHALL NOT BE DRIVEN ON A SIDEWALK.
   Pursuant to G.S. § 20-160(b), the driver of a vehicle shall not drive within
any sidewalk area except at a permanent or temporary driveway. Violation of
this section shall be a violation of G.S. § 20-160(b), and is not subject to
civil penalties pursuant to this code.
(Code 1976, § 7.67)
Cross-reference:
   Streets, Sidewalks, and Other Public Places, Ch. 19.
§ 20-807  LIMITATIONS ON BACKING.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same unless such movement can be
made with reasonable safety, and without interfering with other traffic.
(Code 1976, § 7.68)
§ 20-808  RIDING ON MOTORCYCLES.
   A person operating a motorcycle shall ride only upon the permanent and
regular seat attached thereto, and such operator shall not carry any other
person, nor shall any other person ride on a motorcycle unless such motorcycle
is designed to carry more than one person, in which event a passenger may ride
upon the permanent and regular seat if designed for two persons, or upon
another seat firmly attached to the rear, or side, of the operator. A violation
of this section shall be a violation of G.S. § 20-140.4, and is not subject to
civil penalties pursuant to this code.
(Code 1976, § 7.69)
Statutory reference:
   Special provisions for motorcycles, G.S. § 20-140.4.
§ 20-809  CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled, or toy
vehicle shall attach the same, or himself or herself, to any streetcar or
vehicle upon a roadway.
(Code 1976, § 7.70)
§ 20-810  CONTROLLED ACCESS.
   Pursuant to G.S. § 20-140.3, no person shall drive a vehicle onto, or from,
any controlled-access roadway, except at such entrances and exits as are
established by public authority. Violation of this section shall be a violation
of G.S. § 20-140.3, and is not subject to the civil penalties pursuant to this
code.
(Code 1976, § 7.71)
§§ 20-811 TO 20-899  RESERVED.
ARTICLE IX:  PEDESTRIANS
Section
   
20-901   Pedestrians subject to traffic-control signals
   
20-902   Right-of-way in crosswalk
   
20-903   Pedestrians to use right-half of crosswalk
   
20-904   Crossing at right angle
   
20-905   When pedestrian shall yield
   
20-906   Prohibited crossing
   
20-907   Walking along roadways
   
20-908   Pedestrians soliciting rides or business
   
20-909   Drivers to exercise due care
   20-910 to 20-999   Reserved
§ 20-901  PEDESTRIANS SUBJECT TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNALS.
   (A)   Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic-control signals.
   (B)   At all other places, pedestrians shall be granted those rights, and be
subject to the restrictions stated in this article, and as provided in G.S.
Chapter 20, Article 3, Part 11, “Pedestrians’ Rights and Duties”.
(Code 1976, § 7.73)
Statutory reference:
   Pedestrians subject to traffic-control signals, G.S. § 20-172.
§ 20-902  RIGHT-OF-WAY IN CROSSWALK.
   (A)   When traffic-control signals are not in place or not in operation, the
driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, slowing down, or stopping if
need be to so yield, to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk
when the pedestrian is upon the half of the roadway upon which the vehicle is
traveling, or when the pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite
half of the roadway as to be in danger.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb, or other place of safety,
and walk or run into the path of a vehicle, which is so close that it is
impossible for the driver to yield. A pedestrian’s right-of-way in a crosswalk
is modified under the provisions of §
20-905(B).
   (D)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk, or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake, and pass, such stopped vehicle.
(Code 1976, § 7.74)
Statutory reference:
   Pedestrians’ right-of-way at crosswalks, G.S. § 20-173(b).
§ 20-903  PEDESTRIANS TO USE RIGHT-HALF OF CROSSWALK.
   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right-half of
crosswalks.
(Code 1976, § 7.75)
§ 20-904  CROSSING AT RIGHT ANGLE.
   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway at any place other than by a route at
right angles to the curb, or by the shortest route to the opposite curb except
in a crosswalk.
(Code 1976, § 7.76)
§ 20-905  WHEN PEDESTRIAN SHALL YIELD.
   (A)   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk, or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection, shall
yield the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (B)   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian
tunnel, or overhead pedestrian crossing, has been provided shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (C)   The foregoing rules in this section have no application under the
conditions stated in §
20-906 when pedestrians are prohibited from crossing at certain designated
places.
(Code 1976, § 7.77)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, G.S. § 20-174(a), (b).
§ 20-906  PROHIBITED CROSSING.
   (A)   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic-control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a crosswalk.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway other than in a crosswalk in any
business district.
(Code 1976, § 7.78)
Statutory reference:
   Crossing at other than crosswalks, G.S. § 20-174(c).
§ 20-907  WALKING ALONG ROADWAYS.
   (A)   Where sidewalks are provided, it shall be unlawful for any pedestrian
to walk along, and upon, an adjacent roadway.
   (B)   Where sidewalks are not provided, any pedestrian walking along, and
upon, a highway shall, when practicable, walk only on the left side of the
roadway or its shoulder facing traffic which may approach from the opposite
direction. Such pedestrians shall yield the right-of-way to approaching
traffic.
(Code 1976, § 7.79)  Penalty, see §
1-111
§ 20-908  PEDESTRIANS SOLICITING RIDES OR BUSINESS.
   No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a ride,
employment, or business from the occupant of any vehicle.
(Code 1976, § 7.80)
Statutory reference:
   Pedestrians soliciting rides or employment, G.S. § 20-175.
§ 20-909  DRIVERS TO EXERCISE DUE CARE.
   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this article, every driver of a
vehicle shall:
   (A)   Exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any
roadway;
   (B)   Give warning by sounding the horn when necessary; and
   (C)   Exercise proper precaution upon observing any child, or any confused
or incapacitated person, upon a roadway.
(Code 1976, § 7.81)
§§ 20-910 TO 20-999  RESERVED.
ARTICLE X:  BICYCLES
Section
   
20-1001   Effect of regulations
   
20-1002   Traffic laws apply to persons riding bicycles
   
20-1003   Obedience to traffic-control devices
   
20-1004   Riding on bicycles
   
20-1005   Riding on roadways and bicycle paths
   
20-1006   Speed
   
20-1007   Emerging from alley or driveway
   
20-1008   Clinging to vehicles
   
20-1009   Carrying articles
   
20-1010   Parking
   
20-1011   Reserved
   
20-1012   Lamps and other equipment on bicycles
   20-1013 to 20-1099   Reserved
Statutory reference:
   Bicycles treated as vehicles, G.S. § 20-4.01(49).
§ 20-1001  EFFECT OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The parent of any child, and the guardian of any ward, shall not
authorize, or knowingly permit, any such child or ward to violate any of the
provisions of this article.
   (B)   These regulations shall apply whenever a bicycle is operated upon any
street, or upon any public path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles,
subject to those exceptions stated in this article.
(Code 1976, § 7.82)
§ 20-1002  TRAFFIC LAWS APPLY TO PERSONS RIDING BICYCLES.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the
rights, and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle by the laws of this state declaring rules of the road applicable to
vehicles, or by this chapter applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except as
to special regulations in this article, and except as to those provisions of
laws and ordinances which, by their nature, can have no application.
(Code 1976, § 7.83)
§ 20-1003  OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   Any person operating a bicycle shall obey the instructions of official
traffic-control signals, signs, and other control devices applicable to
vehicles, unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   (B)   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left
turn, or U-turn, is permitted, no person operating a bicycle shall disobey the
direction of any such sign, except where such person dismounts from the bicycle
to make any such turn, in which event such person shall then obey the
regulations applicable to pedestrians.
(Code 1976, § 7.84)
§ 20-1004  RIDING ON BICYCLES.
   (A)   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than astride a
permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
   (B)   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped.
(Code 1976, § 7.85)
§ 20-1005  RIDING ON ROADWAYS AND BICYCLE PATHS.
   (A)   Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall ride as near to
the right-hand side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when
passing a standing vehicle, or one proceeding in the same direction.
   (B)   Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than two
abreast, except on paths, or parts of roadways, set aside for the exclusive use
of bicycles.
   (C)   Whenever a usable path for bicycles has been provided adjacent to a
roadway, bicycle riders shall use such path, and shall not use the roadway.
(Code 1976, § 7.86)
§ 20-1006  SPEED.
   No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is reasonable and
prudent under the conditions then existing.
(Code 1976, § 7.87)
§ 20-1007  EMERGING FROM ALLEY OR DRIVEWAY.
   The operator of a bicycle emerging from an alley, driveway, or building
shall, upon approaching a sidewalk or the sidewalk area extending across any
alleyway, yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians approaching on the sidewalk
or sidewalk area, and upon entering the roadway shall yield the right-of-way to
all vehicles approaching on said roadway.
(Code 1976, § 7.88)
§ 20-1008  CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   No person riding upon any bicycle shall attach the same, or himself or
herself, to any streetcar or vehicle upon a roadway.
(Code 1976, § 7.89)
§ 20-1009  CARRYING ARTICLES.
   No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle, or article
which prevents the rider from keeping at least one hand upon the handlebars.
(Code 1976, § 7.90)
§ 20-1010  PARKING.
   No person shall park a bicycle upon a street other than upon the roadway
against the curb, or upon the sidewalk in a rack to support the bicycle, or
against a building or at the curb, in such a manner as to afford the least
obstruction to pedestrian traffic.
(Code 1976, § 7.91)
§ 20-1011  RESERVED.
[Reserved]
Editor’s note:
   Ord. 27-2006, adopted Dec. 11, 2006, deleted §
20-1011, which pertained to bicycles, skateboards, roller blades prohibited and
derived from Code 1976, § 7.92; and Ord. 30-2002, adopted Oct. 7, 2002.
§ 20-1012  LAMPS AND OTHER EQUIPMENT ON BICYCLES.
   (A)   Pursuant to G.S. § 20-129(e), every bicycle shall be equipped with a
lighted lamp on the front thereof, visible under normal atmospheric conditions
from a distance of at least 300 feet in front of such bicycle, and shall also
be equipped with a reflex mirror or lamp on the rear, exhibiting a red light
visible under like conditions from a distance of at least 200 feet to the rear
of such bicycle, when used at night. Violation of this section shall be a
violation of G.S. § 20-129(e), and is not subject to civil penalties pursuant
to this code.
   (B)   No person shall operate a bicycle unless it is equipped with a bell,
or other device capable of giving a signal audible for a distance of at least
100 feet, except that a bicycle shall not be equipped with, nor shall any
persons use upon a bicycle, any siren or whistle.
   (C)   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will enable the
operator to make the braked wheel skid on dry, level, clean pavement.
(Code 1976, § 7.93)
§§ 20-1013 TO 20-1099  RESERVED.
ARTICLE XI:  PARKING, STOPPING, OR STANDING
Section
Division 1. Generally
   
20-1101   Standing or parking close to curb
   
20-1102   Signs or markings indicating angle parking
   
20-1103   Obedience to angle parking signs or markings
   
20-1104   Lights on parked vehicles
   20-1105 to 20-1120   Reserved
Division 2. Prohibited in Specified Places
   
20-1121   Restricted parking
   
20-1122   Parking not to obstruct traffic
   
20-1123   Parking in alleys
   
20-1124   All night parking prohibited
   
20-1125   Parking for certain purposes prohibited
   
20-1126   Parking adjacent to schools
   
20-1127   Standing or parking on one-way roadways
   
20-1128   No stopping, standing, or parking near hazardous or congested places
   20-1129 to 20-1140   Reserved
Division 3. Special Stops
   
20-1141   Intersection where stop required
   
20-1142   Signs to bear the word “Stop”
   
20-1143   Vehicles and streetcars to stop at Stop signs
   
20-1144   Emerging from alley, driveway, or building
   
20-1145   Stop when traffic obstructed
   
20-1146   Obedience to signal indicating approach of railroad train
   20-1147 to 20-1160   Reserved
Division 4. Loading and Unloading
   
20-1161   Standing in passenger curb loading zone
   
20-1162   Standing in freight curb loading zone
   
20-1163   Public carrier stops and stands
   
20-1164   Stopping, standing, and parking of buses and taxicabs regulated
   
20-1165   Restricted use of bus and taxicab stands
   20-1166 to 20-1180   Reserved
Division 5. Parking Restricted or Prohibited on Certain Streets
   
20-1181   Application of division
   
20-1182   Regulations not exclusive
   
20-1183   Parking prohibited at all times on certain streets
   
20-1184   Parking time limited on certain streets
   
20-1185   Parking signs required
   
20-1186   Restricted streets
   20-1187 to 20-1199   Reserved
Statutory reference:
   Violations of local parking ordinances, G.S. § 14-4(b); powers of
municipalities in regard to parking, G.S. §§ 160A-301, 160A-302; parking, G.S.
§ 160A-301.
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
§ 20-1101  STANDING OR PARKING CLOSE TO CURB.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle in a roadway other than parallel
with the edge of the roadway headed in the direction of lawful traffic movement
and with the right-hand wheels of the vehicle within 18 inches of the curb, or
edge of the roadway, except as otherwise provided in this article.
(Code 1976, § 7.94)
§ 20-1102  SIGNS OR MARKINGS INDICATING ANGLE PARKING.
   (A)   The Town Council shall determine upon what streets angle parking shall
be permitted, and shall mark, or sign, such streets, which are specified in
Appendix B, § 207, hereby made a part hereof.
   (B)   Parking is prohibited at all times in the places designated above when
signs are placed, erected, or installed giving notice thereof, or when the curb
has been painted yellow in lieu of such signs.
   (C)   Angle parking shall not be indicated, or permitted, at any place where
passing traffic would thereby be caused, or required, to drive upon the left
side of the street, or upon any streetcar tracks.
(Code 1976, § 7.95)
§ 20-1103  OBEDIENCE TO ANGLE PARKING SIGNS OR MARKINGS.
   Upon those streets which have been signed, or marked, for angle parking, no
person shall park or stand a vehicle other than at the angle to the curb, or
edge, of the roadway indicated by such signs or markings.
(Code 1976, § 7.96)
§ 20-1104  LIGHTS ON PARKED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever a vehicle is lawfully parked at nighttime upon any street
within a business or residence district, no lights need be displayed upon such
parked vehicle.
   (B)   Pursuant to G.S. §§ 20-129 and 20-134, whenever a vehicle is parked
upon a street or highway outside of a business or residence during the hours
between one-half hour after sunset and one-half hour before sunrise, such
vehicle shall be equipped with one, or more, lamps which shall exhibit a white
light on the roadway side visible from a distance of 500 feet to the front of
the vehicle, and a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear.
Violation of this section shall be a violation of G.S. §§ 20-129 and/or 20-134,
and is not subject to civil penalties pursuant to this code.
   (C)   Any lighted headlamps upon a parked vehicle shall be depressed or
dimmed.
(Code 1976, § 7.97)
§§ 20-1105 TO 20-1120  RESERVED.
DIVISION 2. PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES
§ 20-1121  RESTRICTED PARKING.
   (A)   General. The Town Council, upon recommendation of the Chief of Police,
may, from time to time, specify places in town to be placarded as “No Parking”
zones. Upon such designation by Council, the area or zone will be clearly shown
on a map, kept specifically for the purpose of showing all “No Parking” zones
and areas within the town; a copy of which shall be kept at Town Hall and the
Police Department, and upon such designation, the Director of Public Works will
provide such signs, markings, or both, as necessary, to indicate to the public
that parking is not allowed in the area so designated.
   (B)   Prohibited in specified places. In addition to those places so
designated by Council as “No Parking” zones, each of the places listed below is
declared a “No Parking” zone, irrespective of signs, markings, or both being
posted, erected, or installed, unless otherwise indicated:
      (1)   In front of a private driveway;
      (2)   In any portion of a roadway intended to carry traffic at the time
such vehicle is parked, or left standing;
      (3)   Upon any bridge, overpass, or other elevated structure, or within
any tunnel or other underpass structure;
      (4)   Vehicles shall not protrude into a street more than eight feet from
the curb, or edge of the roadway;
      (5)   Vehicles shall not protrude beyond the lines of a designated
parking place;
      (6)   Parking so as to obstruct a sidewalk or crosswalk;
      (7)   Double parking; and
      (8)   Park and remain overnight on any city street in accordance with §
20-1124.
   (C)   Prohibited in certain places pursuant to state statute.
      (1)   Pursuant to G.S. § 20-162, no person shall park a vehicle, or
permit it to stand, in the following places:
         (a)   Upon a highway in front of a private driveway;
         (b)   Within 15 feet in either direction of a fire hydrant;
         (c)   Within 15 feet in either direction of the entrance to a fire
station;
         (d)   Within 25 feet of the intersection of curb lines, or, if none,
then within 15 feet of the intersection of property lines at an intersection of
highways; and/or
         (e)   In any area designated as a fire lane; provided, however, that
persons loading or unloading supplies, or merchandise, may park temporarily in
a fire lane located in a shopping center or mall parking lot as long as the
vehicle is not left unattended.
      (2)   Violation of this subsection shall be a violation of G.S. § 20-162,
and is not subject to civil penalties pursuant to this code.
   (D)   Unlawful moving of vehicle. No person shall move a vehicle not
lawfully under his or her control into any such prohibited area, or away from a
curb such distance as is unlawful.
   (E)   Penalty for violation.
      (1)   If any person shall violate an ordinance (or any section thereof)
of this town regulation, he or she shall be responsible for an infraction, and
shall be required to pay a penalty of $10 to the town within ten days from the
time the ticket was written. After ten days, the ticket will be considered past
due. Each ticket is a separate offense. At any given time after the ticket is
past due, the Town Council may choose to have the Town Attorney pursue
litigation.
      (2)   Payment may be delivered in person to Town Hall, dropped in the
designated drop box at Town Hall, or mailed to: Town of Maiden Town Hall, 19 N.
Main Avenue, Maiden, NC 28650.
   (F)   Enforcement generally. Each police employee charged with the duty of
enforcing this article shall note any vehicle which is illegally parked, the
vehicle tag number, the specified violations charged, and the time during which
such vehicle is parking in violation. He or she shall attach to the vehicle a
notice to the owner thereof that such vehicle has been parked in violation of a
provision of this article, and instructions to such owner when, and where, to
report with reference to such violations. Each owner may, within ten days of
the time when such notice was attached to such vehicle, pay to the properly
designated official as a penalty for, and in full satisfaction of, such
violation, the sum of $10 for each violation. If the same is not paid within
ten days after the time such notice was attached to such vehicle, the penalty
for the violation shall be an infraction, and each violation shall require the
payment of a penalty, plus court costs as applicable, and as prescribed, by the
general statutes.
   (G)   Failure to comply with notice attached to vehicle. If a violator of
the restrictions on parking under the laws, or ordinances, of the town does not
appear in response to a notice affixed to such motor vehicle within a period of
ten days, the Police Department shall send to the owner(s) of the motor vehicle
(s) to which the notice(s) were affixed, or shall call him or her by telephone,
informing him or her of the violation, and warning him or her that in the event
such a letter or telephone call is disregarded, action will be taken.
(Code 1976, § 7.98) (Ord. 35-2003, passed 12-15-2003; Ord. 9-2006, passed 3-20-
2006; Ord.  22-2006, passed 8-7-2006)
Cross-reference:
   Emergency towing, §
20-1206.
Statutory reference:
   Parking in front of private driveways, fire lanes, and the like, G.S. § 20-
162.
§ 20-1122  PARKING NOT TO OBSTRUCT TRAFFIC.
   No person shall park any vehicle upon a street, other than an alley, in such
manner, or under such conditions, as to leave available less than ten feet of
the width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular traffic.
(Code 1976, § 7.99)
§ 20-1123  PARKING IN ALLEYS.
   No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in such a manner, or under
such conditions, as to leave available less than ten feet of the width of the
roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic, and no person shall stop,
stand, or park a vehicle within an alley, in such position as to block the
driveway entrance to any abutting property.
(Code 1976, § 7.100)
§ 20-1124  ALL NIGHT PARKING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall park a vehicle between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.
of any day, on the streets specified in Appendix B, § 202, hereby made a part
hereof.
(Code 1976, § 7.101)
§ 20-1125  PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall park a vehicle upon any roadway for the principal purpose
of:
   (A)   Displaying such vehicle for sale; or
   (B)   Washing, greasing, or repairing such vehicle, except repairs
necessitated by an emergency.
(Code 1976, § 7.102)
§ 20-1126  PARKING ADJACENT TO SCHOOLS.
   When official signs are erected indicating no parking upon either side of a
street adjacent to any school property, as authorized in this article, no
person shall park a vehicle in any such designated place.
(Code 1976, § 7.103)
§ 20-1127  STANDING OR PARKING ON ONE-WAY ROADWAYS.
   If a highway includes two, or more, separate roadways and traffic is
restricted to one direction upon such roadway, no person shall stand, or park,
a vehicle upon the left-hand side of such one-way roadway, unless signs are
erected to permit such standing or parking.
(Code 1976, § 7.104)
§ 20-1128  NO STOPPING, STANDING, OR PARKING NEAR HAZARDOUS OR CONGESTED
PLACES.
   When official signs are erected at hazardous or congested places, no person
shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle in any such designated place.
(Code 1976, § 7.105)
§§ 20-1129  TO 20-1140  RESERVED.
DIVISION 3. SPECIAL STOPS
§ 20-1141  INTERSECTION WHERE STOP REQUIRED.
   The Town Council may determine, and designate, intersections where
particular hazards exists, and may determine whether vehicles shall stop at
one, or more, entrances to any such stop intersection, and shall erect a Stop
sign at every such place where a stop is required. Such places are specified in
Appendix B, § 208, hereby made a part hereof.
(Code 1976, § 7.56)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to erect or install stop signs, G.S. § 20-158(a).
§ 20-1142  SIGNS TO BEAR THE WORD “STOP”.
   Every sign erected pursuant to this article shall bear the word “Stop” in
letters not less than eight inches in height, and such sign shall, at
nighttime, be rendered luminous by steady or flashing internal illumination, or
by a fixed floodlight projected on the face of the sign, or by efficient
reflecting elements of the face of the sign. Every stop sign shall be located
as near as practicable at the nearest line of the crosswalk on the near side of
the intersection or, if none, at the nearest line of the roadway.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, all stop signs shall comply with the current
standards for such signs issued by the State Department of Transportation.
(Code 1976, § 7.57)
§ 20-1143  VEHICLES AND STREETCARS TO STOP AT STOP SIGNS.
   Pursuant to G.S. § 20-158(b)(5), when stop signs are erected, as authorized
in this article, at or near the entrance to any intersection, every driver of a
vehicle shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection or, in the event there is no crosswalk, shall stop at a clearly
parked stop line, but if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting
roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting
roadway before entering the intersection, except when directed to proceed by a
police officer or traffic-control signal.
(Code 1976, § 7.58)
§ 20-1144  EMERGING FROM ALLEY, DRIVEWAY, OR BUILDING.
   The driver of a vehicle within a business or residence district emerging
from an alley, driveway, or building shall stop such vehicle immediately prior
to driving onto a sidewalk, or onto the sidewalk area extending across any
alleyway or driveway, yielding the right-of-way to any pedestrian as may be
necessary to avoid collision, and upon entering the roadway shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on such roadway.
(Code 1976, § 7.59)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, G.S. §§ 20-156(a), 20-173(c).
§ 20-1145  STOP WHEN TRAFFIC OBSTRUCTED.
   No driver shall enter an intersection, or a marked crosswalk, unless there
is sufficient space on the other side of the intersection, or crosswalk, to
accommodate the vehicle he or she is operating without obstructing the passage
of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic-control signal
indication to proceed.
(Code 1976, § 7.60)
§ 20-1146  OBEDIENCE TO SIGNAL INDICATING APPROACH OF RAILROAD TRAIN.
   (A)   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad grade
crossing under any of the circumstances stated in this section, the driver of
such vehicle shall stop within 50 feet, but not less than 15 feet, from the
nearest rail of such railroad, and shall not proceed until he or she can do so
safely.
   (B)   The foregoing requirements shall apply when:
      (1)   A clearly visible electric, or mechanical, signal device gives
warning of the immediate approach of a railroad train;
      (2)   A crossing gate is lowered, or when a human flagman gives, or
continues to give, a signal of the approach, or passage, of a railroad train;
      (3)   A railroad train approaching within approximately 1,500 feet of the
highway crossing emits a signal audible from such distance, and such railroad
train, by reason of its speed or nearness to such crossing, is an immediate
hazard; or
      (4)   An approaching railroad train is plainly visible, and is in
hazardous proximity to such crossing.
   (C)   No person shall drive any vehicle through, around, or under any
crossing gate, or barrier, at a railroad grade crossing while such gate, or
barrier, is closed, or is being opened or closed.
   (D)   A violation of this section shall be a violation of G.S. § 20-142.1,
and is not subject to civil penalties pursuant to this code.
(Code 1976, § 7.61)
Statutory reference:
   Railroad intersections, G.S. § 20-142.1.
§§ 20-1147 TO 20-1160  RESERVED.
DIVISION 4. LOADING AND UNLOADING
§ 20-1161  STANDING IN PASSENGER CURB LOADING ZONE.
   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle for any purpose, or period of
time, other than for the expeditious loading, or unloading, of passengers in
any place marked as a passenger curb loading zone during hours when the
regulations applicable to such curb loading zone are effective, and then only
for a period not to exceed three minutes.
(Code 1976, § 7.106)
§ 20-1162  STANDING IN FREIGHT CURB LOADING ZONE.
   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle for any purpose, or length of
time, other than for the expeditious unloading and delivery, or pickup and
loading, of materials in any place marked as a freight curb loading zone during
hours when the provisions applicable to such zones are in effect. In no case
shall the stop for loading and unloading of materials exceed 30 minutes.
(Code 1976, § 7.107)
§ 20-1163  PUBLIC CARRIER STOPS AND STANDS.
   Bus stands, taxicab stands, and stands for other passenger common carrier
motor vehicles, designated by appropriate signs, shall be as specified in
Appendix B, § 206, hereby made a part hereof.
(Code 1976, §7.108)
§ 20-1164  STOPPING, STANDING, AND PARKING OF BUSES AND TAXICABS REGULATED.
   (A)   The operator of a bus shall not stand, or park, such vehicle upon any
street at any place other than at a bus stand so designated, as provided in
this chapter.
   (B)   The operator of a bus shall not stop such vehicle upon any street at
any place for the purpose of loading, or unloading, passengers or their
baggage, other than at a bus stop, bus stand, or passenger loading zone so
designated, as provided in this chapter; except in case of an emergency.
   (C)   The operator of a bus shall enter a bus stop, bus stand, or passenger
loading zone on a public street in such a manner that the bus, when stopped to
load or unload passengers or baggage, shall be in position with the right front
wheel of such vehicle not farther than 18 inches from the curb, and the bus
approximately parallel to the curb, so as not to unduly impede the movement of
other vehicular traffic.
   (D)   The operator of a taxicab shall not stand, or park, such vehicle upon
any street at any place other than in a taxicab stand so designated, as
provided in this chapter. This provision shall not prevent the operator of a
taxicab from temporarily stopping in accordance with other stopping, or
parking, regulations at any place for the purpose of, and while actually
engaged in, the expeditious loading, or unloading, of passengers.
(Code 1976, § 7.109)
§ 20-1165  RESTRICTED USE OF BUS AND TAXICAB STANDS.
   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle other than a bus in a bus
stop, or other than a taxicab in a taxicab stand, when any such stop has been
officially designated and appropriately signed, except that the driver of a
passenger vehicle may temporarily stop therein for the purpose of, and while
actually engaged in, loading or unloading passengers when such stopping does
not interfere with any bus or taxicab waiting to enter, or about to enter, such
zone.
(Code 1976, § 7.110)
§§ 20-1166 TO 20-1180  RESERVED.
DIVISION 5. PARKING RESTRICTED OR PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN STREETS
§ 20-1181  APPLICATION OF DIVISION.
   The provisions of this division prohibiting the standing, or parking, of a
vehicle shall apply at all times, or at those times herein specified, or as
indicated on official signs, except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to
avoid conflict with other traffic, or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer, or official traffic-control device.
(Code 1976, § 7.111)
§ 20-1182  REGULATIONS NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The provisions of this division imposing a time limit on parking shall not
relieve any person from the duty to observe other, and more restrictive,
provisions prohibiting, or limiting, the stopping, standing, or parking of
vehicles in specified places or at specified times.
(Code 1976, § 7.112)
§ 20-1183  PARKING PROHIBITED AT ALL TIMES ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   (A)   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall park a
vehicle at any time upon any of the streets described in Appendix B, § 201,
hereby made a part hereof.
   (B)   Any vehicle parked in violation of this section shall be subject to
being immediately towed away by the town. The owner of said vehicle, or any
other authorized person claiming possession of the same, shall pay for all
towing and storage fees prior to claiming said vehicle.
(Code 1976, § 7.113) (Ord. 14-2000, passed 5-15-2000)
§ 20-1184  PARKING TIME LIMITED ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   (A)   When signs are erected in each block giving notice thereof, no person
shall park a vehicle for longer than the times specified within the district,
or upon any of the streets described in Appendix B, §§ 203 through 205, hereby
made a part hereof.
   (B)   (1)   Any vehicle parked in violation of this section shall be subject
to being immediately towed away by the town.
      (2)   The owner of said vehicle, or any other authorized person claiming
possession of the same, shall pay for all towing and storage fees prior to
claiming said vehicle.
      (3)   The towing shall be performed in accordance with §
20-1206.
(Code 1976, § 7.114) (Ord. 14-2000, passed 5-15-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to tow, G.S. § 160A-301(d).
§ 20-1185  PARKING SIGNS REQUIRED.
   Whenever by this article, or any ordinance, any parking time limit is
imposed, or parking is prohibited on designated streets, there shall be
appropriate signs giving notice thereof, and no such regulations shall be
effective unless such signs are erected, and in place, at the time of any
alleged offense.
(Code 1976, § 7.115)
§ 20-1186  RESTRICTED STREETS.
   No motor vehicles, other than official school busses, shall be allowed on
the section of Klutz Street adjacent to the Maiden Elementary School which
extends from North Main Avenue to First Avenue. This provision shall be in
effect from 7:30 a.m. to 8:30 a.m., and from 2:30 p.m. to 3:30 p.m. on all
regularly scheduled school days.
(Code 1976, § 7.116)
§§ 20-1187 TO 20-1199  RESERVED.
ARTICLE XII:  ABANDONED, NUISANCE, AND JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES
Section
   
20-1200   Administration
   
20-1201   Definitions
   
20-1202   Abandoned vehicle unlawful; removal authorized
   
20-1203   Nuisance vehicle unlawful; removal authorized
   
20-1204   Junked motor vehicle regulated; removal authorized
   
20-1205   Declared to be a health or safety hazard
   
20-1206   Removal of abandoned, nuisance, or junked motor vehicles; pre-towing
notice requirements
   
20-1207   Exceptions to prior requirement
   
20-1208   Removal from private property
   
20-1209   Removal of vehicles; post-towing requirements
   
20-1210   Right to probable cause hearing before sale or final disposition of
vehicle
   
20-1211   Redemption of vehicle during proceedings
   
20-1212   Sale and disposition of unclaimed vehicle
   
20-1213   General penalty
   
20-1214   Exceptions
   
20-1215   Unlawful removal of impounded vehicle
   
20-1216   Protection against criminal or civil liability
§ 20-1200  ADMINISTRATION.
   The Police Department, Fire Department, and Code Official of the town shall
be responsible for the administration, and enforcement, of this article. The
Police Department shall be responsible for administering the removal, and
disposition, of vehicles determined to be “abandoned” on the public streets and
highways within the town, and on property owned by the town. The Town Code
Official, with the assistance of the Code Official, Town Planner, or Fire
Department, shall be responsible for administering the removal and disposition
of “abandoned”, “nuisance”, or “junked motor vehicles” located on private
property. The town may, on an annual basis, contract with private tow truck
operators or towing businesses to remove, store, and dispose of abandoned
vehicles, nuisance vehicles, and junked motor vehicles in compliance with this
article, and applicable state laws. Nothing in this article shall be construed
to limit the legal authority or powers of the Town Police Department and Fire
Department in enforcing other laws, or in otherwise carrying out their duties.
(Ord. 23-2018, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 20-1201  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. As authorized, and defined, in G.S. § 160A-303, an
ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE is one that:
      (1)   Is left upon a public street or highway in violation of a law or
ordinance prohibiting parking;
      (2)   Is left on a public street or highway for longer than seven days;
      (3)   Is left on property owned, or operated, by the town for longer than
24 hours; or
      (4)   Is left on private property without the consent of the owner,
occupant, or lessee thereof, for longer than two hours.
   AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL. The supervisory employee of the Police Department, or
the Code Official, respectively, designated to authorize the removal of
vehicles under the provisions of this article.
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE. As authorized, and defined, in G.S. § 160A-303.2, the
term JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE means a vehicle that does not display a current
license plate lawfully upon that vehicle, and that:
      (1)   Is partially dismantled or wrecked;
      (2)   Cannot be self-propelled or moved in the manner in which it
originally was intended to move; or
      (3)   Is more than five years old and appears to be worth less than $500.
   MOTOR VEHICLE or VEHICLE. All machines designed, or intended, to travel over
land or water by self-propulsion, or while attached to any self-propelled
vehicle.
   NUISANCE VEHICLE. A vehicle on public, or private, property that is
determined, and declared, to be a health or safety hazard, or a public
nuisance, or unlawful, including a vehicle found to be:
      (1)   A breeding ground, or harbor, for mosquitoes, other insects, rats,
or other pests;
      (2)   A point of heavy growth of weeds, or other noxious vegetation, over
eight inches in height;
      (3)   A point of collection of pools or ponds of water;
      (4)   A point of concentration of quantities of gasoline, oil, or other
flammable or explosive materials as evidenced by odor, visible presence;
      (5)   One which has areas of confinement which cannot be operated from
the inside, such as trunks, hoods, passenger interior, or other interior
sections, and the like;
      (6)   So situated or located that there is a danger of its falling, or
turning, over;
      (7)   One which is a point of collection of garbage, food waste, animal
waste, or any other rotten, or putrescible, matter of any kind;
      (8)   One which has sharp parts thereof which are jagged, or contain
sharp edges of metal or glass;
      (9)   So offensive to the sight as to damage the community, neighborhood,
or area appearance;
      (10)   Used by children in play activities; or
      (11)   Any other vehicle specifically declared a health and safety
hazard, and a public nuisance by the Town Council.
(Ord. 23-2018, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 20-1202  ABANDONED VEHICLE UNLAWFUL; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner, or person entitled to
possession of a vehicle, to cause, or allow, such vehicle to be abandoned, as
the term is defined herein.
   (B)   Upon investigation, proper authorizing officials of the town may
determine that a vehicle is an abandoned vehicle, and order the vehicle
removed.
(Ord. 23-2018, passed 12-3-2018)  Penalty, see §
20-1213
§ 20-1203  NUISANCE VEHICLE UNLAWFUL; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner, or person entitled to
possession of a motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee, or occupant of the
real property upon which the vehicle is located, to leave, or allow, the
vehicle to remain on the property after it has been declared a nuisance
vehicle.
   (B)   Upon investigation, the Code Enforcement Office may determine, and
declare, that a vehicle is a health or safety hazard, and a nuisance vehicle as
defined above, and order the vehicle removed.
(Ord. 23-2018, passed 12-3-2018)  Penalty, see §
20-1213
§ 20-1204  JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE REGULATED; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner, or person entitled to
the possession, of a junked motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee, or
occupant of the real property upon which a junked motor vehicle is located to
leave, or allow, the vehicle to remain on the property after the vehicle has
been ordered removed.
   (B)   Subject to the provisions of subsection (C) below, upon investigation,
the Code Official may order the removal of a junked motor vehicle, as defined
in this article, after finding, in writing, that the aesthetic benefits of
removing the vehicle outweigh the burdens imposed on the private property
owner. Such finding shall be based on a balancing of the monetary loss of the
apparent owner against the corresponding gain to the public by promoting, or
enhancing, community, neighborhood, or area appearance. The following, among
other relevant factors, may be considered:
      (1)   Protection of property values;
      (2)   Promotion of tourism, and other economic development opportunities;
      (3)   Indirect protection of public health and safety;
      (4)   Preservation of the character, and integrity, of the community; and
      (5)   Promotion of the comfort, happiness, and emotional stability of
area residents.
   (C)   Any other junked motor vehicle(s) must be kept in a garage, or
building structure that provides a complete enclosure so that the junked motor
vehicle(s) cannot be seen from a public street, or abutting property. A GARAGE,
or BUILDING STRUCTURE, means one which is erected pursuant to the lawful
issuance of a zoning permit and a building permit which has been constructed in
accordance with all zoning and building code regulations.
(Ord. 23-2018, passed 12-3-2018)  Penalty, see §
20-1213
§ 20-1205  DECLARED TO BE A HEALTH OR SAFETY HAZARD.
   Any partially dismantled or wrecked vehicle, vehicle which is incapable of
self-propulsion, or being moved in the manner for which it was originally
intended, vehicle left on private property without the consent of the owner,
occupant, or lessee thereof, or any junk motor vehicle is declared to be an
attractive nuisance for children, a breeding place for rats and vermin, and a
potential fire hazard. All vehicles abandoned upon privately-owned property,
which have been abandoned for as long as 30 days, are declared to constitute a
health and safety hazard.
(Ord. 23-2018, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 20-1206  REMOVAL OF ABANDONED, NUISANCE, OR JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES; PRE-TOWING
NOTICE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Except as set forth in §
20-1207, an abandoned, nuisance, or junked vehicle, which is to be removed,
shall be towed only after notice to the registered owner, or person entitled to
possession of the vehicle. In the case of a nuisance vehicle or a junked motor
vehicle, if the names and mailing addresses of the registered owner, or person
entitled to the possession of the vehicle, or the owner, lessee, or occupant of
the real property upon which the vehicle is located can be ascertained in the
exercise of reasonable diligence, notice shall be given by first class mail (or
any other method authorized for service by the State Rules of Civil Procedure).
The person who mails the notice(s) shall retain a written record to show the
name(s) and address(es) to whom the notice is mailed, and the date mailed. If
such names and addresses cannot be ascertained, or if the vehicle to be removed
is an abandoned motor vehicle, notice shall be given by affixing on the
windshield, or some other conspicuous place on the vehicle. The notice shall
state that the vehicle will be removed by the town on a specified date, no
sooner than seven days after the notice is affixed or mailed, unless the
vehicle is moved by the owner, or legal possessor, prior to that time.
   (B)   An order to remove abandoned vehicles on private property, nuisance
vehicles, and junked motor vehicles to which notice is required to be given,
may be appealed by the registered owner, or person entitled to possession, to
the BOA within the time period stated in the notice to remove by appearing
before the BOA at the appeal hearing date and time given on the notice. Such
appeal shall stay the order of removal until final determination by the BOA.
The appeal shall consider the determination that the vehicle is abandoned, or
in the case of a nuisance vehicle, or in the case of a junked motor vehicle,
that the aesthetic benefits of removing the vehicle outweigh the burdens. In
the event no appeal is taken within the time period stated in the notice to
remove, the Code Official may proceed to remove the vehicle.
(Ord. 23-2018, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 20-1207  EXCEPTIONS TO PRIOR REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   The requirement that notice be given prior to the removal of an
abandoned, nuisance, or junked motor vehicle may, as determined by the
authorizing official, be omitted in those circumstances where there is a
special need for prompt action to eliminate traffic obstructions, or to
otherwise maintain, and protect, the public safety and welfare. Such findings
shall, in all cases, be entered by the authorizing official in the appropriate
daily records.
   (B)   Circumstances justifying the removal of vehicles without prior notice
include:
      (1)   Vehicles abandoned on the streets within the town. For vehicles
left on the public streets or highways, the Town Council hereby determines that
immediate removal of such vehicles therefrom for safekeeping by, or under, the
direction of the Police Department, the Department of Planning and Community
Development, or the Department of Public Works, to a storage garage or area may
be warranted when they are:
         (a)   Obstructing traffic;
         (b)   Parked in violation of an ordinance prohibiting, or restricting,
parking;
         (c)   Parked in a no-stopping, or standing, zone;
         (d)   Parked in loading zones;
         (e)   Parked in bus zones; or
         (f)   Parked in violation of temporary parking restrictions imposed
under code sections.
      (2)   Other abandoned or nuisance vehicles. With respect to abandoned, or
nuisance, vehicles left on town-owned property, other than the streets and
highways, and on private property, such vehicles may be removed without giving
prior notice only in those circumstances where the authorizing official finds a
special need for prompt action to protect, and maintain, the public health,
safety, and welfare; therefrom for safekeeping by, or under, the direction of
the Police Department, the Department of Planning and Community Development, or
the Department of Public Works, to a storage garage or area. By way of
illustration and not of limitation, such circumstances include vehicles
blocking, or obstructing, ingress or egress to businesses and residences,
vehicles parked in such a location or manner as to pose a traffic hazard, and
vehicles causing damage to public, or private, property.
(Ord. 23-2018, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 20-1208  REMOVAL FROM PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   Before any vehicle may be removed by the town from private property, as
defined above, to be abandon, junk, or nuisance, the owner of the real property
on which any such vehicle is located must be given at least five days’ written
notice from the town of the vehicle removal. The owner may request, in writing,
that the Code Official review the determination that the vehicle to be removed
is in violation of the article. No such vehicle shall be removed from
privately-owned premises without the written request of the owner, lessee, or
occupant of the premises on which the vehicle is located unless the vehicle has
had the status of an abandoned vehicle on such privately-owned premises for as
long as 30 days and has, therefore, become a health and safety hazard in
accordance with the declaration of the Council as set out in §
20-1205. When a vehicle is removed from privately-owned property at the request
of a person, the person at whose request such vehicle is moved shall indemnify
the town against loss or expense incurred by reason of removal, storage, or
sale thereof.
(Ord. 23-2018, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 20-1209  REMOVAL OF VEHICLES; POST-TOWING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any abandoned, nuisance, or junked motor vehicle which has been
ordered removed may, as directed by the town, be removed to a storage garage,
or area, by the tow truck operator, or towing business contracting to perform
such services for the town. Whenever such a vehicle is removed, the authorizing
town official shall immediately notify the last known registered owner of the
vehicle, such notice to include the following:
      (1)   The description of the removed vehicle;
      (2)   The location where the vehicle is stored;
      (3)   The violation with which the owner is charged, if any;
      (4)   The procedure the owner must follow to redeem the vehicle; and
      (5)   The procedure the owner must follow to request a probable cause
hearing on the removal.
   (B)   The town shall attempt to give notice to the vehicle owner by
telephone; however, whether or not the owner is reached by telephone, written
notice, including the information set forth in subsections (A)(1) through (A)
(5) above, shall also be mailed to the registered owner’s last known address,
unless this notice is waived, in writing, by the vehicle owner or agent.
   (C)   If the vehicle is registered in the state, notice shall be given
within 24 hours. If the vehicle is not registered in the state, notice shall be
given to the registered owner within 72 hours from the removal of the vehicle.
   (D)   Whenever an abandoned, nuisance, or junked motor vehicle is removed,
and such vehicle has no valid registration or registration plates, the
authorizing town official shall make reasonable efforts, including checking the
vehicle identification number, to determine the last known registered owner of
the vehicle, and to notify him or her of the information set forth in
subsections (A)(1) through (A)(5) above.
(Ord. 23-2018, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 20-1210  RIGHT TO PROBABLE CAUSE HEARING BEFORE SALE OR FINAL DISPOSITION OF
VEHICLE.
   (A)   After the removal of an abandoned vehicle, nuisance vehicle, or junked
motor vehicle, the owner, or any other person entitled to possession, is
entitled to a hearing for the purpose of determining if probable cause existed
for removing the vehicle.
   (B)   A request for hearing must be filed, in writing, with the County
Magistrate, designated in G.S. § 20-219.11(c), to receive such hearing
requests. The Magistrate will set the hearing within 72 hours of receipt of the
request, and the hearing will be conducted in accordance with the provisions of
G.S. § 20-219.11, as amended.
(Ord. 23-2018, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 20-1211  REDEMPTION OF VEHICLE DURING PROCEEDINGS.
   At any stage in the proceedings, including before the probable cause
hearing, the owner may obtain possession of the removed vehicle by paying the
towing fee, including any storage charges, or by posting a bond for double the
amount of such fees and charges to the tow truck operator, or towing business
having custody of the removed vehicle. Upon regaining possession of a vehicle,
the owner, or person entitled to the possession of the vehicle, shall not
allow, or engage in, further violations of this article.
(Ord. 23-2018, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 20-1212  SALE AND DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLE.
   Any abandoned, nuisance, or junked motor vehicle which is not claimed by the
owner, or other party entitled to possession, will be disposed of by the tow
truck operator, or towing business having custody of the vehicle. Disposition
of such a vehicle shall be carried out in coordination with the town, and in
accordance with G.S. Chapter 44A, Article 1, except no probable cause hearing
in addition to the hearing provided for in §
20-1210 is required.
(Ord. 23-2018, passed 12-3-2018)
Statutory reference:
   Disposal of abandoned, nuisance, or junked motor vehicle, by tow truck
operator or towing business, G.S. Ch. 44A, Art. 1.
§ 20-1213  GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Except as set forth in subsection (B) below, violation of any
provision of this code, or any other town ordinance, shall be a misdemeanor as
provided by G.S. § 14-4(a).
   (B)   Violation of any provision of this code shall subject the offender to
a civil penalty in the amount of $50, to be recovered by the town in a civil
action in the nature of debt if the offender does not pay the penalty within a
period of 72 hours after he or she has been cited for violation of the article.
   (C)   Citation shall be in writing, signed by the Code Official, and shall
be delivered, or mailed, to the offender either at the residence or at the
place of business, or at the place where the violation occurred. Each day’s
continuing violation shall be a separate, and distinct, offense.
   (D)   Any action to recover such civil penalty may be joined in action for
appropriate equitable, or other legal, remedy, including injunctions and orders
of abatement, and including an action to recover damages owing to the town by
reason of expenses incurred by the town in abating, correcting, limiting, and
otherwise dealing with the harmful effects of the offending action.
(Ord. 23-2018, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 20-1214  EXCEPTIONS.
   Nothing in this article shall apply to any vehicle:
   (A)   Regulated under G.S. § 160A-303.2, which is kept or stored at a bona
fide “automobile graveyard” or “junkyard”, as defined in G.S. § 136-143, in
accordance with the Junkyard Control Act, G.S. §§ 136-141 et seq., or the
removing, or disposing, of any motor vehicle that is used on a regular basis
for business or personal use; and
   (B)   Regulated under G.S. § 160A-303, which is in an enclosed building, or
any vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise, being operated in a
lawful place and manner if the vehicle is necessary to the operation of the
enterprise, or to any vehicle in an appropriate storage place or depository
maintained in a lawful place and manner by the town.
(Ord. 23-2018, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 20-1215  UNLAWFUL REMOVAL OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove, or attempt to remove, from
any storage facility designated by the town any vehicle which has been
impounded pursuant to the provisions of this code, unless, and until, all
towing and impoundment fees which are due, or bond in lieu of such fees, have
been paid.
(Ord. 23-2018, passed 12-3-2018)  Penalty, see §
20-1213
Statutory reference:
   Definition of junkyard, G.S. § 136-143, Junkyard Control Act, G.S. § 136-
141.
§ 20-1216  PROTECTION AGAINST CRIMINAL OR CIVIL LIABILITY.
   No person shall be held to answer in any civil, or criminal, action to any
owner, or other person legally entitled to the possession, of an abandoned,
nuisance, or junked motor vehicle, for disposing of such vehicle as provided in
this article.
(Ord. 23-2018, passed 12-3-2018)
ARTICLE XIII:  GOLF CARTS
Section
   
20-1300   Scope
   
20-1301   Rules and regulations
   
20-1302   Golf cart operation
   
20-1303   Registration and inspection
   
20-1304   Technical specifications
   
20-1305   Enforcement and penalty
§ 20-1300  SCOPE.
   (A)   General. The establishment of a golf cart article is necessary to
address the interests of public safety. Golf carts are not designed, or
manufactured, to be used on public streets, roads, and highways (hereinafter
“road(s)”), and the town in no way advocates, or endorses, their operation on
roads. The town, by regulating such operations, is merely trying to address
obvious safety issues, and adoption of this article is not to be relied upon as
a determination that operation on roads is safe, or advisable, if done in
accordance with this article. All persons who operate, or ride upon, carts on
roads do so at their own risk and peril, and must be observant of, and
attentive to, the safety of themselves and others, including their passengers,
other motorists, bicyclists, and pedestrians. The town has no liability under
any theory of liability for permitting carts to be operated on roads under
special legislation granted by the state legislature G.S. § 160A-300.6. Any
person who operates a cart must procure, and maintain, liability insurance
sufficient to cover the risks involved in using a cart on public roads within
the town.
   (B)   Purpose. The purpose of this article shall be to establish a golf cart
article within the town to promote the health, safety, and welfare of persons
operating cart(s) within the town, and to protect the safety of their
passengers and other users of roads.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this article, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a
different meaning.
      DRIVER’S LICENSE. A valid license issued to operate a motor vehicle,
issued by the state or any other state.
      FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY. Liability insurance coverage on a golf cart in
an amount not less than required by state law for motor vehicles operated on
public highways in the state.
      GOLF CART. A vehicle designed, and manufactured, for operation on a golf
course for sporting, or recreational, purposes, and that is not capable of
exceeding speeds of 20 mph, pursuant to G.S. § 20-4.01(12a).
      GOLF CART LICENSE. A sticker or tag provided by the town that must be
visibly displayed on the golf cart. Each golf cart will have its own LICENSE.
      OPERATOR. Only persons over 16 years of age, and holding a valid driver’s
license, may operate a golf cart on roads.
(Ord. 31-2012, passed 8-20-2012)
§ 20-1301  RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   This article is to establish guidance in the interest of public safety. Golf
carts hereinafter:
   (A)   Shall not be operated on, or alongside, a public road, or street, with
a posted speed limit greater than 35 mph or higher;
   (B)   May cross a road with a posted speed limit greater than 35 mph.
However, once this segment of road has been transversed, the golf cart is still
required to travel only on, or along, a roadway with a speed limit of 35 mph or
less;
   (C)   Any person who operates a golf cart must be responsible for all
liability associated with operation of the golf cart, and must have liability
insurance coverage which will cover the use of a golf cart in an amount not
less than required by state law for motor vehicles operated on public highways
in the state;
   (D)   Any person who operates a golf cart must be at least 16 years of age,
or older. No person may operate a golf cart unless that person is licensed to
drive upon the public streets, roads, and highways of the state, and then only
in accordance with such valid driver’s license issued to him or her by the
state. Golf cart operators must carry their driver’s license on their person at
all times while operating a golf cart on public roads;
   (E)   Any person who operates a golf cart on public streets and roads must
adhere to all applicable state and local laws, regulations, and ordinances,
including, but not limited to, those banning the possession, and use, of
alcoholic beverages, and all other illegal drugs. In addition, no golf cart
containing any open container of alcohol shall be operated on public roads;
   (F)   The operator of the golf cart shall comply with all traffic rules and
regulations adopted by the state and the town which governs the operation of
motor vehicles;
   (G)   Golf carts are allowed to park in handicapped parking spaces if the
driver, or at least one passenger, has a valid handicap-parking sticker
displayed on the golf cart;
   (H)   An operator may not allow the number of people in the golf cart, at
any one time, to exceed the maximum capacity specified by the manufacturer. The
operator shall not allow passengers to ride on any part of a golf cart not
designed to carry passengers, such as the part of the golf cart designed to
carry golf bags;
   (I)   In no instance shall a golf cart be operated at a speed greater than
20 mph. No golf cart may be operated at a speed greater than reasonable, and
prudent, for the existing conditions;
   (J)   Golf carts must be operated at the right edge of the roadway, and must
yield to all vehicular and pedestrian traffic;
   (K)   Golf carts may only be operated between sunrise and sunset; and
   (L)   If a golf cart is not equipped with brake lights or turn signals, the
operator must use standard hand signals to signal stopping and turning.
(Ord. 31-2012, passed 8-20-2012)
§ 20-1302  GOLF CART OPERATION.
   Golf carts may not be operated within the town in the following manner or
areas:
   (A)   On public sidewalks, trails, and greenways;
   (B)   Along utility rights-of-way, including, but not limited to, water/
sewer rights-of-way, electric rights-of-way, and stormwater rights-of-way;
   (C)   No standing on golf carts;
   (D)   Golf carts shall not be operated on, or across, any public, or
private, properties without the expressed written permission of the property
owner;
   (E)   Riders may not be transported in a negligent manner; and
   (F)   No golf cart shall operate on any street, roadway, or other public
vehicle area that is closed due to special events, parades, or construction.
The Chief of Police, or his or her designee, may prohibit the operation of golf
carts on any street or road if the Chief determines that the prohibition is
necessary in the interest of safety. The exception will be the Fourth of July
parade.
(Ord. 31-2012, passed 8-20-2012)
§ 20-1303  REGISTRATION AND INSPECTION.
   Regulations on registrations, inspection, and fees prior to usage are as
follows:
   (A)   All golf cart operators must complete a golf cart registration
application, and submit to the Town Police Department for approval. Before
driving on public roads, the operator of the golf cart must have a valid
registration issued;
   (B)   Each owner must have proof of ownership and liability insurance, and
completed a waiver of liability, releasing the town from liability that may
arise as a result of operation of a golf cart inside the town. These documents
must be in the golf cart at all times while in operation on public roads;
   (C)   All golf cart operators must present a valid driver’s license while
operating a golf cart on public roads;
   (D)   The registration sticker shall be valid for no more than one year,
from January 1 to December 31 of each year, and must be visible on a golf cart
operated on a public road;
   (E)   Lost or stolen stickers are the responsibility of the owner, and must
be replaced before the golf cart is operated on a public road;
   (F)   The Police Chief retains the right to refuse to issue, and/or revoke,
any permit sticker from any cart at any time for any reason he or she feels is
appropriate to ensure the safety, and well being, of the citizens of the town;
and
   (G)   All golf carts must meet the requirements, or minimum standards, of
safety equipment as set forth in this article. The cart must be inspected, and
approved, by the Chief of Police, or his or her designee prior to usage.
(Ord. 31-2012, passed 8-20-2012)
§ 20-1304  TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS.
   Golf carts operated in the town shall conform with the following technical
specifications in order to receive, and maintain, a valid license.
   (A)   Golf carts shall have a standard low speed traffic triangle, or
pennant, displayed prominently on the rear of the vehicle.
      (1)   Low speed caution triangle with a minimum size of 12 inches, or
greater, on all three sides and shall be made of reflective material.
      (2)   The triangle shall be mounted on the rear of the vehicle, and
permanently installed.
   (B)   One operational rearview mirror.
   (C)   Golf carts shall have at least two red rear reflectors measuring a
total of six square inches of reflective area each. A reflective rear light kit
will suffice.
(Ord. 31-2012, passed 8-20-2012)
§ 20-1305  ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTY.
   (A)   Any act constituting a violation of this article, or failure to comply
with any of its requirements, shall subject the offenders to a civil penalty of
$50, plus the court costs and attorney fees incurred by the town.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, persons who, while driving golf carts
on public streets within the town, violate the “Rules of the Road” applicable
to motor vehicles generally (as set forth in G.S. Chapter 20, Article 3, Part
10), shall be subject to the same penalties applicable to the operators of such
other motor vehicles.
      (1)   Operating a golf cart under the influence of an impairing substance
(for example, alcohol or drugs) on a public road, or highway, is not a
violation of this article, but a violation of state law, and is punishable as
provided therein.
      (2)   If the offender(s) fail to pay the penalty within ten days of
receiving a final written notice of violation, the penalty may be recovered by
the town in a civil action in the nature of a debt. Repeat offenders may have
the privileges granted by this article revoked by the Chief of Police.
(Ord. 31-2012, passed 8-20-2012)
CHAPTER 21: UTILITIES 1
   Article
      
I.   IN GENERAL
      
II.   WATER SYSTEM
      
II-A.   WATER CONSERVATION PRACTICES
      
III.   SEWER SYSTEM
      
IV.   ELECTRIC POWER SYSTEM
      
V.   CUSTOMER SERVICE AND ENFORCEMENT
      
VI.   WATER AND SEWER EXTENSIONS AND ACCESS CHARGES
 
Notes
  1Cross-reference:
  Buildings and Building Regulations, Ch. 5; minimum standards for basic
  plumbing, heating, and
    electrical equipment and facilities, §
  5-405; Fire Protection and Prevention, Ch. 10; Solid Waste,
1   Ch. 11; Planning, Zoning, and Subdivision Control, Ch. 17; Streets,
  Sidewalks, and Other
    Public Places, Ch. 19.
  Statutory reference:
  Public enterprise, G.S. §§ 160A-311 et seq.; authority to operate public
  enterprise, G.S.
    §§ 160A-312; utility franchises, G.S. § 160A-319.
ARTICLE I:  IN GENERAL
Section
   21-101 to 21-199   Reserved
§§ 21-101 TO 21-199  RESERVED.
ARTICLE II:  WATER SYSTEM
Section
Division 1. Generally
   
21-201   Ownership and operation
   
21-202   Connections
   
21-203   Application
   
21-204   Plumbing
   
21-205   Separate connections; ownership
   
21-206   Required connections
   
21-207   Secondary taps and wells
   
21-208   Sale and resale
   
21-209   Tampering
   
21-210   Service connection
   
21-211   Multiple users
   
21-212   Nonresident customers
   
21-213   Water emergency management
   
21-214   Installation
   
21-215   Pipes
   
21-216   Repairs
   
21-217   Excavations
   
21-218   Shutoff boxes
   
21-219   Discontinuation of service
   21-220 to 21-240   Reserved
Division 2. Meters
   
21-241   Meters required
   
21-242   Installation
   
21-243   Reading meters
   
21-244   Testing meters
   21-245 to 21-260   Reserved
Division 3. Billing
   
21-261   Billing policies
   
21-262   Rates
   
21-263   Bills
   
21-264   Construction projects
   
21-265   Nonpayment
   
21-266   Collection
   21-267 to 21-280   Reserved
Division 4. Backflow Prevention and Cross-Connection Control
   
21-281   Purpose
   
21-282   Definitions
   
21-283   Cross-connections prohibited
   
21-284   Right of entry
   
21-285   Notice of contamination or pollution
   
21-286   Violations
   
21-287   Severance provision
Cross-reference:
   Water and sewer extension charges, Ch. 21, Art. VI.
Editor’s note:
   Ord. 13-2004, adopted June 7, 2004, amended the code by the addition of §§
21-220 through 21-226; however, said provisions have been re-designated as §§
21-280 through 21-287, at the discretion of the editor, for purposes of
maintaining the code format.
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
§ 21-201  OWNERSHIP AND OPERATION.
   The water system of the town shall be owned, and operated, by the town, and
responsibility for adopting policies, rules, and regulations for its operation
is vested in the Town Council.
(Ord. 2-86, passed 2-17-1986)
§ 21-202  CONNECTIONS.
   No water from the town water system shall be turned on for service to any
premises by any person but the Director of Public Works, or some person
authorized by him or her to perform this service.
(Ord. 2-86, passed 2-17-1986)
§ 21-203  APPLICATION.
   (A)   No person shall connect with the town water system until application
for permission to do so has been made, in writing, to the Public Works
Director, which application shall contain an agreement to abide by all
provisions of this chapter as conditions governing the use of town water by the
applicant. The application shall be accompanied by such fees as may, from time
to time, be required by the Town Council for the turning on of water service,
and such related services as may be required, together with such user deposit
as may be required.
   (B)   Submission of an application to the town for a water connection, or
water service, shall constitute consent of the applicant for town employees,
and agents, to enter upon the premises served at reasonable times, and in a
reasonable manner, to perform such activities as may be required to fulfill the
purposes, and intent, of this article, and to ensure compliance with the
provisions hereof.
   (C)   So as to avoid the perpetuation of private wells and private septic
tank systems, and to protect the health and safety of the residents of the town
and the surrounding area, no application for water service, or sewer service,
for any premises to which the town’s water distribution system, or sanitary
sewer system, are both available, as provided by this chapter, shall be granted
unless the applicant requests both water and sewer service from the town.
(Ord. 2-86, passed 2-17-1986)
Cross-reference:
   Plumbing code adopted, §
5-103; plumbing permit, §
5-201; town water tank, §
12-104.
§ 21-204  PLUMBING.
[Repealed]
§ 21-205  SEPARATE CONNECTIONS; OWNERSHIP.
   Separate water connections are required for each business, or residence,
receiving water service in the town. Connections to the town’s water system,
once made, shall be owned, operated, and maintained by the town. Service pipes
running from the connection point with the town system to the premises served
shall be, and remain owned by, the property owner, and the town shall have no
responsibility therefor.
(Ord. 2-86, passed 2-17-1986)
§ 21-206  REQUIRED CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   All owners of property within the town’s limits, and upon which an
improved premises is located within 200 feet of any waterline owned, and
operated, by the town, shall connect such premises with the town water system,
and shall use town-supplied water as the primary water supply for the premises.
   (B)   Upon completion of any extension of the town water system, or upon any
extension of the town’s corporate limits, notice shall be sent to owners of
property within the town limits, and within 200 feet of a town-owned waterline,
advising such property owner of this chapter, and allowing such property owner
180 days from the date of such notice to submit a proper application for
connection to the town’s water system of any premises within 200 feet of any
town-owned waterline.
   (C)   No property located within the town’s extraterritorial jurisdiction
shall be required to connect to the town’s water system.
(Ord. 2-86, passed 2-17-1986; Ord. 17-92, passed 8-3-1992; Ord. 35-2001, passed
10-15-2001)
§ 21-207  SECONDARY TAPS AND WELLS.
   (A)   Upon proper application therefor, and the payment of such fees as may,
from time to time, be required, a property owner who is otherwise in compliance
with this article may be allowed a tap onto the town water system for
noncommercial, non-household consumption, including, but not limited to,
heating and cooling systems, irrigation, swimming pools, and other uses where
any wastewater cannot reasonably be expected to enter the town’s sanitary sewer
system. The town will not assess sewer charges in connection with such a
secondary water tap installed, and utilized, in accordance with this article.
   (B)   Owners of property subject to the mandatory connection requirements of
this article shall also be allowed to have, and use, private wells as a
secondary water supply, subject to the provisions hereof.
      (1)   Users of private wells shall notify the town, in writing, of the
existence and location of each such well, and the uses made of the water
therefrom. The town will not assess charges for consumption of water from
private wells when no portion of the wastewater therefrom can reasonably be
expected to enter the town’s sanitary sewer system.
      (2)   When water from a private well is used in such fashion that
wastewater can be expected to enter the town’s sanitary sewer system, the user
of such well shall be assessed a water availability charge equal to the town’s
minimum monthly water service charge. Further, the owner of such well shall be
required to install, and maintain to town specifications, a water flow meter to
measure the water flowing from the well. Water use from the well will be
determined periodically, and the owner assessed sewer use charges at the
prevailing town rate.
      (3)   In no event shall secondary water supply exceed 10% of the total
water usage.
   (C)   No person shall use, or maintain, a private water well for human, or
animal, consumption unless the well has been permitted by the county, and the
water from such well is periodically analyzed, and found to be fit for such
consumption as required by the county and state law.
(Ord. 2-86, passed 2-17-1986; Ord. 17-92, passed 8-3-1992)
§ 21-208  SALE AND RESALE.
   No recipient of town-supplied water, and no producer of well water shall
sell, resell, supply, or distribute water to any other person, or premises,
except as specifically allowed by this article, except in case of emergency, it
being the policy of the town that no person shall profit from the distribution
of town-supplied water to third parties. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
Town Council may, in its discretion, authorize the commercial sale of town-
supplied water to third parties.
(Ord. 2-86, passed 2-17-1986)
Statutory reference:
   Contracts for the sale of water, G.S. § 160A-322.
§ 21-209  TAMPERING.
   (A)   Pursuant to G.S. § 14-151, it is a Class 1 misdemeanor to alter,
tamper, or bypass a water meter.
   (B)   Additionally, it is unlawful for any person not authorized by the town
to tamper with, use, alter, or injure any part of the town water storage,
waterworks, water supply, and distribution system, meter, or fire hydrant.
(Ord. 2-86, passed 2-17-1986)  Penalty, see §
1-111
§ 21-210  SERVICE CONNECTION.
   (A)   No connection with the town’s water distribution system shall be made
without a permit therefor being issued, and 24 hours’ notice being given, to
the Director of Public Works. All such connections shall be made, and all such
work done and materials used provided at the expense of the applicant. All such
connections shall be made under the supervision of the Director of Public
Works, by town employees, or plumbers licensed by the state. No connection
shall be covered until approved by the Director of Public Works, or his or her
designee.
   (B)   All service pipes from town distribution lines to the premises served
shall be installed by, and at the cost of, the owner of the property to be
served, or the applicant for service. Such installation shall be under the
inspection of the Building Inspector.
   (C)   No service shall be installed except in conformity with applicable
building and plumbing codes, and such reasonable requirements as the Building
Inspector, or the Public Works Director, may demand for a particular premises
for the protection of health, safety, or the town’s water system.
(Ord. 2-86, passed 2-17-1986)
§ 21-211  MULTIPLE USERS.
   It is the policy of the town that each property supplied with water from the
town shall have a tap and meter installed at the point where the consumer’s
service line leaves the town’s supply system. However, sub-metering is
permitted to the extent it is allowed by, and in accordance with, state law,
including all rules established by the State Utilities Commission.
(Ord. 2-86, passed 2-17-1986)
§ 21-212  NONRESIDENT CUSTOMERS.
   Premises outside the town limits shall have no right to connect to the
town’s water supply system, but may be allowed to connect, upon application to
the Town Manager, compliance with this article, and payment of such fees and
charges, as may be set from time to time, for nonresident water customers.
(Ord. 2-86, passed 2-17-1986)
§ 21-213  WATER EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT.
   Repealed and superseded by Chapter 21, Article II-A, “Water Conservation
Practices”.
(Ord. 10-77, passed 10-3-1977; Ord. 2-86, passed 2-17-1986; Ord. 23-2001,
passed 7-2-2001)
§ 21-214  INSTALLATION.
[Repealed]
(Ord. 2-86, passed 2-17-1986)
§ 21-215  PIPES.
[Repealed]
(Ord. 2-86, passed 2-17-1986)
§ 21-216  REPAIRS.
   All repairs for service pipes and plumbing systems owned by the property
owner shall be made by, and at the expense of, the owner of the premises
served. In the case of a public nuisance, the town may repair any service
pipes; if this is done, the cost of such repair work shall be paid to the town
by the owner, or water consumer of the premises served.
(Ord. 2-86, passed 2-17-1986)
§ 21-217  EXCAVATIONS.
   Excavations for installing service pipes, or repairing the same, shall be
made in compliance with town ordinances and policies relating to making
excavations in streets or sidewalks. Water service pipes may be placed in the
same excavation with a drain pipe or sewer pipe, only in accordance with the
State Building Code.
(Ord. 2-86, passed 2-17-1986)
§ 21-218  SHUTOFF BOXES.
   Shutoff boxes or service boxes shall be placed on every service pipe, and in
accordance with the State Building Code.
(Ord. 2-86, passed 2-17-1986)
§ 21-219  DISCONTINUATION OF SERVICE.
   Repealed. (See §
21-508, “Discontinuation of Service”.)
(Ord. 2-86, passed 2-17-1986)
§§ 21-220 TO 21-240  RESERVED.
DIVISION 2. METERS
§ 21-241  METERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   All premises using the town water supply must be equipped with an
adequate water meter furnished by the town, but paid for by the consumer. If,
for any reason, a water meter is not, or cannot, be installed at the time water
service is required, then upon approval of the Town Manager, water service may
be supplied by the town at a flat rate until a meter may be installed.
   (B)   Before any premises is occupied, a water meter shall be installed
therefor as required by this section, or the Town Manager shall have approved
water service at a flat rate, or charge, until a meter can be installed.
(Ord. 2-86, passed 2-17-1986)
§ 21-242  INSTALLATION.
   Meters shall be installed in a location that will be easy to access, and no
person shall obstruct, damage, vandalize, tamper with, or do any other thing
which could reasonably have the effect of defeating the purpose of the water
meter, or inhibiting the reading thereof. Meters shall normally be installed at
the point of connection between the town water distribution system and the pipe
serving the consumer’s premises.
(Ord. 2-86, passed 2-17-1986)
§ 21-243  READING METERS.
   The Director of Public Works, or his or her designee, shall read, or cause
to be read, every water meter used in the town at such times as are necessary
so that the bills may be sent out at the proper time.
(Ord. 2-86, passed 2-17-1986)
§ 21-244  TESTING METERS.
   (A)   Any municipal water meter shall be taken out and tested upon written
request of the consumer, and upon payment of such fee as may be set therefor,
from time to time, by the Town Council. If test results indicate that the meter
is not within 3% of being accurate, the meter shall be repaired, or replaced,
and the testing fee returned to the consumer. If the test results that the
meter is within 3% of being accurate, the consumer shall continue to use the
existing meter, and the testing fee shall not be refunded.
   (B)   A written report of the test shall be furnished to the consumer within
ten days of receipt of such results in the town office.
   (C)   Effective July 1, 2015, Any privately-owned water meter connected to
the municipal water supply shall be tested, and calibrated, on an annual basis.
The results of said tests shall be provided to the town within 30 days and/or
July 1 (whichever comes first) of each year to ensure privately-owned meters
are working properly.
(Ord. 2-86, passed 2-17-1986)
§§ 21-245 TO 21-260  RESERVED.
DIVISION 3. BILLING
§ 21-261  BILLING POLICIES.
   (A)   The town’s policies regarding billing for utility services and
procedures for handling consumer complaints regarding bills are set forth in
Article V of this chapter, the provisions of which apply to the town’s water
utility service.
   (B)   In the event of a faulty water meter, or any other circumstance
involving fault on the part of the town that renders an accurate measure of a
consumer’s water consumption unavailable, prior water consumption by the
consumer, and the water consumption experience of similar consumers, shall be
considered in fixing the charges to the consumer for any period in question.
   (C)   Breaks or leaks on the consumer’s side of the water meter shall be the
consumer’s responsibility, and shall not be a reason to reduce the consumer’s
water charges from the town.
   (D)   The filing of a complaint regarding a water bill shall not affect the
obligation of the consumer to pay, in a timely fashion, any bill rendered by
the town for water service as required by this article.
(Ord. 2-86, passed 2-17-1986)
§ 21-262  RATES.
   Any premises connected to the town’s water system shall pay water connection
fees, service charges, and water rates, as appropriate, as the same shall be
determined, from time to time, by the Town Council, and kept on file in the
office of the Town Clerk.
(Ord. 2-86, passed 2-17-1986; Ord. 35-2001, passed 10-15-2001)
§ 21-263  BILLS.
   Bills for water used, and related charges, shall be dated and sent out at
such times as may be authorized by the Town Council, and directed by the Town
Manager.
(Ord. 2-86, passed 2-17-1986)
§ 21-264  CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS.
   During the construction of any structure, and before any water system is
installed therein, as is provided in this article, the contractor constructing
the structure may be permitted to use the town water supply by making
application therefor, and by paying such fees as may be prescribed by the Town
Council.
(Ord. 2-86, passed 2-17-1986)
§ 21-265  NONPAYMENT.
   The provisions of Article V of this chapter regarding discontinuation of
service for nonpayment of charges apply to the town’s water consumers.
(Ord. 2-86, passed 2-17-1986)
§ 21-266  COLLECTION.
   The Town Manager and the Town Attorney are authorized to take such actions
as they may deem appropriate to collect unpaid water, or sewer, fees and
charges due the town.
(Ord. 2-86, passed 2-17-1986)
§§ 21-267 TO 21-280  RESERVED.
DIVISION 4. BACKFLOW PREVENTION AND CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL
§ 21-281  PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this division is:
      (1)   To protect the town’s water system from the possibility of
contamination, or pollution, due to back siphonage or back pressure, by
isolating within the customer’s internal distribution system, or the customer’s
private water systems such contaminants or pollutants which could backflow into
the town’s water system;
      (2)   To define the authority of the town to eliminate cross-connections,
new or existing, within its water system; and
      (3)   To provide a continuing program of cross-connection control which
will systematically, and effectively, minimize any actual, or potential,
hazardous cross-connections that may be installed in the future.
   (B)   This division may also be referred to as the town’s “Policy for
Backflow Prevention and Cross-Connection Control” (the “policy”).
(Ord. 13-2004, passed 6-7-2004)
§ 21-282  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this division, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   BACKFLOW. Any flow of water, other liquids, gaseous or vaporous substances,
other substances, or any combination thereof, into the water system from any
source due to a cross-connection, back pressure, back siphonage, any
combination thereof, or any other cause; provided, that the following
activities by the town shall not be construed as BACKFLOW:
      (1)   The introduction, or treatment, of raw water into the City of
Hickory’s water treatment plant; or
      (2)   The introduction of such treated water by the city into the water
system.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY or ASSEMBLY. An effective device, or method,
used to prevent backflow.
   CONTAMINATION. The impairment of the quality of potable water that creates
an actual hazard to a degree that human consumption could result in poisoning,
the spread of disease, serious illness, or death.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any actual, or potential, physical connection or piping
arrangement between the town’s water system, and any other source, or private
water system, sewer fixture, container, or device, through which it is possible
to introduce into any part of the town’s water system any used water,
industrial fluids, gaseous or vaporous substances, or other substance which
could be harmful, or hazardous, to the town’s water system, whereby there
exists the possibility for flow from one system to the other, with the
direction of flow depending on the pressure differential between the systems.
   CUSTOMER. The person, firm, corporation, or other entity who is an applicant
of, or a recipient of, any service rendered by the town in connection with the
operation of its water system.
   DEGREE OF HAZARD. The evaluation of a risk within a private water system as
existing high, imminent, or moderate.
   EXISTING HAZARD. An actual contamination of the town’s water system, or a
customer’s private water system, that could cause illness or death, or damage
to the physical components comprising the town’s water system.
   HIGH HAZARD (SEVERE HAZARD). A potential threat of contamination to the
town’s water system, or to a customer’s private water system, that could cause
serious illness or death.
   IMMINENT HAZARD. An actual threat of contamination to the town’s water
system, or to a customer’s private water system.
   MODERATE HAZARD. A potential threat of damage, contamination, or pollution
to the town’s water system, or a customer’s private water system.
   POLICY. The town’s “Policy for Backflow Prevention and Cross-Connection
Control”, as approved, and administered, by the town’s Public Works and
Utilities Department.
   POLLUTION. The impairment of the quality of the potable water to a degree
that adversely, and detrimentally, affects the aesthetic qualities of such
potable waters for domestic use.
   PRIVATE WATER SYSTEM. A water distribution system privately-owned, and not
directly controlled, by the town. For purpose of this policy, a PRIVATE WATER
SYSTEM shall include a well situated on, and serving, an individual lot.
   WATER SYSTEM. The water utility system owned, and operated, by the town,
including all devices and facilities for the treatment, storage, and
distribution of water.
(Ord. 13-2004, passed 6-7-2004)
§ 21-283  CROSS-CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, or permit, a cross-
connection to be made, or to be made involving the customer’s private water
system, unless otherwise approved by the town.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any customer to fail to maintain, in good
operating condition, through annual testing and maintenance, any backflow
prevention assembly required by this division, and which is part of the
customer’s private water system.
   (C)   No private water system may be connected in any manner to the town’s
water system unless the requirements of this division, and all other applicable
laws, have been satisfied.
   (D)   All connections to the town’s water system shall be made in accordance
with the town’s “Policy for Cross-Connection Control and Contamination
Prevention”, and the town’s standard details and specifications.
   (E)   The town shall revise the “Policy for Cross-Connection Control and
Contamination Prevention” according to needs and requirements, as determined by
the State Administrative Code, “Rules Governing Public Water Systems”, and/or
the State Plumbing Code.
(Ord. 03-441, passed 6-17-2003; Ord. 13-2004, passed 6-7-2004)  Penalty, see §
1-111
§ 21-284  RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   Representatives of the town shall have the right to enter any property
having a private water system which is served, in any manner, by the town’s
water system. Such entry shall be made at reasonable times, and for the
purposes of inspecting, and observing, the private water system, determining
the degree of hazard, testing and sampling of the water from such system, and
any other duty which may be imposed on the town by this division.
   (B)   If a customer does not permit an authorized representative of the town
to undertake, and complete, any inspection, observation, test, sample, or other
duty of the representative concerning the customer’s private water system,
service to the private water system from the town’s water system may be
terminated.
   (C)   At the request of the town, a customer shall provide information that
is reasonably necessary to determine the degree of hazard of the customer’s
private water system, all connections of the private water system to the town’s
water system, and any other information reasonably necessary to enforce the
provisions of this division.
(Ord. 13-2004, passed 6-7-2004)
§ 21-285  NOTICE OF CONTAMINATION OR POLLUTION.
   A customer shall immediately notify the town if the customer’s private water
system is contaminated or polluted, or if the customer has reason to believe
that backflow has occurred from the customer’s private water system to the
town’s water system.
(Ord. 13-2004, passed 6-7-2004)
§ 21-286  VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   A written notice of violation shall be given to any person who is
determined to be in violation of any provision of this division.
   (B)   Such notice shall set forth the violation, and the time period within
which the violation must be corrected. The violation shall be corrected within
a reasonable time, not to exceed the time period specified in this division.
   (C)   If the town determines that the violation is occurring on a customer’s
private water system, and that such violation has created, or contributed to,
the existence of an existing, or imminent, hazard, the customer will be
required to correct the violation immediately.
   (D)   Water service may be terminated to a customer if the customer fails,
in a timely manner, to correct a violation. Termination of water service will
be without prejudice to the town’s ability to assert any other remedy available
against the customer, or any other person responsible for the violation,
including declaring the violation to be a public nuisance to be corrected by
the town, with a bill for the cost to repair being sent to the customer.
   (E)   Any person who violates the provisions of this division shall be
subject to the following civil penalties:
      (1)   Any cross-connection not in compliance with this division involving
a private water system, which is defined as an existing, imminent, or severe
hazard, shall be liable for a penalty of $750 per day that the violation
continues;
      (2)   Any cross-connection not in compliance with this division involving
a private water system, which is defined as a moderate hazard, shall be liable
for a penalty of $500 per day that the violation continues; and
      (3)   Any other violation of the provisions of this division shall
subject the violator to a penalty of $250 per day that the violation continues.
   (F)   Any person violating any provision of this division shall pay to the
town all expenses incurred by the town in repairing any damage to the water
system caused in whole, or in part, by such violation, and any expenses
incurred by the town in investigating such violation.
   (G)   From, and after, the expiration of the time period specified by the
town for correcting a violation of this division, each subsequent day that the
violation continues in existence shall constitute a separate, and distinct,
offense.
   (H)   Any violations of the provisions of this article shall constitute a
Class 3 misdemeanor punishable by a fine not exceeding a maximum of $500, as
provided in G.S. § 14-4, and in addition thereto, such violation may be
enjoined, and restrained, as provided in G.S. § 160A-175. The issuance of a
criminal warrant shall not prohibit the imposition of civil penalties.
(Ord. 13-2004, passed 6-7-2004)
§ 21-287  SEVERANCE PROVISION.
   If any section, subdivision, clause, or provision of this division shall be
judged invalid, such adjudication shall only apply to such section,
subdivision, clause, or provision so adjudged, and the remainder of this
article’s division be declared valid and in effect.
(Ord. 13-2004, passed 6-7-2004)
ARTICLE II-A:  WATER CONSERVATION PRACTICES
Section
   
21-289   Purpose
   
21-290   Definitions
   
21-291   Imposition of mandatory water conservation controls
   
21-292   Procedure for issuance of water shortage declaration
   
21-293   Stages of water conservation
   
21-294   Stage 0
   
21-295   Stage 1
   
21-296   Stage 2
   
21-297   Stage 3
   
21-298   Stage 4
   
21-299   Termination for leak in customer’s plumbing
   
21-299.1   Temporary discontinuation of water connection
   
21-299.2   Variances
   
21-299.3   Enforcement
   
21-299.4   Applicability to combined distribution supply
§ 21-289  PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is the purpose, and intent, of this article to maintain, and
protect, the water resources available to the town for essential, and community
and business, water uses during a water shortage declaration. This article
seeks to achieve that purpose by providing for the issuance of an official
water shortage declaration, and the implementation of mandatory water
conservation controls during the time when such declaration is in effect. This
article shall be liberally construed to effectuate such purpose and intent.
   (B)   The majority of potable water used by the town is purchased from the
City of Hickory per a contract entered into between the town and the City of
Hickory, dated January 21, 2002. Therefore, the town will follow the actions of
the HPUD with regard to water conservation regulations.
§ 21-290  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   COMMUNITY AND BUSINESS WATER USE. Any use of water from the town’s water
supply that meets either of the following criteria, with special emphasis on
those uses which substantially minimize water use through recycling, or other
means; critical to an institution’s, or business’s, function, and such use, or
function, has a significant impact upon the economy of the county, or any
municipality located therein; or critical to recreational, or other facilities,
operated, or maintained, for community use. Examples of COMMUNITY AND BUSINESS
WATER USES may be set forth in the Water Shortage Management Plan, and include,
but are not limited to: watering stock or inventory at plant nurseries, garden
centers, or tree farms; watering fairways, tees, and greens on golf courses;
washing vehicles at commercial car washes; commercial pressure washing;
commercial, agricultural applications; commercial manufacturing; fire hydrant
and water line flushing; complying with applicable law for earth disturbing
activity using no more water than is reasonably necessary; and other similar
uses, as determined by the town.
   CUSTOMER. Any person, or entity, in whose name the town maintains an account
for water use. CUSTOMER also means, and includes, any person, or entity, who
receives, or is capable of receiving, water from the town’s water supply
through the customer’s private water supply, or by any other means, without
regard to whether the town is aware of the existence of such CUSTOMER.
   DISCRETIONARY WATER USE. Any use of water from the town’s water supply that
is elective, and is not a community and business, or essential, water use.
Examples of DISCRETIONARY WATER USES may be set forth in the Water Shortage
Management Plan, and include, but are not limited to: lawn/turf irrigation;
residential car washing; non-commercial pressure washing; ornamental pools or
fountains; and other similar uses as determined by the town.
   DROUGHT MANAGEMENT ADVISORY GROUP. A team of owners of large water intakes
in the county river basin, state agencies, and Duke Energy tasked with
formulating a basin-wide response to low inflow conditions, as defined in the
LIP.
   EMERGENCY CONDITIONS. Any condition posing a substantial, and immediate,
threat to the ability of the town to meet actual, or anticipated, demand for
community and business, and/or essential, water uses, and requiring the
immediate implementation of mandatory water conservation measures in order to
protect the public health, and safety, including, without limitation, a major
disruption, or failure, in any portion of said supply, or contamination of the
water in any portion of said supply, or of the raw water supply.
   ESSENTIAL WATER USE. Any use of water from the town’s water supply that is
necessary to maintain public health and safety. Examples of ESSENTIAL WATER
USES may be set forth in the Water Shortage Management Plan, and include, but
are not limited to: sustaining human life; fighting fires; testing for public
safety standards; patient care and rehabilitation; maintaining pressure in the
town’s water supply; maintaining operation of the town’s water supply; and
other similar uses as determined by the town.
   HICKORY PUBLIC UTILITIES DEPARTMENT WATER SYSTEM (HPUD). The potable water
supply, treatment, and distribution supply, or any portion thereof, operated by
the City of Hickory.
   IRRIGATION SERVICE CONNECTION. A service connection by which a customer
receives water from the town’s water supply for the sole purpose of watering
vegetation, and is not connected directly, or indirectly, to any plumbing
supply that discharges into the publicly-operated treatment works.
   LOW INFLOW PROTOCOL (LIP). Prescribed levels of escalating response to
drought conditions based on trigger points for use during periods of low inflow
to the reservoirs on the county river.
   SERVICE CONNECTION. The terminal end of a complete service connection or, in
the absence of a complete service connection, the point at which water leaves
the town’s water supply, and enters a customer’s water supply.
   TOWN MANAGER. The Town Manager, or any acting or interim Town Manager.
   TOWN PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT WATER SUPPLY (MPWD). The potable water supply,
storage, treatment, and distribution supply, or any portion thereof, within the
town.
§ 21-291  IMPOSITION OF MANDATORY WATER CONSERVATION CONTROLS.
   (A)   The Town Manager is authorized to impose mandatory water conservation
controls, as authorized by this article, on the usage of water obtained
directly, or indirectly, from the town’s water supply by declaring a water
shortage. After receiving written recommendations from the MPWD, or the HPUD,
the Town Manager may impose such controls, upon consideration of the following
factors:
      (1)   Pressure at monitoring locations of the town’s water supply;
      (2)   Ability to re-fill water storage tanks of the town’s water supply;
      (3)   Ability to maintain an amount of water in the town’s ground level
storage tanks which is adequate for fire protection purposes;
      (4)   Ability to maintain adequate water pressure in every portion of the
town’s water supply;
      (5)   Adequacy of the town’s water supply in terms of quantity, and/or
quality, for the foreseeable future to satisfy the anticipated demand for
water;
      (6)   Conditions downstream of the town’s water intakes;
      (7)   Regulatory requirements affecting the operation, repair, or
maintenance of any portion of the town’s water supply;
      (8)   Such factors as are identified in a Water Shortage Management Plan
adopted by the town pursuant to this article;
      (9)   Such other factors as may affect the town’s ability to supply,
treat, and/or distribute water from its water supply;
      (10)   Declaration of drought stages by the Drought Management Advisory
Group, as defined by the low inflow protocol (LIP) based on preset trigger
points; and
      (11)   Declaration of drought stages by the State Department of
Environment and Natural Resources if local water supply, and demand factors,
indicate need.
   (B)   The town’s, and/or the Hickory Public Utilities Department’s (HPUD),
recommendation to the Town Manager on the issuance, amendment, or termination
of a water shortage declaration shall set forth the basis for such
recommendation, including the factors leading to such recommendation.
   (C)   The town is authorized to adopt a Water Shortage Management Plan,
which shall be consistent with, and guide, the Town Public Works Department
(MPWD) in the implementation, and enforcement, of the provisions of this
article.
§ 21-292  PROCEDURE FOR ISSUANCE OF WATER SHORTAGE DECLARATION.
   (A)   The Town Manager may issue a water shortage declaration by signing a
notice of water shortage declaration. A water shortage declaration will take
effect on the effective date, and time, specified in said notice. A water
shortage declaration, including any amendment thereto, may be issued for the
entire town’s water distribution system, or for any designated portion(s)
thereof. Upon issuance, a water shortage declaration shall remain in effect
until amended, or terminated, in accordance with this article.
   (B)   A water shortage declaration may be amended, or terminated, by the
issuance of a notice of such action signed by the Town Manager, and posted in
accordance with this section. Water conservation controls imposed pursuant to
this article, and/or the portion of the town’s water distribution system,
subject to an existing water shortage declaration, may be revised by amending
such a declaration. The termination of a water shortage declaration will
automatically terminate all mandatory water conservation controls imposed by
the declaration pursuant to this article.
   (C)   A notice required by this article must specify the effective date, and
time, of said notice, and be publicly posted in the Town Hall, 19 N. Main
Avenue, Maiden, North Carolina, or any other place designated by law or the
Town Council for the posting of public notices for at least 12 hours before
taking effect; provided, that the Town Manager may determine that the following
notices need not be posted for any minimum period of time: A notice of
termination of a water shortage declaration; a notice of amendment of a water
shortage declaration that reduces the portion of the town’s water distribution
system subject to said declaration, and/or the mandatory water conservation
controls in effect; and a notice of a water shortage declaration, or amendment
thereto, under emergency conditions, as set forth therein. All notices posted
pursuant to this article shall state the date, and time, of posting.
§ 21-293  STAGES OF WATER CONSERVATION.
   (A)   Any one of the following stages of water conservation may be
implemented by the issuance of a water shortage declaration, or amendment of a
previously issued declaration:
      (1)   Stage 0, drought watch;
      (2)   Stage 1, voluntary;
      (3)   Stage 2, mandatory; outdoor irrigation limited to two times a week;
      (4)   Stage 3, mandatory; outdoor irrigation limited to one time a week;
and
      (5)   Stage 4, emergency.
   (B)   A water shortage declaration, including, without limitation, an
amendment thereto, imposing Stage 0, 1, 2, 3, or 4 water conservation controls,
shall specify the controls imposed by such declaration. Customers, and users,
shall comply with such mandatory controls as are specified in a water shortage
declaration, including any amendment thereto, issued pursuant to this article.
   (C)   Violation of any mandatory control specified in a declaration issued
pursuant to this article shall be subject to such enforcement action as is set
forth in this article.
   (D)   No mandatory control imposed by a water shortage declaration shall
apply to any public, or volunteer, Fire Department while fighting a fire.
   (E)   The Water Shortage Management Plan adopted pursuant to this article
may include classifications of the uses made of water from the town’s water
supply as discretionary, community, and business and essential, and take such
classifications into account in determining the water conservation controls
that may be imposed pursuant to this article.
§ 21-294  STAGE 0.
   A water shortage declaration, including an amendment thereto, may impose a
Stage 0 drought watch at any time.
§ 21-295  STAGE 1.
   (A)   A water shortage declaration, including an amendment thereto, may
impose Stage 1 water conservation controls at any time that, based upon a
recommendation from MPWD and/or HPUD, the Town Manager determines that the town
may not be able to meet all demand for discretionary, community, and business
and essential water uses based on any one, or more, of the factors set forth in
§
21-291(A)(1) through (A)(11).
   (B)   A water shortage declaration imposing Stage 1 water conservation
controls may include: restrictions on the manner, day of the week, and time of
day of one, or more, discretionary water uses, and/or complete prohibitions on
one, or more, of such uses.
   (C)   Community athletic associations, golf courses, and similar customers
whose use of water to irrigate large areas is a community and business water
use may submit a plan for approval by MPWD and/or HPUD allowing alternatives to
the water conservation controls imposed by a water shortage declaration.
Approval of alternatives shall be limited to a customer’s community and
business water uses, and shall require such customers to comply with
substantially equivalent controls on water usage. Violation of any portion of a
customer’s approved plan shall be considered as a violation of this article,
and shall be subject to the provisions of §
21-299.3 in the same manner as any other violation of a water conservation
control imposed pursuant to this article.
   (D)   Reduction of use goal is established at voluntary participation.
§ 21-296  STAGE 2.
   (A)   A water shortage declaration, including an amendment thereto, may
impose Stage 2 water conservation controls at any time that, based upon a
recommendation from MPWD and/or HPUD, the Town Manager determines that the town
may not be able to meet all demand for discretionary, community, and business
and essential water uses based on any one, or more, of the factors set forth in
§
21-291(A)(1) through (A)(11).
   (B)   A water shortage declaration imposing Stage 2 water conservation
controls may include: restrictions on the manner, day of the week, and time of
day of one or more discretionary water uses; and/or complete prohibitions on
one, or more, of such uses.
   (C)   Community athletic associations, golf courses, and similar customers
whose use of water to irrigate large areas is a community and business water
use may submit a plan for approval by MPWD and/or HPUD allowing alternatives to
the water conservation controls imposed by a water shortage declaration.
Approval of alternatives shall be limited to a customer’s community and
business water uses, and shall require such customers to comply with
substantially equivalent controls on water usage. Violation of any portion of a
customer’s approved plan shall be considered as a violation of this article,
and shall be subject to the provisions of §
21-299.3 in the same manner as any other violation of a water conservation
control imposed pursuant to this article.
   (D)   Reduction of use goal is established at 5% to 10%.
§ 21-297  STAGE 3.
   (A)   A water shortage declaration, including an amendment thereto, may
impose Stage 3 water conservation controls at any time that, based upon a
recommendation from MPWD and/or HPUD, the Town Manager determines that the town
may not be able to meet all demand for community, and business and essential,
water uses based on any one, or more, of the factors set forth in §
21-291(A)(1) through (A)(11).
   (B)   A water shortage declaration imposing Stage 3 water conservation
controls may include: restrictions on the manner, day of the week, and time of
day of one, or more, discretionary or community and business water uses; and/or
complete prohibitions on one, or more, of such uses.
   (C)   Reduction of use goal is established at 10% to 20%.
§ 21-298  STAGE 4.
   (A)   A water shortage declaration, including an amendment thereto, may
impose Stage 4 water conservation controls at any time that, based upon a
recommendation from MPWD and/or HPUD, and the Town Manager, the Town Council
determines that the town may not be able to meet all demand for essential water
uses based on any one, or more, of the factors set forth in §
21-291(A)(1) through (A)(11); provided, that the Town Manager may impose Stage
4 water conservation controls without the approval of the Town Council at any
time that, based upon a recommendation from MPWD and/or HPUD, the Town Manager
determines that the town may not be able to meet all demand for essential water
uses based on any one, or more, of the factors set forth in §
21-291(A)(1) through (A)(11), and also finds that emergency conditions exist.
If the Town Manager imposes Stage 4 water conservation controls pursuant to
this section, such controls shall be subject to amendment or termination by the
Town Council.
   (B)   A water shortage declaration imposing Stage 4 water conservation
controls may include: restrictions on the manner, day of the week, and/or time
of day of one, or more, discretionary, community and business, or essential
water uses; and/or complete prohibitions on one, or more, of such uses.
   (C)   The Town Manager, based upon a recommendation from MPWD and/or HPUD,
shall determine the specific water conservation controls included in a water
shortage declaration imposed pursuant to this section. The provisions of
subsection (A) above shall not be construed under any circumstances to limit
the authority of the Town Manager under this article to issue, amend, or
terminate a water shortage declaration, or to require approval of the Town
Council in order for the Town Manager to amend, or terminate, any water
shortage declaration imposing Stage 4 water conservation controls, including,
without limitation, amending a water shortage declaration to revise Stage 4
water conservation controls, or to impose Stage 2 or 3 water conservation
controls.
   (D)   In addition to the controls authorized by subsection (A) above, the
Town Manager shall also be authorized, based upon a recommendation from MPWD
and/or HPUD, to take such actions as may be reasonably necessary, or
convenient, to ration water among the town’s customers, including, without
limitation, suspending water service to customers pursuant to a plan approved
by the Town Council.
   (E)   Reduction of use goal is established at 20% to 30%.
§ 21-299  TERMINATION FOR LEAK IN CUSTOMER’S PLUMBING.
   It shall be unlawful for any customer, or owner, of a plumbing supply
receiving water from the town’s water supply to fail to repair a leak in such
plumbing supply within a reasonable time while a water shortage declaration is
in effect. Any customer, or owner, who fails to repair a leak in such plumbing
supply within five calendar days after notice to do so from the town shall be
subject to a civil penalty of $100, termination of service, or both.
Penalty, see §
1-111
§ 21-299.1  TEMPORARY DISCONTINUATION OF WATER CONNECTION.
   (A)   Duration. During a declared mandatory (Stage 2, 3, or 4) water
emergency, the Town Manager, or his or her designee, may direct that the
issuance of zoning clearance permits, and/or divisions of land that involve
waterline connections or extensions, or any upgrade for water usage be
temporarily suspended for the duration of the water emergency.
   (B)   Exceptions. Notwithstanding subsections of this section, water
connections to the water supply owned by the town may continue to be made
during a declared mandatory water emergency for the following facilities:
      (1)   Public schools satisfying compulsory education requirements of the
state;
      (2)   Public facilities for police, sheriff, fire, or emergency medical
services; and/or
      (3)   Medical facilities.
   (C)   Permits. In any permit issued pursuant to this section, the town may
impose such conditions and restrictions as are appropriate to require that
water used from the town’s water supply be minimized to the extent practical.
   (D)   Termination of permit. Unless otherwise expressly provided in a
permit, any permit subject to this section shall automatically terminate upon
the effective date, and time, of the imposition of Stage 4 water conservation
controls.
   (E)   Permits; violation.
      (1)   Any person, or entity, receiving a permit subject to this section
that violates the terms thereof shall be subject to a civil penalty pursuant to
§
21-299.3(E), and to the revocation of the permit.
      (2)   Any person who has violated the term of any permit subject to this
section, any variance issued pursuant to this article, or any mandatory water
conservation control imposed pursuant to this article may be denied a permit,
notwithstanding any provision of this section to the contrary.
§ 21-299.2  VARIANCES.
   (A)   The Town Manager, or his or her designee, is authorized to issue a
variance in accordance with this article permitting any customer satisfying the
requirements of this article to use water for a purpose that would otherwise be
prohibited by water conservation controls then in effect.
   (B)   During any time that Stage 2 water conservation controls have been
imposed pursuant to this article, and except as otherwise provided in this
article, the Town Manager, or his or her designee, shall issue variances under
the following circumstances: A customer with a new lawn and/or landscape
installed within 30 days of the application for a variance (but not during any
time when Stage 3 or Stage 4 water conservation controls are in effect) may be
permitted to water such newly installed landscaping on the date of
installation, and for up to 30 days after the date of installation and, during
such time period, shall not be subject to restrictions on the days of the week,
but shall be subject to any restrictions on the times of the day, when outdoor
vegetation may be watered in accordance with the water conservation controls
otherwise in effect. A variance issued pursuant to this subsection may be
extended by the Town Manager, or his or her designee, under such terms and
conditions as are set forth in the Water Shortage Management Plan.
   (C)   During any time that Stage 3 water conservation controls have been
imposed pursuant to this article, and except as otherwise provided in this
article, the Town Manager, or his or her designee, shall issue variances for
the following uses: A customer with a new lawn and/or landscape installed
within 30 days prior to the implementation of Stage 3 water conservation
controls (but not during any time when Stage 4 water conservation controls are
in effect) may be permitted to water such newly installed landscaping on the
date of installation, and for up to 30 days after the date of installation, and
during such days of the week, and times of the day, as designated in the
variance.
   (D)   During any time that Stage 1, 2, or 3 water conservation controls have
been imposed pursuant to this article, the Town Manager, or his or her
designee, shall issue variances for the following uses:
      (1)   A public, or volunteer, fire department during any training
exercise using water from the town’s water supply under circumstances when such
training is reasonably necessary to maintain effective firefighting
capabilities;
      (2)   Any customer, or user, undertaking any activity required by
applicable law; and
      (3)   Any person or entity proposing to eliminate, or reduce, unsanitary
conditions that pose a substantial risk of injury or disease.
   (E)   During any time that Stage 3 water conservation controls have been
imposed pursuant to this article, the Town Manager, or his or her designee may,
but shall be under no obligation to, issue variances for the uses listed in
subsection (D) above.
   (F)   In any variance issued pursuant to this section, the Town Manager, or
his or her designee, may impose such conditions, and restrictions, as are
appropriate to require that water used from the town’s water supply be
minimized to the extent practical.
   (G)   Unless otherwise expressly provided in a variance, any variance issued
pursuant to this section shall automatically terminate upon the effective date,
and time, of the imposition of Stage 4 water conservation controls.
   (H)   Any person, or entity, receiving a variance pursuant to this section
that violates the terms thereof shall be subject to a civil penalty pursuant to
§
21-299.3(E), and to the revocation of the variance. Any person who has violated
the term of any permit subject to this article, any variance issued pursuant to
this section, or any mandatory water conservation control imposed pursuant to
this article may be denied a variance, notwithstanding any provision of this
section to the contrary.
§ 21-299.3  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The use of water from the town’s water supply in violation of any
mandatory water conservation control imposed pursuant to this article, the term
of any permit subject to §
21-299.1, or the term of any variance issued pursuant to §
21-299.2, is unlawful. Further, the refusal, or failure, of a customer, or
other person acting on the customer’s behalf, to cease immediately a violation
of a water conservation control, after being directed to do so by a person
authorized to enforce the provisions of this article, is unlawful. Each
customer is responsible for any use of water that passes through the service
connection associated with the customer’s account, or otherwise passes through
the customer’s private water supply.
   (B)   Any customer who violates, or permits the violation of, any mandatory
water conservation control imposed pursuant to §
21-296 shall be subject to a civil penalty according to the following schedule
of penalties:
 
                       One and One Half Inch Two Inch Service Connection
Number of Offenses     Service Connection or or Larger
                       Smaller
First offense          $100                  $200
Second offense         $200                  $400
Third, and subsequent, $300                  $600
offenses
 
   (C)   Any customer who violates, or permits the violation of, any mandatory
water conservation control imposed pursuant to §§ 21-297 and 21-298 shall be
subject to a civil penalty according to the following schedule of penalties:
 
                       One and One Half Inch Two Inch Service Connection
Number of Offenses     Service Connection or or Larger
                       Smaller
First offense          $200                  $400
Second offense         $400                  $800
Third, and subsequent, $600                  $1,200
offenses
 
   (D)   Any customer who violates, or permits the violation of, any term of a
permit subject to §
21-299.1, or a variance issued pursuant to §
21-299.2, shall be subject to a civil penalty of $500.
   (E)   Any customer, or other person acting on behalf of the customer, who
refuses, or otherwise fails, to cease immediately a violation of a water
conservation control after being directed to do so by a person authorized to
enforce the provisions of this article, shall be subject to a civil penalty
equal to twice the amount of the civil penalty applicable to the violation
which such customer, or person, was directed to cease.
   (F)   In addition to the payment of any civil penalty assessed pursuant to
this section, a customer shall be subject to termination of water service
through any irrigation service connection used to violate any water
conservation controls imposed pursuant to this article during any period of
time during which a water shortage declaration is continuously in effect under
the following circumstances:
      (1)   Five, or more, violations of any water conservation control,
including, without limitation, the terms of any variance, or permit, issued
pursuant to this article; or
      (2)   Two, or more, violations of any Stage 2 or Stage 3 water
conservation control, including, without limitation, the terms of any variance,
or permit, issued pursuant to this article.
   (G)   In the discretion of the Town Manager, or his or her designee,
termination of such service may include one, or more, of the following actions:
turnoff; meter removal; yoke removal; and turnoff at main. Water service will
not be restored at such service connection until the customer agrees to such
terms as the Town Manager, or his or her designee, determines are reasonably
necessary, or advisable, to assure the customer’s compliance with such water
conservation controls, as are then in effect, or may be imposed, pursuant to
this article, and the payment of all the customer’s obligations, including,
without limitation, all outstanding charges for water service, civil penalties,
and all other fees, amounts, and penalties charged in accordance with the
provisions of this article. If a customer violates such a term, or condition,
the customer shall be subject to a civil penalty of up to $1,000 in addition to
any other remedy that may be authorized by law, or agreement, and termination
of water service through such serviced connection for a minimum period of 15
days. Service may be restored thereafter in accordance with the provisions of
this section.
   (H)   A customer whose water service is terminated pursuant to §
21-292.2(F) shall not be entitled to notice, and an opportunity for a hearing
in advance of such termination. Notice of such termination shall be given as
soon as reasonably possible after a decision is made by the Town Manager, or
his or her designee, to terminate such service, but service of such notice, and
an opportunity for a hearing, shall not be conditions precedent to such
termination. A customer whose service is terminated pursuant to this section,
or who receives notice of such a termination, shall have five calendar days
after termination of service, or receipt of notice of termination, whichever is
later, to appeal such termination to the Town Manager, or his or her designee,
by delivering a written notice of appeal. A hearing shall be held on such
appeal within three business days of receipt of the notice of appeal, or by
such other date as approved by the Town Manager, or his or her designee, and
the customer.
   (I)   The violation of any water conservation control, or provision of this
article, may be enforced by all remedies authorized by law for non-compliance
with municipal ordinances, including the assessment of a civil penalty and
action for injunction, order of abatement, or other equitable relief.
   (J)   Except as provided in this section, each day that a violation of a
mandatory water conservation control occurs shall be considered to be a
separate violation.
   (K)   If a customer, or other person acting on behalf of the customer,
refuses, or otherwise fails, to cease immediately a violation of a water
conservation control after being directed to do so by a person authorized to
enforce the provisions of this article, such failure shall constitute a
separate violation.
   (L)   After receiving a notice of violating a water conservation control,
and ceasing such violation, a customer who resumes the violation of said water
conservation control on the same day shall be guilty of a separate violation.
   (M)   MPWD, and any other town employees or persons designated by the Town
Manager, shall be authorized to enforce the provisions of this article.
Penalty, see §
1-111
§ 21-299.4  APPLICABILITY TO COMBINED DISTRIBUTION SUPPLY.
   Municipal customers, water corporations or company compliance
municipalities, water corporations, or companies purchasing water from the town
shall adopt, and enforce, this entire article as a condition of continuing
existing water sales agreements. Upon declaration of a water emergency, such
municipalities, and companies, shall enforce the appropriate water use
restrictions for the level of declared emergency. Water service to such
municipalities, and companies, shall be terminated for not enforcing the
provisions of this section.
ARTICLE III:  SEWER SYSTEM
Section
Division 1. Generally
   
21-301   Purpose and policy
   
21-302   Definitions and abbreviations
   21-303 to 21-305   Reserved
Division 2. General Sewer Use Requirements
   
21-306   Prohibited discharge standards
   
21-307   National categorical pretreatment standards
   
21-308   Local limits
   
21-309   State requirements
   
21-310   Right of revision
   
21-311   Dilution
   
21-312   Pretreatment of wastewater
   
21-313   Accidental discharge/slug control plans
   
21-314   Hauled wastewater
   
21-315   Grease traps/interceptors
   21-316 to 21-324   Reserved
Division 3. Fees
   
21-325   Purpose
   
21-326   User charges
   
21-327   Surcharges
   
21-328   Pretreatment program administration charges
   21-329 to 21-334   Reserved
Division 4. Wastewater Discharge Permit Application and Issuance
   
21-335   Wastewater discharges
   
21-336   Wastewater permits
   21-337 to 21-344   Reserved
Division 5. Reporting Requirements
   
21-345   Baseline monitoring reports
   
21-346   Compliance schedule progress reports
   
21-347   Reports on compliance with categorical pretreatment standard; deadline
   
21-348   Periodic compliance reports
   
21-349   Reports of changed conditions
   
21-350   Reports of potential problems
   
21-351   Reports from unpermitted users
   
21-352   Notice of violation/repeat sampling and reporting
   
21-353   Notification of the discharge of hazardous waste
   
21-354   Analytical requirements
   
21-355   Sample collection
   
21-356   Timing
   
21-357   Record keeping
   21-358 to 21-360   Reserved
Division 6. Compliance Monitoring
   
21-361   Monitoring facilities
   
21-362   Inspection and sampling
   
21-363   Search warrants
   21-364 to 21-368   Reserved
Division 7. Confidential Information
   
21-369   Restriction of information
   21-370 to 21-371   Reserved
Division 8. Enforcement
   
21-372   Administrative remedies
   
21-373   Civil penalties
   
21-374   Other available remedies
   
21-375   Remedies non-exclusive
   21-376 to 21-379   Reserved
Division 9. Annual Publication of Significant Non-compliance
   
21-380   Publication
   21-381 to 21-382   Reserved
Division 10. Affirmation Defenses to Discharge Violations
   
21-383   Upset
   
21-384   Prohibited discharge standards defense
   
21-385   Bypass
   21-386 to 21-387   Reserved
Division 11. Severability
   
21-388   Severability
   21-389 to 21-390   Reserved
Division 12. Conflict
   
21-391   Conflicting provisions
   21-392 to 21-399   Reserved
Cross-reference:
   Water and sewer extensions and access charges, Ch. 21, Art. VI; plumbing
code adopted, §
5-103; plumbing permit, §
5-201.
Editor’s note:
   In 2007, The Pretreatment Emergency Response and Collection Systems Unit
(PERCS Unit), which is a subdivision of the State Department of Environmental
Resources (NCDENR), issued mandatory revisions and additions to all
municipalities having a sewer use ordinance. Pursuant to the town Ord. 29-2008
(October 2008), the town sewer use ordinance has been revised to incorporate
all of the required PERCS Unit changes; Ord. 33-2002, adopted Oct. 21, 2002,
was not specifically amendatory of the code. The editor has treated these new
provisions as superseding Ch. 21, Art. III, §§ 21-301 through 21-388, which
contained similar provisions and which derived from Ord. 29-94, passed Nov. 21,
1994; Ord. 39-96, passed Dec. 16, 1996; Ord. 35-2001, passed Oct. 15, 2001; and
Ord. 33-2002, passed Nov. 18, 2002.
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
§ 21-301  PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   (A)   This article sets forth uniform requirements for direct, and indirect,
contributors into the wastewater collection and treatment system for the town,
hereafter referred to as “the town”, and enables the town to comply with all
applicable state and federal laws, including the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. §§
1251 et seq.) and the General Pretreatment Regulations (40 C.F.R., part 403).
   (B)   The objectives of this article are:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipal
wastewater system which will interfere with the operation of the system, or
contaminate the resulting sludge;
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipal
wastewater system which will pass through the system, inadequately treated,
into any waters of the state, or otherwise be incompatible with the system;
      (3)   To promote reuse, and recycling, of industrial wastewater and
sludge from the municipal system;
      (4)   To protect both municipal personnel who may be affected by sewage,
sludge, and effluent in the course of their employment, as well as protecting
the general public;
      (5)   To provide for equitable distribution of the cost of operation,
maintenance, and improvement of the municipal wastewater system; and
      (6)   To ensure that the municipality complies with its NPDES or non-
discharge permit conditions, sludge use, and disposal requirements, and any
other federal, or state, laws to which the municipal wastewater system is
subject.
   (C)   This article provides for the regulation of direct, and indirect,
contributors to the municipal wastewater system, through the issuance of
permits to certain non-domestic users, and through enforcement of general
requirements for the other users, authorizes monitoring and enforcement
activities, requires user reporting, and provides for the setting of fees for
the equitable distribution of costs resulting from the program established
herein.
   (D)   This article shall apply to the town, and to persons outside the town
who are, by permit or agreement with the town, users of the town publicly-owned
treatment works (“POTW”). Except as otherwise provided herein, the POTW
Director shall administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this
article.
(Ord. 33-2002, passed 10-21-2002)
§ 21-302  DEFINITIONS AND ABBREVIATIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
      ACT or THE ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as
the Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
      APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The Director of the Division of Water Quality of the
State Department of Environment and Natural Resources, or his or her designee.
      AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE INDUSTRIAL USER.
         (a)   If the industrial user is a corporation, AUTHORIZED
REPRESENTATIVE shall mean:
            1.   The president, secretary, or a vice-president of the
corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who
performs similar policy, or decision-making, functions for the corporation; or
            2.   The manager of one, or more, manufacturing, production, or
operation facilities employing more than 250 persons, or having gross annual
sales or expenditures exceeding $25,000,000 (in second-quarter, 1980 dollars),
if authority to sign documents has been assigned, or delegated, to the manager
in accordance with corporate procedures.
         (b)   If the industrial user is a partnership or sole proprietorship,
an AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE shall mean a general partner or the proprietor,
respectively.
         (c)   The individuals described in subsections (a) and (b) above may
designate another AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE if the authorization is in writing,
the authorization specifies the individual, or position, responsible for the
overall operation of the facility from which the discharge originates, or
having overall responsibility for environmental matters for the company, and
the written authorization is submitted to the town.
         (d)   If the designation of an AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE is no longer
accurate because a different individual, or position, has responsibility for
the overall operation of the facility, or overall responsibility for
environmental matters for the company, a new authorization satisfying the
requirements of this section must be submitted to POTW Director prior to, or
together with, any reports to be signed by an AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE.
      BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures
for five days at 20C, usually expressed as a concentration (for example, mg/l).
      BUILDING SEWER. A sewer conveying wastewater from the premises of a user
to the POTW.
      BYPASS. The intentional diversion of waste streams from any portion of a
user’s treatment facility.
      CATEGORICAL STANDARDS. National categorical pretreatment standards, or
pretreatment standard.
      ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY OR EPA. The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency, or where appropriate the term may also be used as a designation for the
administrator, or other duly authorized official, of said agency.
      GRAB SAMPLE. A sample which is taken from a waste stream on a one-time
basis without regard to the flow in the waste stream, and over a period of time
not to exceed 15 minutes.
      HOLDING TANK WASTE. Any waste from holding tanks, including, but not
limited to, such holding tanks as vessels, chemical toilets, campers, trailers,
septic tanks, and vacuum-pump tank trucks.
      INDIRECT DISCHARGE or DISCHARGE. The discharge, or the introduction, from
any non-domestic source regulated under § 307(b), (c), or (d) of the Act, (33
U.S.C. § 1317), into the POTW (including holding tank waste discharged into the
system).
      INDUSTRIAL USER or USER. Any person which is a source of indirect
discharge.
      INTERFERENCE. The inhibition, or disruption, of the POTW treatment
processes, operations, or its sludge process, use, or disposal, which causes,
or contributes, to a violation of any requirement of the POTW’s NPDES, or non-
discharge, permit, or prevents sewage sludge use, or disposal, in compliance
with specified applicable state and federal statutes, regulations, or permits.
The term includes prevention of sewage sludge use, or disposal, by the POTW in
accordance with § 405 of the Act, (33 U.S.C. § 1345), or any criteria,
guidelines, or regulations developed pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act
(SWDA) (42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.), the Clean Air Act, the Toxic Substances
Control Act (15 U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq.), the Marine Protection Research and
Sanctuary Act (MPRSA) (16 U.S.C. §§ 1431 et seq. and 33 U.S.C. §§ 1401 et
seq.), or more stringent state criteria (including those contained in any state
sludge management plan prepared pursuant to Title IV of SWDA) applicable to the
method of disposal, or use, employed by the POTW.
      MEDICAL WASTE. Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and blood
products, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated bedding,
surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory wastes, and dialysis
wastes.
      NATIONAL POLLUTION DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM or NPDES PERMIT. A permit
issued pursuant to § 402 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1342), or pursuant to G.S. §
143-215.1 by the state under delegation from the EPA.
      NATIONAL PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE STANDARD or PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE
STANDARD. Absolute prohibitions against the discharge of certain substances;
these prohibitions appear in §
21-306, and are developed under the authority of § 307(b) of the Act and 40
C.F.R. § 403.5.
      NATURAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD or CATEGORICAL STANDARD. Any
regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by EPA in
accordance with § 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1317), which applies
to a specific category of industrial users, and which appears in 40 C.F.R.
chapter 1, subchapter N, parts 405 through 471.
      NEW SOURCE.
         (a)   Any building, structure, facility, or installation from which
there may be a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced
after the publication of proposed categorical pretreatment standards under §
307(c) of the Act, which will be applicable to such source if such standards
are thereafter promulgated in accordance with § 307(c), provided that:
            1.   The building, structure, facility, or installation is
constructed at a site at which no other source is located;
            2.   The building, structure, facility, or installation totally
replaces the process, or production equipment that causes the discharge of
pollutants at an existing source; or
            3.   The production or wastewater generating processes of the
building, structure, facility, or installation are substantially independent of
an existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are
substantially independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility
is integrated with the existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility
is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source, should
be considered.
         (b)   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located
results in a modification rather than a NEW SOURCE if the construction does not
create a new building, structure, facility, or installation meeting the
criteria of subsections (a)2. or (a)3. above, but otherwise alters, replaces,
or adds to existing process or production equipment.
         (c)   For purposes of this definition, construction of a NEW SOURCE
has commenced if the owner, or operator, has:
            1.   Begun, or caused to begin, as part of a continuous on-site
construction program:
               a.   Any placement, assembly, or installation of facilities or
equipment; or
               b.   Significant site preparation work, including clearing,
excavation, or removal of existing buildings, structures, or facilities which
is necessary for the placement, assembly, or installation of NEW SOURCE
facilities or equipment.
            2.   Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase
of facilities, or equipment, which are intended to be used in its operation
within a reasonable time. Options to purchase, or contracts which can be
terminated or modified without substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility,
engineering, and design studies do not constitute a contractual obligation
under this definition.
      NON-CONTACT COOLING WATER. Water used for cooling which does not come
into direct contact with any raw material, intermediate product, waste product,
or finished product.
      NON-DISCHARGE PERMIT. A disposal system permit issued by the state
pursuant to G.S. § 143-215.1.
      PASS THROUGH. A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the state
in quantities or concentrations which, alone or with discharges from other
sources, causes a violation, including an increase in the magnitude, or
duration, of a violation, of the POTW’s NPDES, or non-discharge, permit, or a
downstream water quality standard.
      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental
entity, or any other legal entity, or their legal representatives, agents, or
assigns. This definition includes all federal, state, and local government
entities.
      pH. A measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a substance, expressed as
standard units, and calculated as the logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of
the concentration of hydrogen ions expressed in grams per liter of solution.
      POLLUTANT. Any waste, as defined in G.S. § 143-213(18), and dredged
spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage, garbage, sewage sludge,
munitions, medical wastes, chemical wastes, biological materials, radioactive
materials, heat, wrecked or discarded equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt, and
industrial, municipal, and agricultural waste, and certain characteristics of
wastewater (for example, pH, temperature, TSS, turbidity, color, BOD, COD,
toxicity, or odor).
      POTW DIRECTOR. The Director of the town’s publicly-owned treatment works.
      POTW TREATMENT PLANT. The portion of the POTW designed to provide
treatment to wastewater.
      PRETREATMENT or TREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the
elimination of pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant
properties in wastewater prior to, or in lieu of, discharging or otherwise
introducing such pollution into a POTW. The reduction, or alteration, can be
obtained by physical, chemical, or biological processes, or process changes or
other means, except by diluting the concentration of the pollutants, unless
allowed by an applicable pretreatment standard.
      PRETREATMENT PROGRAM. The program for the control of pollutants
introduced into the POTW from non-domestic sources which was developed by the
town in compliance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.8, and approved by the approval
authority as authorized by G.S. § 143-215.3(a)(14), in accordance with 40
C.F.R. § 403.11.
      PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement
related to pretreatment, other than a pretreatment standard.
      PRETREATMENT STANDARDS. Prohibited discharge standards, categorical
standards, and local limits.
      PUBLICLY-OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW) or MUNICIPAL WASTEWATER SYSTEM. A
treatment works, as defined by § 212 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1292), which is
owned in this instance by the town. This definition includes any devices, or
systems, used in the collection, storage, treatment, recycling, and reclamation
of municipal sewage, or industrial wastes of a liquid nature. It also includes
sewers, pipes, and other conveyances only if they convey wastewater to the POTW
treatment plant. For the purposes of this article, POTW shall also include any
sewers that convey wastewaters to the POTW from persons outside the town who
are, by contract or agreement with the town, or in any other way, users of the
town’s POTW.
      SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE. Substantial physical damage to property, damage
to the user’s treatment facilities which causes them to become inoperable, or
substantial and permanent loss of natural resources which can reasonably be
expected to occur in the absence of a bypass. SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE does not
mean economic loss caused by delays in production.
      SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER. Any industrial user of the wastewater
disposal system who:
         (a)   Discharges an average of 25,000 gallons per day, or more, of
process wastewater to the POTW (excluding sanitary, noncontact cooling, and
boiler blowdown wastewaters);
         (b)   Contributes process wastewater which makes up 5%, or more, of
the NPDES or non-discharge permitted flow limit, or organic capacity of the
POTW treatment plant. In this context, organic capacity refers to BOD, TSS, and
ammonia;
         (c)   Is required to meet a national categorical pretreatment
standard; or
         (d)   Is found by the town, the State Division of Water Resources, or
the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to have the potential for
impact, either singly or in combination with other contributing industrial
users, on the wastewater treatment system, the quality of sludge, the system’s
effluent quality, or compliance with any pretreatment standards or
requirements.
      SIGNIFICANT NON-COMPLIANCE or REPORTABLE NON-COMPLIANCE. A status of non-
compliance defined as follows.
         (a)   Violations of wastewater discharge limits:
            1.   For chronic violations, 66%, or more, of the measurements
exceed (by any magnitude) the same daily maximum limit, or the same average
limit in a six-month period;
            2.   For technical review criteria (TRC) violations, 33%, or more,
of the measurements equal to, or greater than, the TRC times the limit (maximum
or average) in a six-month period. There are two groups of TRCs: For the
conventional pollutants, BOD, TSS, fats, oil and grease TRC = 1.4; for all
other pollutants TRC = 1.2;
            3.   Any other violation(s) of an effluent limit (average or daily
maximum) that the control authority believes has caused, alone or in
combination with, other discharges, interference, or pass through; or
endangered the health of the sewage treatment plant personnel, or the public;
and/or
            4.   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent
endangerment to human health/welfare, or to the environment, or has resulted in
the POTW’s exercise of its emergency authority to halt, or prevent, such a
discharge.
         (b)   Violations of compliance schedule milestones, contained in a
pretreatment permit or enforcement order, for starting construction, completing
construction, and attaining final compliance by 90 days, or more, after the
schedule date.
            1.   Failure to provide reports for compliance schedule, self-
monitoring data, baseline monitoring reports, 90-day compliance reports, and
periodic compliance reports within 30 days from the due date:
            2.   Failure to accurately report non-compliance; and
            3.   Any other violation, or group of violations, that the control
authority considers to be significant.
      SLUG LOAD or DISCHARGE. Any discharge at a flow rate, or concentration,
which has a reasonable potential to cause interference or pass through, or in
any other way violates the POTW’s regulations, local limits, or industrial user
permit conditions. This can include, but is not limited to, spills and other
accidental discharges; discharges of a non-routine, episodic nature; a non-
customary batch discharge; or any other discharges that can cause a violation
of the prohibited discharge standards in §
21-306.
      STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC). A classification pursuant to
the Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued by the Executive Office of
the President, Office of Management and Budget, 1987.
      STORMWATER. Any flow occurring during, or following, any form of natural
precipitation and resulting therefrom.
      SUPERINTENDENT. The person designated by the town to supervise the
operation of the publicly-owned treatment works, and who is charged with
certain duties, and responsibilities, by this article, or his or her duly
authorized representative.
      SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The total suspended matter that floats on the surface
of, or is suspended in, water, wastewater, or other liquids, and which is
removable by laboratory filtering.
      UPSET. An exceptional incident in which there is unintentional, and
temporary, non-compliance with categorical pretreatment standards because of
factors beyond the reasonable control of the user. An UPSET does not include
non-compliance to the extent caused by operational error, improperly designed
treatment facilities, inadequate treatment facilities, lack of preventive
maintenance, or careless, or improper, operation.
      WASTEWATER. The liquid and water-carried industrial, or domestic, wastes
from dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities, mobile sources,
treatment facilities and institutions, together with any groundwater, surface
water, and stormwater that may be present, whether treated or untreated, which
are contributed into, or permitted to enter, the POTW.
      WASTEWATER PERMIT. As set forth in §
21-336.
      WATERS OF THE STATE. All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, watercourse,
waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation systems, drainage
systems, and all other bodies or accumulations of water, surface or
underground, natural or artificial, public or private, which are contained
within, flow through, or border upon the state, or any portion thereof.
   (B)   This article is gender neutral, and the masculine gender shall include
the feminine, and vice-versa.
   (C)   Shall is mandatory; may is permissive or discretionary.
   (D)   The use of the singular shall be construed to include the plural, and
the plural shall include the singular as indicated by the context of its use.
   (E)   The following abbreviations, when used in this article, shall have the
designated meanings:
Abbreviations Designation
Abbreviations Designation
BOD           Biochemical oxygen demand
C.F.R.        Code of Federal Regulations
COD           Chemical oxygen demand
EPA           Environmental Protection Agency
gpd           Gallons per day
G.S.          North Carolina General Statutes
l             Liter
mg            Milligrams
mg/l          Milligrams per liter
NPDES         National pollution discharge elimination system
O&M           Operation and maintenance
POTW          Publicly-owned treatment works
RCRA          Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
SIC           Standard industrial classification
SWDA          Solid Waste Disposal Act
TSS           Total suspended solids
TKN           Total kjeldahl nitrogen
U.S.C.        United States Code
 
(Ord. 33-2002, passed 10-21-2002; Ord. 29-2008, passed 10- -2008)
§§ 21-303 TO 21-305  RESERVED.
DIVISION 2. GENERAL SEWER USE REQUIREMENTS
§ 21-306  PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS.
   (A)   General prohibitions. No user shall contribute, or cause to be
contributed, into the POTW, directly or indirectly, any pollutant or wastewater
which causes interference or pass through. These general prohibitions apply to
all users of a POTW, whether or not the user is a significant industrial user,
or subject to any national, state, or local pretreatment standards or
requirements.
   (B)   Specific prohibitions. No user shall contribute, or cause to be
contributed, into the POTW the following pollutants, substances, or wastewater:
      (1)   Pollutants which create a fire, or explosive, hazard in the POTW,
including, but not limited to, waste streams with a closed cup flashpoint of
less than 140°F (60°C) using the test methods specified in 40 C.F.R. § 261.21;
      (2)   Solid, or viscous, substances in amounts which will cause
obstruction of the flow in the POTW resulting in interference, but in no case
solids greater than one-half inch in any dimension;
      (3)   Petroleum oil, non-biodegradable cutting oil, or products of
mineral oil origin, in amounts that will cause interference or pass through;
      (4)   Any wastewater having a pH less than 5.0 or more than 10.0, or
wastewater having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage to the
POTW or equipment;
      (5)   Any wastewater containing pollutants, including oxygen-demanding
pollutants, (BOD, and the like) in sufficient quantity (flow or concentration),
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to cause interference
with the POTW;
      (6)   Any wastewater having a temperature greater than 150°F (66°C), or
which will inhibit biological activity in the POTW treatment plant resulting in
interference, but in no case wastewater which causes the temperature, at the
introduction into the treatment plant, to exceed 104°F (40°C);
      (7)   Any pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors,
or fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems;
      (8)   Any trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points
designated by the POTW Director in accordance with §
21-314;
      (9)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, or solids, or other
wastewater which, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, are
sufficient to create a public nuisance or hazard to life, or are sufficient to
prevent entry into the sewers for maintenance and repair;
      (10)   Any substance which may cause the POTWs effluent, or any other
product of the POTW such as residues, sludges, or scums, to be unsuitable for
reclamation and reuse, or to interfere with the reclamation process. In no case
shall a substance discharged to the POTW cause the POTW to be in non-compliance
with sludge use or disposal regulations, or permits issued under § 405 of the
Act, the Solid Waste Disposal Act (15 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.), the Clean Air
Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act (15 U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq.), or state
criteria applicable to the sludge management method being used;
      (11)   Any wastewater which imparts color which cannot be removed by the
treatment process, including, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions, which consequently impacts sufficient color to the treatment
plant’s effluent to render the waters injurious to public health or secondary
recreation, or to aquatic life and wildlife, or to adversely affect the
palatibility of fish or aesthetic quality, or impair the receiving waters for
any designated uses;
      (12)   Any wastewater containing any radioactive wastes, or isotopes of
such half-life or concentration, as may exceed limits established by the
Superintendent in compliance with applicable state, and federal, regulations;
      (13)   Any substance which will cause the POTW to violate its NPDES and/
or state disposal system permit, or the receiving water quality standards;
      (14)   Fats, oils, or greases of animal or vegetable origin in
concentrations greater than 100 mg/l;
      (15)   Any sludges, screenings, or other residues from the pretreatment
of industrial wastes;
      (16)   Any medical wastes, except as specifically authorized by the POTW
Director in a wastewater discharge permit;
      (17)   Wastewater causing, alone or in conjunction with other sources,
the treatment plant’s effluent to fail a toxicity test;
      (18)   Any wastes containing detergents, surface active agents, or other
substances which may cause excessive foaming in the municipal wastewater
system;
      (19)   At no time shall two successive readings on an explosion hazard
meter, at the point of discharge into the system (or at any point in the
system), be more than 5%, nor any single reading over 10% of the lower
explosive limit (LEL) of the meter;
      (20)   Stormwater, surface water, ground water, artesian well water, roof
runoff, subsurface drainage, swimming pool drainage, condensate, deionized
water, non-contact cooling water, and unpolluted industrial wastewater, unless
specifically authorized by the POTW Director;
      (21)   Any material containing ammonia, ammonia salts, or other chelating
agents which will produce metallic complexes that interfere with the municipal
wastewater system;
      (22)   Recognizable portions of the human or animal anatomy; and
      (23)   Any wastewater causing the treatment plant effluent to violate
State Water Quality Standards for toxic substances, as described in 15 N.C.A.C.
2B.0200.
   (C)   Prohibited wastes. Pollutants, substances, wastewater, or other wastes
prohibited by this section shall not be processed, or stored, in such a manner
that they could be discharged to the municipal wastewater system. All floor
drains located in process, or materials storage, areas must discharge to the
industrial user’s pretreatment facility before connecting with the system.
   (D)   Contributions by users. When the POTW Director determines that a user
(s) is contributing to the POTW any of the above enumerated substances in such
amounts which may cause, or contribute to, interference of POTW operation or
pass through, the POTW Director shall:
      (1)   Advise the user(s) of the potential impact of the contribution on
the POTW in accordance with §
21-372; and
      (2)   Take appropriate actions in accordance with division 4 for such
user to protect the POTW from interference or pass through.
(Ord. 33-2002, passed 10-21-2002; Ord. 29-2008, passed 10- -2008)
§ 21-307  NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Users subject to categorical pretreatment standards are required to
comply with applicable standards, as set out in 40 C.F.R. chapter 1, subchapter
N, parts 405 through 471, and incorporated herein.
   (B)   Where a categorical pretreatment standard is expressed only in terms
of either the mass or the concentration of a pollutant in wastewater, the POTW
Director may impose equivalent concentration, or mass limits, in accordance
with 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(c).
   (C)   When wastewater subject to a categorical pretreatment standard is
mixed with wastewater not regulated by the same standard, the POTW Director
shall impose an alternate limit using the combined wastestream formula in 40
C.F.R. § 403.6(e).
   (D)   A user may obtain a variance from a categorical pretreatment standard
if the user can prove, pursuant to the procedural and substantive provisions in
40 C.F.R. § 403.13, that factors relating to its discharge are fundamentally
different from the factors considered by the EPA when developing the
categorical pretreatment standard.
   (E)   A user may obtain a net gross adjustment to a categorical standard in
accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.15.
(Ord. 33-2002, passed 10-21-2002)
§ 21-308  LOCAL LIMITS.
   (A)    An industrial waste survey is required prior to a user discharging
wastewater containing in excess of the following average discharge limits:
Discharge Limit Measurement Type of Discharge
Discharge Limit Measurement Type of Discharge
0.0003          mg/l        Mercury
0.003           mg/l        Arsenic
0.003           mg/l        Cadmium
0.005           mg/l        Selenium
0.005           mg/l        Silver
0.05            mg/l        Chromium
0.06            mg/l        Copper   
0.010           mg/l        Molybdenum
0.015           mg/l        Cyanide
0.021           mg/l        Nickel
0.049           mg/l        Lead
0.175           mg/l        Zinc
25              mg/l        Ammonia
40              mg/l        TKN
100             mg/l        Oil and grease
250             mg/l        BOD
250             mg/l        TSS
500             mg/l        COD
 
   (B)   Industrial user-specific local limits for appropriate pollutants of
concern shall be included in wastewater permits, and are considered
pretreatment standards.
(Ord. 33-2002, passed 10-21-2002; Ord. 29-2008, passed 10- -2008)
§ 21-309  STATE REQUIREMENTS.
   State requirements and limitations on discharges shall apply in any case
where they are more stringent than federal requirements and limitations, or
those in this article.
(Ord. 33-2002, passed 10-21-2002)
§ 21-310  RIGHT OF REVISION.
   The town reserves the right to establish limitations and requirements which
are more stringent than those required by either state, or federal, regulation
if deemed necessary to comply with the objectives presented in §
21-301, or the general and specific prohibitions in §
21-306, as is allowed by 40 C.F.R. § 403.4.
(Ord. 33-2002, passed 10-21-2002)
§ 21-311  DILUTION.
   No user shall ever increase the use of process water or, in any way, attempt
to dilute a discharge as a partial, or complete, substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in the national
categorical pretreatment standards, unless expressly authorized by an
applicable pretreatment standard, or in any other pollutant specific limitation
developed by the town or state.
(Ord. 33-2002, passed 10-21-2002)
§ 21-312  PRETREATMENT OF WASTEWATER.
   (A)   Pretreatment facilities. Users shall provide necessary wastewater
treatment as required to comply with all federal categorical pretreatment
standards within the time limitations as specified by the POTW Director. Any
facilities required to pretreat wastewater to a level acceptable to the town
shall be provided, operated, and maintained at the user’s expense. Detailed
plans showing the pretreatment facilities and operating procedures shall be
submitted to the town for review, and shall be acceptable to the POTW Director
before construction of the facility. The review of such plans and operating
procedures will, in no way, relieve the user from the responsibility of
modifying the facility as necessary to produce an effluent acceptable to the
town under the provisions of this article. Any subsequent changes in the
pretreatment facilities, or method of operation, shall be reported to, and be
acceptable to, the POTW Director prior to the user’s initiation of the changes.
   (B)   Additional pretreatment standards.
      (1)   To equalize flows, and to avoid temporary overloads, any person who
discharges into the sanitary sewer system waste having a volume in excess of
25,000 gallons in any 24-hour period may be required by the town to construct
suitable storage tanks, or equivalent devices according to the town
specifications relating to the type of construction, storage capacity, and
similar matters. The control of the volume of discharges of waste shall be by a
waterworks-type rate controller, or equivalent device, the setting and
operations of which shall be subject to the reasonable direction of the
administrator.
      (2)   Whenever the total volume of wastes to be discharged by any person
in any one day has considerable variation in pollutional value, such person may
be required to construct holding, or storage, tanks in order to control the
discharge of wastes over a 24-hour period. Such tanks shall be in duplicate,
and be so equipped as to mix the waste so thoroughly that its quality will be
uniform when discharged into the sanitary sewer system.
      (3)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the POTW Director, they are necessary for the proper handling of
wastewater containing excessive amounts of grease and oil, or sand, except that
such interceptors shall not be required for residential users. All interception
units shall be of type and capacity approved by the POTW Director, and shall be
so located as to be easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. Such
interceptors shall be inspected, cleaned, and repaired regularly, as needed, by
the person at his or her expense.
      (4)   Persons with the potential to discharge flammable substances may be
required to install, and maintain, an approved combustible gas detection meter.
(Ord. 33-2002, passed 10-21-2002)
§ 21-313  ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE/SLUG CONTROL PLANS.
   (A)   The POTW Director shall evaluate whether each significant industrial
user (“SIU”) needs a plan, or other action, to control, and prevent, slug
discharges and accidental discharges, as defined in §
21-302(A).
      (1)   All SIUs must be evaluated within one year of being designated an
SIU.
      (2)   The POTW Director may require any person to develop, submit for
approval, and implement such a plan, or other specific action. Alternatively,
the POTW Director may develop such a plan for any user.
   (B)   All SIUs are required to notify the POTW immediately of any changes at
its facility affecting the potential for spills and other accidental discharge,
discharge of a non-routine, episodic nature, a non-customary batch discharge,
or a slug load. (See §§ 21-349 and 21-350.)
   (C)   Each person shall provide protection from accidental and/or slug load
discharges of prohibited materials, or other substances, regulated by this
article. Facilities, to prevent accidental and/or slug load discharges of
prohibited materials, shall be provided, and maintained, at the owner’s, or
person’s, own cost and expense. An accidental discharge/slug control plan shall
address, at a minimum, the following:
      (1)   Description of discharge practices, including non-routine batch
discharges;
      (2)   Description of stored chemicals; and
      (3)   Procedures for immediately notifying the POTW Director of any
accidental, or slug, discharge, as required by §
21-350.
         (a)   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or slug
discharge. Such procedures include, but are not limited to, inspection and
maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading and
unloading operations, control of plant site runoff, worker training, building
of containment structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic organic
pollutants, including solvents, and/or measures and equipment for emergency
response.
         (b)   Slug control plan. The slug control plan shall be submitted to
the town for review, and shall be approved by the town before the deadline
established by the POTW Director for existing users. Review and approval of
such plans shall not relieve the industrial user from the responsibility to
modify the user’s facility as necessary to meet the requirements of this
article. In the case of an accidental and/or slug load discharge, it is the
responsibility of the user to immediately notify the POTW by telephone of the
incident. The notification shall include the location of discharge, type of
waste, concentration and volume, and corrective actions.
         (c)   Written notice. Within five days following an accidental and/or
slug load discharge, the user shall submit to the POTW Director a detailed
written report describing the cause of the discharge, and the measures to be
taken by the user to prevent similar future occurrences. Such notifications
shall not relieve the user of any expense, loss, damage, or other liability
which may be incurred as result of damage to the POTW, fish kills, or any other
damage to person or property, nor shall such notification relieve the user of
any fines, civil penalties, or other liability which may be imposed by this
article or other applicable law.
         (d)   Notice to employees. A notice shall be permanently posted on the
user’s bulletin board, or other prominent place, advising employees who to call
in the event of an accidental and/or slug load discharge. Employers shall
ensure that all appropriate employees are advised of the emergency notification
procedure.
(Ord. 33-2002, passed 10-21-2002; Ord. 29-2008, passed 10- -2008)
§ 21-314  HAULED WASTEWATER.
   (A)   The town must ensure that hauled industrial waste is adequately
regulated, and take measures as needed to ensure that haulers of septic tank
waste are not introducing industrial waste to the POTW.
   (B)   Septic tank waste may be introduced into the POTW only at locations
designated by the POTW Director, and at such times as are established by the
POTW Director. Such waste shall not violate Division 2 of this article, or any
other requirements established by the town. The POTW Director may require
septic tank waste haulers to obtain wastewater discharge permits.
   (C)   The POTW Director shall require haulers of industrial waste to obtain
wastewater discharge permits. The POTW Director may require generators of
hauled industrial waste to obtain wastewater discharge permits. The POTW
Director also may prohibit the disposal of hauled industrial waste. The
discharge of hauled industrial waste is subject to all other requirements of
this article.
   (D)   Industrial waste haulers may discharge loads only at locations
designated by the POTW Director. No load may be discharged without prior
consent of the POTW Director. The POTW Director may collect samples of each
hauled load to ensure compliance with applicable standards. The POTW Director
may require the industrial waste hauler to provide a waste analysis of any load
prior to discharge.
   (E)   Industrial waste haulers must provide a waste-tracking form for every
load. This form shall include, at a minimum, the name and address of the
industrial waste hauler, permit number, truck identification, names and
addresses of sources of waste, and volume and characteristics of waste. The
form shall identify the type of industry, known or suspected waste
constituents, and whether any wastes are RCRA hazardous wastes.
(Ord. 33-2002, passed 10-21-2002; Ord. 29-2008, passed 10- -2008)
§ 21-315  GREASE TRAPS/INTERCEPTORS.
   (A)   General. In an effort to curb sanitary sewer overflows (“SSOs”) from
grease accumulations in its sanitary sewer mains, the town has adopted this
section. Any nonresidential facility connected to the town sanitary sewer
collection, and treatment system involved in the preparation or serving of
foods, will be subject to the conditions of this section. This section may be
referred to as the “Town Grease Control Ordinance”.
   (B)   Scope and purpose. To aid in the prevention of sanitary sewer
blockages and obstructions from contributions and accumulation of fats, oils,
and greases into the town sewer system from industrial, or commercial,
establishments, particularly food preparation and serving facilities.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a
different meaning.
      COOKING ESTABLISHMENTS. Establishments primarily engaged in activities of
preparing, serving, or otherwise making available for consumption foodstuffs,
and that use one, or more, of the following preparation activities: cooking by
frying (all methods); baking (all methods); grilling; sauteing; rotisserie
cooking; broiling (all methods); boiling; blanching; roasting; toasting; or
poaching. Also included are infrared heating, searing, barbecuing, and any
other food preparation activity that produces a hot, non-drinkable food product
in, or on, a receptacle that requires washing. COOKING ESTABLISHMENTS may also
be referred to as FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS.
      FATS, OILS, AND GREASE. Organic polar compounds derived from animal and/
or plant sources that contain multiple carbon chain triglyceride molecules.
These substances are detectable and measurable using analytical test procedures
established in 40 C.F.R. § 136, as may be amended from time to time. All
substances are sometimes referred to herein as GREASE or GREASES.
      GREASE TRAP or INTERCEPTOR. A device for separating, and retaining,
waterborne greases and grease complexes prior to the wastewater exiting the
trap and entering the sanitary sewer collection and treatment system. These
devices also serve to collect settleable solids, generated by, and from, food
preparation activities, prior to the water exiting the trap and entering the
sanitary sewer collection and treatment system. GREASE TRAP and INTERCEPTORS
are sometimes referred to herein as GREASE INTERCEPTORS.
      MINIMUM DESIGN CAPABILITY. The design features of a grease interceptor
and its ability, or volume, required to effectively intercept and retain
greases from grease-laden wastewaters discharged to the public sanitary sewer.
      NON-COOKING ESTABLISHMENTS. Those establishments primarily engaged in the
preparation of precooked foodstuffs that do not include any form of cooking.
These include cold dairy and frozen foodstuffs preparation, and serving,
establishments.
      USER. Any person, including those located outside the jurisdictional
limits of the town, who contributes, causes, or permits the contribution, or
discharge, of wastewater into the POTW, including persons who contribute such
wastewater from mobile sources, such as those who discharge hauled wastewater.
   (D)   General requirements.
      (1)   All food service establishments shall have grease-handling
facilities approved by the town. Grease interceptors may also be required in
non-cooking, or cold dairy and frozen foodstuffs, establishments, and other
industrial or commercial establishments when they are deemed necessary by the
Director/Superintendent for the proper handling of liquid wastes containing
grease. Establishments whose grease-handling facilities, or methods, are not
adequately maintained to prevent floatable oils, fat, or grease from entering
the sewerage system shall be notified, in writing, of any non-compliance, and
shall be required to provide a schedule whereby corrections will be
accomplished.
      (2)   All food service establishments’ grease-handling facilities shall
be subject to review, evaluation, and inspection by the town representatives
during normal working hours. Results of inspections will be made available to
the facility owner, leaseholder, or operator.
      (3)   Food service establishments receiving two consecutive
unsatisfactory evaluations or inspections may be subject to penalties, or other
corrective actions as provided for in the sewer use article.
      (4)   Food service establishments who continue to violate the Town Grease
Control Ordinance may be considered grounds for discontinuance of sewer
service.
      (5)   Food service establishments whose operations cause, or allow,
excessive grease to discharge, or accumulate, in the town collection system may
be liable to the town for costs related to the town service calls for line
blockages, line cleanings, line and pump repairs, and the like, including
labor, materials, and equipment. Failure to pay all service-related charges may
also be grounds for sewer discontinuance.
      (6)   Regularly scheduled maintenance of grease-handling facilities is
required to ensure adequate operation. Grease-handling facilities shall be
serviced, and emptied, of accumulated waste content as required in order to
maintain minimum design capability, or effective volume of the grease
interceptor, but not less often than every 90 days. In the maintenance of these
grease interceptors, the owner, leaseholder, or operator shall be responsible
for the proper removal, and disposal, of grease by appropriate means, and shall
maintain on-site records of dates, and means of disposal. Records shall be
maintained for a period of three years.
      (7)   The exclusive use of enzymes, grease solvents, emulsifiers, and the
like, is not considered acceptable grease trap maintenance practice.
      (8)   The town shall inspect, and review, maintenance records for all
grease interceptors on an annual basis. The user shall reimburse the town all
costs associated with the inspections (sample collection, sample analysis,
reporting, and the like).
      (9)   All grease traps/interceptors shall be designed, and installed, to
allow for complete access for inspection, maintenance, and sampling.
   (E)   Construction standards.
      (1)   For new facilities:
         (a)   All new food service establishments shall be required to install
a grease interceptor, approved by the town. Grease interceptors shall be
adequately sized, with no interceptor less than 1,000 gallons’ total capacity
unless otherwise approved by the town;
         (b)   No new food service establishments will be allowed to initiate
operations until grease-handling facilities are installed, and approved, by the
town;
         (c)   All grease interceptors, whether singular or two tanks in
series, must have each chamber directly accessible from the surface to provide
means for servicing, and maintaining, the interceptor in working and operating
condition; and
         (d)   Wastewater from garbage grinders should not be discharged to
grease traps/interceptors.
      (2)   For existing facilities:
         (a)   All existing food service establishments shall have grease-
handling facilities approved by the town. Food service establishments without
any grease-handling facilities will be given a compliance deadline not to
exceed 12 months from date of notification to have approved, and installed,
grease-handling equipment in compliance with this section. Failure to do so
will be considered a violation of the Town Grease Control Ordinance, and may
subject the facility to penalties and corrective actions. Said installations
shall meet the same requirements for design as for new facilities. (See
subsection (E)(1)(a) above);
         (b)   In the event an existing food service establishment’s grease-
handling facilities are either under-designed, or substandard, in accordance
with this policy, the owner(s) will be notified, in writing, of the
deficiencies and required improvements, and given a compliance deadline not to
exceed six months to conform with requirements of this section;
         (c)   For cases in which outdoor type grease interceptors are
infeasible to install, existing food service establishments will be required to
install adequate, and approved, under-the-counter grease traps for use on
individual fixtures including dishwashers, sinks, and other potentially grease-
containing drains;
         (d)   Sizing of under-the-counter grease trap units will be in
accordance with recommended ratings for commercial grease traps. The grease
retention capacity rating in pounds shall be at least two times the GPM flow
rate of the type fixture it serves. Flow control fittings must be provided to
the inlet side of all under-the-counter units to prevent overloading of the
grease trap, and to allow for proper operation;
         (e)   Town approval of flow control devices and grease trap design
must be obtained prior to installation;
         (f)   The location of under-the-counter units must be as near to the
source of the wastewater as physically possible;
         (g)   Wastewater from garbage grinders should not be discharged to
grease traps/interceptors; and
         (h)   In maintaining grease traps/interceptors, the owner(s) shall be
responsible for the proper removal, and disposal, by appropriate means of the
captured material, and shall maintain records of the dates, and means of
disposal, that are subject to review by the town. (See subsection (D)(6)
above).
      (3)   For new food service establishments in existing buildings:
         (a)   Where practical, new food service establishments locating in
existing buildings will be required to comply with the grease trap standards
applicable to new facilities. (See subsection (E)(1)(a) above); and
         (b)   Where physically impossible to install outdoor units, under-the-
counter units may be allowed as with existing food service establishments;
provided, prior approval of unit type, size, location, and the like is approved
by the town. (See subsections (E)(2)(b) and (E)(2)(c) above.)
(Ord. 33-2002, passed 10-21-2002)
§§ 21-316 TO 21-324  RESERVED.
DIVISION 3. FEES
§ 21-325  PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this division to provide for the recovery of costs from
users of the town’s wastewater disposal system for the implementation of the
program established herein. The applicable charges, or fees, shall be set forth
in the town’s schedule of charges and fees by the POTW Director, and approved
by the Town Board. A copy of these charges and fees will be made available from
the POTW Director.
(Ord. 33-2002, passed 10-21-02; Ord. 29-2008, passed 10- -2008)
§ 21-326  USER CHARGES.
   (A)   A user charge shall be levied on all users including, but not limited
to, persons, firms, corporations, or governmental entities that discharge,
cause, or permit the discharge of sewage into the POTW.
   (B)   The user charge shall reflect, at least, the cost of debt service,
operation, and maintenance (including replacement) of the POTW.
   (C)   Each user shall pay his or her proportionate cost based on volume of
flow.
   (D)   The Town Manager shall review annually the sewage contributions of
users, the total costs of debt service, operation, and maintenance of the POTW,
and will make recommendations to the Town Council for adjustments in the
schedule of charges and fees as necessary.
   (E)   Charges for flow to the POTW not directly attributable to the users
shall be distributed among all users of the POTW based upon the volume of flow
of the users.
(Ord. 33-2002, passed 10-21-2002)
§ 21-327  SURCHARGES.
   (A)   All industrial users of the POTW are subject to industrial waste
surcharges on discharges which exceed the following levels:
      (1)   BOD, 250 mg/l; and
      (2)   TSS, 200 mg/l.
   (B)   The amount of surcharge will be based upon the mass emission rate (in
pounds per day) discharged above the levels referred to in subsections (A)(1)
and (A)(2) above. The amount charged per pound of excess will be set forth in
the schedule of charges and fees.
   (C)   The volume of flow used in determining the total discharge of
wastewater for payment of user charges and surcharges shall be based on the
following:
      (1)   Metered water consumption, as shown in the records of meter
readings maintained by the town;
      (2)   If required by the town or at the individual discharger’s option,
other flow monitoring devices which measure the actual volume of wastewater
discharged to the sewer. Such devices shall be accessible and safely located,
and the measuring system shall be installed in accordance with plans approved
by the town. The metering system shall be installed, and maintained, at the
user’s expense, according to arrangements that may be made with the town; or
      (3)   Where any user procures all, or part, of his or her water supply
from sources, other than the town, the user shall install, and maintain, at his
or her own expense, a flow measuring device of a type approved by the town.
         (a)   The character and concentration of the constituents of the
wastewater used in determining surcharges shall be determined by samples
collected, and analyzed, by the town. Samples shall be collected in such a
manner as to be representative of the actual discharge, and shall be analyzed
using procedures set forth in 40 C.F.R. part 136.
         (b)   The determination of the character, and concentration, of the
constituents of the wastewater discharge by the POTW Director, or his or her
duly appointed representatives, shall be binding as a basis for charges.
(Ord. 33-2002, passed 10-21-2002)
§ 21-328  PRETREATMENT PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION CHARGES.
   The schedule of charges and fees adopted by the town may include charges and
fees for:
   (A)   Reimbursement of costs of setting up, and operating, the pretreatment
program;
   (B)   Monitoring, inspections, and surveillance procedures;
   (C)   Reviewing slug control plans, including accidental and/or slug load
discharge procedures, and construction plans and specifications;
   (D)   Permit fee to cover the cost of administrating the pretreatment permit
system, there will be a fee for each discharge permit at the time of issuance.
This fee will cover the length (time) of the permit; and
   (E)   Other fees as the town may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements of the pretreatment program.
(Ord. 33-2002, passed 10-21-2002; Ord. 29-2008, passed 10- -2008)
§§ 21-329 TO 21-334  RESERVED.
DIVISION 4. WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT APPLICATION AND ISSUANCE
§ 21-335  WASTEWATER DISCHARGES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to connect, or discharge, to the POTW
without first obtaining the permission of the town. When requested by the POTW
Director/Superintendent, a user must submit information on the nature, and
characteristics, of his or her wastewater within 30 days of the request. The
POTW Director is authorized to prepare a form for this purpose, and may
periodically require users to update this information.
(Ord. 33-2002, passed 10-21-2002)  Penalty, see §
1-111
§ 21-336  WASTEWATER PERMITS.
   (A)   General. All significant industrial users shall obtain a significant
industrial user permit prior to the commencement of discharge to the POTW.
Existing industrial users who are determined by the POTW Director/
Superintendent to be significant industrial users shall obtain a significant
industrial user permit within 180 days of receiving notification of the POTW
Director’s determination. Industrial users who do not fit the significant
industrial user criteria may, at the discretion of the POTW Director, be
required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit for nonsignificant industrial
users.
   (B)   Significant industrial user determination. All persons proposing to
discharge non-domestic wastewater, or proposing to change the volume or
characteristics of an existing discharge of non-domestic wastewater, shall
request from the POTW Director a significant industrial user determination. If
the POTW Director determines, or suspects, that the proposed discharge fits the
significant industrial user criteria, he or she will require that a significant
industrial user permit application be filed.
   (C)   Significant industrial user permit application. Users required to
obtain a significant industrial user permit shall complete, and file with the
town, an application in the form prescribed by the POTW Director, which shall
be accompanied by an application fee in the amount prescribed in the schedule
of charges and fees. Significant industrial users shall apply for a significant
industrial user permit within 90 days after notification of the POTW Director’s
determination in subsection (B) above. In support of the application, the user
shall submit, in units and terms appropriate for evaluation, the following
information:
      (1)   Name, address, and location (if different from the address);
      (2)   Standard industrial classification (SIC) codes for pretreatment,
the industry as a whole, and any processes for which categorical pretreatment
standards have been promulgated;
      (3)   Analytical data on wastewater constituents and characteristics
including, but not limited to, those mentioned in division 2 of this article,
any of the priority pollutants (§ 307(a) of the Act) which the applicant knows,
or suspects, are present in the discharge, as determined by a reliable
analytical laboratory, and any other pollutant of concern to the POTW. Sampling
and analysis shall be performed in accordance with procedures established by
the EPA pursuant to § 304(g) of the Act and contained in 40 C.F.R. part 136, as
amended, and as required in §§ 21-354 and 21-355;
      (4)   Time and duration of the indirect discharge;
      (5)   Average daily, and 30-minute peak, wastewater flow rates, including
daily, monthly, and seasonal variations, if any;
      (6)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans, and details
to show all sewers, floor drains, sewer connections, direction of flow, and
appurtenances by the size, location, and elevation;
      (7)   Description of activities, facilities, and plant processes on the
premises including all materials which are, or could be, accidentally, or
intentionally, discharged;
      (8)   Where known, the nature and concentration of any pollutants in the
discharge which are limited by any town, state, or federal pretreatment
standards, and a statement regarding whether or not the pretreatment standards
are being met on a consistent basis and if not, whether additional operation
and maintenance (O&M), and/or additional pretreatment, is required for the user
to meet applicable pretreatment standards;
      (9)   If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will be required to meet the
pretreatment standards the shortest schedule by which the user will provide
such additional pretreatment. The completion date in this schedule shall not be
longer than the compliance date established for the applicable pretreatment
standard. The following conditions apply to this schedule:
         (a)   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of
dates for the commencement, and completion, of major events leading to the
construction, and operation, of additional pretreatment required for the user
to meet the applicable pretreatment standards. No increment in the schedule
shall exceed nine months; and
         (b)   No later than 14 days following each date in the schedule and
the final date for compliance, the user shall submit a progress report to the
POTW Director including, at a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress, the reason for any delay, and if appropriate, the steps
being taken by the user to return to the established schedule. In no event
shall more than nine months elapse between such progress reports to the POTW
Director.
      (10)   Each product produced by type, amount, process or processes, and
rate of production;
      (11)   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum
per day);
      (12)   Number and type of employees, and hours of operation of plant and
proposed, or actual, hours of operation of pretreatment system;
      (13)   If subject to a categorical standard, a baseline monitoring report
in accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(b) and 15A N.C.A.C. 2H.0908(a), as
outlined in §
21-345; and
      (14)   Any other information as may be deemed by the POTW Director to be
necessary to evaluate the permit application.
   (D)   Application signatories and certification. All wastewater discharge
permit applications and user reports must be signed by the current authorized
representative of the user on file with the town, as defined in §
21-302(A), and contain the following certification statement:
 

I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments were
prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system designed
to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the information
submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage the system,
or those persons directly responsible for gathering the information, the
information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true,
accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for
submitting false information, including the possibility of fine and
imprisonment for knowing violations.”
 
   (E)   Application review and evaluation. The POTW Director will evaluate the
data furnished by the user and may require additional information.
      (1)   The POTW Director is authorized to accept applications for the
town, and shall refer all applications to the POTW staff for review and
evaluation.
      (2)   Within 30 days of receipt, the POTW Director shall acknowledge, and
accept, the complete application; or if not complete, shall return the
application to the applicant with a statement of what additional information is
required.
   (F)   Tentative determination and draft permit.
      (1)   The POTW staff shall conduct a review of the application and an on-
site inspection of the significant industrial user, including any pretreatment
facilities, and shall prepare a written evaluation, and tentative
determination, to issue or deny the significant industrial user permit.
      (2)   If the staff’s tentative determination in subsection (F)(1) above
is to issue the permit, the following additional determinations shall be made
in writing:
         (a)   Proposed discharge limitations for those pollutants proposed to
be limited;
         (b)   A proposed schedule of compliance, including interim dates, and
requirements for meeting the proposed limitations; and
         (c)   A brief description of any other proposed special conditions
which will have significant impact upon the discharge described in the
application.
      (3)   The staff shall organize the determinations made pursuant to
subsections (F)(1) and (F)(2) above, and the general permit conditions of the
town, into a significant industrial user permit.
   (G)   Permit synopsis. A fact sheet providing a brief synopsis of the
application shall be prepared by the POTW staff for submission to the applicant
and the approval authority, and shall be made available to the public upon
request. The contents of such fact sheets shall include at least the following
information:
      (1)   A sketch and detailed description of the industrial facilities and
pretreatment facilities, including the location of all points of discharge to
the POTW and all established compliance monitoring points; and
      (2)   A quantitative description of the discharge described in the
application which includes at least the following:
         (a)   The rate or frequency of the proposed discharge; if the
discharge is continuous, the average daily flow;
         (b)   The actual average daily discharge in pounds per day of any
limited pollutant, and any pollutant identified in the application as known, or
suspected, present; and
         (c)   The basis for the pretreatment limitations including the
documentation of any calculations in applying categorical pretreatment
standards.
   (H)   Final action on significant industrial user permit applications.
      (1)   The POTW Director shall take final action on all applications not
later than 90 days following receipt of a complete application.
      (2)   The POTW Director is authorized to:
         (a)   Issue a significant industrial user permit containing such
conditions as are necessary to effectuate the purposes of this division and
G.S. § 143-215.1;
         (b)   Issue a significant industrial user permit containing time
schedules for achieving compliance with applicable pretreatment standards and
requirements;
         (c)   Modify any permit upon not less than 60 days notice and pursuant
to subsection (J) below;
         (d)   Revoke any permit pursuant to §
21-372;
         (e)   Suspend a permit pursuant to §
21-372; or
         (f)   Deny a permit application when, in the opinion of the POTW
Director, such discharge may cause, or contribute, to pass through or
interference of the wastewater treatment plant, or where necessary to
effectuate the purposes of G.S. § 143-215.1.
   (I)   Hearings.
      (1)   An applicant whose permit is denied, or is granted subject to
conditions he or she deems unacceptable, a permittee/user assessed a civil
penalty under §
21-373, or one issued an administrative order under §
21-372, shall have the right to an adjudicatory hearing before a hearing
officer designated by the POTW Director upon making written demand, identifying
the specific issues to be contested, to the POTW Director within 30 days
following receipt of the significant industrial user permit, civil penalty
assessment, or administrative order. Unless such written demand is made within
the time specified herein, the action shall be final and binding. The hearing
officer shall make a final decision on the contested permit, penalty, or order
within 30 days of the receipt of the written demand for a hearing. The POTW
Director shall transmit a copy of the hearing officer’s decision by registered,
or certified, mail.
         (a)   Upon appeal, including judicial review in the General Courts of
Justice, of the terms or conditions of a newly issued permit, the terms and
conditions of the entire permit are stayed, and the permit is not in effect
until either the conclusion of judicial review, or until the parties reach a
mutual resolution.
         (b)   Upon appeal, including judicial review in the General Courts of
Justice of the terms or conditions of a renewed permit, the terms and
conditions of the existing permit remain in effect until either the conclusion
of judicial review, or until the parties reach a mutual resolution.
      (2)   Any decision of a hearing officer made as a result of an
adjudicatory hearing held under subsection (I)(1) above may be appealed to the
Town Council upon filing a written demand within ten days of receipt of notice
of the decision. Hearings held under this subdsection (I) shall be conducted in
accordance with local hearing procedures. Failure to make written demand within
the time specified herein shall bar further appeal. The Town Council shall make
a final decision on the appeal within 90 days of the date the appeal was filed,
and shall transmit a written copy of its decision by registered or certified
mail.
      (3)   When a final decision is issued under subsection (I)(2) above, the
Town Council shall prepare an official record of the case that includes:
         (a)   All notices, motions, and other like pleadings;
         (b)   A copy of all documentary evidence introduced;
         (c)   A certified transcript of all testimony taken, if testimony is
transcribed. If testimony is taken and not transcribed, then a narrative
summary of any testimony taken; and
         (d)   A copy of the final decision of the Town Council.
      (4)   Any person against whom a final order, or decision, of the Town
Council is entered, pursuant to the hearing conducted under subsection (I)(2)
above, may seek judicial review of the order, or decision, by filing a written
petition within 30 days after receipt of notice by registered, or certified,
mail of the order or decision, but not thereafter, with the Superior Court of
the county, along with a copy to the town. Within 30 days after receipt of the
copy of the petition of judicial review, the Town Council shall transmit to the
reviewing court the original, or a certified, copy of the official record.
   (J)   Permit modification.
      (1)   (a)   Modifications of permits shall be subject to the same
procedural requirements as the issuance of permits, except as listed below:
            1.   Changes in the ownership of the discharge when no other change
in the permit is indicated;
            2.   A single modification of any compliance schedule not in excess
of four months; or
            3.   Modification of compliance schedules (construction schedules)
in permits for new sources where the new source will not begin to discharge
until control facilities are operational.
         (b)   Any changes or new conditions in the permit shall include a
reasonable time schedule for compliance.
      (2)   Within nine months of the promulgation of a national categorical
pretreatment standard, the wastewater discharge permit of users subject to such
standards shall be revised to require compliance with such standard within the
timeframe prescribed by such standard. Where a user, subject to a national
categorical pretreatment standard, has not previously submitted an application
for a wastewater discharge permit, as required by subsection (C) above, the
user shall apply for a wastewater discharge permit within 180 days after the
promulgation of the applicable national categorical pretreatment standard.
      (3)   A request for a modification by the permittee shall constitute a
waiver of the 60-day notice required by G.S. § 143-215.1(b) for modifications.
   (K)   Permit conditions.
      (1)   The POTW Director shall have the authority to grant a permit with
such conditions attached as he or she believes necessary to achieve the purpose
of this division and G.S. § 143-215.1. Wastewater permits shall contain, but
are not limited to, the following:
         (a)   A statement of duration (in no case more than five years);
         (b)   A statement of non-transferability;
         (c)   Applicable effluent limits based on categorical standards or
local limits, or both;
         (d)   Applicable monitoring, sampling, reporting, notification, and
record keeping requirements. These requirements shall include an identification
of pollutants to be monitored, sampling location, sampling frequency, and
sample type based on federal, state, and local law;
         (e)   Requirements for notifying the POTW in the event of an
accidental discharge or slug load, as defined in §
21-302(A);
         (f)   Requirements to implement a plan, or other controls, for
prevention of accidental discharges and/or slug loads, as defined in §
21-302(A), if determined by the POTW Director to be necessary for the user;
         (g)   Requirements for immediately notifying the POTW of any changes
at its facility affecting the potential for spills and other accidental
discharges or slug load, as defined in §
21-302(A). (See §§ 21-349 and 21-350); and
         (h)   A statement of applicable civil and criminal penalties for
violation of pretreatment standards and requirements, and any applicable
compliance schedule.
      (2)   In addition, permits may contain, but are not limited to, the
following:
         (a)   Limits on the average and/or maximum rate of discharge, and/or
requirements for flow regulation and equalization;
         (b)   Limits on the instantaneous, daily, and monthly average and/or
maximum concentration, mass, or other measure of identified wastewater
pollutants or properties;
         (c)   Requirements for the installation of pretreatment technology, or
construction of appropriate containment devices, and the like, designed to
reduce, eliminate, or prevent the introduction of pollutants into the treatment
works;
         (d)   Development and implementation of waste minimization plans to
reduce the amount of pollutants discharged to the municipal wastewater system;
         (e)   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
management of the wastewater discharged to the system;
         (f)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities and equipment;
         (g)   Specifications for monitoring programs which may include
sampling locations, frequency of sampling, number, types, and standards for
tests, and reporting schedules;
         (h)   Requirements for immediate reporting of any instance of non-
compliance, and for automatic re-sampling and reporting within 30 days where
self-monitoring indicates a violation(s);
         (i)   Compliance schedules for meeting pretreatment standards and
requirements;
         (j)   Requirements for submission of periodic self-monitoring, or
special, notification reports;
         (k)   Requirements for maintaining, and retaining, plans and records
relating to wastewater discharges, as specified in §
21-357, and affording the POTW Director, or his or her representatives, access
thereto;
         (l)   Requirements for prior notification, and approval, by the POTW
Director of any new introduction of wastewater pollutants, or of any
significant change in the volume, or character, of the wastewater prior to
introduction in the system;
         (m)   Requirements for the prior notification, and approval, by the
POTW Director of any change in the manufacturing and/or pretreatment process
used by the permittee;
         (n)   A statement that compliance with the permit does not relieve the
permittee of responsibility for compliance with all applicable federal, and
state, pretreatment standards, including those which become effective during
the terms of the permit; and
         (o)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the POTW Director to
ensure compliance with this division, and state and federal laws, rules, and
regulations.
   (L)   Permit duration. Permits shall be issued for a specified time period,
not to exceed five years. A permit may be issued for a period less than a year,
or may be stated to expire on a specific date.
   (M)   Permit transfer. Wastewater permits are issued to a specific user for
a specific operation. A wastewater discharge permit shall not be reassigned or
transferred, or sold, to a new owner, new user, different premises, or a new,
or changed, operation.
   (N)   Permit re-issuance. A significant industrial user shall apply for
permit re-issuance by submitting a complete permit application, in accordance
with this section, a minimum of 180 days prior to the expiration of the
existing permit.
(Ord. 33-2002, passed 10-21-2002; Ord. 29-2008, passed 10- -2008)
§§ 21-337 TO 21-344  RESERVED.
DIVISION 5. REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.
§ 21-345  BASELINE MONITORING REPORTS.
   (A)   Within either 180 days after the effective date of a categorical
pretreatment standard, or the final administrative decision on a category
determination under 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(a)(4), whichever is later, existing
categorical users currently discharging to, or scheduled to discharge to, the
POTW shall submit to the POTW Director a report which contains the information
listed in subsection (B) below. At least 90 days prior to commencement of their
discharge, new sources, and sources that become categorical, users subsequent
to the promulgation of an applicable categorical standard shall submit to the
POTW Director a report which contains the information listed in subsection (B)
below. A new source shall report the method of pretreatment it intends to use
to meet applicable categorical standards. A new source also shall give
estimates of its anticipated flow, and quantity of pollutants to be discharged.
   (B)   Users described above shall submit the information set forth below:
      (1)   Identifying information. The name and address of the facility,
including the name of the operator and owner;
      (2)   Environmental permits. A list of any environmental control permits
held by, or for, the facility;
      (3)   Description of operations. A brief description of the nature,
average rate of production, and standard industrial classifications of the
operation(s) carried out by such user. This description should include a
schematic process diagram which indicates points of discharge to the POTW from
the regulated processes;
      (4)   Flow measurement. Information showing the measured average daily
and maximum daily flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW from regulated process
streams and other streams, as necessary, to allow use of the combined
wastestream formula set out in 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(e);
      (5)   Measurement of pollutants.
         (a)   The categorical pretreatment standards applicable to each
regulated process; and
         (b)   The results of sampling and analysis identifying the nature and
concentration, and/or mass, where required by the standard or by the POTW
Director, of regulated pollutants in the discharge from each regulated process.
Instantaneous, daily maximum, and long-term average concentrations, or mass,
where required, shall be reported. The sample shall be representative of daily
operations, and shall be analyzed in accordance with procedures set out in §
21-355, and 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(b) and (g), including 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(g)(4).
      (6)   Certification. A statement, reviewed by the user’s current
authorized representative, as defined in §
21-302(A), and certified by a qualified professional, indicating whether
pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis, and, if not,
whether additional operation and maintenance (“O&M”), and/or additional
pretreatment, is required to meet the pretreatment standards and requirements;
      (7)   Compliance schedule. If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will be
required to meet the pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the
user will provide such additional pretreatment and/or O&M. The completion date
in this schedule shall not be later than the compliance date established for
the applicable pretreatment standard. A compliance schedule pursuant to this
section must meet the requirements set out in §
21-346; and
      (8)   Signature and certification. All baseline monitoring reports must
be signed, and certified, in accordance with §
21-336(C).
(Ord. 33-2002, passed 10-21-2002; Ord. 29-2008, passed 10- -2008)
§ 21-346  COMPLIANCE SCHEDULE PROGRESS REPORTS.
   The following conditions shall apply to the compliance schedule required by
§
21-345(B)(7):
   (A)   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of dates
for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the
construction, and operation, of additional pretreatment required for the user
to meet the applicable pretreatment standards. Such events include, but are not
limited to, hiring an engineer, completing preliminary and final plans,
executing contracts for major components, commencing, and completing,
construction, and beginning, and conducting, routine operation;
   (B)   No increment referred to above shall exceed nine months;
   (C)   The user shall submit a progress report to the POTW Director no later
than 14 days following each date in the schedule, and the final date of
compliance including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress, the reason for any delay, and, if appropriate, the steps
being taken by the user to return to the established schedule; and
   (D)   In no event shall more than nine months elapse between such progress
reports to the POTW Director.
(Ord. 33-2002, passed 10-21-2002)
§ 21-347  REPORTS ON COMPLIANCE WITH CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD;
DEADLINE.
   Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with applicable
categorical pretreatment standards, or in the case of a new source following
commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any user subject
to such pretreatment standards, and requirements, shall submit to the POTW
Director a report containing the information described in §
21-345(B)(4). For users subject to equivalent mass, or concentration, limits
established in accordance with the procedures in 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(c), this
report shall contain a reasonable measure of the user’s long-term production
rate. For all other users subject to categorical pretreatment standards
expressed in terms of allowable pollutant discharge per unit of production (or
other measure of operation), this report shall include the user’s actual
production during the appropriate sampling period. All compliance reports must
be signed, and certified, in accordance with §
21-336(D).
(Ord. 33-2002, passed 10-21-2002)
§ 21-348  PERIODIC COMPLIANCE REPORTS.
   (A)   Municipalities may sample, and analyze, user discharges in lieu of
requiring the users to conduct sampling and analysis.
   (B)   All significant industrial users shall, at a frequency determined by
the POTW Director, but in no case less than once every six months, submit a
report indicating the nature, and concentration, of pollutants in the discharge
which are limited by pretreatment standards, and the applicable flows for the
reporting period. Sampling and analysis must be performed in accordance with
procedures set out in §§ 21-354 and 21-355. All periodic compliance reports
must be signed, and certified, in accordance with §
21-336(D).
   (C)   All wastewater samples must be representative of the user’s discharge.
Wastewater monitoring and flow measurement facilities shall be properly
operated, kept clean, and maintained in good working order at all times. The
failure of a user to keep his or her monitoring facility in good working order
shall not be grounds for the user to claim that sample results are
unrepresentative of his or her discharge.
   (D)   If a user, subject to the reporting requirement in this section,
monitors any pollutant more frequently than required by the POTW Director,
using the procedures prescribed in §§ 21-354 and 21-355, the results of this
monitoring shall be included in the report.
(Ord. 33-2002, passed 10-21-2002; Ord. 29-2008, passed 10- -2008)
§ 21-349  REPORTS OF CHANGED CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Each user must notify the POTW Director of any planned significant
changes to the user’s operations or system which might alter the nature,
quality, or volume of its wastewater at least 30 days before the change. (See §
21-350 for other reporting requirements.)
   (B)   The POTW Director may require the user to submit such information as
may be deemed necessary to evaluate the changed condition, including the
submission of a wastewater discharge permit application under §
21-336.
   (C)   The POTW Director may issue a wastewater discharge permit under §
21-336, or modify an existing wastewater discharge permit under §
21-336 in response to changed conditions, or anticipated changed conditions.
   (D)   For purposes of this requirement, significant changes include, but are
not limited to, flow increases of 20% or greater, and the discharge of any
previously unreported pollutants.
(Ord. 33-2002, passed 10-21-2002; Ord. 29-2008, passed 10- -2008)
§ 21-350  REPORTS OF POTENTIAL PROBLEMS.
   (A)   In the case of any discharge, including, but not limited to,
accidental discharges, discharges of a non-routine, episodic nature, a non-
customary batch discharge, or a slug load, as defined in §
21-302(A), that may cause potential problems for the POTW, the user shall
immediately telephone and notify the POTW Director of the incident. This
notification shall include the location of the discharge, type of waste,
concentration and volume, if known, and corrective actions taken by the user.
   (B)   Within five days following such discharge, the user shall, unless
waived by the POTW Director, submit a detailed written report describing the
cause(s) of the discharge, and the measures to be taken by the user to prevent
similar future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve the user of any
expense, loss, damage, or other liability which may be incurred as a result of
damage to the POTW, natural resources, or any other damage to person or
property, nor shall such notification relieve the user of any fines, penalties,
or other liability which may be imposed pursuant to this division.
   (C)   A notice shall be permanently posted on the user’s bulletin board, or
other prominent place, advising employees whom to call in the event of a
discharge described in subsection (A) above. Employers shall ensure that all
employees who may cause such a discharge to occur are advised of the emergency
notification procedure.
   (D)   All SIUs are required to notify the POTW immediately of any changes at
his or her facility affecting the potential for spills and other accidental
discharge, discharge of a non-routine, episodic nature, a non-customary batch
discharge, or a slug load as defined in §
21-302(A).
(Ord. 33-2002, passed 10-21-2002; Ord. 29-2008, passed 10- -2008)
§ 21-351  REPORTS FROM UNPERMITTED USERS.
   All users not required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit shall provide
appropriate reports to the POTW Director, as the POTW Director may require.
(Ord. 33-2002, passed 10-21-2002)
§ 21-352  NOTICE OF VIOLATION/REPEAT SAMPLING AND REPORTING.
   (A)   If sampling performed by a user indicates a violation, the user must
notify the POTW Director within 24 hours of becoming aware of the violation.
The user shall also repeat the sampling and analysis, and submit the results of
the repeat analysis to the POTW Director within 30 days after becoming aware of
the violation. If allowed by the POTW Director, the user is not required to
resample:
      (1)   If the POTW Director monitors at the user’s facility at least once
a month; or
      (2)   If the POTW Director samples between the user’s initial sampling
and when the user receives the results of this sampling.
   (B)   If the POTW Director does not require the user to perform any self-
monitoring, and the POTW sampling of the user indicates a violation, the POTW
Director shall repeat the sampling and obtain the results of the repeat
analysis within 30 days after becoming aware of the violations, unless one of
the following occurs:
      (1)   The POTW Director monitors at the user’s facility at least once a
month;
      (2)   The POTW Director samples the user between his or her initial
sampling, and when the POTW receives the results of this initial sampling; or
      (3)   The POTW Director requires the user to perform sampling, and submit
the results to the POTW Director within the 30-day deadline of the POTW
becoming aware of the violation.
(Ord. 33-2002, passed 10-21-2002; Ord. 29-2008, passed 10- -2008)
§ 21-353  NOTIFICATION OF THE DISCHARGE OF HAZARDOUS WASTE.
   (A)   Any user who commences the discharge of hazardous waste shall notify
the POTW, the EPA Regional Waste Management Division Director, and state
hazardous waste authorities, in writing, of any discharge into the POTW of a
substance which, if otherwise disposed of, would be a hazardous waste under 40
C.F.R. part 261. Such notification must include the name of the hazardous waste
as set forth in 40 C.F.R. part 261, the EPA hazardous waste number, and the
type of discharge (continuous, batch, or other). If the user discharges more
than 100 kilograms of such waste per calendar month to the POTW, the
notification also shall contain the following information to the extent such
information is known and readily available to the user: An identification of
the hazardous constituents contained in the wastes; an estimation of the mass
and concentration of such constituents in the wastestream discharge during the
calendar month; and an estimation of the mass of constituents in the
wastestream expected to be discharged during the following 12 months. All
notifications must take place no later than 180 days after the discharge
commences. Any notification under this subsection (A) need be submitted only
once for each hazardous waste discharge. However, notifications of changed
conditions must be submitted pursuant to §
21-349. The notification requirement in this section does not apply to
pollutants already reported by users subject to categorical pretreatment
standards under the self-monitoring requirements of §§ 21-345, 21-347, and 21-
348.
   (B)   Dischargers are exempt from the requirements of subsection (A) above
during a calendar month in which they discharge no more than 15 kilograms of
hazardous wastes, unless the wastes are acute hazardous wastes, as specific in
40 C.F.R. §§ 261.30(d) and 261.33(e). Discharge of more than 15 kilograms of
non-acute hazardous wastes in a calendar month, or of any quantity of acute
hazardous wastes as, specified in 40 C.F.R. §§ 261.30(d) and 261.33(e),
requires a one-time notification. Subsequent months during which the user
discharges more than such quantities of any hazardous waste do not require
additional notification.
   (C)   In the case of any new regulation under § 3001 of RCRA, being the
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq., identifying
additional characteristics of hazardous waste, or listing any additional
substance as a hazardous waste, the user must notify the POTW Director, the EPA
Regional Waste Management Waste Division Director, and state hazardous waste
authorities of the discharge of such substance within 90 days of the effective
date of such regulations.
   (D)   In the case of any notification made under this section, the user
shall certify that he or she has a program in place to reduce the volume, and
toxicity, of hazardous wastes generated to the degree he or she has determined
to be economically practical.
   (E)   This provision does not create a right to discharge any substance not
otherwise permitted to be discharged by this division, a permit issued
thereunder, or any applicable federal or state law.
(Ord. 33-2002, passed 10-21-2002)
§ 21-354  ANALYTICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   All pollutant analyses, including sampling techniques, to be submitted as
part of a wastewater discharge permit application, or report, shall be
performed in accordance with the techniques prescribed in 40 C.F.R. part 136,
unless otherwise specified in an applicable categorical pretreatment standard.
If 40 C.F.R. part 136 does not contain sampling, or analytical, techniques for
the pollutant in question, sampling and analyses must be performed in
accordance with procedures approved by the EPA.
(Ord. 33-2002, passed 10-21-2002)
§ 21-355  SAMPLE COLLECTION.
   (A)   All wastewater samples must be representative of the user’s discharge.
Wastewater monitoring and flow measurement facilities shall be properly
operated, kept clean, and maintained in good working order at all times. The
failure of a user to keep his or her monitoring facility in good working order
shall not be grounds for the user to claim that sample results are
unrepresentative of his or her discharge.
   (B)   Grab samples must be used for pH, cyanide, total phenols, oil and
grease, sulfide, volatile organic compounds, and any other pollutants, as
required by 40 C.F.R. part 136. The POTW Director shall determine the number of
grabs necessary to be representative of the user’s discharge (see 40 C.F.R. §
403.12(g)(5) for additional grab sample number requirements for BMR and 90 day
compliance reports). Additionally, the POTW Director may allow collection of
multiple grabs during a 24-hour period which are composited prior to analysis
as allowed under 40 C.F.R. part 136.
   (C)   All wastewater composite samples shall be collected with a minimum of
hourly aliquots or grabs for each hour that there is a discharge. All
wastewater composite samples shall be collected using flow proportional
composite collection techniques, unless time-proportional composite sampling or
grab sampling is authorized by the POTW Director. When authorizing time-
proportional composites or grabs, the samples must be representative, and the
decision to allow the alternative sampling must be documented.
(Ord. 33-2002, passed 10-21-2002; Ord. 29-2008, passed 10- -2008)
§ 21-356  TIMING.
   Written reports will be deemed to have been submitted on the date
postmarked. For reports which are not mailed, postage prepaid, into a mail
facility serviced by the United States Postal Service, the date of receipt of
the report shall govern.
(Ord. 33-2002, passed 10-21-2002)
§ 21-357  RECORD KEEPING.
   Users subject to the reporting requirements of this division shall retain,
and make available for inspection and copying, all records of information
obtained pursuant to any monitoring activities required by this division, and
any additional records of information obtained pursuant to monitoring
activities undertaken by the user independent of such requirements. Records
shall include the date, exact place, method, and time of sampling, and the name
of the person(s) taking the samples; the dates analyses were performed; who
performed the analyses; the analytical techniques or methods used; and the
results of such analyses. These records shall remain available for a period of
at least three years. This period shall be automatically extended for the
duration of any litigation concerning the user or the town, or where the user
has been specifically notified of a longer retention period by the POTW
Director.
(Ord. 33-2002, passed 10-21-2002)
§§ 21-358 TO 21-360  RESERVED.
DIVISION 6. COMPLIANCE MONITORING
§ 21-361  MONITORING FACILITIES.
   (A)   The town requires the user to provide and operate, at the user’s own
expense, monitoring facilities to allow inspection, sampling, and flow
measurement of the building sewer, and/or internal drainage systems. The
monitoring facility should normally be situated on the user’s premises, but the
town may, when such a location would be impractical, or cause undue hardship on
the user, allow the facility to be constructed in the public street or sidewalk
area, and located so that it will not be obstructed by landscaping or parked
vehicles.
   (B)   There shall be ample room in, or near, such sampling manhole, or
facility, to allow accurate sampling and preparation of samples for analysis.
The facility, sampling, and measuring equipment shall be maintained at all
times in a safe, and proper, operating condition at the expense of the user.
   (C)   Whether constructed on public or private property, the sampling and
monitoring facilities shall be provided in accordance with the requirements of
the town, and all applicable local construction standards and specifications.
Construction shall be completed within 90 days following written notification
by the town.
(Ord. 33-2002, passed 10-21-2002)
§ 21-362  INSPECTION AND SAMPLING.
   The town will inspect the facilities of any user to ascertain whether the
purpose of this division is being met, and all requirements are being complied
with. Persons or occupants of premises where wastewater is created, or
discharged, shall allow the town, approval authority, and EPA, or their
representatives, ready access at all reasonable times to all parts of the
premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, records examination and
copying, or in the performance of any of their duties. The town, approval
authority, and EPA shall have the right to set up on the user’s property such
devices as are necessary to conduct sampling, inspection, compliance
monitoring, and/or metering operations. Where a user has security measures in
force which would require proper identification and clearance before entry into
his or her premises, the user shall make necessary arrangements with his or her
security guards so that, upon presentation of suitable identification,
personnel from the town, approval authority, and EPA will be permitted to
enter, without delay, for the purposes of performing their specific
responsibilities. Denial of the POTW Director’s/Superintendent’s, approval
authority’s, or EPA’s access to the user’s premises shall be a violation of
this division. Unreasonable delays may constitute denial of access.
(Ord. 33-2002, passed 10-21-2002)
§ 21-363  SEARCH WARRANTS.
   If the POTW Director, approval authority, or EPA has been refused access to
a building, structure, or property, or any part thereof, and is able to
demonstrate probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of this
division, or that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine
inspection and sampling program of the town designed to verify compliance with
this division or any permit, or order issued hereunder, or to protect the
overall public health, safety, and welfare of the community, then the POTW
Director, approval authority, or EPA may seek issuance of an administrative
search warrant from the any County Magistrate, pursuant to G.S. § 15-27.2.
(Ord. 33-2002, passed 10-21-2002)
§§ 21-364 TO 21-368  RESERVED.
DIVISION 7. CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION
§ 21-369  RESTRICTION OF INFORMATION.
   (A)   Information and data on a user obtained from reports, questionnaires,
permit applications, permits, and monitoring programs, and from inspections,
shall be available to the public, or other governmental agency, without
restriction unless the user specifically requests, and is able to demonstrate
to the satisfaction of the POTW Director/Superintendent, that the release of
such information would divulge information, processes, or methods of production
entitled to protection as trade secrets of the user, pursuant to G.S. § 132-
1.2. Any such request must be asserted at the time of submission of the
information or data.
   (B)   When requested by the person furnishing a report, the portions of a
report which might disclose trade secrets, or secret processes, shall not be
made available for inspection by the public, but shall be made available upon
written request to governmental agencies for uses related to this division, the
national pollutant discharge elimination system (NPDES) permit, non-discharge
permit, and/or the pretreatment programs, or as otherwise authorized pursuant
to G.S. Chapter 132; provided, however, that such portions of a report shall be
available for use by the state, or any state agency, in judicial review, or
enforcement proceedings, involving the person furnishing the report. Wastewater
constituents and characteristics will not be recognized as confidential
information.
   (C)   All records relating to compliance with pretreatment standards shall
be made available to officials of the approval authority and EPA upon request.
(Ord. 33-2002, passed 10-21-2002)
§§ 21-370 TO 21-371  RESERVED.
DIVISION 8. ENFORCEMENT
§ 21-372  ADMINISTRATIVE REMEDIES.
   (A)   Notification of violation. Whenever the POTW Director finds that any
industrial user has violated, or is violating, this division, wastewater
permit, or any prohibition, limitation, or requirements contained therein, or
any other pretreatment requirement, the POTW Director may serve upon such a
person a written notice stating the nature of the violation. Within 30 days
from the date of this notice, an explanation for the violation, and a plan for
the satisfactory correction thereof shall be submitted to the town by the user.
Submission of this plan does not relieve the discharger of liability for any
violations occurring before, or after, receipt of the notice of violation.
   (B)   Consent orders. The POTW Director is hereby empowered to enter into
consent orders, assurances of voluntary compliance, or other similar documents
establishing an agreement with the person responsible for the non-compliance.
Such orders will include specific action to be taken by the discharger to
correct the non-compliance within a time period also specified by the order.
Consent orders shall have the same force, and effect, as an administrative
order issued pursuant to subsection (D) below.
   (C)   Show case hearing. The POTW Director may order any industrial user who
causes, or is responsible for, an unauthorized discharge, has violated this
division, or is in non-compliance with a wastewater discharge permit, to show
cause why a proposed enforcement action should not be taken. In the event the
POTW Director determines that a show cause order should be issued, a notice
shall be served on the user specifying the time, and place, for the hearing,
the proposed enforcement action, the reasons for such action, and a request
that the user show cause why this proposed enforcement action should not be
taken. The notice of the hearing shall be served personally, or by registered
or certified mail (return receipt requested), at least ten days before the
hearing. Service may be made on any agent, or officer, of a corporation.
      (1)   The POTW Director shall review the evidence presented at the
hearing, and determine whether the proposed enforcement action is appropriate.
      (2)   A show cause hearing under this section is not a prerequisite to
the assessment of a civil penalty under §
21-373, nor is any action or inaction taken by the POTW Director under this
section subject to an administrative appeal under §
21-336(I).
   (D)   Administrative orders. When the POTW Director finds that an industrial
user has violated, or continues to violate, this division, permits, or orders
issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment requirement, the POTW Director may
issue an order to cease and desist all such violations, and direct those
persons in non-compliance to do any of the following:
      (1)   Immediately comply with all requirements;
      (2)   Comply in accordance with a compliance time schedule set forth in
the order;
      (3)   Take appropriate remedial or preventive action in the event of a
continuing, or threatened, violation; or
      (4)   Disconnect sewer service unless adequate treatment facilities,
devices, or other related appurtenances are installed, and properly operated,
within a specified time period.
   (E)   Emergency suspensions.
      (1)   The POTW Director may suspend the wastewater treatment service and/
or wastewater permit when such suspension is necessary in order to stop an
actual, or threatened, discharge which presents, or may present, an imminent,
or substantial, endangerment to the health, or welfare, of persons or the
environment, interferes with the POTW, or causes the POTW to violate any
condition of its NPDES or non-discharge permit.
      (2)   Any user notified of a suspension of the wastewater treatment
service and/or the wastewater permit shall immediately stop, or eliminate, the
contribution. A hearing will be held within 15 days of the notice of suspension
to determine whether the suspension may be lifted, or the user’s waste
discharge permit terminated. In the event of a failure to comply voluntarily
with the suspension order, the POTW Director shall take such steps as deemed
necessary, including immediate severance of the sewer connection, to prevent,
or minimize, damage to the POTW system, or endangerment to any individuals. The
POTW Director shall reinstate the wastewater permit and the wastewater
treatment service upon proof of the elimination of the non-compliant discharge.
The industrial user shall submit a detailed written statement describing the
causes of the harmful contribution, and the measures taken to prevent any
future occurrence to the POTW Director prior to the date of the above-described
hearing.
   (F)   Termination of permit or permission to discharge.
      (1)   The POTW Director may revoke a wastewater discharge permit, or
permission to discharge for good cause, including, but not limited to, the
following reasons:
         (a)   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of his or her discharge;
         (b)   Failure to report significant changes in operations, or
wastewater constituents and characteristics;
         (c)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user’s premises for the
purpose of inspection or monitoring; or
         (d)   Violation of conditions of the permit or permission to
discharge, conditions of this division, or any applicable state and federal
regulations.
      (2)   Non-compliant industrial users will be notified of the proposed
termination of their wastewater permit, and will be offered an opportunity to
show cause, under subsection (C) above, why the proposed action should not be
taken.
(Ord. 33-2002, passed 10-21-2002; Ord. 29-2008, passed 10- -2008)
§ 21-373  CIVIL PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any user who is found to have failed to comply with any provision of
this division, or the orders, rules, regulations, and permits issued hereunder,
may be fined up to $25,000 per day per violation. Penalties between $10,000 and
$25,000 per day per violation may be assessed against a violator only if:
      (1)   For any class of violation, only if a civil penalty has been
imposed against the violator within the five years preceding the violation; or
      (2)   In the case of failure to file, submit, or make available, as the
case may be, any documents, data, or reports required by this division, or the
orders, rules, regulations, and permits issued hereunder, only if the POTW
Director determines that the violation was intentional, and a civil penalty has
been imposed against the violator within the five years preceding the
violation.
   (B)   In determining the amount of the civil penalty, the POTW Director
shall consider the following:
      (1)   The degree and extent of the harm to the natural resources, to the
public health, or to public or private property resulting from the violation;
      (2)   The duration and gravity of the violation;
      (3)   The effect on ground or surface water quality, or on air quality;
      (4)   The cost of rectifying the damage;
      (5)   The amount of money saved by non-compliance;
      (6)   Whether the violation was committed willfully or intentionally;
      (7)   The prior record of the violator in complying, or failing to
comply, with the pretreatment program; and
      (8)   The costs of enforcement to the town.
   (C)   Appeals of civil penalties assessed in accordance with this section
shall be as provided in §
21-336(I).
(Ord. 33-2002, passed 10-21-2002; Ord. 29-2008, passed 10- -2008)
Statutory reference:
   Civil penalty assessments, G.S. § 143-215.6A.
§ 21-374  OTHER AVAILABLE REMEDIES.
   (A)   Remedies, in addition to those previously mentioned in this division,
are available to the POTW Director who may use any single one, or combination,
against a non-compliant user.
   (B)   Additional available remedies include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Criminal violations. The District Attorney for the County Judicial
District may, at the request of the town, prosecute non-compliant users who
violate the provisions of G.S. § 143-215.6B;
      (2)   Injunctive relief. Whenever a user is in violation of the
provisions of this division, or an order or permit issued hereunder, the POTW
Director, through the Town Attorney, may petition the Superior Court of Justice
for the issuance of a restraining order, or a preliminary and permanent
injunction which restrains, or compels, the activities in question;
      (3)   Water supply severance. Whenever an industrial user is in violation
of the provisions of this division, or an order or permit issued hereunder,
water service to the industrial user may be severed, and service will only
recommence, at the user’s expense, after he or she has satisfactorily
demonstrated ability to comply; and
      (4)   Public nuisances. Any violation of the prohibitions or effluent
limitations of this division, or of a permit or order issued hereunder, is
hereby declared a public nuisance, and shall be corrected or abated as directed
by the POTW Director. Any person(s) creating a public nuisance shall be subject
to the provisions of Chapter 14 of the town code governing such nuisances,
including reimbursing the POTW for any costs incurred in removing, abating, or
remedying said nuisance.
(Ord. 33-2002, passed 10-21-2002)
§ 21-375  REMEDIES NON-EXCLUSIVE.
   The remedies provided for in this division are not exclusive. The POTW
Director may take any, all, or any combination of these actions against a non-
compliant user. Enforcement of pretreatment violations will generally be in
accordance with the town’s enforcement response plan. However, the POTW
Director may take other action against any user when the circumstances warrant.
Further, the POTW Director is empowered to take more than one enforcement
action against any non-compliant user.
(Ord. 33-2002, passed 10-21-2002)
§§ 21-376 TO 21-379  RESERVED.
DIVISION 9. ANNUAL PUBLICATION OF SIGNIFICANT NON-COMPLIANCE
§ 21-380  PUBLICATION.
   At least annually, the POTW Director shall publish in a newspaper of general
circulation that provides meaningful public notice within the jurisdiction(s)
served by the POTW, a list of those industrial users which were found to be in
significant non-compliance, also referred to as reportable non-compliance, in
15A N.C.A.C. 2H.0903(b)(10), with applicable pretreatment standards and
requirements, during the previous 12 months.
(Ord. 33-2002, passed 10-21-2002; Ord. 29-2008, passed 10- -2008)
§§ 21-381 TO 21-382  RESERVED.
DIVISION 10. AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES TO DISCHARGE VIOLATIONS
§ 21-383  UPSET.
   (A)   An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense to an action brought
for non-compliance with categorical pretreatment standards if the requirements
of subsection (B) below are met.
   (B)   A user who wishes to establish the affirmative defense of upset shall
demonstrate, through properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs, or other
relevant evidence, that:
      (1)   An upset occurred, and the user can identify the causes of the
upset;
      (2)   The facility was at the time being operated in a prudent and
workman-like manner, and in compliance with applicable operation and
maintenance procedures; and
      (3)   The user has submitted the following information to the POTW
Director within 24 hours of becoming aware of the upset (if this information is
provided orally, a written submission must be provided within five days):
         (a)   A description of the indirect discharge and cause of non-
compliance;
         (b)   The period of non-compliance, including exact dates and times
or, if not corrected, the anticipated time the non-compliance is expected to
continue; and
         (c)   Steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate, and
prevent recurrence of the non-compliance.
   (C)   In any enforcement proceeding, the user seeking to establish the
occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof.
   (D)   Users will have the opportunity for a judicial determination on any
claim of upset only in an enforcement action brought for non-compliance with
categorical pretreatment standards.
   (E)   Users shall control production of all discharges to the extent
necessary to maintain compliance with categorical pretreatment standards upon
reduction, loss, or failure of their treatment facility until the facility is
restored, or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement
applies in the situation where, among other things, the primary source of power
of the treatment facility is reduced, lost, or fails.
(Ord. 33-2002, passed 10-21-2002)
§ 21-384  PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS DEFENSE.
   A user shall have an affirmative defense to an enforcement action brought
against him or her for non-compliance with the general prohibitions in §
21-306(A), or the specific prohibitions in §
21-306(B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(5) through (B)(7), and (B)(9) through (B)(23), if he
or she can prove that he or she did not know, or have reason to know, that his
or her discharge, alone or in conjunction with discharges from other sources,
would cause pass through or interference, and that either:
   (A)   A local limit exists for each pollutant discharged, and the user was
in compliance with each limit directly prior to, and during, the pass through
or interference; or
   (B)   No local limit exists, but the discharge did not change substantially
in nature, or constituents from the user’s prior discharge when the town was
regularly in compliance with its NPDES permit, and in the case of interference,
was in compliance with applicable sludge use or disposal requirements.
(Ord. 33-2002, passed 10-21-2002; Ord. 29-2008, passed 10- -2008)
§ 21-385  BYPASS.
   (A)   A user may allow any bypass to occur which does not cause pretreatment
standards or requirements to be violated, but only if it also is for essential
maintenance to assure efficient operation. These bypasses are not subject to
the provision of subsections (B) and (C)(1) below.
   (B)   (1)   If a user knows in advance of the need for a bypass, he or she
shall submit, prior notice, to the POTW Director at least ten days before the
date of the bypass, if possible.
      (2)   A user shall submit oral notice to the POTW Director of an
unanticipated bypass that exceeds applicable pretreatment standards within 24
hours from the time he or she becomes aware of the bypass. A written submission
shall also be provided within five days of this time the user becomes aware of
the bypass. The written submission shall contain a description of the bypass
and its cause; the duration of the bypass, including exact dates and times,
and, if the bypass has not been corrected, the anticipated time it is expected
to continue; and steps taken, or planned, to reduce, eliminate, and prevent
reoccurrence of the bypass. The POTW Director may waive the written report on a
case-by-case basis if the oral report has been received within 24 hours.
   (C)   (1)   A bypass is prohibited, and the POTW Director may take an
enforcement action against a user for a bypass, unless:
         (a)   A bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal
injury, or severe property damage;
         (b)   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the
use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes, or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not
satisfied if adequate back-up equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred
during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventive maintenance; and
         (c)   The user submitted notices as required under subsection (B)
above.
      (2)   The POTW Director may approve an anticipated bypass, after
considering its adverse effects, if the POTW Director determines that it will
meet the three conditions listed in subsection (C)(1) above.
(Ord. 33-2002, passed 10-21-2002)
§§ 21-386 TO 21-387  RESERVED.
DIVISION 11. SEVERABILITY
§ 21-388  SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision, paragraph, word, or section of this article is invalidated
by any court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining provisions, paragraphs,
words, sections, and articles shall not be affected and shall continue in full
force and effect.
(Ord. 33-2002, passed 10-21-2002)
§§ 21-389 TO 21-390  RESERVED.
DIVISION 12. CONFLICT
§ 21-391  CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   All other ordinances, and parts of other ordinances, inconsistent or
conflicting with any part of this article are hereby repealed to the extent of
such inconsistency or conflict.
(Ord. 33-2002, passed 10-21-2002)
§§ 21-392 TO 21-399  RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV:  ELECTRIC POWER SYSTEM
Section
Division 1. Generally
   
21-401   Definitions
   
21-402   Control vested in Council
   
21-403   Duties of Town Manager
   
21-404   Visitors to substation prohibited
   
21-405   Tree trimming
   21-406 to 21-410   Reserved
Division 2. Connections
   
21-411   Application for electricity
   
21-412   Installations according to State Building Code
   
21-413   Inspection and conditions of service
   
21-414   Service connections
   
21-415   Charges for connections
   
21-416   Location of town’s equipment
   21-417 to 21-420   Reserved
Division 3. Billing
   
21-421   Selection of schedule
   
21-422   Deposits guaranteeing credit
   
21-423   Metering and billing
   
21-424   Submetering
   
21-425   Payments
   
21-426   Determination of excess facilities charges and other charges
   
21-427   New commercial or industrial loads after September 1, 2004
   21-428 to 21-430   Reserved
Division 4. Voltage
   
21-431   Characteristics of electricity supplied
   
21-432   Voltage
   21-433 to 21-440   Reserved
Division 5. Customer Concerns
   
21-441   Use of electricity by customers
   
21-442   Customer’s responsibility
   
21-443   Right of access
   
21-444   Discontinuance of the supply of electricity
   
21-445   Reconnection of the supply of electricity
   
21-446   Interruptions to supply of electricity
   21-447 to 21-450   Reserved
Division 6. Testing
   
21-451   Testing facilities and equipment
   
21-452   Periodic tests and checks
   
21-453   Requested meter tests
   21-454 to 21-460   Reserved
Division 7. Service Lines
   
21-461   Electric line extensions
   
21-462   Temporary service
   
21-463   Underground electric service
   21-464 to 21-470   Reserved
Division 8. Joint Municipal Assistance Agency
   
21-471   Findings
   
21-472   Authority
   
21-473   Initial members
   
21-474   Transfer from ElectriCities
   21-475 to 21-499   Reserved
Cross-reference:
   Electrical code adopted, § 5-105; electrical permit required, §
5-201.
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
§ 21-401  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this division, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. Any person, group of persons, association, partnership, firm, or
corporation requesting a supply of electricity from the town.
   CUSTOMER. Any person, group of persons, association, partnership, firm, or
corporation purchasing electricity from the town.
   DELIVERY POINT. The point where the town’s conductors for supplying
electricity are connected to the customer’s conductors for receiving the
electricity, unless otherwise specified in the agreement with the customer for
the purchase of electricity.
(Code 1976, § 6-2A.1) (Ord. 6-83, passed 9-19-1983)
Cross-reference:
   Definitions and rules of construction generally, §
1-102.
§ 21-402  CONTROL VESTED IN COUNCIL.
   The electric power system owned by the town shall be under the ultimate
control of the Town Council. The duty of securing and enforcing full compliance
with all rules, and regulations, governing the same is delegated to the Town
Manager, subject to the supervision of the Town Council. The Town Manager may
further delegate responsibility for the same to the Director of Public Works,
or such other person as may be appropriate. If responsibility has been
delegated to a person other than the Town Manager, all references in this
article to the Town Manager shall also include his or her delegate.
(Code 1976, § 6-2A.11) (Ord. 6-83, passed 9-19-1983)
§ 21-403  DUTIES OF TOWN MANAGER.
   (A)   The Town Manager shall see that the rules, and regulations, adopted or
authorized by the Town Council are enforced, and that all contracts and
specifications are fulfilled. The Town Manager shall have general supervision
of all the operation of the electric power system, and shall report its working
conditions to the Mayor and Town Council as required, and make such suggestions
and plans for improvement and extension, as may be advantageous to the system.
He or she shall see that all employees perform their duties according to the
regulations of the Council.
   (B)   The Town Manager shall have full and entire charge of the substation,
and all transmission stations, lines, machinery, and equipment, and shall
report the condition of the same to the Town Council, as required.
(Code 1976, § 6-2A.12) (Ord. 6-83, passed 9-19-1983)
Cross-reference:
   Town Manager, §
2-403.
§ 21-404  VISITORS TO SUBSTATION PROHIBITED.
   No visitors shall be permitted to enter the substation without being
accompanied by the engineer in charge, and under no circumstances shall anyone
not specifically authorized by the Town Manager be allowed to handle, or in any
way come in contact with, any part of the machinery.
(Code 1976, § 6-2A.13) (Ord. 6-83, passed 9-19-1983)
§ 21-405  TREE TRIMMING.
   All trees, including any portion of their canopies, shall be a minimum of 15
feet from all electrical distribution lines. Any tree, or any portion thereof,
located closer than 15 feet to such lines may be trimmed, pruned, or removed by
the town without notice to the property owner. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
and in non-emergency situations (for example, where there is no unplanned
electrical outage), the town shall endeavor to provide property owners
reasonable notice of any anticipated tree trimming, pruning, or removal. The
town shall have no liability for damage to trees that results from trimming,
pruning, or removal pursuant to this section.
§§ 21-406 TO 21-410  RESERVED.
DIVISION 2. CONNECTIONS
§ 21-411  APPLICATION FOR ELECTRICITY.
   The town reserves the right to require the applicant, before any electricity
is delivered, to execute an application or agreement for the purchase of
electricity in the form used by the town. Whether or not a written application,
or agreement, is executed, the applicant, by accepting the electricity, agrees
to be bound by the applicable schedule of rates, and the terms and conditions
as, from time to time, are in effect.
(Code 1976, § 6-2A.20) (Ord. 6-83, passed 9-19-1983)
§ 21-412  INSTALLATIONS ACCORDING TO STATE BUILDING CODE.
   All electrical construction, all material and appliances used in connection
with electrical work, and the operation of all electrical apparatus within the
town shall conform to such special rules as may be adopted by the Town Council,
and to the rules and requirements as set forth in the current issue of the
State Building Code for the installation of workings and apparatus for
electrical purposes. No electrical current will be furnished until the premises
to be served has been inspected, and approved, as to the wiring of the premises
and electrical apparatus, and the same has been found in such proper condition
as to meet the requirements of the above and applicable insurance laws.
(Code 1976, § 6-2A.21) (Ord. 6-83, passed 9-19-1983)
§ 21-413  INSPECTION AND CONDITIONS OF SERVICE.
   The town will supply electricity to an applicant only when the following
conditions shall have been complied with:
   (A)   The applicant’s installation shall have been made in accordance with
this division, and such other terms and conditions of electric service, as may
be imposed by the town;
   (B)   The town has received from the applicant, or, if the town so elects,
has obtained for itself a certificate signed by the local inspection authority
having jurisdiction certifying that the wiring on the premises of the applicant
has been installed in compliance with the requirements of the State Building
Code, and such other requirements as may be imposed by an appropriate
governmental entity. All fees, or other charges, required to be paid in
connection with the issuance of such certificates shall be borne by the
applicant;
   (C)   Any changes in, or additions to, the wiring, equipment, or appliances
of an applicant, or customer, must be installed in compliance with the
requirements of the State Building Code; and
   (D)   In no event shall the town be under any obligation to inspect the
wiring, equipment, or appliances of an applicant, or customer.
(Code 1976, § 6-2A.22) (Ord. 6-83, passed 9-19-1983)
§ 21-414  SERVICE CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Normally the town will supply and meter, at one delivery point,
electricity of the characteristics desired by the customer at the delivery
point.
   (B)   The town will make application for the permits and acquire the
easements necessary to build its supply facilities for the property occupied by
the applicant, or customer, and the applicant, or customer, will apply for,
obtain, and deliver to the town all other permits, or certificates, necessary
to give the town the right to connect its conductors to the applicant’s, or
customer’s, wiring, and access for all other proper purposes, including an
easement from the landowner for the town’s facilities. The town shall not be
required to supply electricity until a reasonable time has elapsed after the
town has obtained, or received, all necessary permits, certificates, and
easements.
   (C)   Should any change or changes in the service connection furnished to
the customer by the town be made necessary by any requirement of public
authority, the entire cost of such changes on the customer’s side of the
delivery point shall be borne by the customer.
   (D)   Whenever a customer requests the town to supply electricity to a
single premises, as described in subsection (D)(1) below, in a manner which
requires equipment and facilities in excess of those which the town would
normally provide, and the town finds it practicable, such excess equipment and
facilities may be provided under the following conditions:
      (1)   Electricity will be supplied only to a single premises consisting
of contiguous property not divided by any dedicated public street, road,
highway, or alley, or by property not owned, or leased, by the customer;
      (2)   The facilities supplied shall be of a kind, and type, of
transmission or distribution line, or substation equipment normally used by, or
acceptable to, the town, and shall be installed in a place and manner
satisfactory to the town. All equipment furnished, and installed, by the town
shall be, and remain, the property of the town. When excess facilities are
provided to supply electricity at more than one delivery point, the facilities
interconnecting the delivery points shall be located on the customer’s
premises;
      (3)   The customer agrees to pay the town a one-time excess facilities
charge equal to the estimated new installed cost of all facilities provided by
the town, in addition to those the town would normally provide to supply
electricity to the customer at one delivery point. The excess facilities charge
will be in addition to the charge for electricity in accordance with the
applicable rate schedule;
      (4)   Payment of the excess facilities charge may be made in installments
over such period of time, as may be negotiated between the customer and the
Town Manager; provided, that payment in full shall be made in not more than 60
months; unpaid charges shall bear interest at the legal rate; and the Town
Council shall approve the agreement. Unpaid excess facilities charges shall be
a debt of the applicant;
      (5)   Whenever a customer requests the town to furnish an alternate
source of supply that the town would not normally furnish, the facilities
charge for the alternative supply facilities shall be calculated as in
subsection (D)(3) or (D)(4) above. When the facilities used to provide
alternate services to a customer are also used to serve other customers, the
cost of such facilities shall be included in the calculation of the excess
facilities charge only in the proportion that the capacity reserved for
alternate service to the customer bears to the operating capacity of such
facilities;
      (6)   All electricity will normally be metered at the voltage delivered
to the customer; however, the town reserves the right, where it desires for its
own purposes, to meter the electricity on the town’s side of the transformer,
or transformers, and to adjust for losses. Irrespective of how the town meters
electricity, the same rates and fees shall apply to each customer within a
specified class of service; and
      (7)   The town shall not be required to make such installations of
equipment and facilities in addition to those normally provided until the
customer has signed such agreements, and fulfilled such other conditions as may
be required by the town.
(Code 1976, § 6-2A.23) (Ord. 6-83, passed 9-19-1983)
§ 21-415  CHARGES FOR CONNECTIONS.
   The town will furnish meters and meter bases, but reserves the right of
access to, and control of, the same for the purpose of inspection and readings
of meters, and for any other lawful purpose. The town may remove any fixtures
so placed for any connection larger than a ten kilowatt load. The town, and the
subscriber, may negotiate a 360-day contract guaranteeing that the town will
receive a part of its initial investment. This contract should establish
deposits, conditions of service, type of service (whether three-phase, delta,
ER, and the like), specify whether a primary, or secondary, connection, and set
out all other conditions of the agreement.
(Code 1976, § 6-2A.24) (Ord. 6-83, passed 9-19-1983)
§ 21-416  LOCATION OF TOWN’S EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   The town shall have the right to install any poles, lines,
transformers, or any other equipment on the property occupied by the customer
which, in its judgment, are necessary in supplying electricity to the customer.
Upon notice from the town, the customer shall grant any easements necessary for
the installation of said equipment.
   (B)   The town shall have the right to place its transformers, and such
other apparatus as may be needed in connection with supplying such electricity,
at a convenient point on the property, or in the building of the customer.
   (C)   The customer shall provide suitable space for the installation of the
necessary metering apparatus, which space shall be:
      (1)   Substantially free from vibration;
      (2)   An outside location for all residential service. For commercial,
industrial, or large residential apartment premises, an outdoor location is
preferred; however, the location for such metering equipment must be acceptable
to the town;
      (3)   Readily and accessible, and convenient for reading, testing, and
servicing;
      (4)   The apparatus will be protected from injury by the elements or the
negligent, or deliberate, acts of persons; and
      (5)   Located, and agreed to, by the town prior to wiring installation.
   (D)   All equipment furnished, and installed, by the town shall be, and
remain, the property of the town.
(Code 1976, § 6-2A.25) (Ord. 6-83, passed 9-19-1983)
§§ 21-417 TO 21-420  RESERVED.
DIVISION 3. BILLING
§ 21-421  SELECTION OF SCHEDULE.
   (A)   The schedule of electric rates and fees for each service class of
electrical user shall be established by the Town Council from time to time, and
on file in the Town Clerk’s Office.
   (B)   The town, upon request, will provide any applicant, or customer, with
a copy of the rate schedules, and terms and conditions under which electricity
is supplied.
   (C)   The town will make a good-faith effort to assign each customer to the
service class that most accurately fits the customer’s type of electrical
service. The town may allow the customer to assist in making this selection,
but final responsibility for the selection rests exclusively with the town. The
customer shall remain on the rate so selected for a period of at least 12
months, unless good cause for an earlier change is shown.
   (D)   An investigation will be made by the town if, and when, the customer
notifies the town, in writing, of changes in the customer’s connected load,
demand, operating conditions, or other factors which may affect the selection
of service class, and the town will determine whether a change in class is
advisable.
   (E)   The town cannot guarantee that the customer will be served under the
most favorable applicable schedule, and no refund will be made by the town to
the customer of the difference in the charge made under the original schedule
designated and that which would have been made if a different schedule had been
chosen and applied.
(Code 1976, § 6-2AAO) (Ord. 6-83, passed 9-19-1983)
§ 21-422  DEPOSITS GUARANTEEING CREDIT.
   (A)   The town will require the applicant, or customer, to make an initial
deposit, based on published schedules, as a guarantee of payment for
electricity used.
   (B)   The collection, retention, and refund of all such deposits shall be in
accordance with the town’s utility customer service policy, as it may be
amended by the town from time to time, for various classes of users. The town
shall pay no interest on any refunded deposit.
(Code 1976, § 6-2AA1) (Ord. 6-83, passed 9-19-1983)
§ 21-423  METERING AND BILLING.
   (A)   When meters are installed by the town to measure the electricity used
by its customers, all charges for electricity used, except certain minimum
charges, shall be calculated from the readings of such meters. All meters shall
be read monthly.
   (B)   Electricity will be furnished through one delivery point and one set
of metering apparatus, and will be billed separately on the applicable rate
schedule approved by the town. However, the town reserves the right, where it
desires for its own purposes because of the amount, or characteristics, of
electricity required, to install two, or more, sets of metering apparatus, to
combine the readings of meters so installed for billing purposes, and to bill
these combined readings on the applicable schedule approved by the town.
Irrespective of how the town meters electricity, the same rates and fees shall
apply to each customer within a specified class of service.
   (C)   When one, or more, transformers are installed at one delivery point by
the town for the town’s convenience to supply electricity to a single customer
at one nominal voltage, the town reserves the right, where it desires for its
own purposes because of the amount of characteristics of electricity required,
to meter the electricity on the town’s side of the transformer, or
transformers, and adjust for losses. Irrespective of how the town meters
electricity, the same rates and fees shall apply to each customer within a
specified class of service.
   (D)   The use of master meters for electricity in multiple dwelling units is
prohibited except that if dwelling units are centrally cooled, or heated, with
a central unit that has solar-assisted, or other energy saving design, the
owner seeking to use a master meter may apply to the State Utilities Commission
for approval. This does not apply to hotels, motels, dormitories, rooming
houses, hospitals, nursing homes, or homes for the aged, in which cases master
meters may be used without prior special approval.
   (E)   Meters in service may be tested by the town, or any other lawfully
constituted authority having jurisdiction. When, as the results of such a test,
a meter is found to be less than 2% fast or slow, no adjustment will be made in
the customer’s bills. If the meter is found to be more than 2% fast or slow
because of incorrect calibration, the town will re-bill the customer for the
correct amount as calculated for a period of not more than 60 days.
   (F)   Whenever it is found that for any reason other than incorrect
calibration the metering apparatus has not registered the true amount of
electricity which has been used by the customer, billing adjustments will be
made in accordance with State Utilities Commission Rule R8-44, a copy of which
is included in Appendix H to this code.
   (G)   If, during the term of agreement for furnishing electricity to a
customer, the customer is unable to operate his or her facilities, in whole or
in part, because of an accident, act of God, or fire occurring at the location
where electricity is supplied, the charge for electricity used during the
period reasonably necessary to correct any such conditions may, in the
discretion of the Town Council, be reasonably adjusted in accordance with all
pertinent facts and conditions.
(Code 1976, § 6-2A.42) (Ord. 6-83, passed 9-19-1983)
Statutory reference:
   Master meters prohibited, G.S. § 143-151.42.
§ 21-424  SUBMETERING.
   The town will furnish electricity to the customer for use only for the
customer’s own purposes, and only on the premises occupied through ownership,
or lease, by the customer. Electricity supplied to any customer shall not be
resold, but may be furnished to a tenant of the customer only when the charge
therefor is included as a part of the rent with no variation on account of the
quantity of electricity use by the tenant, except that the customer may, not
more frequently than annually, revise the charge prospectively. The electricity
furnished by the town shall not be remetered or submetered by the customer for
distribution to a tenant, except that annual checks of a tenant’s demand, or
consumption, may be made where necessary to determine prospective revisions of
charges.
(Code 1976, § 6-2A.43) (Ord. 6-83, passed 9-19-1983)
§ 21-425  PAYMENTS.
   (A)   The supply of electricity by the town is contingent upon payment of
all charges due from the customer, in accordance with the town’s utility
customer service policy.
   (B)   The town will render bills to the customer at regular intervals. Bills
are due and payable on the fifteenth day of each month in which the bill is
rendered, but not later than final due date, the twenty-fifth day of that
month. The final due date for each town account will be available to the
customer at the time service is first rendered, or any time thereafter upon
request.
   (C)   Bills are payable at the office of the town, or to any collector or
collection agency duly authorized by the town, except that when discontinuance
of service for nonpayment has been made, payment must be made at the town
office. Payments shall be paid without regard to any setoff or counterclaim
whatever.
   (D)   The town reserves the right to apply any payment, or payments, made by
the customer in whole, or in part, to any account due the town by the customer
in connection with the furnishing of electric service, except as prohibited by
§
21-508(E) and G.S. § 160A-314.
(Code 1976, § 6-2A.44) (Ord. 6-83, passed 9-19-1983)
§ 21-426  DETERMINATION OF EXCESS FACILITIES CHARGES AND OTHER CHARGES.
   For the convenience of customers and the efficient administration of the
delivery of electrical services, the Town Council may, from time to time,
establish standard or presumptive fees, or charges for the provision of various
services contemplated by this article, and for which this article requires that
a customer pay an excess facilities charge, or some other special fee or charge
other than the charges for electric service provided by the electric rate
schedules applied to that customer. Such standard or presumptive fees, or
charges, shall be established by the Town Council based upon its findings as to
the average, or approximate, costs incurred by the town in providing the
service in question. Such fees or charges, when established, shall be presumed
to be the cost of excess cost, as appropriate, to the town of providing the
service in question, and shall be charged to, and paid by, the customer unless,
in any given instance, the Town Manager shall find that the established fee, or
charge, is not appropriate. Such finding shall, upon request of the customer,
be made in writing and, upon request of the customer, shall be reviewed by the
Town Council, and the determination of the Council shall be final. Standard or
presumptive fees, or charges, provided for by this section shall be set forth
in the schedule of electric rates and fees on file in the Town Clerk’s office,
and available upon request.
(Code 1976, § 6-2A.45) (Ord. 6-83, passed 9-19-1983)
§ 21-427  NEW COMMERCIAL OR INDUSTRIAL LOADS AFTER SEPTEMBER 1, 2004.
   (A)   Availability. This section is available only to new commercial, or
industrial, loads which begin receiving service after September 1, 2004, and is
available in conjunction with service under any of the town’s commercial, or
industrial, electric rate schedules. The demand of the new load must equal, or
exceed, 1,000 kW during at least three months of a 12-month period.
   (B)   Written notification. Any customer desiring to receive service under
this section shall provide written notification to the town of such desire.
Such notice shall provide the town with information concerning the load to be
served and the customer’s facilities, and shall provide the basis of the town
representation that the characteristics of the load will meet the minimum
eligibility requirements of the electric rate schedule to which this section
applies. All terms and conditions of the applicable electric rate schedule,
whichever is applicable to the customer, shall apply to service supplied to the
customer, except as modified by this section.
   (C)   Monthly credit. The customer will receive a monthly credit on the bill
calculated on the then-effective electric rate, whichever is applicable to the
customer. The schedule of monthly credits will be calculated as described in
subsection (D) below.
   (D)   Application of credit. Beginning with the date on which service under
the then-effective electric rate is to commence for the eligible load, a
monthly credit based on the following schedule will be applied to the total
bill, including basic facilities charge, demand charges, energy charges, or
minimum bill, excluding other applicable riders and special charges, if any.
 
Period         Discount
After month 48 0%
Months 1-2     20%
Months 3-4     15%
Months 25-36   10%
Months 37-48   5%
 
   (E)   Contract period. Customers receiving service under this section will
be subject to a seven-year contract period.
(Ord. 27-2004, passed 10-4-2004)
§§ 21-428 TO 21-430  RESERVED.
DIVISION 4. VOLTAGE
§ 21-431  CHARACTERISTICS OF ELECTRICITY SUPPLIED.
   (A)   The town will supply 60-cycle alternating current within the voltage
range set forth below. Other voltages may, at the option of the town, be
supplied when requested.
   (B)   The characteristics at which electricity will be furnished at each
installation will be given in writing to the applicant upon request therefor.
   (C)   To eliminate the possibility of error or loss, the applicant or
customer, before purchasing motors or other equipment, or undertaking to
install wiring, should secure from the town, in writing, all necessary data
relating to the characteristics of the electricity and service connections
which will be supplied.
(Code 1976, § 6-2A.30) (Ord. 6-83, passed 9-19-1983)
§ 21-432  VOLTAGE.
   (A)   (1)   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
         BASE VOLTAGE. The reference level of service voltage.
         MAXIMUM VOLTAGE. The greatest five-minute mean, or average, voltage.
         MINIMUM VOLTAGE. The least five-minute mean, or average, voltage.
      (2)   The standard base service to voltage available from the town is
shown in §
21-431.
   (B)   The town will endeavor to supply voltages within the following limits,
but shall not be liable for its failure to do so:
      (1)   For electricity supplied for residential service, or specifically
for lighting purposes, the variation from base voltage to minimum voltage will
not be more than 5% of the base voltage, and the variation from base voltage to
maximum voltage will not be more than 5% of the base voltage; and
      (2)   For electricity supplied for other services, the variation from
base voltage to minimum voltage will not exceed 10% of base voltage, and the
variation from base voltage to maximum voltage will not exceed 10% of base
voltage.
   (C)   Variations in voltages in excess of those specified caused by addition
of customer equipment without proper notification to the town, by the operation
of customer’s equipment, by action of the elements, by infrequent and
unavoidable fluctuations of short duration due to system operations, by
conditions which are part of practical operations and are of limited extent,
frequency, and duration, or by emergency operations shall not be construed as a
departure from the limits within which the town will endeavor to supply
electricity.
   (D)   Customers shall install, and operate, their electrical equipment in
accordance with the town’s terms and conditions.
(Code 1976, § 6-2A.31) (Ord. 6-83, passed 9-19-1983)
§§ 21-433 TO 21-440  RESERVED.
DIVISION 5. CUSTOMER CONCERNS
§ 21-441  USE OF ELECTRICITY BY CUSTOMERS.
   (A)   Electricity supplied by the town shall not be used in conjunction with
any other source of electricity without previous written notice to, and consent
of, the Town Manager, except that whenever the customer has another source of
electricity, such source may be used without prior permission from the Town
Manager during periods when the electricity supplied by the town fails, or is
interrupted.
   (B)   Because the town’s facilities used in supplying electricity to the
customer have a definite limited capacity, and can be damaged by overloads, the
customer shall give adequate notice to the town and obtain the Town Manager’s
written consent before making any substantial change in the amount, or use, of
the load connected to the town’s service.
   (C)   The customer shall not use electricity in any manner which will be
detrimental to the town’s supply of electricity to other customers. The town
reserves the right, but shall have no duty, to determine the suitability of
apparatus or appliances to be connected to its service by the customer, and to
refuse to continue to supply electricity if it shall determine that the
operation of such apparatus, or appliances, may be detrimental to its electric
system, or to the supply of electricity to any other customer.
(Code 1976, § 6-2A.50) (Ord. 6-83, passed 9-19-1983)
§ 21-442  CUSTOMER’S RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   The customer shall be responsible at all times for the safekeeping of
all town property installed on the customer’s premises, and to that end, the
customer shall give no one, except authorized town employees, access to such
property.
   (B)   The customer shall be liable for the cost of repairs or damage to the
town property on the customer’s premises resulting from the negligence of, or
misuse by, others other than the town’s employees.
   (C)   Electricity is supplied by the town and purchased by the customer upon
the express condition that after it passes the delivery point, it becomes the
property of the customer to be used only as provided in this article; and the
town shall not be liable for loss, or damage, to any person, or property
whatsoever, resulting directly, or indirectly, from the use, misuse, or
presence of the electricity after it passes the delivery point; or for any
loss, or damage, resulting from the presence, character, or condition of the
wires, or equipment, of the customer, or for the inspection or repair thereof.
   (D)   The customer shall be responsible for the maintenance, and repair, of
the customer’s wiring and equipment. Should the customer report trouble with
the supply of electricity, the town will endeavor to respond with reasonable
dispatch to such call with the purpose only of correcting such trouble as may
be in the town’s equipment supplying the customer. If the trouble appears to be
in the customer’s wiring or appliances, the town’s employees may, if requested
by the customer, make such inspection of the customer’s wiring or equipment, as
the town’s employees are prepared to make, but any inspection of the customer’s
wiring or equipment by the town’s employees is made upon the express condition
that the customer assumes the entire, and sole, risk, liability, and
responsibility for all acts, omissions, and negligence of the town’s employees.
The town retains responsibility only with respect to the action of its
employees in connection with property owned by the town.
(Code 1976, § 6-2A.51) (Ord. 6-83, passed 9-19-1983)
§ 21-443  RIGHT OF ACCESS.
   The town shall have the right of access to the customer’s premises at all
reasonable times for the purpose of reading meters of the town and of removing
its property, and for any other proper purpose in connection with the electric
service; and the town shall have the right to discontinue the supply of
electricity without notice if such access, at any time, is not provided.
(Code 1976, § 6-2A.52) (Ord. 6-83, passed 9-19-1983)
§ 21-444  DISCONTINUANCE OF THE SUPPLY OF ELECTRICITY.
   (A)   The town reserves the right to discontinue furnishing electricity to a
customer at any time without notice in accordance with the town’s utility
customer policy, and upon the occurrence of any one, or more, of the following
events:
      (1)   Whenever the town, in its opinion, has reasonable cause to believe
that the customer is receiving electricity without paying therefor, or that its
meter, wires, or other apparatus have, in any manner, been tampered with;
      (2)   Whenever, in the town’s opinion, the condition of the customer’s
wiring, equipment, and appliances is either unsafe or unsuitable for receiving
electricity, or is a potential safety or health hazard to the town’s property
or personnel, or the public, or when the customer’s use of electricity or
equipment interferes with, or may be detrimental to, the town’s electric system
or to the supply of electricity by the town to any other customer;
      (3)   Where electricity is being furnished over a line which is not
owned, or leased, by the town, whenever, in its opinion, such line is either
not in a safe and suitable condition, or is inadequate to receive electricity;
      (4)   Whenever the customer has denied an authorized town representative
access to the town’s meter, wires, or other apparatus installed on the
customer’s premises;
      (5)   Whenever, in the opinion of the town, it is necessary to prevent
fraud upon the town; and
      (6)   After reasonable notification, and warning, by the town of an
inability to read the electric meter because of vicious dogs or of shrubs, or
other obstacles, and the customer fails to take corrective action to allow the
town to read the meter.
   (B)   (1)   The town reserves the right to discontinue furnishing
electricity to a customer, in accordance with the town’s utility customer
service policy, upon the occurrence of either one, or both, of the following
events:
         (a)   For nonpayment of past due bills, regardless of any amount of
money on deposit with the town, or for failure of the customer to make a
deposit or guarantee payment of charges, or to increase a deposit as required;
and
         (b)   For failure to comply with any of the town’s terms and
conditions, or with any of the conditions or obligations of any agreement with
the town for the purpose of electricity.
      (2)   Restrictions on when electrical service may be discontinued are set
forth in §
21-508(E).
   (C)   The town will discontinue the supply of electricity to a customer
whenever requested by any public authority having jurisdiction.
   (D)   The town reserves the right to discontinue the supply of electricity
under any of the above conditions, irrespective of any claims of a customer
pending against the town, or any amounts of money on deposit with the town, as
required by §
21-422.
   (E)   Whenever the supply of electricity is discontinued in accordance
herewith, the town shall not be liable for any damages, direct or indirect,
that may result from such discontinuance. In all cases where the supply of
electricity is discontinued by reason of violation by the customer of any of
the provisions hereof, or of any agreement with the town for the purchase of
electricity, they shall then become due and payable, in addition to the bills
in default, an amount equal to the monthly minimum charge for the unexpired
term of the agreement, not as a penalty, but in lieu of the income reasonably
to be expected during the unexpired term of the agreement.
(Code 1976, § 6-2A.53) (Ord. 6-83, passed 9-19-1983)
§ 21-445  RECONNECTION OF THE SUPPLY OF ELECTRICITY.
   (A)   If the supply of electricity has been discontinued for any of the
reasons covered by §
21-444, the town shall have a reasonable period of time in which to reconnect
the customer’s service after the conditions causing the discontinuance have
been corrected.
   (B)   If the supply of electricity has been discontinued because of improper
use or if, in the town’s opinion, its meter or other apparatus have been
tampered with, the town may refuse to reconnect the customer’s service until
the customer shall have:
      (1)   Paid all delinquent bills;
      (2)   Paid to the town an amount estimated by the town to be sufficient
to cover the electricity used, but not recorded by the meter and not previously
paid for, plus a reconnection charge, as set from time to time by the Town
Council; and
      (3)   Made such changes in wiring or equipment as may, in the opinion of
the town, be proper for its protection.
   (C)   If the supply of electricity has been discontinued by the town at the
request of any public authority having jurisdiction, the customer’s service
will not be reconnected until authorization to do so has been obtained from the
public authority.
   (D)   If the supply of electricity has been discontinued by the town for
nonpayment of past due bills, the charge for reconnection shall be in
accordance with the town’s utility customer service policy.
   (E)   If the supply of electricity has been discontinued due to a second
violation of §
21-444(A)(1), the town requires that only the property owner may contract for
future electrical services thereafter.
(Code 1976, § 6-2A.54) (Ord. 6-83, passed 9-19-1983; Ord. 4-2015, passed 2-6-
15)
§ 21-446  INTERRUPTIONS TO SUPPLY OF ELECTRICITY.
   (A)   The town will use its best efforts to furnish an uninterrupted supply
of electricity, but it does not undertake to guarantee such an uninterrupted
supply. Should the supply of electricity fail or be interrupted, or become
defective for any reason, including, but not limited to, an act of God or the
public enemy, or action by federal, state, county, or other public authority,
or because of accident or strike, the town shall not be liable for such
failure, interruption, or defect.
   (B)   In the event of a power shortage or an adverse condition, or
disturbance on the system of the town, or any other directly, or indirectly,
interconnected system, the town may, without incurring liability, take such
emergency action as, in the judgment of the town, may be necessary. Such
emergency action may include, but not be limited to, reduction or interruption
of the supply of electricity to some customers or areas in order to compensate
for a power supply shortage on the town’s system, or to limit the extent, or
duration, of the adverse condition or disturbance on the town’s system, or to
prevent damage to the customer’s equipment or the town’s facilities, or to
expedite the restoration of service. The town may also reduce the supply of
electricity to compensate for an emergency condition on an interconnected
system.
   (C)   If the town in good faith believes that, because of civil disorder,
riot, insurrection, war, fire, or other conditions beyond the reasonable
control of the town in the vicinity of its energized facilities, it is
necessary to de-energize a portion of its facilities for the protection of the
public, or if ordered by duly constituted public authority so to do, the town
may, without incurring liability, de-energize its facilities in such vicinity,
or in such related area as may be practically required, and the town shall not
be obligated to furnish electric service through such facilities, but the town
shall be prompt and diligent in re-energizing its facilities and restoring its
service as soon as it believes, in the exercise of reasonable care for the
protection of the public and the employees of the town, that such action can be
taken with reasonable safety.
(Code 1976, § 6-2A.55) (Ord. 6-83, passed 9-19-1983)
§§ 21-447 TO 21-450  RESERVED.
DIVISION 6. TESTING
§ 21-451  TESTING FACILITIES AND EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   The town will provide for, or have available, such laboratory, meter
testing shop, standard meters, and instruments, and other equipment and
facilities as may be necessary, to make the tests required by this division.
   (B)   Testing instruments and standards may be tested, and certified, by any
standardizing laboratory.
(Code 1976, § 6-2A.60) (Ord. 6-83, passed 9-19-1983)
§ 21-452  PERIODIC TESTS AND CHECKS.
   (A)   Single-phase alternating current meters in service shall be tested as
follows: A random sampling procedure will be used in the selection of single-
phase meters for test each year.
   (B)   Polyphase alternating current meters in service shall be tested as
follows:
      (1)   Self-contained polyphase meters up to, and including, 50 kW rated
capacity, shall be tested at least once every 72 months;
      (2)   Self-contained polyphase meters of over 50 kW rated capacity shall
be tested at least once every 72 months;
      (3)   Polyphase meters, connected through current transformers or
current, and potential, transformers to circuits, up to, and including, 50 kW
rated capacity, shall be tested at least once every 48 months; and
      (4)   Polyphase meters, connected through current transformers or
current, and potential, transformers, to circuits of over 50 kW rated capacity
shall be tested at least once every 48 months.
   (C)   Meter standards and instruments shall be checked in accordance with
standard procedures.
(Code 1976, § 6-2A.61) (Ord. 6-83, passed 9-19-1983)
§ 21-453  REQUESTED METER TESTS.
   Meter tests requested by the customer will be made as follows:
   (A)   Upon written request by a customer, the town will conduct a test of
the customer’s meter. The town will charge a fee for each such test according
to a schedule adopted by the Town Council, and set forth in the town’s
schedules of rates and fees in Appendix G. If the test results indicate that
the percentage registration of the meter exceeds 102%, then the test fee will
be reimbursed to the customer;
   (B)   The customer, or his or her representative, may be present when the
meter is tested; and
   (C)   A written report of the test results shall be provided the customer
within ten days of the receipt of such results in the town office.
(Code 1976, § 6-2A.62) (Ord. 6-83, passed 9-19-1983)
§§ 21-454 TO 21-460  RESERVED.
DIVISION 7. SERVICE LINES
§ 21-461  ELECTRIC LINE EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   The town will make electric overhead line extensions to such points,
and will provide sufficient continuing revenue to justify such overhead line
extensions, or in lieu of sufficient continuing revenue, the town may require
such definite, and written, guarantees of revenue from a customer, or group of
customers, in addition to any minimum payments required by the rate schedules,
as may be necessary to justify such overhead line extensions. The town shall
not be obligated to construct, or own, any overhead line extension, or other
facilities, to provide any customer with electricity, the cost of which shall
exceed four times the continuing annual revenue, excluding approved fuel charge
revenue, that can reasonably be expected by the town from any such overhead
line extension. Where line extensions cannot be justified based on revenue
forecast, and in lieu of revenue guarantees, a customer, or group of customers,
may receive electrical service from the town; provided, they agree to finance
the installation of lines and other equipment by the town necessary to provide
the requested electrical service.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions specified in subsection (A) above, the
town will make single-phase electric overhead line extensions to residential
customers without cost to such customers, except that the customer may be
required to secure rights-of-way on private property without cost to the town,
or to assist the town in obtaining rights-of-way. The town shall be under no
obligation to construct such single-phase electric overhead extensions unless
rights-of-way are so obtained.
   (C)   The town will provide underground electric service in accordance with
§
21-463.
   (D)   If, in the town’s opinion, the anticipated revenue from a proposed
line extension is temporary, or if the customer, or customers, to be supplied
are unable to establish a credit standing satisfactory to the town, the town
reserves the right to determine finally the advisability of making such line
extension.
   (E)   The town shall not be required to make any electric line extension
until the customer, or customers, to be supplied from such line extension have
signed such applications or agreements, as may reasonably be required by the
town, and fulfilled such other conditions for the connection of electricity, as
may be reasonably required by these terms and conditions, and until all
premises to be supplied have been wired for service.
   (F)   The town shall not be required to make any electric line extension on
private property until the property owner shall have granted to the town an
easement of right-of-way for the construction, operation, and maintenance of
such line extension.
   (G)   (1)   Whenever it is determined that a line extension on private
property to serve one customer will be built by the customer, such line
extension:
         (a)   Shall start within 100 feet of the town’s line;
         (b)   Shall be constructed in compliance with the town’s standards,
and be approved by the town;
         (c)   Shall be maintained by the customer at all times in a manner
satisfactory to the town; and
         (d)   The customer shall assume the liability for the maintenance and
operation of the line.
      (2)   If the line owned by the customer is not operated and maintained in
a manner satisfactory to the town, or, in the town’s opinion, may interfere
with, or be detrimental to, the town’s electric system, or the supply of
electricity to any other customer, then the town may discontinue the supply of
electricity as provided in §
21-444. After such discontinuance, the supply will not be restored until
conditions are made satisfactory to the town, as provided in §
21-445.
   (H)   These general rules and regulations shall not be construed as
prohibiting the town from making electric line extensions of greater length or
higher cost; provided, there is no discrimination between customers using
electricity under the same classification.
(Code 1976, § 6-2A.70) (Ord. 6-83, passed 9-19-1983)
§ 21-462  TEMPORARY SERVICE.
   Upon request of the customer, temporary service shall be supplied under the
following conditions:
   (A)   The customer shall pay to the town, prior to connection of the
service, a temporary service charge which shall be the estimated net cost,
including all applicable overhead costs, of installing and removing the service
facilities furnished by the town both on, and off, the customer’s premises, but
in no case shall such charge be less than the amount listed on the fee schedule
in Appendix G, except as modified by subsection (B) below; and
   (B)   Where temporary service is furnished at a permanent service location,
the temporary service charge will be the net cost to the town, including
overhead costs, which is in excess of the estimated cost of furnishing the
permanent service, but in no case shall such charge be less than the amount
listed on the fee schedule in Appendix G.
(Code 1976, § 6-2A.71) (Ord. 6-83, passed 9-19-1983)
§ 21-463  UNDERGROUND ELECTRIC SERVICE.
   (A)   Intent. The intent of this policy is to:
      (1)   Set forth a developer’s installation requirements, and an owner’s
service charges for underground electric distribution systems and services in
residential, commercial, and industrial areas;
      (2)   Outline the requirements for individual underground services
supplied from existing overhead distribution systems; and
      (3)   Provide proper compensation to the town for the differential cost
between underground and overhead service.
   (B)   Residential subdivisions.
      (1)   Where a development within the service area of the town is to be
subdivided into residential lots and has been approved, the electrical
distribution system will be installed underground at the direction of the town,
or at the request of the subdivision developer; provided, that:
         (a)   The subdivision developer shall provide the town with a copy of
the approved plans of the subdivision, and the easements necessary for the most
efficient installation of the required distribution system. The installation
will be installed from the final recorded plat, or from a preliminary plat upon
the written authorization of the developer. Any charges resulting from re-
division of lots will be borne by the developer;
         (b)   If the subdivision or section to be developed requires the
installation of underground facilities for not more than 50 building lots, the
installation will be made using pad-mounted transformers with an excess
facilities charge payable in advance of construction. The town will determine
the excess facilities charge for each lot in accordance with §
21-414;
         (c)   After at least two-thirds of the initial or previous section of
50 lots have been utilized (construction started), installation of underground
facilities using pad-mounted transformers will be made to an additional 50 lots
with the excess facilities charge payable in advance of construction;
         (d)   If the subdivision developer elects to use submersible
transformers in lieu of pad-mounted transformers, he or she must pay the town,
in advance of construction, a further excess facilities charge per lot, in
addition to all other charges stated above, for an underground electric
distribution system;
         (e)   Where three-phase power is requested by the developer for a
special application, the developer shall pay, prior to the installation, the
excess facilities charge for an underground three-phase system over a single-
phase system, as determined by the town; and
         (f)   Any variance from the above requirements will be referred to the
Town Council for consideration.
      (2)   Homeowners, or home builders, requesting permanent underground
electric service for single-family dwellings in subdivisions, or areas provided
with underground electric distribution systems, or requesting underground
service from an overhead distribution system within a subdivision approved by
the Planning Commission, shall pay to the town an excess facilities charge in
accordance with §
21-414 for each individual service at the time the application for service is
made. The underground service connection fee will be the same for all sizes of
underground electric service. The town will determine the size of the
underground electric service conductors to be installed in accordance with the
customer’s connected electrical load.
   (C)   Multi-family dwellings.
      (1)   Owners, or builders, requesting underground electric service for
duplex family dwellings shall, prior to the installation of underground
electric facilities, pay to the town the differential cost between installation
of an underground and overhead single-phase electric system, the excess
facilities charge per service (meter) to be provided.
      (2)   (a)   Owners, or builders, requesting underground electric service
for multi-family dwellings shall, prior to the installation of underground
electric facilities, pay to the town as the differential cost between
installation of an underground and overhead single-phase electric system, and
services the excess facilities charge per meter for gang metering with the
complex development.
         (b)   Where three-phase power is not required for the distribution
system, but is requested by the owner, or builder, for a special application,
the complex owner shall pay, prior to the installation, the excess facilities
charge, which is the differential cost of an underground three-phase system
over a single-phase system, as determined by the town.
         (c)   The owner, or builder, shall provide the town with the easements
necessary for the most efficient installation of the required distribution
system.
   (D)   Mobile homes.
      (1)   Where a mobile home park has been approved, the park owner
requesting underground electric service shall, prior to the installation of
underground electric facilities, pay to the town the excess facilities charge
which is the differential cost between the installation of an underground and
overhead single-phase electric system and services, for each mobile home space
service to be provided in the mobile home park development. If the park owner
provides and installs town-approved loop-feed-type meter pedestals, a deduction
based on the estimated savings to the town will be allowed. The town will not
be responsible for any maintenance, or replacement, of these meter pedestals.
      (2)   Where three-phase power is not required for the distribution
system, but is requested by the owner for a special application, the owner
shall pay, prior to the installation, an excess facilities charge equal to the
differential cost of an underground three-phase system over a single-phase
system, as determined by the town.
      (3)   The mobile home park owner shall provide the town with the
easements necessary for the most efficient installation of the required
distribution system.
      (4)   Where a mobile home owner requests underground electric service,
and is not in an approved mobile home park, the owner shall, prior to the
installation of underground electric facilities, pay to the town an excess
facilities charge equal to the differential cost between an underground and
overhead service for the permanent service.
   (E)   Individual services.
      (1)   Where a homeowner, or builder, requests underground service for a
single-family dwelling, and is not in a subdivision already approved for
underground service, the owner shall, prior to the installation of underground
electric facilities, pay to the town an excess facilities charge equal to the
differential cost between an underground and overhead service for the permanent
service.
      (2)   Where, in the opinion of the Town Manager, a residential service
does not meet the above requirements, the town will determine the exact
difference in cost of underground to overhead, and charge this amount for
service.
   (F)   Commercial and industrial areas.
      (1)   Where the town has, on the property, an existing overhead or
underground electric distribution system in a commercial area, the town will
extend underground secondary services for the excess facilities charge equal to
the differential cost between the town’s standard three-phase overhead delivery
and underground installation.
      (2)   Where a development within the service area of the town is to be
subdivided into commercial lots and has been approved, and has no existing
underground electric distribution system, the electrical distribution system
will be installed underground at the direction of the town, or the written
request of the subdivision developer; provided:
         (a)   The subdivision developer shall provide the town with all
easements necessary for the most efficient installation of the required
distribution system;
         (b)   The subdivider’s written request shall specify whether three-
phase, or single-phase, service is to be provided to each lot in the
subdivision;
         (c)   The developer shall pay, in advance of construction, the
differential cost between overhead and underground facilities in the street or
access area required to make service available to each lot or section; and
         (d)   Individual services within the subdivision shall be handled as
services in an existing commercial area.
      (3)   Where all services are installed initially, such as shopping
centers, industrial sites, office, and institutional complexes, and where a
development within the service of the town has been approved, the electric
distribution system will be installed underground at the written request of the
developer; provided:
         (a)   The developer shall provide the town with the easements
necessary for the most efficient installation of the required distribution
system;
         (b)   The developer’s written request shall specify single-phase or
three-phase voltage requirements, and load data from each service point; and
         (c)   The developer shall pay, in advance of construction, the
differential cost between overhead and underground service for the entire
installation, as determined by the town.
      (4)   (a)   The additional cost for underground electric service to an
industrial site or building will be the differential cost between an
underground and overhead distribution, as determined by the town. These charges
are payable in advance of construction.
         (b)   The owner shall provide the town with the easements necessary
for most efficient installation of the required distribution system.
      (5)   (a)   Where available from existing overhead or underground
electric facilities, temporary service for construction purposes will be
provided in underground areas. There will be no additional underground electric
service charge for temporary services.
         (b)   Where temporary service is requested prior to the installation
of permanent, underground electrical facilities, or in a location not
serviceable by these facilities, the applicant shall pay, prior to
installation, the cost of labor to construct, and remove, a temporary line, and
any non-salvageable material from the line as determined by the town.
      (6)   (a)   Where an owner of residential, or commercial, property
requests that an existing overhead service be changed to underground, and the
owner makes electrical system additions that will require an increase in the
town’s service conductor size, underground charges will be those charges on new
service of the same type.
         (b)   Where an owner of residential, or commercial, property requests
that an existing overhead service be changed to underground, and no increase in
the town’s service conductors is required, the owner shall, prior to the
change, pay to the town the cost of removing the existing overhead service
(less salvage).
         (c)   The cost of installation of the new underground service in
accordance with the estimate prepared by the town.
(Code 1976, § 6-2A.80) (Ord. 6-83, passed 9-19-1983)
§§ 21-464 TO 21-470  RESERVED.
DIVISION 8. JOINT MUNICIPAL ASSISTANCE AGENCY
§ 21-471  FINDINGS.
   The governing board hereby finds that participation in the proposed Joint
Municipal Assistance Agency will result in economies, efficiencies, and other
benefits with respect to the construction, ownership, maintenance, expansion,
and operation of the town’s electric system, and that participation in such
agency by the town as a member is desirable.
(Code 1976, § 6-2B.l) (Ord. 7-83, passed 9-6-1983)
§ 21-472  AUTHORITY.
   The towns’ councils are authorized, and directed, to take such action as may
be necessary, or desirable, to effect the town’s membership in the Joint
Municipal Assistance Agency to be formed, pursuant to an application to the
Secretary of State by two, or more, council members from the municipalities
proposed as members of the same.
(Code 1976, § 6-2B.2) (Ord. 7-83, passed 9-6-1983)
§ 21-473  INITIAL MEMBERS.
   (A)   The names of the towns which are proposed to be the initial members of
the Joint Municipal Assistance Agency are: Albemarle, Apex, Ayden, Belhaven,
Benson, Black Creek, Cherryville, Hamilton, Hertford, High Point, Hobgood,
Hookerton, Huntersville, Kinston, Oak City, Pikeville, Pinetops, Pineville, Red
Springs, Robersonville, Rocky Mount, Clayton, Concord, Cornelius, Dallas,
Drexel, Edenton, Elizabeth City, Farmville, Forest City, Fountain, Fremont,
Gastonia, Granite Falls, Greenville, La Grange, Laudis, Laurinburg, Lexington,
Lincolnton, Louisburg, Lucama, Lumberton, Macclesfield, Maiden, Monroe,
Morganton, New Bern, Newton, Scotland Neck, Selma, Sharpsburg, Shelby,
Smithfield, Southport, Stantonsburg, Statesville, Tarboro, Wake Forest,
Walstonburg, Washington, Wilson, Windsor, and Winterville.
   (B)   The failure of any one, or more, of the proposed initial members to
actually join the Joint Municipal Assistance Agency shall, in no way, impair,
or affect, the findings, or determinations, made in this division, or the
authority, granted in this division.
(Code 1976, § 6-2B.3) (Ord. 7-83, passed 9-6-1983)
§ 21-474  TRANSFER FROM ELECTRICITIES.
   The town does hereby authorize the transfer to the newly formed Joint
Municipal Assistance Agency of its interest in such of the assets of
ElectriCities of the state, a voluntary association, as may be determined by
the Board of Directors of ElectriCities of the state.
(Code 1976, § 6-2B.4) (Ord. 7-83, passed 9-6-1983)
§§ 21-475 TO 21-499  RESERVED.
ARTICLE V:  CUSTOMER SERVICE AND ENFORCEMENT
Section
   
21-501   Residential customer deposit
   
21-502   Business, commercial, and industrial customer deposits
   
21-503   Exemptions from deposit requirements
   
21-504   Amount of deposit
   
21-505   Refund of deposit
   
21-506   Final disposition of deposit
   
21-507   Voluntary discontinuance of service
   
21-508   Discontinuation of service
   
21-509   Procedure for discontinuation of service; format of bills
   
21-510   Special billings
   
21-511   Payment of charges
   
21-512   Penalties for violation
§ 21-501  RESIDENTIAL CUSTOMER DEPOSIT.
   (A)   The town shall require an applicant for new residential utility
service to pay a utility deposit, or satisfactorily establish credit, with the
town before utility service will be made. The town may waive the payment of a
cash deposit in lieu of, and based upon, an individual applicant’s
establishment of credit as follows:
      (1)   If the applicant owns the premises to be served, or other real
estate within the town utilizing town utilities, unless the applicant is an
unsatisfactory credit risk;
      (2)    The applicant demonstrates that he or she is a satisfactory credit
risk by appropriate means which may be quickly, and inexpensively, checked by
the town;
      (3)   The applicant has been a customer of the town for a similar type of
service within a period of 24 consecutive billings preceding the date of
application, and during the last 12 consecutive billings for that prior service
has not had service discontinued for nonpayment of a bill, or had more than two
occasions in which a bill was not paid when it became due; provided, the
average periodic bill for such previous service was equal to at least 50% of
that estimated for the new service; and, provided further, that the credit of
the applicant is unimpaired; or
      (4)   The applicant furnishes a satisfactory guarantor to secure payment
of bills for the service requested in an amount as prescribed below in the
town’s utility deposit rate schedule. If an applicant elects to offer a
guarantor in lieu of paying a deposit, the town will require a written
commitment from the guarantor in an amount as mentioned above. If an applicant
becomes delinquent in his or her utility payments, and is utilizing a
guarantor, payment will be required of the guarantor within 15 days from notice
to the guarantor that the customer has been delinquent. If any guarantor ever
fails to render payment under this section, he or she may not serve as a
guarantor for anyone thereafter.
   (B)   The establishment of credit under the provisions of this policy shall
not relieve the applicant for service, or the customer from compliance with the
reasonable regulations of the town including, but not limited to, the prompt
payment of bills, and the rules for discontinuance of service for the
nonpayment of bills due for service furnished.
   (C)   Other applicants for new residential utility service shall be required
to make a deposit guaranteeing payment of charges for utility service, as
provided in this article.
   (D)   The town shall require a deposit from a customer who was not required
to make a deposit when he or she applied for, and obtained, new residential
utility service if, during any consecutive 12 billings for that prior service,
he or she had service discontinued for nonpayment of a bill; or had more than
two occasions in which a bill was not paid when it became due; or had one of
his or her checks given in payment of a bill dishonored. The town may require
any customer who has had a check dishonored in payment of a bill to pay all
utility bills in cash only.
   (E)   No money given to the town as utility deposit shall be placed in an
interest-bearing account, and upon refund of any deposit, a customer shall not
be entitled to any interest thereon.
(Code 1976, § 6.101) (Ord. 12-79, passed 11-5-1979)
§ 21-502  BUSINESS, COMMERCIAL, AND INDUSTRIAL CUSTOMER DEPOSITS.
   Applicants for new business, commercial, or industrial utility service shall
be required to make a deposit guaranteeing payment of charges for utility
service, or for reestablishment of service. The town shall have the right to
require such customer to adjust such deposits after the expiration of any four
consecutive billing periods to reflect actual, rather than estimated, usage.
(Code 1976, § 6.102) (Ord. 12-79, passed 11-5-1979)
§ 21-503  EXEMPTIONS FROM DEPOSIT REQUIREMENTS.
   Colleges, public schools, hospitals, and public agency customers shall be
exempt from furnishing deposits for utility services.
(Code 1976, § 6.103) (Ord. 12-79, passed 11-5-1979)
§ 21-504  AMOUNT OF DEPOSIT.
   (A)   Whenever an applicant, or customer, is required to make a deposit
pursuant to these rules either for guaranteeing payment of charges for service,
or for reestablishment of service, the amount of the deposit shall be a sum
equal to the average bill for service as estimated for two billing periods, but
shall not be less than those fees outlined in the schedule in Appendix G.
   (B)   The actual amount of deposit to be made by customers for various types
of service shall be determined, at least annually, by the Town Manager based
upon his or her determination of an average bill for service of two billing
periods for the type, and anticipated, volume of service requested. The deposit
requirement determinations of the Town Manager shall be spread upon the minutes
of the Town Council during the month of June of each year, and shall be in
effect until altered by the Town Manager in accordance with the procedures set
forth in this article.
      (1)   Outside customers rates will be double the inside rates for
customers utilizing rate number I or number II. Outside customers utilizing
rate number III or number IV will pay the same as inside customers.
      (2)   If a customer uses only electricity, his or her deposit rate shall
be either rate number III or number II, based upon his or her residence being
all electric or not all-electric.
      (3)   Commercial customer rates shall be an amount equal to the
customer’s estimated consumption for one full billing cycle. The town shall
consider any seasonal characteristics of the customer’s utility consumption in
determining the amount of the deposit.
   (C)   Deposits from any customers of the town shall accrue no interest while
held by the town.
(Code 1976, § 6.104) (Ord. 12-79, passed 11-5-1979; Ord. 5-2000, passed 2-21-
2000)
§ 21-505  REFUND OF DEPOSIT.
   (A)   Existing residential customers may apply for, and receive, refunds of
their deposit, or have their deposits credited to their accounts, if the
customer during the last 12 consecutive billing periods for prior service has
not had service discontinued for nonpayment of bill, or had more than two
occasions in which a bill was not paid when it came due, or had one of their
checks given in payment of a bill dishonored.
   (B)   The deposits of existing residential customers who are not entitled to
a refund of their deposit under subsection (A) above, shall continue to be held
by the town until the customer qualifies for a refund, or until service is
discontinued or terminated.
   (C)   The town shall have the right to refund the deposits of residential
customers who qualify for refunds, but who do not apply for such refunds, or to
credit their accounts with the amount of the deposit.
   (D)   The deposits of existing business, commercial, or industrial customers
shall not be subject to refund, and shall continue to be held by the town until
service is discontinued or terminated.
(Code 1976, § 6.105) (Ord. 12-79, passed 11-5-1979)
§ 21-506  FINAL DISPOSITION OF DEPOSIT.
   When a customer has furnished a deposit to guarantee payment of bills and
service has been terminated, the deposit will be applied to any unpaid charges,
or indebtedness due, to the town and the balance refunded.
(Code 1976, § 6.106) (Ord. 12-79, passed 11-5-1979)
§ 21-507  VOLUNTARY DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   In order to assure discontinuance of service at a time requested by the
customer, notice to the town in advance of the proposed time of discontinuance
shall be required. When a customer desires to discontinue service, he or she
shall give notice to the town at least 24 hours in advance, and the customer
will be responsible for all service consumed within the 24 hours following the
time of his or her notice to the town.
(Code 1976, § 6.107) (Ord. 12-79, passed 11-5-1979)
§ 21-508  DISCONTINUATION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Discontinuation. The town may discontinue utility service to a
customer or premises for one, or more, of the following reasons:
      (1)   Failure of a customer to pay any bill, fee, or charge rendered in
connection with the provision of a utility service within the time allowed by
this chapter or town policy. An account must be delinquent for more then ten
days before service may be disconnected;
      (2)   Failure of a customer to make a deposit or to guarantee payment of
charges for utility service, or to increase a previously-paid deposit when
required to do so;
      (3)   Determination by the Town Manager that the property owner, or
customer, has a prior unpaid bill for any utility service due to the town;
      (4)   Refusal to permit access by town employees, or agents, to a
premises when such access is required under this chapter;
      (5)   Damage to, or loss of, town-owned property, equipment, or
facilities due to action or negligence of the customer, or discharges from the
customer’s premises; and
      (6)   Determination by the Town Manager that the property owner, or
customer, has violated, or is violating, any provision of the code, or other
applicable law relating to the utilization of town utility services.
   (B)   Reinstatement. When it becomes necessary for the town to discontinue
utility service to a customer for any of the reasons provided in subsection (A)
above, service will be reinstated only after all bills for service then due
have been paid, any deposit required has been made, any required reconnection
fee has been paid, and the customer has reimbursed the town for any expenses
incurred in connection with the proceedings to discontinue service.
   (C)   Multiple locations. If a customer is receiving service at more than
one location, service at any or all locations may be discontinued if bills for
service at any one, or more, locations are not paid within the time specified
by this article, or town policy. However, residential electric service shall
not be discontinued for nonpayment of bills for other nonresidential classes of
service.
   (D)   Proceedings. Whenever a proceeding is initiated pursuant to this
article to discontinue a utility service to a customer, and that proceeding is
terminated, or suspended, before service is actually discontinued, but there is
a finding, or agreement, that the customer has violated some provision of this
chapter which, unless abated, could result in termination of service, the
continuation of utility service to the customer shall be conditioned upon the
customer’s paying, or reimbursing, the town for such fees and expenses as the
town may have incurred in connection with the subject proceeding.
   (E)   Restrictions.
      (1)   In accordance with 11 U.S.C. § 366, if a delinquent customer files
for bankruptcy, the town shall not discontinue service solely on the basis of
delinquency; provided, that the debtor or bankruptcy trustee furnishes an
adequate assurance of payment for continued water service within 20 days after
filing the bankruptcy petition.
      (2)   If a delinquent customer is not the owner of the premises to which
the services are delivered, the payment of the delinquent account may not be
required before providing services at the request of a new, and different,
tenant or occupant of the premises, but this restriction shall not apply when
the premises are occupied by two, or more, tenants whose services are measured
by the same meter.
      (3)   The town shall not suspend, or disconnect, service to a customer
because of a past-due, and unpaid, balance for service incurred by another
person who resides with the customer after service has been provided to the
customer’s household, unless one, or more, of the following apply:
         (a)   The customer and the person were members of the same household
at a different location when the unpaid balance for service was incurred;
         (b)   The person was a member of the customer’s current household when
the service was established, and the person had an unpaid balance for service
at that time; or
         (c)   The person is, or becomes, responsible for the bill for the
service to the customer.
(Code 1976, § 6.108) (Ord. 5-86, passed 2-17-1986)
§ 21-509  PROCEDURE FOR DISCONTINUATION OF SERVICE; FORMAT OF BILLS.
   (A)   It is the policy of the town to interrupt utility services to a
customer, or premises, by reason of nonpayment of the charges incurred for any
billing period. An interruption in service may also be made for any other
reason, but only after adequate notice has been given to the customer that
charges are due and owing to the town, and a meaningful opportunity has been
afforded to the customer to be heard on any disputed bill or other issue.
   (B)   Bills for charges and services related to the municipal utilities
shall normally be rendered monthly, and shall be mailed to the person who
applied for service to the subject premises, unless service has been
transferred into the name of another person upon proper request therefor, and
approved by the town.
   (C)   It shall be the responsibility of any person receiving a utility
service from the town to keep the town advised of a current address where
notices and bills, rendered in connection with the provision of utility
service, may be mailed.
   (D)   Town utility bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address
and telephone number of the town official in charge of utility billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect that:
      (1)   All bills are due and payable upon receipt, and are considered past
due on the fifteenth day of the month;
      (2)   Any customer who fails to remit payment by the twenty-sixth day of
each month for charges incurred during the billing period shall incur late
penalties as set forth, and amended from time to time, by the Town Council. In
the event the twenty-sixth day of the month falls on a weekend or holiday, late
penalties shall be applied on the next working day;
      (3)   All bills shall clearly include a statement that utility services
will be interrupted for nonpayment if the charges incurred during the billing
period are not remitted to the town on, or before, the last day of the month.
In the event payment is not remitted before the last day of the month,
reconnect fees, as set forth and amended from time to time by the Town Council,
will be applied to the customer’s bill. In the event the final day of the month
falls on a Friday, weekend, or day preceding, or during, a holiday, the
customer shall have until the next working day. All delinquent charges, late
fees, and reconnect fees must be paid in full before utility services are
restored by the town;
      (4)   All bills shall clearly include a statement that a second notice
will not be required prior to the interruption of services;
      (5)   Utility services that have been interrupted will not be reconnected
after normal business hours of the town, on weekends, or during town holidays;
and
      (6)   Any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill shall
have a right to a hearing, at which time he or she may be represented, in
person, and by counselor any other person of his or her choosing, and may
present orally, or in writing, his or her complaint and contentions to the town
official in charge of utility billing who shall be authorized to order that the
customer’s service not be interrupted, and shall have authority to make a final
determination of the customer’s complaint. All appeals must be submitted to the
town on, or before, the twenty-fifth day of the month for which the bill is
due.
   (E)   Requests for delays, or waiver of payment, will not be entertained;
only questions of proper, and correct, billing will be considered. In the
absence of payment of the bill rendered, or resort to the hearing procedure
provided herein, service will be interrupted at the time specified.
(Ord. 12-79, passed 11-5-1979; Ord. 5-86, passed 2-17-1986; Ord. 8-2005, passed
3-21-2005; Ord.  2-2008, passed 1-07-2008)
§ 21-510  SPECIAL BILLINGS.
   Bills for special services, or expenses, incurred in connection with the
provision of a utility service, including, but not limited to, such things as
connection fees, cut-off fees, reconnection fees, surcharges, testing fees,
inspection fees, and the like, may be rendered at such times as may be
convenient by separate bill, or on the customer’s regular bill for service.
Special bills are due, and payable, upon receipt, and are otherwise subject to
the same provisions of this article as regular bills.
(Ord. 5-86, passed 2-17-1986)
§ 21-511  PAYMENT OF CHARGES.
   (A)   Customers may make payment for utility service and related charges to
the town at Town Hall, either in person or by mail. Payment may be made by
cash, check, or money order, or online.
   (B)   Checks which are returned to the town after being dishonored shall be
subject to a returned check fee equal to the maximum allowed by law, and the
returned check service fee may be added to the customer’s utility bill.
   (C)   The town reserves the right to require payments in the form of cash or
money order when a customer remits a check that is returned for non-sufficient
funds. (See §
21-501(D).)
(Ord. 5-86, passed 2-17-1986; Ord. 8-2005, passed 3-21-2005)
§ 21-512  PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION.
   (A)   Except as provided in subsection (E) below, any violation of this
article shall subject the offender to a civil penalty in the amount of $50.
Violators shall be issued a written citation which must be paid within 72 hours
from the time it is issued and served.
   (B)   Each day’s continuing violation shall be a separate, and distinct,
offense.
   (C)   Notwithstanding subsection (A) above, provisions of this article may
be enforced through equitable remedies issued by a court of competent
jurisdiction.
   (D)   In addition to, or in lieu of, remedies authorized in subsections (A)
and (C) above, violations of this article may be prosecuted as a misdemeanor in
accordance with G.S. § 14-4.
   (E)   In accordance with G.S. § 160A-314(b) through (d), the town shall have
the power to collect delinquent accounts by any remedy provided by law for
collection, and enforcing, private debts, but it shall not have the authority
to seek to collect on delinquent accounts through the assessment of civil
penalties.
(Ord. 5-86, passed 2-17-1986)
ARTICLE VI:  WATER AND SEWER EXTENSIONS AND ACCESS CHARGES
Section
   
21-601   General policies of water and sewer line extension
   
21-602   Definitions
   
21-603   Extension policies within town service area
   
21-604   Extensions within town limits; assessment basis
   
21-605   Requests for service; extraterritorial and non-assessment
   
21-606   Miscellaneous policies
   
21-607   Access charges
   
21-608   Statutory procedures
Cross-reference:
   Water and sewer systems, Ch. 21, Arts.
II and
III.
Editor’s note:
   Ord. 35-2001, adopted Oct. 15, 2001, changed the name of this title from
“Water and Sewer Extensions and Availability Charges”.
§ 21-601  GENERAL POLICIES OF WATER AND SEWER LINE EXTENSION.
   (A)   No sewer line or water main may be connected to the town’s water or
sewer system unless such line or main:
      (1)   Is properly designed, and constructed, to service the properties
intended to be served directly by such line or main; and
      (2)   Is of a size and design sufficient to accommodate any necessary
expansion of the water and sewer system to serve other properties, including
fire protection, which can reasonably be anticipated.
   (B)   The town shall own, and control, any and all water mains, sewer lines,
and related facilities connected to, and serviced by, its water or sewer
system, except for those water mains, sewer lines, or facilities of other
public bodies connected to, and serviced by, the town’s water or sewer system
under contracts approved by the Council between the town and other public
bodies.
   (C)   Because the extension of water mains or sewer lines to certain
properties benefits the owners of such properties by raising property values,
the cost to such extension should be borne substantially by the owners of such
properties, except in instances when the Council makes a determination that the
town is obligated, by law, to extend such utilities. However, notwithstanding
the above, or any provisions contained herein, the town shall not levy
assessments against a property for water or sewer services provided pursuant to
an involuntary annexation.
   (D)   To comply with municipal obligations imposed by state statutes, or in
cases of emergency where it is found to be in the public interest, or necessary
to protect the public health, the town may authorize extensions of water and/or
sanitary sewer into specific areas.
   (E)   All extensions, expansions, and new facilities must be economically
feasible, and must be constructed in accordance with town engineering criteria,
standards, and specifications, and in conformity with any existing, or future,
policies and plans which are adopted by the town.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 6-19-1989)
§ 21-602  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates, or requires, a different meaning.
   ACCESS CHARGES. A charge for connection to the town’s water distribution or
sewer collection system, which charge equals the front footage construction
charge which a party requesting service to the premises would be charged had a
new line or main had to be installed to serve the subject property. Front
footage in excess of 200 feet shall not be considered in determining the ACCESS
CHARGES for each utility connection to a single-family residential structure on
a single lot or parcel. The minimum access fee shall be based on 40 feet of
front footage. ACCESS CHARGES shall be adjusted annually on July 1 so as to
maintain a reasonable relationship between the charges and actual construction
costs, and shall be based on cost estimates prepared by the Town Engineer,
approved by the Town Manager, and placed into effect as provided herein.
   APPLICANT. Those receiving services, other than through involuntary
annexation.
   ELIGIBLE REFUND. The portion of the project cost for reimbursement to the
applicant, according to the provisions of this article.
   EXTENSION. Any water main or sewer line lengthening required to connect a
water service to a large main, or sewer lateral to an outfall sewer or major
trunk sewer.
   FEASIBLE PROJECT (EXISTING DEVELOPMENT). A water line or sewer main
extension project within the corporate limits of the town for which a majority
in number of the abutting property owners have signed a petition, which
majority must own at least a majority of all lineal feet of frontage of the
lands abutting either side of the proposed project, or a project outside the
corporate limits of the town for which a deposit has been received in
accordance with §
21-603(b).
   LARGE MAIN. Any water main larger than eight inches in diameter, serving an
area, sized and located so that additional service connections beyond the
limits of any associated development can be made without lowering the level of
service.
   MAJOR TRUNK SEWER. A gravity sewer line extending directly from an outfall
which is located and sized, so that additional gravity sewer lines can be
connected thereto.
   OUTFALL. Any sewer line serving a drainage area, located and sized so that
additional lateral connections beyond the limits of any associated development
can be made without lowering the level of service.
   TOWN’S SERVICE AREA. All areas inside and outside the corporate limits of
the town serviced by the town’s water or sewer system, and any future
extensions thereof; however, areas serviced by water mains or sewer lines of
other public bodies connected to, and serviced by, the town’s water or sewer
system shall not be included in the TOWN’S SERVICE AREA.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 6-19-1989)
§ 21-603  EXTENSION POLICIES WITHIN TOWN SERVICE AREA.
   (A)   The town will provide the following basic water and sewer facilities
within the town’s service area utilizing bond funds, grant funds, current
revenues, user charges, special assessments, access charges, construction fees,
availability fees, and other available funds:
      (1)   Water treatment works;
      (2)   Water pumping stations;
      (3)   Water storage tanks;
      (4)   Large water mains;
      (5)   Small water mains;
      (6)   Outfall sewers;
      (7)   Major trunk sewers;
      (8)   Sewerage collector lines;
      (9)   Sewage pumping stations designed, and intended, to serve more than
one property;
      (10)   Sanitary sewer force mains serving basic facility pumping
stations; and
      (11)   Sewage treatment plants.
   (B)   (1)   If an applicant for water or sewer service desires to have
unscheduled, and unbudgeted, facilities constructed by the town, and the
facilities requested are other than large or small water mains, sewerage
collector lines, major trunk sewers, or sewer outfalls, then the applicant
shall complete an application therefor on forms provided by the town, and the
applicant shall deposit with the Town Clerk the projected cost of the facility
sought to be constructed as such cost is estimated by the Town Engineer. The
applicant shall agree to pay any actual costs of construction which exceed the
funds deposited with the Clerk. If the Town Council approves the requested
project, the facility will be constructed. As provided herein, monies deposited
by the applicant with the town shall be refunded to the applicant without
interest in annual installments with the first installment due the first of
August following the placement in service of the subject facility. Payments
shall be made in August so that payment obligations may be anticipated during
the annual budget process.
      (2)   In the discretion of the town, the monies deposited shall be
reimbursed to the applicant either:
         (a)   In five equal installments; or
         (b)   In installments equal to one-third of the revenue derived by the
town from water and sewer user charges from such facilities for the year of
reimbursement until the amount of the deposit is paid, or for 15 years,
whichever comes first.
      (3)   Reimbursements for work described in this subsection are limited,
and each request will be reviewed by the Town Manager for recommendation to the
Council.
   (C)   Water and sewer extensions from the basic water and sewer facilities
described in subsection (A) above to individual customer premises may be made
by, or through, the town for the following reasons:
      (1)   The need to protect the health, public safety, and welfare;
      (2)   Upon request of property owners of an existing development; and/or
      (3)   Upon application of developers of new development including
business activities, industrial development, residential development, and
similar ventures.
   (D)   Except as may otherwise be provided in §
21-607, all applicants for connection to the town’s water or sewer service
lines shall pay the fees described in §
21-602 (definition of “access charges”), standard tap fees, and such other fees
as have been adopted by the town, and in effect at the time the application is
made.
   (E)   All water and sewer extensions from the basic facilities described in
subsection (A) above to individual customer services for need, or existing
developments, will be made by the town’s Public Works Department, or approved
licensed contractors. These extensions will be financed by the water and sewer
special assessment fees, access charges, and from water and sewer user charges,
and other available revenues.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 6-19-1989; Ord. 35-2001, passed 10-15-2001)
§ 21-604  EXTENSIONS WITHIN TOWN LIMITS; ASSESSMENT BASIS.
   (A)   Petition for service; assessment. Extensions of water and/or sanitary
sewer service within the corporate limits of the town shall be made upon
petition, as described in subsection (B) below, except in those cases described
in subsection (B)(2) below, in which cases the town may order the service
constructed without petition. The costs of such extension shall be specially
assessed as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   Petition; form; requirements exceptions.
      (1)   A petition for extension of water and/or sewer service shall be on
a form provided by the town, and shall designate by a general description the
improvements proposed, and shall request that the same be made in conformance
with the provisions of this article, and that such proportion of the cost of
each of such improvements as may be specified in the petition be specially
assessed against the property abutting on the street, or streets, or part
thereof in which, or on which, such extensions are proposed to be made. The
petition shall be signed by at least a majority in number of the owners, which
majority must own at least a majority of all lineal feet of frontage of the
lands abutting the street, or streets, or part of the street proposed to be
served by the extension. For purposes of the petition, all owners of undivided
interests shall be deemed and treated as one person, and such land shall be
sufficiently signed for when the petition is signed by the owner, or owners, of
a majority in amount of such undivided interests; provided, that for purposes
of this section, the word OWNER shall be considered to mean the owners of any
life estate or of estate of inheritance, but shall not include mortgagees,
trustees of a naked trust, trustees under deeds of trust to secure payment of
money, or lien holders. Upon the filing of such petition with the town, the
Town Clerk, or other person designated by the Town Council shall investigate
the sufficiency of the petition, and if found to be sufficient, shall certify
the same to the governing body.
      (2)   At the time a petition is being made, any property having direct
access to the service for which a petition is being made for extension shall
not be subject to the assessment, and shall not be included in the total number
of property owners and front footage in determining a feasible project. Those
properties shall be subject to the access fee at the time, and application, for
connection to the new service is made.
   (C)   Area without service. Whenever it is determined by the Town Council,
based on evidence presented, that an area is without water or sewer, and that
the protection of the public health requires that water and sewer extensions be
made into such area, and if in the opinion of the Town Council the abutting
property will be benefitted by said improvement to the extent of the portion of
the cost to be assessed against such abutting property, the Town Council may,
without petition of a majority of the property owners, order the extension of
such lines. Access to such line shall be by the payment of access charges as
set forth in §
21-602 (definition of “access charges”).
   (D)   Special assessments. Upon receipt of a petition certified as
sufficient, the Town Council shall follow the procedure set out in G.S. Chapter
160A, Article 10, as amended, concerning special assessments. This procedure
includes an initial determination by the Council as to whether it wants to act
upon the petition, and proceed with construction of the proposed project.
   (E)   Cost.
      (1)   If the Town Council shall decide to proceed with a project for
which a valid petition has been filed, then the town will participate in the
cost of the project by paying one-third of the construction cost thereof under
the procedure set forth in §
21-608 herein.
      (2)   The cost of a project will be reduced on a pro-rata basis to the
town and to all parties subject to assessment by any state, or federal, grants
received.
   (F)   Carrying out requirements. The Town Council may adopt such rules and
regulations as are necessary to carry out the requirements of this article.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 6-19-1989)
§ 21-605  REQUESTS FOR SERVICE; EXTRATERRITORIAL AND NON-ASSESSMENT.
   The extension of water and sanitary sewer service outside the corporate
limits of the town, and anywhere within the town’s corporate limits where a
qualifying petition from affected property owners cannot be obtained, shall be
made as follows:
   (A)   (1)   Any person desiring to install a water or sewer line to a
premises within the town’s service area to be connected to, and serviced by,
the town’s water and sewer system shall make application therefor on forms
designated, and provided, by the town, and shall furnish such information, or
exhibits, as are required on such application forms.
      (2)   At a minimum, the application submitted shall designate the
specific properties to be served with projected service requirements to the
various premises therein. With such application, the applicant shall:
         (a)   Pay to the town a non-refundable application fee of $100; and
         (b)   Submit six copies of engineering plans, profiles, and
specifications of such water main or sewer line, including those for any
required fire hydrants, valves, manholes, sewer lift stations, force mains, or
collector sewer lines necessary, in connection therewith, to the Town Manager.
All plans shall bear the seal of a registered, professional engineer.
      (3)   The Town Manager will cause an estimate of the construction cost to
be prepared, and will project the amount of reimbursements to be made under
this article. These estimates will be included in the contract between the town
and the applicant as the basis of such reimbursements. The projected
construction cost estimates shall be based on the per linear foot costs as
approved, and set annually, under §
21-602 (definition of “access charges”);
   (B)   In the event that the installation of water mains or sewer lines
pursuant to this section is done by town forces, the cost to the town of its
employees and material shall be calculated, and charged, to the project cost to
be paid by the applicant, as set forth herein;
   (C)   Before the Town Council will consider any project pursuant to this
article, one-third of the entire estimated construction cost, or an acceptable
bank letter of credit in that amount, must be deposited with the Town Clerk;
   (D)   If the application is approved, the Town Attorney shall prepare a
written contract between the town and the applicant, in accordance with the
provisions of subsection (E)(5) below, and other provisions of this article;
   (E)   No water main or sewer line may be installed, and connected to, the
town water or sewer system except under written contract approved by the
Council, and executed by the town and the applicant. Such contract shall
incorporate the substance of the following provisions:
      (1)   Installation of any water main or sewer line, including any
required fire hydrants, valves, manholes, sewer lift stations, force mains, or
collector sewer lines necessary in connection therewith, shall be done by town
forces; by the applicant, if the applicant, under the laws of the state, is
permitted to make such installations; or by a contractor of the applicant
licensed by the state to make such installations. Such installations shall be
done in accordance with engineering plans, profiles, and specifications
approved by the Town Engineer, a copy of the same shall be endorsed as to such
approval for the applicant’s use;
      (2)   The applicant shall be responsible, at his or her own expense, for
the preparation of any such required plans, profiles, and specifications for
obtaining approval for water and/or sewer line extensions from the State
Department of Environment and Natural Resources, and any other applicable
federal or state agencies, and for any other engineering fees in connection
with the installation of such utilities;
      (3)   The installation of the utilities shall be subject to the
inspection, and supervision, of the town during construction, and the
connection thereof to the town water or sewer system shall not be made until
the same shall have been tested under supervision of, and the written approval
and acceptance of, such installation given by the Director of Public Works.
After such approval and acceptance, the town shall thereafter repair, and
maintain, the same, except the applicant shall be responsible for defects in
workmanship or materials, or any non-compliance with the plans and
specifications that appear within one year after such acceptance;
      (4)   Installation of utilities done by the applicant, or a contract with
a licensed contractor, shall be done and completed at the sole expense, and
responsibility, of the applicant, free and clear of all claims or encumbrances,
within 12 months from the date of the contract; otherwise, the terms of the
contract shall be null and void after the expiration of said 12-month period.
In addition, the applicant shall be solely responsible that such utilities are
installed within this period in accordance with the plans, profiles, and
specifications approved by the town;
      (5)   The applicant shall bear the expense (including attorney’s fees and
recording expenses) of the town obtaining such perpetual rights-of-way, or
deeds, as shall be specified by the town for the construction, maintenance, and
operation of such utilities, including any encroachment agreements that may be
required from the State Department of Transportation, or a railroad or other
public utility;
      (6)   Upon completion of the utilities and the connection thereof to the
town’s water and sewer system, the water main or sewer line, and any fire
hydrants, valves, manholes, sewer lift stations, force mains, or collector
sewer lines required in connection therewith, shall thereupon, and thereafter,
be the entire, and sole, property of the town, and under the sole and exclusive
control of the town;
      (7)   Neither the applicants nor any other person shall be entitled to
any service laterals from any water main or sewer line installed by the
applicant, except upon permission of the town and the payment of any water tap,
or any other water or sewer service connection charges therefor, as required by
the ordinances or regulations of the town;
      (8)   If a water main in excess of six inches, or a sewer line in excess
of 12 inches, shall be required by the town to provide for the expansion of
water or sewer service to other properties, then the town will reimburse the
applicant the difference in the cost of the pipe, or any such water main or
sewer line, and the cost of six-inch water pipe, or 12-inch sewer pipe, such
difference in cost to be determined by the Town Engineer, and stated in the
contract. However, the town will not agree to refund any such difference if any
such oversized water main or sewer line is unnecessary to serve the property of
the applicant. The town shall have the right, at its sole discretion, to
require the applicant to install, and pay for, without reimbursement, water
lines larger than six inches in diameter, or sewer lines larger than 12 inches
in diameter, for any reason related to the applicant’s property or project,
such as to enable the proper extension of service to other adjacent properties
owned by the applicant regardless of whether development is being proposed,
and/or the need to provide adequate supply of water for fire protection. In
addition, if in order to provide for the expansion of sewer service to other
properties a sewer pump station larger in size or capacity than necessary to
serve the properties intended to be then served by the sewer installations
shall be required by the town, then the town will agree to reimburse the
applicant the difference in the cost of a sewer pump station that otherwise
would be adequate to serve such properties intended to be then serviced, and of
the sewer pump stations required by the town to be installed, such difference
in cost to be determined by the Town Engineer, and stated in the contract. Any
such cost differences which the town agrees to refund shall be due, and
payable, without interest to the applicant in August following the first April
1 after the date on which the utilities to be installed under the contract have
been completed, and accepted and approved, by the town;
      (9)   The applicant shall agree to indemnify, and save harmless, the town
from any, and all, loss, cost, damages, expense, and liability (including
attorney’s fees) caused by accident or occurrence causing bodily injury or
property damage arising from the installation of such utilities by the
applicant, or the contractor of the applicant. The applicant, or the contractor
of the applicant, shall maintain workers’ compensation coverage, as well as
general liability insurance, with policy limits of not less than $500,000 per
occurrence for bodily injury, and $100,000 for property damage. The applicant
will furnish certificates of such insurance to the town with the provisions
that the town will be given 30 days’ written notice of any intent to terminate
such insurance by either the applicant, or the insuring company; and
      (10)   In the event the applicant violates any of the terms of the
contract, the town shall have the right to declare all, or any, of the rights
of the applicant under the contract forfeited, and to remove, and disconnect,
any connections that might have been made to the town’s water or sewer system.
   (F)   Applicants for water or sewer line extensions who do the actual
construction work themselves, or who contract directly with a licensed
contractor, shall be entitled to reimbursement by the town for up to one-third
of the cost of construction under the conditions set forth in this article, and
pursuant to contract with the town;
   (G)   Where water and sewer line extensions are done by town forces, or are
contracted for by the town, the applicant(s) shall, prior to the town’s
committing to proceed with the project, and at the discretion of the Town
Council, deposit with the Town Clerk 125% of the projected project cost, or
post an acceptable bank letter of credit in that amount payable to the town.
Upon completion of the project and the placement in service thereof, and the
satisfactory completion of all the applicant’s contractual obligations to the
town, the town will reimburse to the party(ies) paying the same, or their
designee or successor, in interest up to one-third of the actual cost of the
project; provided, that said reimbursement shall be made pursuant to the
provisions, and conditions, of this article, and pursuant to the contract
between the applicant(s) and the town; and
   (H)   (1)   Without limiting the right of the Council to disapprove, for any
reason whatsoever the execution of any written contract between an applicant
and the town, prepared in accordance with this article, the Council will not
approve any contract for the installation of any water main or sewer line to be
connected to, and served by, its water or sewer system if, in its judgment:
         (a)   The projected volume of water that would be used by any
properties to be serviced thereby would unduly tax the available water supply
and/or sewage treatment capacity of the town; or
         (b)   It would not be financially feasible for the town to commit
itself to share in the cost of the proposed project.
      (2)   Before submitting a formal application under subsection (H)(1)
above, an applicant may request from the Council an informal advisory opinion
on its willingness to allow such service line extension. Such request shall be
filed with the Town Manager, together with such documentation as the Town
Manager deems necessary, and the Town Manager shall thereafter bring such
request before the Council, pursuant to normal agenda procedures.
      (3)   An advisory opinion given by the Council shall not bind the Council
to approve an application submitted thereafter, or execute any contract
prepared under subsection (E) above.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 6-19-1989)
§ 21-606  MISCELLANEOUS POLICIES.
   Water and sewer extensions contracted for, and constructed, pursuant to the
provisions of §
21-605, shall be subject to the following policies and practices:
   (A)   Requests for extraterritorial water or sewer service shall be
accompanied by a petition for voluntary annexation of the property to be
served. An agreement by the town to provide water or sewer service to a
premises does not constitute an agreement to annex the property pursuant to the
voluntary annexation petition;
   (B)   So as to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the public, unless
technically infeasible, municipal water or sewer service will not be extended
outside the town’s corporate limits unless service of both utilities to the
subject property is requested, and can reasonably be provided;
   (C)   Applicants for the extension of water or sewer service shall accompany
their petition with an offer to convey to the town such rights-of-way across
property of the applicant as may reasonably be required for the project for
which application is being made, and for any future extensions thereof which
may reasonably be anticipated;
   (D)   If the town receives any state or federal grants for the extension of
the proposed utilities, the cost of the project will be prorated for all
parties to the original contract;
   (E)   After a contract, as provided in §
21-605, is executed between the town and the applicant(s), bids for actual
construction will be sought. If the bids exceed the contract estimate, the
applicant shall have the option of withdrawing from the contract, not
proceeding with the project, and receiving a refund of his or her deposit less
any expenses due to the town for services and activities rendered in connection
with the proposed project; or agreeing to pay the full amount of any difference
between the contract estimate and the actual bid price; or agreeing to such
other modification of the project, and the contract between the applicant and
the town as may be negotiated;
   (F)   Premises within the property owned by the applicant, or on behalf of
which the applicant(s) has paid the cost of construction of a water or sewer
line shall, for a period of 15 years after the water or sewer line goes into
service, be exempt from the payment of access fees as provided herein. These
properties shall be designated in the contract between the town and the
applicant(s) by reference to tax map numbers, or other appropriate description
or reference;
   (G)   Whenever water or sewer line extensions are made which serve
properties owned by persons other than the applicant(s), the town will
reimburse to the applicant(s), or the applicant(s) successor in interest, such
access fees as the town may subsequently receive as a condition of providing
water or sewer service to such property. However, this reimbursement shall be
subject to the limitations of subsection (J)(2) below;
   (H)   (1)   Construction cost estimates used by the Town Manager, as
provided in this article, shall be per linear foot amounts, which shall be
developed, and maintained, by the town as a part of the town’s fees and charges
schedules. The per linear foot charges shall be developed by the Town Manager
using construction cost estimates provided by the town’s civil engineering
consulting firm as to actual construction costs which the town can expect to
incur for the construction of the various types, and sizes, of water and sewer
lines which the town is, from time to time, requested to add to its water
distribution and sewerage collection systems;
      (2)   The per linear foot charge amounts shall include not only actual
construction costs but also necessary related expenses, such as engineering
charges, legal charges, right-of-way acquisition expenses, and the like. The
Town Manager shall present these cost estimate figures to the Town Council
annually during the budget consideration process, and the Council shall make
such adjustments in the town’s per linear foot charge schedule, as may be
necessary to keep those figures current with actual construction cost
experienced in the area. Revised per linear foot cost figures will typically be
adopted as of July 1 of each year. Once adopted, however, cost figures shall
remain in effect until modified by the Council;
   (I)   It is the policy of the town to pay one-third of the cost of
construction of water or sewer line extension projects, not to exceed one-third
of the per linear foot cost amounts adopted by the Town Council, except in the
case of petitions for assessment, in which case the town will pay one-third of
the actual cost of the project. In situations where the estimated costs exceed
the actual costs, an appropriate refund will be made, as provided in subsection
(J) below; and
   (J)   For reimbursements:
      (1)   (a)   Whenever a person is entitled to reimbursement under this
article, the reimbursement shall be made without interest in annual
installments, with the first installment due the first of August following the
placement in service of the subject facility, and the satisfactory completion
of any other contractual or statutory obligations of the applicant to the town;
         (b)   In the discretion of the town, the monies to be reimbursed shall
be paid either:
            1.   In five equal installments; or
            2.   In installments equal to one-third of the revenue derived by
the town from water and sewer user charges from such facilities for the year of
reimbursement until the amount to be reimbursed is paid, or for 15 years,
whichever comes first.
         (c)   The town will also reimburse to the applicant an appropriate
pro-rata portion of the construction costs actually paid by the applicant when
those costs are recovered by the town by means of the charging of access fees
to applicants for service from the subject line. These reimbursements shall be
calculated as set forth in §
21-602 (see definition of “access charges”), and in no event shall exceed the
actual pro rata share of the construction costs borne by the applicant for the
property to which service is subsequently provided;
      (2)   Reimbursements under this article shall be limited as follows:
         (a)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this article, except for
subsection (B) above, no reimbursements shall be made unless the property in
question is served with both town water and town sewer;
         (b)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this article, no person
shall be entitled to any reimbursement for more than 15 years after a water or
sewer line constructed, pursuant to this article, goes into service;
         (c)   An applicant shall submit a request for reimbursement to the
Town manager by April 1 preceding the fiscal year in which he or she wishes to
be paid those reimbursements he or she is eligible for under the terms of the
contract. No reimbursements shall be paid unless the applicant has complied
with the above procedure; and
         (d)   No reimbursements shall be made until the Director of Public
Works receives, and approves, as-built drawings and dedications, or conveyances
of necessary easements and rights-of-way.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 6-19-1989)
§ 21-607  ACCESS CHARGES.
   (A)   Except for those persons exempted by this article, persons who seek
access to the town’s water distribution or sewerage collection systems shall,
in addition to the appropriate tap fee, pay an access charge calculated as set
forth herein.
   (B)   Persons who have petitioned for water or sewer service, and who have
paid, or are paying in a timely fashion, any assessments charged to them
pursuant to that petition process, shall not pay an access charge as a
condition for service from the water or sewer line for which assessments were
made.
   (C)   Persons who petitioned for water or sewer service, and who
participated in the payment of construction charges pursuant to §
21-605 of this article, shall not pay an access charge as a condition for
service from the water or sewer line for which construction charges were made.
   (D)   The waiver of obligation to pay access charges, as set forth in
subsections (B) and (C) above, shall apply for a period of 15 years from the
end of the fiscal year in which the water or sewer line in question was placed
in service.
   (E)   In addition to the waiver of obligation to pay access charges, no
person shall be required to pay access charges for service from a portion of a
line which was placed in service before July 1, 1979. Nor shall any person be
required to pay access charges for service paid for entirely by the current, or
a previous, owner of the property for which connection is requested.
   (F)   (1)   Access charges shall be calculated the same as per linear front
foot construction charges, as described in §
21-606(H). The gross per linear foot charges shall be deemed to constitute 100%
of the cost of construction of a line: one-third of that total cost shall be
deemed borne by the town; one-third shall be applied to, or borne by, the
property on one side of the line, and one-third applied to, or borne by, the
property on the other side of the line.
      (2)   The Town Manager, with the approval of the Town Council, shall,
from time to time, publish detailed cost charts reflecting the various access
charges used by the town, together with other applicable charges, and the
detailed application thereof.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 6-19-1989)
§ 21-608  STATUTORY PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Whenever the Town Council decides to finance extensions by special
assessments, it must adopt a preliminary resolution that shall contain the
following:
      (1)   A statement of intent to undertake the project;
      (2)   A general description of the nature and location of the project;
      (3)   A statement as to the proposed basis for making the assessments
(which shall include a general description of the boundaries of the area
benefitted if the basis of assessment is either “area served” or “value
added”);
      (4)   A statement as to the percentage of the cost of the work that is to
be assessed;
      (5)   A statement as to which, if any, assessments shall be held in
abeyance, and for how long;
      (6)   A statement as to the proposed terms of payment of the assessment;
and
      (7)   An order setting a time and place for a public hearing on the
preliminary resolution at some date between three and ten weeks from the date
of the adoption of the preliminary resolution.
   (B)   At least ten days before the date set for the public hearing, there
must be published in a local newspaper, having general circulation in the
affected area, a notice of adoption of the preliminary assessment resolution,
and of the public hearing; the notice must also generally describe the nature
and location of the project.
   (C)   At least ten days prior to the hearing, copies of the preliminary
resolution must be mailed to all owners of property subject to the assessment.
The person mailing the copies must certify to the governing body that the
copies were mailed by first class mail, and specify the date of mailing.
   (D)   At the public hearing, the governing body must hear all interested
persons who appear with respect to any matter covered by the preliminary
resolution.
   (E)   After the public hearing, the governing body may adopt an assessment
resolution directing that the project be undertaken, and describing the project
in general terms (which may be by reference to the description in the
preliminary assessment resolution), and must set forth the following:
      (1)   The basis on which the special assessments shall be levied
(together with a general description of the boundaries of the area benefitted,
if the basis of assessment is either “area served” or “value added”);
      (2)   The percentage of the cost to be assessed (the percentage must be
the same as proposed in the preliminary resolution); and
      (3)   The terms of payment, including any conditions under which the
terms of the assessments are to be held in abeyance, if any.
   (F)   Upon completion of the project, the total cost must be computed. In
addition to construction costs, the cost of all necessary legal services, the
amount of interest paid during construction, cost of rights-of-way, and the
cost of publication of notices and resolutions may be included in the total
cost. The governing body should then adopt a resolution declaring the cost, and
ordering preparation of the preliminary assessment roll, and calling a public
hearing thereon.
   (G)   A preliminary assessment roll must then be prepared, and filed, in the
Town Clerk’s office where it must be available for public inspection. Any
assessments to be held in abeyance should be indicated on the assessment roll.
The governing body may establish a schedule of discounts, not to exceed 30%, to
be applied to assessments paid within 30 days from publication of confirmation
of the assessment roll (see subsection (L) below). If such a schedule is
adopted, it must be included in the preliminary assessment roll.
   (H)   There must be published in a local newspaper having general
circulation in the affected area, at least ten days before the date set for the
public hearing, a notice of the completion of the preliminary assessment roll,
setting forth a general description of the project, noting the availability of
the assessment roll in the Clerk’s office for inspection, and stating the item
and place of the public hearing.
   (I)   A notice must also be mailed to each affected property owner at least
ten days before the public hearing. In addition to the information contained in
the published notice required in subsection (H) above, the mailed notice shall
state the amount of the assessment against the property of the owner as shown
on the preliminary assessment roll. The person mailing the notices must certify
to the governing body that he or she were mailed by first-class mail, and
specify the date mailed.
   (J)   At the public hearing, the governing body must hear objections to the
preliminary assessment roll from all interested persons who appear. After the
hearing, the governing body may make any proper corrections in the assessment
roll, including adding any property that was omitted from the preliminary
assessment roll. The Council must then adopt a resolution confirming the
assessment roll and levying the assessments (the list of assessments inserted
in the resolution should indicate any which are to be held in abeyance). The
resolution shall also direct the Clerk to deliver the assessment roll to the
tax collector, and shall direct publication of the required notice of
confirmation and levy. The resolution must also state the day, hour, and minute
of confirmation, and shall specify the due date of installments (either the due
dates of property taxes, or the sixtieth day following confirmation, and
subsequent annual anniversaries of the sixtieth day).
   (K)   The Clerk must immediately deliver to the tax collector the assessment
roll.
   (L)   After the expiration of 20 days from the confirmation of the
assessment roll, the tax collector must publish a notice that the assessment
roll has been confirmed, that the assessments may be paid within 30 days of
publication without interest, and that those then remaining unpaid will bear
interest, as provided in the assessment resolution. The notice should also
state the schedule of discounts, if one has been established, to be applied to
assessments paid before the expiration date for payment of assessments without
interest.
   (M)   The assessments will then be due and payable and may be paid within 30
days from the date the notice is published without interest. Each property
owner has the option to pay the assessment in the number of annual installments
specified in the assessment resolution, at the rate of interest set forth
therein. A property owner may elect the installment method simply by not paying
in full during the 30-day period.
   (N)   If any property owner shall default in the payment of any installment,
all unpaid installments shall immediately become due and payable, unless the
governing body waives acceleration. The assessment lien may be foreclosed in
the same manner as property tax liens, except that lien sales and lien sale
certificates shall not be required, and foreclosure may be begun at any time
following 30 days after default. The assessment lien takes effect at the moment
of confirmation of the assessment roll, and is inferior to all prior and
subsequent liens upon the property for state, local, and federal taxes, and is
superior to all other liens.
(Ord. 5-89, passed 6-19-1989)
Statutory reference:
   Preliminary resolution, G.S. § 160A-223; publishing of hearings; copies of
preliminary resolution G.S. § 160A-224; public hearing, procedures, G.S. §
160A-225; total construction costs, public hearing, adopted schedules, notice
of public hearings §§ 160A-226, 160A-227; assessment roll G.S. § 160A-228;
expiration of assessment roll, G.S. § 160A-229; payment of assessments, default
on payment of installments, G.S. §§ 160A-232, 160A-233.
APPENDIX A:  STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
§ 101  CROSSING GATES REQUIRED AT THE FOLLOWING GRADE CROSSINGS.
[Reserved]
(Appendix A, § 101)
Cross-reference:
   Regulation, §
19-401(C)
§ 102  WARNING REQUIRED BY WATCHMAN OR FLAGMEN AT THE FOLLOWING GRADE
CROSSINGS.
[Reserved]
(Appendix A, § 102)
Cross-reference:
   Regulation, §
19-401(D)
§ 103  WARNING OR AUTOMATIC FLASHING LIGHT SIGNALS REQUIRED AT THE FOLLOWING
GRADE CROSSINGS.
[Reserved]
(Appendix A, § 103)
Cross-reference:
   Regulation, §
19-401(E)(1)
APPENDIX B:  TRAFFIC
Section
Cross-reference:
   Any ordinance regulating traffic or vehicles at specific locations saved
from repeal, §
1-107.
§ 201  PARKING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Parking shall be prohibited at all times on the following streets.
(See §
20-1183.)
Street Name Location
Street Name  Location
East “J” Intersection with U.S. Highway 321 to its intersection with Old Park Road.
Street
East Union   Intersection with North Main Avenue to eastern Margin of the Superior Chair, Inc.
Street       property, between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 12:00 a.m.
North Main   Both sides of street, from its intersection with Mill Street north to its end.
Avenue
North Main   Both sides of street, from its southerly intersection with East Main Street (U.S.
Avenue       Highway 321) north for a distance of 100 feet.
North Main   East side of street, beginning at a utility pole located in the west property
Avenue       line of the lot described in the County Tax Map No. 9M, Block 4, Lot 8, and
             running with the concrete street curb in a northerly direction for 300 feet.
North Main   West side of street, beginning at a fire hydrant located on the east property
Avenue       line of the lot described in the County Tax Map No. 9M, Block 3, Lot 4, and
             running with the concrete street curb in a northerly direction for 240 feet.
South Main   Intersection with East Main Street margin of the Maiden Sportsmen Center
Avenue       Property.
South Second Intersection with East Main Street to its intersection with East Boyd Street.
Street
South        Both sides of street, from its intersection with East Main Street south to its
Seventh      intersection with East Boyd Street.
Street
Tutt Drive   West side of street, from South “D” Avenue to the dead end portion of the street.
Union Street Both sides of street, from its easterly intersection with Island Ford Road to its
             westerly intersection with North Ninth Avenue.
Union Street Both sides of street, from its easterly intersection with North Second Avenue to
             its westerly intersection with North Main Avenue.
West         Both sides of street, from its easterly intersection with Carolina Avenue to its
Cemetery     westerly intersection with North “C” Avenue.
Street
West Murray  North side of street, from its easterly intersection with North “C” Avenue
Street       westerly to its intersection with Brentwood Drive.
West Pine    Intersection with South “D” Avenue running west approximately 990 linear feet to
Street       its end, a point where West Pine Street extension begins.
West School  South side of street, from the intersection with North “D” Avenue to 400 feet
Street       west on West School Street.
 
   (B)   No parking zones, as follows:
 
Street Name           Location
                      East and west side, between West Boyd and West Pine,
Carolina Avenue South within 30 feet of the West Boyd and Carolina Avenue South
                      intersection.
Klutz Street          North side of street, between North Ninth Avenue and
                      North Tenth Avenue.
                      Either side of street, between North Main Avenue and
West Klutz Street     Carolina Avenue, between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 5:00
                      p.m.
 
(Appendix B, § 201) (Ord. 16-80, passed 7-8-1980; Ord. 18-80, passed 8-4-1980;
Ord. 28-80, passed 12-15-1980; Ord. 3-81, passed 5-18-1981; Ord. 1-82, passed
2-15-1982; Ord. 5-83, passed 8-15-1983; Ord. 28-95, passed 9-18-1995)
§ 202  PARKING PROHIBITED BETWEEN THE HOURS OF 1:00 A.M. AND 6:00 A.M. UPON ANY
OF THE STREETS OR PORTIONS OF THE STREETS AS FOLLOWS.
[Reserved]
(Appendix B, § 202)
Cross-reference:
   All night prohibited parking, §
20-1124.
§ 203  PARKING LIMITED TO TWO HOURS BETWEEN THE HOURS OF 6:00 A.M. AND 6:30
P.M. ON ANY DAY EXCEPT SUNDAYS AND PUBLIC HOLIDAYS WITHIN THE DISTRICT, OR UPON
ANY OF THE STREETS AS FOLLOWS.
   Both the north and south sides of Main Street, beginning at “A” Avenue on
West Main Street and from there in an eastern direction to, and including, the
property in front of the Kayser-Roth Hosiery Company property on East Main
Street. (See §
20-1184.)
(Appendix B, § 203)
§ 204  PARKING LIMITED TO ONE HOUR BETWEEN THE HOURS OF 6:00 A.M. AND 6:30 P.M.
ON ANY DAY EXCEPT SUNDAYS AND PUBLIC HOLIDAYS WITHIN THE DISTRICT, OR UPON ANY
OF THE STREETS AS FOLLOWS.
[Reserved]
(Appendix B, § 204)
Cross-reference:
   Parking time limited on certain streets, §
20-1184.
§ 205  PARKING LIMITED TO TEN MINUTES.
[Reserved]
(Appendix B, § 205)
Cross-reference:
   Parking time limited on certain streets, §
20-1184.
§ 206  THE FOLLOWING STREETS, OR PORTION OF STREETS SHALL BE RESERVED AS STANDS
FOR THE SPECIFIC PURPOSE AND AT THE EXACT LOCATION DESCRIBED IN THE FOLLOWING.
[Reserved]
(Appendix B, § 206)
Cross-reference:
   Public carrier stops and stands, §
20-1163.
§ 207  DIAGONAL PARKING ; ALL VEHICLES SHALL BE PARKED AT AN ANGLE OF
APPROXIMATELY 45 DEGREES WITH THE CURB ON THE FOLLOWING STREETS, OR PORTIONS
THEREOF.
[Reserved]
(Appendix B, § 207)
Cross-reference:
   Signs or markings indicating angle parking, §
20-1102.
§ 208  INTERSECTIONS AT WHICH “STOP” IS REQUIRED BEFORE ENTERING.
Intersection Sign Location
Intersection                             Sign Location
Boyd Street and Sixth Avenue             On the north side of East Boyd Street.
Boyd Street and Fifth Avenue             At the intersection.
East Boyd Street and First Avenue        Both the north and south sides of Boyd
                                         Street.
East Boyd Street and North Eleventh      North side of East Boyd Street.
Avenue
East Boyd Street and North Ninth Avenue  North side of East Boyd Street.
East Boyd Street and North Tenth Avenue  North side of East Boyd Street.
East Boyd Street and North Twelfth       North side of East Boyd Street.
Avenue
                                         Both the north and south sides of East
East Boyd Street and Second Avenue       Boyd Street, and on both the east and
                                         west sides of South Second Avenue.
East Boyd Street and South Eighth Avenue Both the north and south sides of East
                                         Boyd Street.
East Boyd Street and South Fifth Avenue  Both the north and south sides of East
                                         Boyd Street.
East Boyd Street and South Fourth Avenue Both the north and south sides of East
                                         Boyd Street.
East Boyd Street and South Main Avenue   East side of South Main Street.
East Boyd Street and South Third Avenue  Both the north and south sides of East
                                         Boyd Street.
East Boyd Street and U.S. Highway 321    West side of U.S. Highway 321.
East Main Street and Twelfth Avenue      North and south sides of East Main
                                         Street.
East Main Street and Eleventh Avenue     North and south sides of East Main
                                         Street.
East Main Street and Tenth Avenue        North and south sides of East Main
                                         Street.
East Main Street and Ninth Avenue        North and south sides of East Main
                                         Street.
East Main Street and First Avenue        South side of East Main Street.
East Main Street and Second Avenue       North and south sides of East Main
                                         Street.
East Main Street and Third Avenue        North and south sides of East Main
                                         Street.
East Main Street and Eighth Avenue       North and south sides of East Main
                                         Street.
East Main Street and Fifth Avenue        North and south sides of East Main
                                         Street.
East Main Street and Sixth Avenue        North and south sides of East Main
                                         Street.
East Murray Street and North Main Avenue East and west sides of North Main
                                         Avenue.
East Union Street and North Third Avenue Both the north and south sides of East
                                         Union Street.
East Union Street and North Fourth       North and south sides of East Union
Avenue                                   Street.
East Union Street and North Main Avenue  East side of North Main Avenue.
East Union Street and Island Ford Road   West side of Island Ford Road.
Fourth Avenue                            North and south sides of East Main
                                         Street.
Fourth Avenue and Union Street, north    Four-way stop at intersection.
Klutz Street                             At Carolina Avenue.
Klutz Street and North Main Avenue       Both east and west sides of North Main
                                         Avenue.
Klutz Street and North Second Street     Both east and west sides of Klutz
                                         Street.
Klutz Street and North Fifth Avenue      Both north and south sides of Klutz
                                         Street.
Klutz Street and North Eleventh Avenue   South side of Klutz Street.
Klutz Street and North Eighth Avenue     South side of Klutz Street.
Klutz Street and Island Ford Road        West side of Island Ford Road.
Klutz Street and North Fourth Avenue     East side of North Fourth Avenue.
Klutz Street and North Ninth Avenue      North and south sides of Klutz Street.
North Eighth Avenue and East Union       North and south sides of East Union
Street                                   Street.
North Eleventh Avenue and East Union     North and south sides of East Union
Street                                   Street.
North Fifth Avenue and East Union Street South side of East Union Street.
North First Avenue, south side           At Klutz Street.
North First Avenue and Union Street      North side of Union Street.
North Main Avenue and Hoyle Street       East side of North Main Avenue.
North Main Avenue and East Church Street East side of North Main Avenue.
North Ninth Avenue and East Union Street North and south sides of East Union
                                         Street.
North Second Avenue and East Union       Both the north and south sides of East
Street                                   Union Street, and on the east and west
                                         sides of North Second Avenue.
North Sixth Avenue and East Union Street North and south sides of East Union
                                         Street.
North Tenth Avenue and East Union Street North and south sides of East Union
                                         Street.
North Tenth Avenue and Klutz Street      Both north and south sides of Klutz
                                         Street.
Second Avenue and Klutz Street           Traveling east and west, and north and
                                         south, making this a four-way stop.
West Main Street and D Avenue            North side of West Main Street.
West Main Street and Railroad Avenue     South side of West Main Street.
West Main Street and A Avenue            North and south sides of West Main
                                         Street.
West Main Street and B Avenue            South side of West Main Street.
 
(Appendix B, § 208) (Ord. 10-87, passed 11-2-1987; Ord. 19-90, passed 12-3-
1990; Ord. 1-91, passed 1-7-1991; Ord. 2-91, passed 2-4-1991; Ord. 10-97,
passed 3-17-1997)
§ 209  ONE-WAY STREETS.
   (A)   On East School Street, from the intersection of North Main Avenue to
the intersection of North First Avenue.
   (B)   On North First Avenue, from the intersection of East School Street to
the intersection of East Church Street.
   (C)   U.S. Highway 321.
   (D)   East Church Street from North First Avenue West to North Main Avenue
(parking will be allowed on the north side of East Church Street only).
   (E)   South First Avenue, between East Main Street and Boyd Street, is
designated for one-way traffic running in a southerly direction from East Main
Street to Boyd Street.
(Appendix B, § 209) (Ord. 10-79, passed 9-4-1979)
§ 210  LEFT TURNS TO BE MADE TO THE LEFT OF THE CENTERLINE AT THE FOLLOWING
INTERSECTIONS.
[Reserved]
(Appendix B, § 210)
Cross-reference:
   Authority to place restricted turn signs, §
20-602.
§ 211  NO LEFT TURNS AT THE FOLLOWING INTERSECTIONS.
[Reserved]
(Appendix B, § 211)
Cross-reference:
   Authority to place restricted turn signs, §
20-602.
§ 212  NO RIGHT TURNS AT THE FOLLOWING INTERSECTIONS.
[Reserved]
(Appendix B, § 212)
Cross-reference:
   Authority to place restricted turn signs, §
20-602.
§ 213  NO COMPLETE U-TURNS AT FOLLOWING INTERSECTIONS.
[Reserved]
(Appendix B, § 213)
Cross-reference:
   Authority to place restricted turn signs, §
20-602.
§ 214  TWENTY MPH SPEED LIMIT ON THE FOLLOWING STATE MAINTAINED STREETS.
[Reserved]
(Appendix B, § 214)
Cross-reference:
   Exceptions, §
20-502.
§ 215  TWENTY-FIVE MPH SPEED LIMIT ON THE FOLLOWING STATE MAINTAINED STREETS.
   (A)   Main Street (S.R. 2007) from South “B” Avenue eastward to U.S. Highway
321 (Newton Road). (See §
20-502(A)(2).)
   (2)   Main Avenue (S.R. 2003) from Boyd Street, northward to U.S. Highway
321 (Main Street). (See §
20-502(A)(2).)
   (3)   Main Street (U.S. Highway 321) from Newton Road (U.S. Highway 321),
eastward to First Avenue. (See §
20-502(A)(2).)
   (4)   Main Street from a point 0.05 mile west of S.R. 2005 (“C” Street),
eastward to U.S. Highway 321 (Carolina Street). (See §
20-502(A)(2).)
(Appendix B, § 215) (Ord. 14-84, passed 12-3-1984; Ord. passed 1-31-1992)
§ 216  THIRTY MPH SPEED LIMIT ON THE FOLLOWING STATE MAINTAINED STREETS.
[Reserved]
(Appendix B, § 216)
Cross-reference:
   Exceptions, §
20-502(A)(1)(c).
§ 217  FORTY MPH SPEED LIMIT ON THE FOLLOWING STATE MAINTAINED STREETS.
[Reserved]
(Appendix B, § 217)
Cross-reference:
   Exceptions, §
20-502(A)(1)(d).
§ 218  FORTY-FIVE MPH SPEED LIMIT ON THE FOLLOWING STATE MAINTAINED STREETS.
[Reserved]
(Appendix B, § 218)
Cross-reference:
   Exceptions, §
20-502(A)(1)(e).
§ 219  FIFTY MPH SPEED LIMIT ON THE FOLLOWING STATE MAINTAINED STREETS.
[Reserved]
(Appendix B, § 219)
Cross-reference:
   Exceptions, §
20-502(A)(1)(f).
§ 220  FIFTY-FIVE MPH SPEED LIMIT ON THE FOLLOWING STATE MAINTAINED STREETS.
[Reserved]
(Appendix B, § 220)
Cross-reference:
   Exceptions, §
20-502(A)(1)(g).
§ 221  TWENTY MPH SPEED LIMIT ON THE FOLLOWING TOWN MAINTAINED STREETS.
   On Old Tavern Lane, the speed limit shall be 20 mph.
(Appendix B, § 221) (Ord. 3-92, passed 4-6-1992)
Cross-reference:
   Exceptions, §
20-502(B)(1).
§ 222  TWENTY-FIVE MPH SPEED LIMIT ON THE FOLLOWING TOWN MAINTAINED STREETS.
   (A)   East Main Street between South Main Street eastward to First Avenue.
   (B)   S.R. 2007 (Main Street) from a point 0.05 mile west of S.R. 2005 (“C”
Avenue), eastward to U.S. Highway 321 (Carolina Avenue).
   (C)   Springhill Lane, Foxwood Drive, all of Old Park Road, Wellsby Court,
Dundee Court, and Wildwood Court.
(Appendix B, § 222) (Ord. 4-84, passed 6-18-1984; Ord. 12-91, passed 12-16-
1991; Ord. 11-92, passed 7-20-1992)
Cross-reference:
   Exceptions, §
20-502(B)(2).
§ 223  THIRTY MPH SPEED LIMIT ON THE FOLLOWING TOWN MAINTAINED STREETS.
[Reserved]
(Appendix B, § 223)
Cross-reference:
   Exceptions, §
20-502(B)(3).
§ 224  FORTY MPH SPEED LIMIT ON THE FOLLOWING TOWN MAINTAINED STREETS.
[Reserved]
(Appendix B, § 224)
Cross-reference:
   Exceptions, §
20-502(B)(4).
§ 225  FORTY-FIVE MPH SPEED LIMIT ON THE FOLLOWING TOWN MAINTAINED STREETS.
[Reserved]
(Appendix B, § 225)
Cross-reference:
   Exceptions, §
20-502(B)(5).
§ 226  FIFTY MPH SPEED LIMIT ON THE FOLLOWING TOWN MAINTAINED STREETS.
[Reserved]
(Appendix B, § 226)
Cross-reference:
   Exceptions, §
20-502(B)(6).
§ 227  FIFTY-FIVE MPH SPEED LIMIT ON THE FOLLOWING TOWN MAINTAINED STREETS.
[Reserved]
(Appendix B, § 227)
Cross-reference:
   Exceptions, §
20-502(B)(7).
§ 228  NO PARKING/LOADING ZONES ON THE FOLLOWING STREETS.
   Both sides of School Street, between North Main Avenue and North First
Avenue, are hereby designated a school passenger curb loading zone, and parking
is prohibited except for the loading and unloading of passengers.
(Appendix B, § 228) (Ord. 11-80, passed 5-19-1980)
Cross-reference:
   Parking adjacent to schools, §
20-1126; standing in passenger curb loading zone, §
20-1161.
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to North Carolina General Statutes
References to 1976 Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUTES
G.S. Cite Code Section
G.S. Cite                        Code Section
1-593                            1-102
1A-1, Rule 6(a)                  1-102
4A                               Chapter 10, Article II
7A-227                           5-425
7A-228                           5-425
12-3                             1-102
12-4                             1-103
                                 1-111;
                                 3-103;
                                 5-607;
                                 6-405;
14-4                             16-221;
                                 19-107;
                                 21-286;
                                 21-512;
                                 6-352
14-4(a)                          1-111;
                                 20-1213
14-4(b)                          1-111;
                                 Chapter 20, Article XI
14-148                           7-112;
                                 7-113
14-149                           7-113
14-151                           21-209
14-223                           18-101
14-284.1                         15-103
14-286                           10-208;
                                 10-209
14-288.11                        Chapter 9 Title Page
14-399                           Chapter 11 Title Page
14-409.40                        16-204
Chapter 15A                      Chapter 18 Title Page
15A-401(F)                       18-101
                                 5-419;
15-27.2                          5-605;
                                 21-363
                                 3-100;
18B-101                          3-103;
                                 16-212
18B-200                          3-100
18B-300                          3-102;
                                 16-212
18B-300 et seq.                  3-101
18B-301                          16-212
18B-1006.1                       11-108
Chapter 20, Article 3, Part 10   20-1305
Chapter 20, Article 3, Part 11   20-901
20-4.01                          20-101
20-4.01(7a)                      20-101
20-4.01(12a)                     20-1300
20-4.01(25)                      20-101
20-4.01(h)                       20-101
20-4.01(49)                      Chapter 20, Article X
20-114.1(b)                      20-301
20-129                           20-1104
20-129(e)                        20-1012
20-134                           20-1104
20-140.3                         20-810
20-140.4                         20-808
20-141                           20-501
20-141(e)                        Chapter 20, Article V
20-141(f)                        20-502
20-142.1                         20-1146
20-145                           20-306
20-150                           20-408
20-150.1                         20-408
20-153                           20-408
20-153(c)                        Chapter 20, Article VI;
                                 20-602
                                 10-204;
20-156                           20-306;
                                 20-403
20-156(a)                        20-1144
20-156(b)                        20-306
                                 10-204;
20-157                           10-205;
                                 20-801
20-157(b)                        10-205
20-157(c)                        10-205
20-157(d)                        10-210;
                                 20-802
                                 20-209;
20-157.1                         20-803;
                                 20-804;
                                 20-805
20-158                           Chapter 20, Article IV
20-158(a)                        20-1141
20-158(b)(5)                     20-1143
20-158.1                         Chapter 20, Article IV
20-160(b)                        20-806
20-162                           20-1121
20-168                           20-305
20-169                           Chapter 20, Article V;
                                 20-306
20-171                           20-303
20-172                           Chapter 20, Article IV;
                                 20-901
20-173(b)                        20-902
20-173(c)                        20-1144
20-174(a)                        20-905
20-174(b)                        20-905
20-174(c)                        20-906
20-175                           20-908
20-219.11                        20-1210
20-219.11(c)                     20-1210
Chapter 41A                      Chapter 13, Article II
42-29                            5-425
42-30                            5-425
Chapter 44A, Article 1           20-1212
58.82-1                          10-206
Chapter 66, Article 25           18-301
66-351                           Chapter 8 Title Page
67-4.3                           4-111;
                                 4-113
67-4.4                           4-111;
                                 4-113
Chapter 70, Article 3            7-112;
                                 7-113
70-28(4)                         7-112;
                                 7-113
Chapter 83A                      5-204
83A-13                           5-204
87-21                            5-201
87-43                            5-201
87-83                            5-201
Chapter 90, Article 36           Chapter 6, Article V
90-86 et seq.                    6-405
90-622                           6-502
90-623                           6-502;
                                 6-516
90-636                           Chapter 6, Article V
                                 10-211;
Chapter 97                       18-102;
                                 18-103
Chapter 105, Subchapter VIII     6-701
105-164.3                        20-101
105-164.3(17)                    6-701
105-164.4(a)(2)                  6-701
105-187.1(a)(3a)                 6-701
105-187.1(a)(4)                  6-701
105-241.21                       6-701
105-349                          2-407;
                                 6-701
Chapter 106, Article 49B         12-101;
                                 12-106
Chapter 106, Article 49D         12-106
106-405.1 et seq.                12-105
130A-196                         4-204;
                                 4-205
130A-200                         4-108
130A-290 et seq                  14-101
130A-309.09A                     Chapter 11 Title Page
130A-309.10                      Chapter 11 Title Page;
                                 11-108
130A-309.10(e)                   11-108
130A-309.10(f)                   11-108
130A-309.91                      11-108
130A-309.130 et seq.             11-108
Chapter 132                      21-369
132-1.2                          21-369
133-1.1                          5-203
Chapter 136                      Chapter 19 Title Page
136-20.1                         Chapter 19, Article IV
136-66.4                         Chapter 19 Title Page
136-90                           Chapter 19, Article III
136-91                           Chapter 19, Article III
136-92                           19-208
136-141                          20-1215
136-141 et seq.                  20-1214
136-143                          20-1214;
                                 20-1215
143-138                          Chapter 5 Title Page;
                                 10-101
143-138(e)                       2-211
143-139                          5-211;
                                 5-613
143-144 et seq.                  Chapter 5, Article III
143-145(7)                       5-401
143-151.13                       10-101
143-151.42                       21-423
143-213(18)                      21-302
143-215.1                        21-302;
                                 21-336
143-215.1(b)                     21-336
143-215.3(a)(14)                 21-302
143-215.6A                       21-373
143-215.6B                       21-374
143-318.10(e)                    2-206
                                 2-203;
143-318.12                       2-204;
                                 16-306
153A-11                          18-303
153A-12                          18-303
Chapter 159                      Chapter 2, Article V
159-2                            1-102
159-24                           2-403
159-25                           2-403
159-29                           2-408
Chapter 160A                     Chapter 2 Title Page
                                 5-210;
                                 5-425;
Chapter 160A, Article 10         5-606;
                                 5-608;
                                 21-604
Chapter 160A, Article 14         Chapter 10, Article II
Chapter 160A, Article 14A        Chapter 10, Article II
Chapter 160A, Article 19         5-402
Chapter 160A, Article 19, Part 5 10-101
160A-64                          2-201
160A-68                          2-201
160A-68 et seq.                  Chapter 2, Article II
                                 2-207;
160A-69                          2-208;
                                 2-401
160A-70                          2-202;
                                 2-207
160A-71                          2-204
160A-72                          2-206
160A-74                          2-205
160A-75                          2-209;
                                 2-210
160A-76                          2-211
                                 1-101;
160A-77                          1-107;
                                 Chapter 2, Article III
160A-78                          1-101;
                                 Chapter 2, Article III
160A-79                          1-101;
                                 Chapter 2, Article III
160A-144                         6-352
160A-147 et seq.                 2-403;
                                 18-203
160A-148                         2-403
160A-149                         2-404
160A-150                         2-405
160A-171                         2-402
160A-173                         2-406
160A-174                         Chapter 6, Article V
                                 1-111;
                                 6-352;
160A-175                         6-405;
                                 14-111;
                                 21-286
160A-175(d)                      6-354
160A-175(e)                      6-354
160A-178                         Chapter 6, Article IV;
                                 6-402
160A-181                         Chapter 6, Article III
160A-184                         Chapter 14, Article II
160A-186                         16-205
160A-187                         16-205
160A-189                         15-101;
                                 16-204
160A-190                         16-204
160A-193                         14-102
                                 Chapter 6, Title Page; Chapter 6, Articles
                                 III,
160A-194                         V;
                                 Chapter 12 Title Page;
                                 16-208
160A-200.1                       14-106
160A-208.1                       6-701
160A-215.1                       Chapter 6, Article VII
160A-215.1(b)                    6-701
160A-215.1(d)                    6-701
160A-215.1(e)(2)                 6-701
160A-215.1(f)                    6-701
160A-216 et seq.                 Chapter 19 Title Page
160A-223                         21-608
160A-224                         21-608
160A-225                         21-608
160A-227                         21-608
160A-228                         21-608
160A-229                         21-608
160A-232                         21-608
160A-233                         21-608
160A-281 et seq.                 Chapter 18 Title Page;
                                 Chapter 18, Article II
160A-285                         18-205
160A-286                         18-102
160A-291                         10-201
160A-293                         10-211
160A-296                         20-407
160A-296 et seq.                 Chapter 19 Title Page
160A-298                         Chapter 19, Article IV
160A-298(c)                      19-401
160A-298(d)                      19-402
160A-298(e)                      19-402
                                 19-105;
160A-300                         Chapter 20, Article V;
                                 Chapter 20, Article VI;
                                 Chapter 20, Article VII
160A-300 et seq.                 Chapter 20 Title Page
160A-300.6                       20-1300
160A-301                         Chapter 20, Article XI
160A-301(d)                      20-1184
160A-302                         Chapter 20, Article XI
160A-303                         20-1201;
                                 20-1214
160A-303.1                       Chapter 11 Title Page;
                                 19-101
160A-303.2                       20-1201;
                                 20-1214
160A-304                         Chapter 6, Article II
160A-311                         Chapter 11 Title Page
160A-311 et seq.                 Chapter 21 Title Page
160A-312                         Chapter 21 Title Page
160A-314                         21-425
160A-314(b) through (d)          21-512
160A-319                         Chapter 21 Title Page
160A-322                         21-208
160A-341 et seq.                 Chapter 7 Title Page
160A-348                         Chapter 7 Title Page
160A-350 et seq.                 Chapter 16 Title Page
160A-411 through 160A-438        Chapter 5 Title Page
160A-503(10)                     5-612
                                 Chapter 5 Title Page;
                                 5-206;
                                 5-207;
                                 5-208;
                                 5-210;
                                 5-211;
                                 Chapter 5, Article IV;
                                 5-402;
                                 5-405;
Chapter 160D                     5-406;
                                 5-413;
                                 5-420;
                                 5-421;
                                 5-422;
                                 5-425;
                                 5-426;
                                 5-427;
                                 5-603;
                                 Chapter 10, Article IV;
                                 10-401
164-1                            1-102
166A-19 et seq.                  Chapter 9 Title Page
168-4.2                          7-120
                                  
 
REFERENCES TO 1976 CODE
1976 Code 2021 Code
1976 Code  2021 Code
1.1        1-102
1.2        1-103
1.3        1-104
1.4        1-105
1.5        1-111
1.6        1-110
1.7        1-106
2A         13-201-
           13-206
2.1        2-201
2.2        2-202
2.3        2-203
2.4        2-204
2.5        2-205
2.6        2-206
2.7        2-207
2.8        2-208
2.9        2-209
2.10       2-210
2.11       2-211
2.12       2-301
2.13       2-302
2.14       2-303
2.15       2-304
2.17       2-401
2.18(1)    2-402
2.18(3)    2-402
2.18(7)    2-402
2.19(a)    2-403
2.19(b)    2-403
2.19(c)    2-404
2.19(d)    2-405
2.20       2-406
2.23       2-408
2.24       2-501
2.25       2-502
2.26(10)   9-101
2.26(a)    9-101
2.26(b)    9-101
2.26(c)    9-103
2.26(d)    9-105
2.26(e)    9-102
2.26(g)    9-101
2.27       9-104
3.1        18-202
3.2        18-203
3.3        18-201
3.4        18-204
3.5        18-205
3.6        18-102
3.7        18-101
4.1        10-201
4.2(1)-(4) 10-202
4.2(5)     10-203
4.3        10-204
4.4        10-205
4.5        10-206
4.6        10-207
4.7        10-208
4.8        10-209
4.9        10-210
4.10       10-211
4.11       10-301
4.12       10-302
4.13       10-303
4.14       10-304
4.15       10-305
4.16       10-401
4.17       10-101
5.1        19-201
5.2        19-202
5.3        19-203
5.4        19-204
5.5        19-205
5.6        19-206
5.7        19-208
5.8        19-209
5.16       19-301
5.17       19-321
5.18       19-322
5.19       19-323
5.20       19-324
5.21       19-325
5.22       19-326
5.23       19-327
5.24       19-328
5.25       19-302
5.26       19-303
5.27       19-304
5.28       19-305
5.29       19-401
5.30       19-402
5.36       19-101
5.37       19-102
5.38       19-103
5.40       19-105
5.41       19-207
5.42       19-106
6-2A.1     21-401
6-2A.11    21-402
6-2A.12    21-403
6-2A.13    21-404
6-2A.20    21-411
6-2A.21    21-412
6-2A.22    21-413
6-2A.23    21-414
6-2A.24    21-415
6-2A.25    21-416
6-2A.30    21-431
6-2A.31    21-432
6-2A.42    21-423
6-2A.43    21-424
6-2A.44    21-425
6-2A.45    21-426
6-2A.50    21-441
6-2A.51    21-442
6-2A.52    21-443
6-2A.53    21-444
6-2A.54    21-445
6-2A.55    21-446
6-2A.60    21-451
6-2A.61    21-452
6-2A.62    21-453
6-2A.70    21-461
6-2A.71    21-462
6-2A.80    21-463
6-2AA1     21-422
6-2AAO     21-421
6-2B.l     21-471
6-2B.2     21-472
6-2B.3     21-473
6-2B.4     21-474
6.101      21-501
6.102      21-502
6.103      21-503
6.104      21-504
6.105      21-505
6.106      21-506
6.107      21-507
6.108      21-508
7.1-7.6    20-101
7.8-7.14   20-101
7.16       20-201
7.17       20-202
7.18       20-203
7.19       20-204
7.20       20-205
7.21       20-206
7.22       20-207
7.27       20-301
7.28       20-302
7.29       20-303
7.30       20-304
7.31       20-305
7.32       20-306
7.34       20-401
7.35       20-402
7.36       20-403
7.37       20-404
7.41       20-405
7.42       20-406
7.43       20-407
7.44       20-408
7.45       20-501
7.46       20-502
7.48       20-601
7.49       20-602
7.50       20-603
7.51       20-604
7.52       20-701
7.53       20-702
7.56       20-1141
7.57       20-1142
7.58       20-1143
7.59       20-1144
7.60       20-1145
7.61       20-1146
7.62       20-801
7.63       20-802
7.64       20-803
7.65       20-804
7.66       20-805
7.67       20-806
7.68       20-807
7.69       20-808
7.70       20-809
7.71       20-810
7.73       20-901
7.74       20-902
7.75       20-903
7.76       20-904
7.77       20-905
7.78       20-906
7.79       20-907
7.80       20-908
7.81       20-909
7.82       20-1001
7.83       20-1002
7.84       20-1003
7.85       20-1004
7.86       20-1005
7.87       20-1006
7.88       20-1007
7.89       20-1008
7.90       20-1009
7.91       20-1010
7.93       20-1012
7.94       20-1101
7.95       20-1102
7.96       20-1103
7.97       20-1104
7.98       20-1121
7.99       20-1122
7.100      20-1123
7.101      20-1124
7.102      20-1125
7.103      20-1126
7.104      20-1127
7.105      20-1128
7.106      20-1161
7.107      20-1162
7.108      20-1163
7.109      20-1164
7.110      20-1165
7.111      20-1181
7.112      20-1182
7.113      20-1183
7.114      20-1184
7.115      20-1185
7.116      20-1186
8.2        5-101
8.8        5-102
8.9        5-103
8.19       5-201
8.20       5-202
8.21       5-203
8.22       5-204
8.23       5-205
8.24       5-206
8.25       5-207
8.26       5-208
8.27       5-209
9.4        7-107;
           12-106
9.7        12-101
9.8        12-102
9.10       12-103
9.13       12-104
9.14       12-105
9.37       7-201
9.38       7-102
9.39       7-104
9.40       7-105
9.41       7-106
9.43       7-108
9.44       7-109
9.45       7-202
9.46       7-110
9.47       7-111
9.48       7-112.1
9.49       7-101
9.50       7-203
9.51       7-103
9.52       7-113
9.53       7-114
10.17      6-201
10.18      6-216
10.19      6-217
10.20      6-218
10.21      6-219
10.22      6-220
10.23      6-221
10.24      6-222
10.25      6-223
10.26      6-224
10.27      6-225
10.28      6-226
10.29      6-227
10.41      6-301
10.43      6-302
10.44      6-303
10.46(a)   6-351
10.46(b)   6-352
10.46(c)   6-353
10.46(d)   6-354
10.46(g)   6-356
10.46(1)   6-355
10.51      6-401
10.52      6-402
10.53      6-403
10.71      6-501
10.72      6-502
10.73.1    6-516
10.78      6-551
10.79      6-552
10.80      6-553
10.81      6-554
11.1       3-101
11.2       14-201
11.3       14-202
11.4       15-101
11.5       15-102
11.6       15-103
11.8       4-101
11.9       4-201
11.12      4-202
11.13      4-203
11.14      4-204
11.15      4-205
11.16      4-206
11.23      4-104
11.24      4-105
11.25      4-106
11.26      4-107
11.27      4-108
11.33      4-102;
           4-103
11.34      4-501
11.35      4-502
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
27-2006  - -         19-104
17-2019  - -         16-221
                     21-302;
                     21-306;
                     21-307;
                     21-308;
                     21-313-
                     21-314;
                     21-325;
                     21-328;
29-2008  10- -2008   21-336;
                     21-345;
                     21-348-
                     21-350;
                     21-352;
                     21-355;
                     21-372;
                     21-373;
                     21-380;
                     21-384
                     6-501;
                     6-502;
4-75     4-21-1975   6-516;
                     6-551-
                     6-554
                     4-101-
5-75     5-5-1975    4-108;
                     4-202-
                     4-206
                     7-101;
                     7-111;
                     7-112.1;
12-75    10-20-1975  7-113;
                     7-114;
                     7-201-
                     7-203
7-77     6-1-1977    6-401-
                     6-403
10-77    10-3-1977   21-213
8-78     7-17-1978   3-101
10-79    9-4-1979    Appendix B, § 209
                     21-501-
                     21-504;
12-79    11-5-1979   21-505-
                     21-507;
                     21-509
11-80    5-19-1980   Appendix B, § 228
16-80    7-8-1980    Appendix B, § 201
18-80    8-4-1980    Appendix B, § 201
28-80    12-15-1980  Appendix B, § 201
3-81     5-18-1981   Appendix B, § 201
1-82     2-15-1982   Appendix B, § 201
                     6-301-
4-82     9-6-1982    6-303;
                     6-351-
                     6-356
5-83     8-15-1983   Appendix B, § 201
7-83     9-6-1983    21-471-
                     21-474
                     21-401-
                     21-404;
                     21-411-
                     21-416;
                     21-421-
                     21-426;
6-83     9-19-1983   21-431;
                     21-432;
                     21-441-
                     21-446;
                     21-451-
                     21-453;
                     21-461-
                     21-463
4-84     6-18-1984   Appendix B, § 222
9-84     10-8-1984   19-501-
                     19-503
14-84    12-3-1984   Appendix B, § 215
                     16-101;
                     16-102;
2-85     4-1-1985    16-201-
                     16-219;
                     16-241;
                     16-242
                     21-201-
                     21-203;
                     21-205-
                     21-206;
2-86     2-17-1986   21-213-
                     21-219;
                     21-241-
                     21-244;
                     21-262-
                     21-266
5-86     2-17-1986   21-508;
                     21-512
8-86     4-21-1986   16-301-
                     16-312
7-87     6-15-1987   5-501-
                     5-504
10-87    11-2-1987   Appendix B, § 201
5-89     6-19-1989   21-601-
                     21-608
10-89    6-19-1989   1-111
5-90     3-5-1990    12-106
19-90    12-3-1990   Appendix B, § 208
20-90    12-17-1990  18-201
21-90    12-17-1990  2-403
1-91     1-7-1991    Appendix B, § 208
2-91     2-4-1991    Appendix B, § 208
10-91    11-4-1991   10-501-
                     10-504
12-91    12-16-1991  Appendix B, § 222
-        1-31-1992   Appendix B, § 215
3-92     4-6-1992    Appendix B, § 221
8-92     6-1-1992    16-219
11-92    7-20-1992   Appendix B, § 222
                     11-101;
                     11-102;
16-92    8-3-1992    11-104-
                     11-108;
                     11-110
17-92    8-3-1992    21-206;
                     21-212
23-92A   11-2-1992   7-110
17-93    10-18-1993  14-202;
                     14-203
12-94    6-20-1994   4-105
23-94    10-3-1994   4-109-
                     4-112
                     7-100;
                     7-115-
26-94    11-7-1994   7-119;
                     7-121;
                     7-301;
                     7-302
27-94    11-7-1994   15-104
28-95    9-18-1995   Appendix B, § 201
10-97    3-17-1997   Appendix B, § 208
5-98     2-16-1998   14-203
24-98    7-20-1998   11-105
30-98    8-31-1998   14-202
32-98    9-21-1998   11-105
6-99     4-19-1999   7-116-
                     7-118
23-99    8-16-1999   6-301
2-2000   2-7-2000    7-201;
                     7-202
5-2000   2-21-2000   21-504
14-2000  5-15-2000   20-1183;
                     20-1184
18-2000  6-19-2000   6-701
                     2-403;
29-2000  9-18-2000   2-409;
                     2-502
23-2001  7-2-2001    21-213
24-2001  7-2-2001    16-205
                     21-206;
35-2001  10-15-2001  21-262;
                     21-603
15-02    4-15-2002   7-201
                     21-301;
                     21-302;
                     21-306;
                     21-308-
                     21-315;
                     21-325-
                     21-328;
                     21-335;
                     21-336;
                     21-345-
33-2002  10-21-2002  21-357;
                     21-361-
                     21-363;
                     21-369;
                     21-372-
                     21-375;
                     21-380;
                     21-383-
                     21-385;
                     21-388;
                     21-391
14-2003  5-19-2003   19-601-
                     19-604
03-441   6-17-2003   21-283
33-2003  11-3-2003   11-104
35-2003  12-15-2003  20-1121
10-2004  5-17-2004   18-103
13-2004  6-7-2004    21-281-
                     21-287
22-2004  8-16-2004   6-302
24-2004  9-20-2004   20-502
27-2004  10-4-2004   21-427
28-2004  10-18-2004  20-502
8-2005   3-21-2005   21-509;
                     21-511
4-2006   2-6-2006    11-104
9-2006   3-20-2006   20-1121
22-2006  8-7-2006    20-1121
23-2006  8-7-2006    2-203
04-2007  2-12-2007   16-242
24-2007  9-10-2007   2-203
2-2008   1-07-2008   21-509
                     4-101;
                     4-106;
                     4-108;
17-2008  7-7-2008    4-109;
                     4-113;
                     4-204;
                     4-205
9-2009   4-6-2009    4-101;
                     4-610
8-2009   4-20-2009   6-801
30-2012  8-6-2012    17-101
31-2012  8-20-2012   20-1300-
                     20-1305
30-2014  8-4-2014    11-104
36-2014  11-17-2014  11-105
4-2015   2-6-15      21-445
21-2015  10-19-2015  4-114
22-2015  10-19-2015  6-405
6-2016   5-2-2016    16-301-
                     16-312
-        6-6-2016    17-101
24-2016  12-19-2016  19-108
6-2017   3-20-2017   17-101
2-2018   1-15-2018   7-120
3-2018   1-15-2018   4-105
10-2018  4-16-2018   17-101
                     5-401-
                     5-432;
21-2018  12-3-2018   5-601-
                     5-615;
                     5-701-
                     5-706
22-2018  12-3-2018   14-101-
                     14-114
23-2018  12-3-2018   20-1200-
                     20-1216
1-2019   2-12-2019   17-101
7-2019   5-14-2019   3-100;
                     3-103
18-2019  7-9-2019    17-101
6-2020   2-11-2020   19-324
7-2020   2-11-2020   9-102
10-2020  5-12-2020   3-103
16-2020  6-9-2020    17-101
17-2020  6-9-2020    17-101
                    
 
