CODE OF ORDINANCES
CITY OF
MARION, NORTH CAROLINA
Current through 7-18-23
Supplement No. 18
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This Code constitutes a complete recodification of the ordinances of the
City of Marion, North Carolina of a general and permanent nature.
   Source materials used in the preparation of the Code were the 1982 Code, as
supplemented through September 7, 1982, and ordinances subsequently adopted by
the city council. The source of each section is included in the history note
appearing in parentheses at the end thereof. The absence of such a note
indicates that the section is new and was adopted for the first time with the
adoption of the Code. By use of the comparative tables appearing in the back of
this Code, the reader can locate any section of the 1982 Code, as supplemented,
and any subsequent ordinance included herein.
   The chapters of the Code have been conveniently arranged in alphabetical
order and the various sections within each chapter have been catchlined to
facilitate usage. Notes which tie related sections of the Code together and
which refer to relevant state law have been included. A table listing the state
law citations and setting forth their location within the Code is included at
the back of this Code.
   Numbering System
   The numbering system used in this Code is the same system used in many state
and local government codes. Each section number consists of two component parts
separated by a dash, the figure before the dash referring to the chapter number
and the figure after the dash referring to the position of the section within
the chapter. Thus, the second section of Chapter 1 is numbered 1-2 and the
first section of Chapter 4 is 4-1. Under this system, each section is
identified with its chapter and at the same time new sections or even whole
chapters can be inserted in their proper place simply by using the decimal
system for amendments. By way of illustration: If new material consisting of
one section that would logically come between sections 3-1 and 3-2 is desired
to be added, such new section would be numbered 3-1.5. New chapters may be
included in the same manner. If the new material is to be included between
Chapters 12 and 13, it will be designated as Chapter 12.5. Care should be taken
that the alphabetical arrangement of chapters is maintained when including new
chapters. New articles and new divisions may be included in the same way or, in
the case of articles, may be placed at the end of the chapter embracing the
subject, and, in the case of divisions, may be placed at the end of the article
embracing the subject, the next successive number being assigned to the article
or division.
   Indices
   The indices have been prepared with the greatest of care. Each particular
item has been placed under several headings, some of the headings being couched
in lay phraseology, others in legal terminology, and still others in language
generally used by local government officials and employees. There are numerous
cross references within the indices themselves which stand as guideposts to
direct the user to the particular item in which the user is interested.
   Looseleaf Supplements
   A special feature of this publication to which the attention of the user is
especially directed is the looseleaf system of binding and supplemental
servicing for the publication. With this system, the publication will be kept
up-to-date periodically. Subsequent amendatory legislation will be properly
edited and the appropriate page or pages affected will be reprinted. These new
pages will be distributed to holders of copies of the publication, with
instructions for the manner of inserting the new pages and deleting the
obsolete pages.
   Successfully keeping this publication up-to-date at all times will depend
largely upon the holder of the publication. As revised sheets are received, it
will then become the responsibility of the holder to have the amendments
inserted according to the attached instructions. It is strongly recommended by
the publisher that all such amendments be inserted immediately upon receipt to
avoid misplacing them and, in addition, that all deleted pages be saved and
filed for historical reference purposes.
   Acknowledgments
   This publication was originally under the direct supervision of Jan Shekitka
and Palmer Carr, Supervising Editors, of the Municipal Code Corporation,
Tallahassee, Florida. Credit is gratefully given to the other members of the
publisher's staff for their sincere interest and able assistance throughout the
project.
   The publisher is most grateful to J. Earl Daniels, City Manager, and Robert
N. Parker, Personnel Director, for their cooperation and assistance during the
progress of the work on this publication. It is hoped that their efforts and
those of the publisher have resulted in a Code of Ordinances which will make
the active law of the city readily accessible to all citizens and which will be
a valuable tool in the day-to-day administration of the city's affairs.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. O-91-1-8-1
   An Ordinance Adopting and Enacting a New Code for the City of Marion, North
Carolina; Providing for the Repeal of Certain Ordinances Not Included Therein;
Providing a Penalty for the Violation Thereof; Providing for the Manner of
Amending Such Code; and Providing When Such Code and This Ordinance Shall
Become Effective.
   Be It Ordained by the City Council of the City of Marion, North Carolina:
   Section 1. The Code entitled "The Code of the City of Marion" published by
Municipal Code Corporation consisting of Chapters 1 through 20, each inclusive,
is adopted.
   Section 2. All ordinances of a general and permanent nature enacted on or
before February 21, 1989, and not included in the Code or recognized and
continued in force by reference therein, are repealed; provided, however, that
the following items are not repealed and shall continue in full force and
effect pending the adoption of superceding ordinances on the subjects to which
they pertain:
    1.   Part 8, Chapter 3 entitled "Abandoned Vehicles" of the Code of 1982
including sections 8-3001 through 8-3008.
    2.   Part 5, Chapter 1 entitled "Water Supply and Distribution," Chapter 2
entitled "Sewerage Collection and Disposal," and Chapter 3 "Water and Sewer
Extensions" of the Code of 1982 including sections 5-1001 through 5-3006.
   Section 3. The repeal provided for in section 2 hereof shall not be
construed to revive any ordinance or part thereof that has been repealed by a
subsequent ordinance that is repealed by this ordinance.
   Section 4. Unless another penalty is expressly provided, every person
convicted of a violation of any provision of the Code or any ordinance, rule or
regulation adopted or issued in pursuance thereof, shall be punished by a fine
not exceeding fifty dollars ($50.00) or by imprisonment not exceeding thirty
(30) days. Each act of violation and each day upon which any such violation
shall occur shall constitute a separate offense. The penalty provided by this
section, unless another penalty is expressly provided shall apply to the
amendment of any Code section whether or not such penalty is reenacted in the
amendatory ordinance. In addition to the penalty prescribed above, the City
Council may pursue other remedies such as abatement of nuisances, injunctive
relief, and revocation of licenses or permits.
   Section 5. Additions or amendments to the Code when passed in the form as to
indicate the intention of the City Council to make the same a part of the Code
shall be deemed to be incorporated in the Code, so that reference to the Code
includes the additions and amendments.
   Section 6. Ordinances adopted after February 21, 1989, that amend or refer
to ordinances that have been codified in the Code, shall be construed as if
they amend or refer to like provisions of the Code.
   Section 7. This ordinance shall become effective January 8, 1991.
   Passed and adopted by the City Council this 8th day of January, 1991.
   A. Everette Clark
____________________
   Mayor
   J. Earl Daniels
____________________
   Clerk
   Certificate of Adoption
   I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of the ordinance passed
at the regular meeting of the City Council of the City of Marion held on the
8th day of January, 1991.
   J. Earl Daniels
____________________
   Clerk
PART I
THE CHARTER*
__________
*   Editors Note: herein is the Charter of the City of Marion, being chapter
101 of the Acts of 1977, adopted by legislature on March 21, 1977. Amendments
to the original Charter are indicated by parenthetical history notes following
amended provisions. The absence of a history note indicates that the provision
derives unchanged from the original Charter. A uniform system of punctuation
and capitalization has been used. Obvious misspellings have been corrected
without notation and material in brackets [ ] has been added for clarity.
__________
   
Art I. Incorporation, Corporate Powers and Boundaries, §§ 1--1.10
   
Art. II. Mayor and Council, §§ 2.1--2.15
   
Art. III. Elections, §§ 3.1--3.10
   
Art. IV. Organization and Administration, §§ 4.1--4.15
   
Art. V. Special Provisions, §§ 5.1--5.9
ARTICLE I.
INCORPORATION, CORPORATE POWERS AND BOUNDARIES
Sec. 1.
   The Charter of the City of Marion is hereby revised and consolidated to read
as follows:
Sec. 1.1. Incorporation.
   The City of Marion, North Carolina, in the County of McDowell, and the
inhabitants thereof, shall continue to be a municipal body politic and
corporate, under the name and style of the "City of Marion," hereinafter at
times referred to as the "city."
Sec. 1.2. Powers.
   The City of Marion shall have and may exercise all of the powers, duties,
rights, privileges and immunities, which are now, or hereafter may be,
conferred, either expressly or by implication, upon the City of Marion,
specifically, or upon municipal corporations, generally, by this Charter, by
the State Constitution, or by general or local law.
Sec. 1.3. Corporate limits.
   The corporate limits of the City of Marion shall be those existing at the
time of ratification of this Charter, as the same are set forth on the official
map of the city, and as the same may be altered from time to time in accordance
with law. An official map of the city, showing the current city boundaries,
shall be maintained permanently in the office of the city clerk, and shall be
available for public inspection. Immediately upon alteration of the corporate
limits made pursuant to law, the appropriate changes to the official map of the
city shall be made.
Secs. 1.4.--1.10. Reserved.
ARTICLE II.
MAYOR AND COUNCIL
Sec. 2.1. Governing body.
   The mayor and city council, elected and constituted as herein set forth,
shall be the governing body of the city. On behalf of the city, and in
conformity with applicable laws, the mayor and council may provide for the
exercise of all municipal powers, and shall be charged with the general
government of the city.
Sec. 2.2. City Council; composition; terms of office.
   The city council shall be composed of five (5) members, each of whom shall
be elected for terms of four (4) years in the manner provided by article III of
this Charter, provided they shall serve until their successors are elected and
qualified.
Sec. 2.3. Mayor, term of office; duties.
   The mayor shall be elected in the manner provided by article III of this
Charter to serve for a term of four (4) years, or until his or her successor is
elected and qualified. The mayor shall be the official head of the city
government and shall preside at all meetings of the city council. The mayor
shall have the right to vote only when there are an equal number of votes in
the affirmative and the negative on any motion before the council. The mayor
shall exercise such powers and perform such duties as presently are or
hereafter may be conferred by the General Statutes of North Carolina, by this
Charter, and by the ordinances of the city.
Sec. 2.4. Mayor pro tempore.
   In accordance with applicable state laws, the council shall appoint one (1)
of its members to act as mayor pro tempore to perform the duties of the mayor
in the mayor's absence or disability. The mayor pro tempore as such shall have
no fixed term of office, but shall serve in such capacity at the pleasure of
the remaining members of the council.
Sec. 2.5. Meetings of the council.
   In accordance with the general statutes, the council shall establish a
suitable time and place for its regular meetings. Special meetings may be held
according to the applicable provisions of the general statutes.
Sec. 2.6. Ordinances and resolutions.
   The adoption, amendment, repeal, pleading, or proving of city ordinances and
resolutions shall be in accordance with the applicable provisions of the
general laws of North Carolina not inconsistent with this Charter. The ayes and
noes shall be taken upon all ordinances and resolutions and entered upon the
minutes of the council. The enacting clause of all city ordinances shall be:
"Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Marion."
Sec. 2.7. Voting requirements; quorum.
   Official action of the council shall in every instance be by majority vote,
provided that a quorum, consisting of a majority of the actual membership of
the council, is present. Vacant seats are to be subtracted from the normal
council membership to determine the actual membership.
Sec. 2.8. Qualifications for office; vacancies; compensation.
   The compensation of council members, the filling of vacancies on the
council, and the qualifications of council members shall be in accordance with
applicable provisions of the general statutes.
Secs. 2.8.--2.15. Reserved.
ARTICLE III.
ELECTIONS
Sec. 3.1. Regular municipal elections; conduct and method of election.
   Regular municipal elections shall be held in the city every two (2) years in
odd-numbered years and shall be conducted in accordance with the uniform
municipal election laws of North Carolina. The mayor and members of the council
shall be elected according to the nonpartisan plurality method of election.
Sec. 3.2. Election of the mayor.
   At the regular municipal election in 1977, and every four years thereafter,
there shall be elected a mayor to serve a term of four years. The mayor shall
be elected by the voters of the city voting at large.
Sec. 3.3. Election of the council members.
   At the regular municipal elections in 1977 and every four years thereafter,
there shall be elected three council members to fill the seats of those
officers whose terms are then expiring. At the regular municipal elections in
1979 and every four years thereafter, there shall be elected two council
members to fill the seats of those officers whose terms are then expiring.
Secs. 3.4.--3.10. Reserved.
ARTICLE IV.
ORGANIZATION AND ADMINISTRATION
Sec. 4.1. Form of government.
   The city shall operate under the council-manager form of government, in
accordance with part 2 of article 7 of chapter 160A of the general statutes.
Sec. 4.2. City manager.
   The council shall appoint a city manager who shall serve at the pleasure of
the council, who shall be the head of the administrative branch of city
government, and who shall be responsible to the council for the proper
administration of the affairs of the city. In exercising the duties of chief
administrator, the manager shall:
   (a)    Except as provided in subsection (b) hereof, appoint and suspend or
remove all city employees whose appointment or removal is not otherwise
provided for by law, in accordance with such general personnel rules,
regulations, policies, or ordinances as the council may adopt.
   (b)    Recommend to the council for their approval appointments to the
position of city clerk.
   (c)    Direct and supervise the administration of all departments, offices,
and agencies of the city, subject to the general direction and control of the
council except as otherwise provided by law.
   (d)    Attend all meetings of the council and recommend any measures deemed
expedient.
   (e)    See that all laws of the state, the City Charter and the ordinances,
resolutions and regulations adopted by the council are faithfully executed
within the city.
   (f)    Prepare and submit the annual budget and capital program to the
council.
   (g)    Annually submit to the council and make available to the public a
complete report on the finances and administrative activities of the city as of
the end of the fiscal year.
   (h)    Make any other reports that the council may require concerning the
operations of the city departments, offices, and agencies subject to the
manager's direction and control.
   (i)    Perform any other duties that may be required and authorized by the
council.
   No. O-04-03-16-2, § 2, 3-16-04)
Sec. 4.3. City attorney.
   The council shall appoint a city attorney who shall be licensed to engage in
the practice of law in the State of North Carolina. It shall be the duty of the
city attorney to prosecute and defend suits against the city; to advise the
mayor, council and other city officials with respect to the affairs of the
city; to draft all legal documents relating to the affairs of the city; to
inspect and pass upon all agreements, contracts, franchises and other
instruments with which the city may be concerned; to attend meetings of the
council and to perform other duties required by law or as the council may
direct.
Sec. 4.4. City clerk.
   The city manager shall appoint a city clerk to keep a journal of the
proceedings of the council, to maintain in a safe place all records and
documents pertaining to the affairs of the city, and to perform such other
duties as may be required by law or as the city manager may direct.
(Ord. No. O-20-03-03-3, §2, 3-3-20)
Sec. 4.5. City finance officer.
   The city manager shall appoint a city finance officer to perform the duties
of the finance officer as required by the Local Government Budget and Fiscal
Control Act.
   No. O-04-03-16-2, § 3, 3-16-04)
Sec. 4.6. City tax collector.
   The city manager shall appoint a city tax collector to collect all taxes,
licenses, fees and other revenues accruing to the city, subject to the general
statutes, the provisions of this Charter and the ordinances of the city. The
city tax collector shall diligently comply with and enforce all the laws of
North Carolina relating to the collection of taxes and other revenues by
municipalities.
   No. O-04-03-16-2, § 4, 3-16-04)
Sec. 4.7. Consolidation of functions.
   The city manager may consolidate any two or more positions of city manager,
city clerk, city tax collector and city finance officer, or may assign the
functions of any one or more of these positions to the holder or holders of any
other of these positions, subject to the Local Government Budget and Fiscal
Control Act.
   No. O-04-03-16-2, § 5, 3-16-04)
Sec. 4.8. Other administrative officers and employees.
   Consistent with applicable state laws, the council may establish other
positions, provide for the appointment of other administrative officers and
employees, and generally organize the city government in order to promote the
orderly and efficient administration of the affairs of the city.
Secs. 4.9.--4.15. Reserved.
ARTICLE V.
SPECIAL PROVISIONS
Sec. 5.1. Assessments for street and sidewalk improvements; petition
unnecessary.
   (a)    In addition to any authority which is now or may hereafter be granted
by general law to the city for making street improvements, the council is
hereby authorized to make street improvements and to assess the cost thereof
against abutting property owners in accordance with the provisions of this
section.
   (b)    The council may order street improvements and assess the cost thereof
against the abutting property owners, exclusive of the costs incurred at street
intersections, according to one or more of the assessment bases set forth in
article 10 of chapter 160A of the North Carolina General Statutes without the
necessity of a petition, upon the finding by the board as a fact:
   (1)   That the street improvement project does not exceed 1,200 linear feet;
and
   (2)   That such street or part thereof is unsafe for vehicular traffic, and
it is in the public interest to make such improvement; or
   (3)   That it is in the public interest to connect two streets, or portions
of a street already improved, or
   (4)   That it is in the public interest to widen a street, or part thereof,
which is already improved, provided that assessments for widening any street or
portion of street without a petition shall be limited to the cost of widening
and otherwise improving such street in accordance with the street
classification and improvement standards established by the city's thoroughfare
or major street plan for the particular street or part thereof to be widened
and improved under the authority granted by this section.
   (c)    For the purposes of this section, the term "street improvement" shall
include grading, regrading, surfacing, resurfacing, widening, paving, repaving,
the acquisition of right-of-way, and the construction or reconstruction of
curbs, gutters and street drainage facilities.
   (d)    In addition to any authority which is now or may hereafter be granted
by general law to the city for making sidewalk improvements, the council is
hereby authorized, without the necessity of obtaining a petition, to make or to
order to be made sidewalk improvements or repairs according to standards and
specifications of the city, and to assess the total cost thereof against
abutting property owners, according to one or more of the assessment bases set
forth in article 10 of chapter 160A of the North Carolina General Statutes;
provided, however, that regardless of the assessment basis or bases employed,
the council may order the cost of sidewalk improvements made only on one side
of a street to be assessed against the property owners abutting both sides of
such street.
   (e)    In ordering street and sidewalk improvements without a petition and
assessing the cost thereof under authority of this section, the council shall
comply with the procedure provided by article 10, chapter 160A of the general
statutes, except those provisions relating to the petition of property owners
and the sufficiency thereof.
   (f)    The effect of the act of levying assessments under the authority of
this section shall for all purposes be the same as if the assessments were
levied under authority of article 10 of chapter 160A of the general statutes.
Sec. 5.2.
   The purpose of this act is to revise the Charter of the City of Marion and
to consolidate herein certain acts concerning the property, affairs, and
government of the city. It is intended to continue without interruption those
provisions of prior acts which are consolidated into this act, so that all
rights and liabilities that have accrued are preserved and may be enforced.
Sec. 5.3.
   This act shall not be deemed to repeal, modify, or in any manner affect any
of the following acts, portions of acts, or amendments thereto, whether or not
such acts, portions of acts, or amendments are expressly set forth herein:
   (a)    Any acts concerning the property, affairs, or government of public
schools in the City of Marion.
   (b)    Any acts validating, confirming, approving, or legalizing official
proceedings, actions, contracts, or obligations of any kind.
Sec. 5.4.
   The following acts or portions of acts, having served the purposes for which
they were enacted, or having been consolidated into this act are hereby
repealed:
   Ch. 49 Priv. L. 1844
   Ch. 194 Priv. L. 1847
   Ch. 120 Priv. L. 1857
   Ch. 16 Priv. L. 1862
   Ch. 18 Priv. L. 1869
   Ch. 109 Priv. L. 1869
   Ch. 59 Priv. L. 1869
   Ch. 77 Pub. L. 1871
   Ch. 85 Pub. L. 1881
   Ch. 183 Priv. L. 1899
   Ch. 114 Priv. L. 1891
   Ch. 310 Pub. L. 1895
   Ch. 286 Priv. L. 1895
   Ch. 73 Priv. L. 1901
   Ch. 149 Priv. L. 1901
   Ch. 428 Priv. L. 1901
   Ch. 247 Priv. L. 1903
   Ch. 369 Priv. L. 1907
   Ch. 73 Priv. L. 1909
   Ch. 291 Priv. L. 1909
   Ch. 105 Priv. L. 1911
   Ch. 121 Priv. L. 1915
   Ch. 317 Priv. L. 1915
   Ch. 19 Priv. L. 1917
   Ch. 54 Priv. L. 1917
   Ch. 103 Priv. L. 1917
   Ch. 8 Priv. L. 1919
   Ch. 42 Priv. L. 1919
   Ch. 31 Priv. Ex. 1920
   Ch. 161 Priv. L. 1921
   Ch. 9 Priv. L. Ex. 1921
   Ch. 162 Priv. L. 1923
   Ch. 44 Priv. L. Ex. 1924
   Ch. 128 Priv. L. 1925
   Ch. 103 Priv. L. 1929
   Ch. 106 Priv. L. 1931
   Ch. 163 Priv. L. 1931
   Ch. 792 S.L. 1947
   Ch. 793 S.L. 1947
   Ch. 1159 S.L. 1951
   Ch. 309 S.L. 1953
   Ch. 388 S.L. 1953
   Ch. 417 S.L. 1955
   Ch. 881 S.L. 1959
   Ch. 665 S.L. 1967
Sec. 5.5.
   No provision of this act is intended, nor shall be construed, to affect in
any way any rights or interests (whether public or private):
   (a)    Now vested or accrued, in whole or in part, the validity of which
might be sustained or preserved by reference to any provisions of law repealed
by this act.
   (b)    Derived from, or which might be sustained or preserved in reliance
upon, action heretofore taken pursuant to or within the scope of any provision
of law repealed by this act.
Sec. 5.6.
   No law heretofore repealed expressly or by implication, and no law granting
authority which has been exhausted, shall be revived by:
   (a)    The repeal herein of any act repealing such law; or
   (b)    Any provision of this act that disclaims an intention to repeal or
affect enumerated or designated laws.
Sec. 5.7.
   All existing ordinances and resolutions of the City of Marion and all
existing rules or regulations of departments or agencies of the City of Marion
not inconsistent with the provisions of this act, shall continue in full force
and effect until repealed, modified or amended.
   No action or proceeding of any nature (whether civil or criminal, judicial
or administrative, or otherwise) pending at the effective date of this act by
or against the City of Marion or any of its departments or agencies shall be
abated or otherwise affected by the adoption of this act.
Sec. 5.8.
   If any of this act or the application thereof to any person or circumstance
is held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect other provisions or
applications of this act which can be given effect without the invalid
provision or application, and to this end the provisions of this act are
declared to be severable.
Sec. 5.9.
   Whenever a reference is made in this act to a particular provision of the
general statutes, and such provision is later amended, repealed or superseded,
the reference shall be deemed amended to refer to the amended general statute,
or to the general statute which most clearly corresponds to the statutory
provision which is repealed or superseded.
PART II
SPECIAL ACTS*
__________
*   Editors Note: II consists of special acts relating to the city, but not
enacted as specific amendments or additions to the Charter. This is not a
complete compilation of all such acts, but only of those which were deemed to
be of such general interest and importance as to warrant inclusion herein.
Sections of the acts containing formal provisions have been omitted.
__________
CHAPTER 668
   HOUSE BILL 698
   Section 1. Notwithstanding any provision of the General Statutes, or any
rule or regulation of a state agency, plans for water or sewer line replacement
or extensions prepared by the City of Marion shall not be required to bear the
seal of a registered professional engineer if no federal or state funds will be
used to finance the project, the project will be constructed by regular
employees of the city, the project will not exceed 1,000 feet in the length of
the water or sewer line, the project does not include any pumping or lift
station or sewer force main, and provided that no extension on an extension be
made within one (1) year. This section shall apply only to water lines of six
(6) inches or less and/or sewer lines of eight (8) inches or less.
(Sess. Laws 1981, § 1, 6-24-81)
CHAPTER 224
   HOUSE BILL 449
   Section 1. Article 12 of G.S. Chapter 160A is amended by adding a new
section, to read as follows:
"Upon finding that such a limitation is in the public interest, the council,
when disposing of property pursuant to this Article, may impose limitations
upon the future use of the property. The council may do so by including in the
conveyance appropriate covenants or other restrictions or by conveying an
estate in fee simple determinable or fee simple subject to a condition
subsequent. If property is to be conveyed subject to limitations on future use,
the notice or advertisement of the sale required by Article 12 shall specify
the limitations and the method by which they will be imposed."
Sec. 1.1. This act applies to McDowell County, only.
(Sess. Laws 1983, § 1.1, 4-26-83)
CHARTER COMPARATIVE TABLE
   ACTS
   This table shows the location of the sections of the basic Charter and any
amendments thereto as included in Part I herein.
 
Year Chapter Section Disposition
1977 101     1--5.9  Arts. I--V
 
Ordinance Number Adoption Date Section Section this Charter
O-04-03-16-2     3-16-04       2       4.2(b)
                               3       4.5
                               4       4.6
                               5       4.7
O-20-03-03-3     3-3-20        2       4.4
 
PART III
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Chapter 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
Sec. 1-1. How Code designated and cited.
   The ordinances embraced in this and the following chapters and sections
shall constitute and be designated "The Code of the City of Marion, North
Carolina," and may be so cited. Such Code may also be cited as "Marion City
Code."
   State Law References: Codification of ordinances, G.S. 160A-77; pleading and
proving city ordinances, G.S. 160A-79.
Sec. 1-2. City Code published by order of the council.
   In accordance with G.S. section 160A-79, "Pleading and proving city
ordinances," this city Code, "The Code of the City of Marion," has been adopted
and issued in compliance with G.S. section 160A-77, "Code of Ordinances," and
this Code, "The Code of the City of Marion," is published by order of the city
council of the City of Marion.
Sec. 1-3. Definitions and rules of construction.
   In the construction of this Code and of all ordinances, the following
definitions and rules of construction shall be observed, unless inconsistent
with the manifest intent of the city council or the context clearly requires
otherwise:
   Approved screening includes, but is not limited to, opaque enclosures,
buildings, natural objects, plantings, fencings, walls or other appropriate
means to visually conceal the view of junked or inoperable motor vehicles (or
other uses that are required to be screened) from adjoining property or the
public roadway at any season of the year. In determining whether screening is
adequate, the following factors, along with others, should be considered:
topographical features of the property and naturally occurring visual
obstructions, such as but not limited to vegetation.
   Approved screening plan means a site specific plan approved by the person or
board issuing the permit and that includes but is not limited to natural
objects, plantings, fencings, walls or other appropriate means to visually
conceal the view of junked or inoperable motor vehicles (or other use that is
required to be screened) from the public roadway at any season of the year. In
determining whether to approve a screening plan, the following factors, along
with others, should be considered; topographical features of the property and
naturally occurring visual obstructions, such as but not limited to vegetation.
   Automobile graveyard means any establishment or place of business which is
maintained, used, or operated for storing, keeping, buying or selling wrecked,
scrapped, ruined, or dismantled motor vehicles or motor vehicle parts. Any
establishment or place of business upon which six or more unlicensed, used
motor vehicles which cannot be operated under their own power are kept or
stored for a period of fifteen (15) days or more shall be deemed to be an
"automobile graveyard."
   State Law References: Similar provisions, G.S. 136-143(1).
   Automobile repair shop means any establishment or place of business which is
maintained or operated for the primary purpose of making mechanical and/or body
repairs to motor vehicles. Factors to be considered in determining the primary
purpose of the shop include but are not limited to the following:
   (1)   Gross receipts of the business attributable to repair service broken
down into the following categories: new parts, labor for service, used auto
parts;
   (2)   The age of each vehicle and how long each vehicle has been on the
property (used vehicles that are on the property for longer than six (6) months
may be evidence that the business is not an automobile repair shop, but rather
an automobile graveyard and/or junkyard);
   (3)   Whether business has initiated proceeding to declare vehicles
abandoned under state law so the vehicle can be disposed of;
   (4)   Any business-type licenses that are held, or the lack thereof; and
   (5)   The number and configuration of grease bays or repair work areas.
   For the purposes of this definition, automobile sales businesses where the
service department generates fifty (50) percent or more of the gross receipts
of the business are considered to be automobile repair shops and subject to all
regulations governing automobile repair shops. For purposes of this article,
automobile tire sales and service shops, as defined herein, shall be considered
automobile repair shops. An automobile repair shop that operates a combination
of towing, tire and sales shall comply with all the regulations governing each
use.
   Automobile sales (also referred to as "car sales" or "motor vehicle sales")
businesses means any establishment or place of business which is maintained or
operated for the primary purpose of selling motor vehicles. For purposes of
this definition, factors to be considered in determining the primary purpose of
the business include but are not limited to the following:
   (1)   Gross receipts of the business attributable to vehicle sales or
service broken down into the following categories: vehicle sales, new parts,
labor for service, and used auto parts;
   (2)   The age of each vehicle and how long each vehicle has been on the
property (used vehicles that are on the property for longer than twelve (12)
months may be evidence that the business is not an automobile sales business,
but rather an automobile graveyard and/or junkyard);
   (3)   Any business-type licenses that are held, or the lack thereof; and
   (4)   The number and configuration of grease bays or repair work areas.
   For the purposes of this definition, automobile sales businesses where the
service department generates fifty (50) percent or more of the gross receipts
of the business are considered to be automobile repair shops and subject to all
regulations governing automobile repair shops.
   Automobile tire sales and service shops means any establishment or place of
business which is maintained or operated for the primary purpose of selling
tires and/or tire repair. For purposes of this definition, factors to be
considered in determining the primary purpose of the shop include but are not
limited to the following:
   (1)   Gross receipts of the business attributable to tire service.
   (2)   The age of each vehicle and how long each vehicle has been on the
property (used vehicles that are on the property for longer than six (6) months
may be evidence that the business is not an automobile tire shop, but rather an
automobile graveyard and/or junkyard).
   (3)   The length of time that used tires are stored on the property.
   (4)   Used tires stored on the property longer than thirty (30) days should
be evidence that the business is not an automobile tire shop, but rather a
junkyard.
   (5)   Any business-type licenses that are held, or the lack thereof. For the
purpose of this chapter tire, tire sales and services shall be considered an
automobile repair shop.
   Automobile towing and wrecker service businesses means any establishment or
place of business which is maintained or operated for the primary purpose of
towing motor vehicles. For purposes of this definition, factors to be
considered in determining the primary purpose of the shop include but are not
limited to the following:
   (1)   Gross receipts of the business attributable to towing service.
   (2)   The age of each vehicle and how long each vehicle has been on the
property (used vehicles that are on the property for longer than six (6) months
may be evidence that the business is not an automobile towing service, but
rather a automobile graveyard and/or junkyard).
   (3)   The length of time and number of junked vehicles that are stored on
the property.
   (4)   Whether business has initiated proceeding to declare vehicles
abandoned under state law so the vehicle can be disposed of.
   (5)   Any business-type licenses that are held, or the lack thereof. For the
purpose of this chapter tire, towing and wrecking services shall be considered
an automobile repair shop.
   Charter means the Charter of the City of Marion, North Carolina as printed
in Part I of this volume.
   Citation assessing civil penalty (hereinafter "civil citation") is a written
document which finds the person(s) therein named in violation of the Code and
provides the violator with the following information concerning the violation:
   1.   Name and signature of the enforcement officer witnessing the violation;
   2.   Date violation witnessed and date of issuance;
   3.   Description of the violation witnessed;
   4.   Reference to the provision of the Code that has been or is being
violated;
   5.   Description of the action that must be taken to correct the violation;
   6.   Description of the penalty imposed for the violation and direct that
must be paid within ten (10) days of issuance of citation;
   7.   Outline of the process whereby the violator can appeal the citation;
   8.   Warning that increasingly severe penalties may be assessed for
violations that continue without being corrected or for multiple violations by
the same violator.
   City means the City of Marion, in the County of McDowell in the State of
North Carolina, except as otherwise provided.
   City council means and refers to the governing body of the City of Marion,
North Carolina.
   City limits means the legal boundary of the City of Marion, North Carolina.
   Code means the Code of Ordinances, City of Marion, North Carolina as
designated in section
1-1.
   Computation of time. In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed
by this Code or by order of court, the day of the act, event, default or
publication after which the designated period of time begins to run is not to
be included. The last day of the period so computed is to be included, unless
it is a Saturday, Sunday or a legal holiday, in which event the period runs
until the end of the next day which is not a Saturday, Sunday, or a legal
holiday. When the period of time prescribed or allowed is less than seven (7)
days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays shall be excluded in the
computation. A half holiday shall be considered as other days and not as a
holiday. Eastern standard time shall be the official time except during that
period when what is commonly known as "daylight saving time" is in effect,
through adoption by the city council or otherwise.
   State Law References: Computation of time, G.S. 1-593.
   County means the County of McDowell in the State of North Carolina, except
as otherwise provided.
   Criminal citation is a written document which is a directive issued by a law
enforcement officer that a person(s) appear in court and answer a misdemeanor
or infraction charge(s). A criminal citation may be issued by a law enforcement
officer when he has probable cause to believe that there has been a violation
of this Code that would be a misdemeanor or infraction. A criminal citation
shall state the following:
   1.   Name and signature of the law enforcement officer issuing the citation;
   2.   Date of issuance of the citation;
   3.   Name and address of the person cited, or other identification if that
cannot be ascertained;
   4.   Identification of the crime charged, including the date, and where
material, identify the property and other persons involved;
   5.   Direct the person cited to appear in a designated court at a designated
time and date.
   Daytime, nighttime. "Daytime" is the period of time between sunrise and
sunset, and "nighttime" is the period of time between sunset and sunrise.
   Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision appears requiring the head of
a department of the city to do some act or make certain inspections, it is to
be construed to authorize the head of the department to designate, delegate and
authorize subordinates to perform the required act or make the required
inspection unless the terms of the provision or section designate otherwise.
   Enforcement officer means any officer, employee or contracted agent of the
City of Marion charged with the enforcement of some or all of the provisions of
the Code. Enforcement officers shall have the power and authority to conduct
investigations and enter upon premises (properties, buildings and/or dwellings)
for the purpose of such investigations. Enforcement officers shall also have
the power and authority to administer oaths and affirmations, examine witnesses
and receive evidence. Enforcement officer may secure administrative search
warrants in order to aid them in the performance of their duties
   Gasoline service or filling stations means any establishment or place of
business which is maintained or operated for the primary purpose of selling
gasoline or motor fuel or which contains fuel pumps and other such fuel
dispensing appliances. For purposes of this definition, factors to be
considered in determining the primary purpose of the business include but are
not limited to the following:
   (1)   Gross receipts of the business attributable to gasoline or motor fuel
sales or service broken down into the following categories: gasoline or motor
fuel sales, labor for service, and parts.
   (2)   The age of each vehicle and how long each vehicle has been on the
property (used vehicles that are on the property for longer than six (6) months
may be evidence that the business is not a gasoline service or filling station,
but rather an automobile graveyard and/or junkyard).
   (3)   Any business-type licenses that are held, or the lack thereof, and
   (4)   The number of gasoline pumps or fuel distribution devices.
   (5)   The number and configuration of grease bays or repair work areas.
   For the purposes of this definition, gasoline service or filling stations
where the service or repair work constitutes fifty (50) percent or more of the
gross receipts of the business are considered to be automobile repair shops and
subject to all regulations governing automobile repair shops.
   Gender. Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine and
neuter.
   Governor means the Governor of North Carolina.
   Inoperable motor vehicle. See "Junked and/or Inoperable Motor Vehicle".
   In view or visible means that it is capable of being seen without visual aid
by a person of normal visual acuity.
   Joint authority. All words giving a joint authority to three (3) or more
persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a majority
of such persons or officers.
   Junk means old or scrap copper, brass, rope, rags, batteries, paper, trash,
rubber, debris, waste or junked, dismantled or wrecked automobiles, or parts
thereof, iron, steel, and other old or scrap ferrous or nonferrous material.
   State Law References: Similar provisions, G.S. 136-143(3).
   Junked and/or inoperable motor vehicle means a vehicle that does not display
a current license plate and that:
   (1)   Is partially dismantled or wrecked, or
   (2)   Cannot be self-propelled or moved in the manner in which it originally
was intended to move, or
   (3)   Is more than five (5) years old and appears to be worth less than one
hundred dollars ($100.00).
   State Law References: Similar provisions, G.S. 160A-303.2(a).
   Junkyard means an establishment or place of business which is maintained,
operated, or used for storing, keeping, buying, or selling junk, or for
maintenance or operation of an automobile graveyard, and the terms shall
include garbage dumps and sanitary fills. An establishment or place of business
which stores or keeps for a period of fifteen (15) days or more materials
within the meaning of "junk" as defined herein which had been derived or
created as a result of industrial activity shall be deemed to be a junkyard.
   State Law References: Similar provisions, G.S. 136-143(4).
   Keeper and proprietor mean and include persons, firms, associations,
corporations, clubs and partnerships, whether acting by themselves or as a
servant, agent or employee.
   Major automobile repair work means work on a vehicle that is necessary to
ensure the correct operation of the vehicle which cannot be completed in less
than one (1) hour.
   Mayor means the mayor of the City of Marion.
   Minor automobile repair work means work on a vehicle that is necessary to
ensure the correct operation of the vehicle which can be completed in less than
one (1) hour.
   Month means a calendar month.
   Nontechnical and technical words. Words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
   Notice of violation with opportunity to correct (hereinafter "notice of
violation") is a written document which finds the person(s) therein named in
violation of the Code and provides the violator with the following information
concerning the violation:
   1.   Name and signature of the city enforcement officer witnessing the
violation;
   2.   Date violation witnessed and date of issuance;
   3.   Description of the violation witnessed;
   4.   Reference to the provision of the code that has been or is being
violated;
   5.   Description of the action that must be taken to correct the violation;
   6.   Time period within which the violation must be corrected in order to
avoid civil penalty and/or other enforcement action;
   7.   Outline of the process whereby the violator can appeal the citation;
   8.   Warning that failure to correct within the time period prescribed may
subject the violator to civil penalties and/or other enforcement action.
   Nuisance vehicle means a vehicle on public or private property that is
determined and declared to be a health or safety hazard, a public nuisance and
unlawful, including a vehicle found to be:
   (1)   A breeding ground or harbor for mosquitoes, or other insects, rats, or
pests; or
   (2)   A point of heavy growth of weeds or other noxious vegetation over
eight (8) inches in height; or
   (3)   A point of collection of pools or pounds of water; or
   (4)   A point of concentration of quantities of gasoline oil or other
flammable or explosive materials as evidenced by odor; or
   (5)   One which has areas of confinement which cannot be operated from the
inside, such as trunk, hoods, etc.; or
   (6)   So situated or located that there is a danger of it falling or turning
over; or
   (7)   One which is a point of collection of garbage, food waste, animal
waste or any rotten or putrescible matter of any kind; or
   (8)   One which has sharp points thereon which are jagged or contain sharp
edges of metal or glass; or
   (9)   Located within a public right-of-way and which is creating a traffic
hazard or impeding ingress or egress into a residential dwelling or place of
business.
   (10)   Any other vehicle specifically declared a health and safety hazard
and a public nuisance by the city council.
   Number. Words used in the singular include the plural and the plural
includes the singular number.
   Oath shall be construed to include an affirmation in all cases in which, by
law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words
"affirm" and "affirmed" shall be equivalent to the words, "swear" and "sworn."
   Or, and. "Or" may be read "and," and "and" may be read "or" if the sense
requires it.
   Officials, boards, commissions, etc. Whenever reference is made to
"officials," "boards" and "commissions" by title only, they shall be deemed to
refer to the officials, boards and commissions of the City of Marion.
   Owner, when applied to buildings or land, shall include any part owner,
joint owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety, of the
whole or part of such building or land.
   Person includes a corporation, firm, partnership, association, organization
and any other group acting as a unit, as well as an individual.
   Personal property includes every species of property except real property as
defined in this section.
   Preceding, following mean next before and next after respectively.
   Property includes real and personal property.
   Real property includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   Residence means the place adopted by a person as his place of habitation and
to which, whenever he is absent, he has the intention of returning. When a
person eats at one place and sleeps at another, the place where such person
sleeps shall be deemed his residence.
   Right-of-way means land that is dedicated or otherwise legally established
for public use.
   Roadway means that portion of a street improved, designed or ordinarily used
for vehicular traffic.
   Shall; may. The word "shall" is always mandatory and not merely directory;
"may" is permissive.
   Sidewalk means that portion of the street right-of-way which is improved and
designated for the use of pedestrians.
   Signature or subscription shall include a mark where a person cannot write.
   State means the State of North Carolina.
   Statute references. Whenever reference is made, for example, to G.S. section
160A-272, it shall be construed to refer to General Statutes of North Carolina,
section 160A-272, as amended, or to whatever section is cited.
   Street means and includes any public way, road, highway, street, avenue,
boulevard, parkway, lane, path, viaduct, bridge or any other name a street is
commonly known by, or any public place and the approaches thereto within the
city when any part thereof is open to the use of the public and established for
purposes of vehicular traffic.
   Tenant, occupant applied to a building or land, includes any person who
occupies the whole or part of such building or land, whether alone or with
others.
   Tense. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well as
the past and the present.
   Title of office. The title of any office shall be construed to include the
words, "of the City of Marion, North Carolina."
   Violator is any person or entity whom the enforcement officer reasonably
believes has violated any provision of the code. A violator may be an occupant,
owner, lessee, lessor, or any person or entity having beneficial use of the
affected property, or any or all of the above.
   Violation or violation of this Code means any of the following:
   1.   Doing an act that is prohibited or made or declared unlawful, an
offense, a violation, an infraction, a civil infraction or a misdemeanor by
ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance.
   2.   Failure to perform an act that is required to be performed by ordinance
or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance.
   3.   Failure to perform an act if the failure is prohibited or is made or
declared unlawful, an offense, a violation, an infraction, a civil infraction
or a misdemeanor by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance.
   "Violation" or "violation of this Code" does not include the failure of an
enforcement officer or city employee to perform an official duty unless it is
specifically provided that the failure to perform the duty is to be punished as
provided in this Code.
   Writing, written includes printing and any other mode of representing words
and letters.
   Year means calendar year.
(Ord. No. O-03-10-21-02, 1, 10-21-03; Ord. No. O-08-01-15-3, 1(1), 1-15-08)
   State Law References: Definitions and rules of construction for statutes,
G.S. 12-3.
Sec. 1-4. Ordinances effective upon passage.
   Every ordinance of the city shall be in force immediately upon its passage,
except as otherwise provided in this Code.
(Code 1982, 2-1031)
Sec. 1-5. Provisions considered as continuations of existing ordinances.
   The provisions appearing in this Code, so far as they are the same as
ordinances adopted prior to this Code and included in such Code, shall be
considered as continuations thereof and not as new enactments.
(Code 1982, 1-1002)
Sec. 1-6. Ordinances to be in writing.
   Every ordinance which amends or repeals any other ordinance, and every new
ordinance, shall be in writing.
(Code 1982, 2-1032)
Sec. 1-7. Catchlines of sections; history notes and references.
   (a)    The catchlines of the several sections of this Code printed in
boldface type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the
section and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections nor as
any part of the section, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted.
   (b)    The history notes appearing in parentheses after each section and the
references and editor's notes scattered throughout the Code are for the benefit
of the user of the Code and shall have no legal effect.
Sec. 1-8. Ordinances not affected by Code.
   Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code shall be construed
to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
   (1)   Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture
incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective
date of this Code;
   (2)   Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment of
money for the city or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the city or any
evidence of the city's indebtedness;
   (3)   Any contract or obligation assumed by the city;
   (4)   Any ordinance fixing the salary of any city officer or employee;
   (5)   Any right or franchise granted by the city;
   (6)   Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating,
opening, widening, paving, etc., any street or public way in the city;
   (7)   Any appropriation ordinance;
   (8)   Any ordinance which, by its own terms, is effective for a stated or
limited term;
   (9)   Any ordinance providing for local improvements and assessing taxes
therefor;
   (10)   Any zoning ordinance;
   (11)   Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any subdivision plat;
   (12)   Any ordinance describing or altering the boundaries of the city;
   (13)   The administrative ordinances or resolutions of the city not in
conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this Code;
   (14)   Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes not included herein;
   (15)   Any ordinance establishing or prescribing street grades in the city;
nor shall such ordinance be construed to revive any ordinance or part thereof
that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance which is repealed by this
chapter; and all such ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full
force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length herein.
Sec. 1-9. Effect of repeal or expiration of ordinances.
   (a)    The repeal of an ordinance, or its expiration by virtue of any
provision contained therein, shall not affect any right accrued, any offense
committed, any penalty or punishment incurred on any proceeding commenced
before the repeal took effect or the ordinance expired.
   (b)    When an ordinance which repealed another shall itself be repealed,
the previous ordinance shall not be revived without express words to that
effect.
(Code 1982, 1-1004)
   State Law References: Effect of repeal, G.S. 12-2.
Sec. 1-10. Code enforcement.
   Unless specifically provided otherwise the provisions of sections
1-10.1 through
1-10.17 contain the enforcement provisions for this Code.
(Ord. No. O-08-01-15-3, 1(2), 1-15-08)
   Editors Note: Section 1(2) of Ord. No. O-08-01-15-3, adopted Jan. 15, 2008,
amended
1-10 in its entirety to read as herein set out. Former 1-10 pertained to
general penalty; additional remedies; continuing violations and derived from 1-
1005 of the 1982 Code.
   State Law References: State law making violation of an ordinance a
misdemeanor and stating punishment, G.S. 14-4; municipal enforcement of an
ordinance and penalties, G.S. 160A-175.
Sec. 1-10.1. Applicability.
   Every provision of the code has the full force and effect of a law within
the municipal boundaries of the City of Marion, any extraterritorial
jurisdiction were the code is applicable, and any properties owned by the City
of Marion which are located outside the municipal boundaries and/or
extraterritorial jurisdiction.
(Ord. No. O-08-01-15-3, 1(2), 1-15-08)
Sec. 1-10.2. Violations--General.
   Unless specifically provided otherwise, violation of any provision of this
Code or any other city ordinance shall subject the violator to the remedies
provided in section
1-10 and all subparts thereof, except that where the General Statutes of North
Carolina provide specific civil remedies for violations of provisions of this
Code adopted pursuant to such statutes, such remedies available to the city for
enforcement of this Code shall be in addition to the remedies stated in section
1-10 and its subparts.
(Ord. No. O-08-01-15-3, 1(2), 1-15-08)
Sec. 1-10.3. Same--Corporations and unincorporated associations.
   (a)    Any violation of this Code by any officer, agent or other person
acting for or employed by any corporation or unincorporated association or
organization, while acting within the scope of his office or employment, shall
in every case also be deemed to be a violation by such corporation, association
or organization.
   (b)    Any officer, agent or other person acting for or employed by any
corporation or unincorporated association or organization shall be subject and
liable to punishment as well as such corporation or unincorporated association
or organization for the violation by it of any section of this Code, where such
violation was the act or omission, or the result of the act, omission or order,
of any such person.
(Ord. No. O-08-01-15-3, 1(2), 1-15-08)
Sec. 1-10.4. Same--Liability of owners, occupants and others.
   (a)    Any owner, lessee, tenant, occupant, or person in charge of a
property or premises on which a violation has been found who has violated or
procured, aided or abetted any violation of any of the provisions of the code,
shall be subject to the same penalties as if he himself had committed such
violation. Owners of property on which a violation has been found are liable
for said violation.
   (b)    The owner or occupant of any land, building, structure, sign, use of
land, or part thereof, and any architect, builder, contractor, agent, or other
person who participates or acts in concert, assists, directs, creates or
maintains any condition that is in violation of the Code may be held
responsible for the violation and subject to the civil penalties and remedies
provided herein.
(Ord. No. O-08-01-15-3, 1(2), 1-15-08)
Sec. 1-10.5. Same--Continuing violations.
   (a)    Any individual who shall continue to violate any provision of the
code after issuance of a citation shall be deemed to have committed a separate
and distinct offense from the original violation, regardless of the frequency
of the occurrence, if an individual acting with reasonable diligence could
cease the action or undertake the action, as appropriate, which is the
underlying cause of the offense, or correct the condition so that no violation
continues to exist.
   (b)    Each day's continuing violation of any provision of the code shall be
a separate and distinct offense, unless otherwise specifically delineated in
the code.
   (c)    Violations of the following code provisions which continue beyond a
period of one (1) hour from the time that the civil citation or notice of
violation is issued will constitute a separate violation of the code for each
hour, or fraction thereof, during which the violation continues:
   Sections
3-4,
3-5 and
3-8 of
Ch. 3, Animals
   Sections
9-4,
9-101,
9-102 and
9-104 of
Ch. 10, Health and Sanitation
   Section
10-61 of Article III of
Ch. 10, Licenses, Permits and Business Regulations
   Sections
10-112 and
10-127 of Article V,
Ch. 10, Licenses, Permits and Business Regulations
   Sections
11-1 through
11-19 of
Ch. 11, Offenses
   Section
12-3 of
Ch. 12, Parks and Recreation
   Sections
12-26.1,
12-27,
12-28,
12-51 and
12-52 of
Ch. 12, Parks and Recreation
   Sections
15-1,
15-133,
15-134,
15-135,
15-138,
15-139,
15-161 and
15-162 of
Ch. 15, Streets, Sidewalks and Other Public Places
   Sections
18-1 through
18-261 of
Ch. 18, Traffic
   Sections
20-83,
20-84 and
20-85 of
Ch. 20, Water and Sewer
   Subsections 21-7.6(11) and 21-7.6(12) of
Ch. 21, Zoning
(Ord. No. O-08-01-15-3, 1(2), 1-15-08; Ord. No. O-08-09-02-2, 1, 8-2-08)
Sec. 1-10.6. Authority to issue citation assessing a civil penalty or notice of
violation with opportunity to correct.
   (a)   Upon identifying a violation the enforcement officer is authorized to
either:
   (1)   Issue a citation assessing a civil penalty for the violation or,
   (2)   In the sole discretion of the enforcement officer, issue a notice of
violation with opportunity to correct violation.
   (b)    In determining whether to issue a citation assessing a civil penalty
or a notice of violation with opportunity to correct violation, the enforcement
officer shall consider the following:
   (1)   Whether the notice of violation with opportunity to correct will
likely result in voluntary compliance with this ordinance [Ord. No. O-08-01-15-
3];
   (2)   Whether it is reasonable under the circumstances to afford the
violator the opportunity to correct the violation before issuing a citation
assessing a civil penalty;
   (3)   Whether there are public safety and welfare reasons to issue a
citation assessing a civil penalty; and
   (4)   Such other circumstances and conditions as are reasonable and
appropriate.
   (c)   When a violation is not corrected within the time period established
by a notice of violation with opportunity to correct, then the enforcement
officer may immediately issue a civil citation.
   (d)   Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (c) a violator for good
cause shown may request an extension of the period of time in which the
correction may be made. Requesting an extension of the period of time shall be
deemed an admission of the violations by the violator.
(Ord. No. O-08-01-15-3, § 1(2), 1-15-08; Ord. No. O-12-06-19-5, § 2, 6-19-12)
Sec. 1-10.7. Service of civil citation and notice of violation with opportunity
to correct.
   Enforcement officers shall serve any civil citation or notice of violation
with opportunity to correct issued pursuant to section
1-10.6 on the violator and, where appropriate, the record owner of the property
on which the violation occurred or is occurring. Such service may be made
directly on the violator or his duly designated agent, or registered agent if a
corporation, in person or posted in the United States mail service by first
class mail addressed to the last known address of the violator as contained in
the records of the county, or obtained from the violator at the time of
issuance of the civil citation or notice of violation. If the violation is due
to use of a vehicle, the civil citation may be served by posting it on the
windshield of the offending vehicle. The violator shall be deemed to have been
served upon the mailing of such citation. In addition service may be made by
any means allowed by Rule 4(j) of the North Carolina Rules of Civil Procedure
and/or by posting the property on which a violation has occurred or is
occurring.
(Ord. No. O-08-01-15-3, 1(2), 1-15-08)
Sec. 1-10.8. Enforcement remedies.
   A violation of any provision of the code may be enforced by any remedy
provided in G.S. 160A-175. In addition, where the General Statutes of North
Carolina provide specific civil remedies for violations of provisions of this
Code adopted pursuant to such statutes, such remedies shall be available to the
city for enforcement of this Code. The provisions of the code may be enforced
by any one (1), all or a combination of the remedies authorized and prescribed
herein. Nothing provided herein shall limit the city's ability to secure
injunctions and abatement orders to further insure compliance with the code as
provided by this section.
(Ord. No. O-08-01-15-3, 1(2), 1-15-08)
Sec. 1-10.9. Fines and civil penalties.
   (a)    Unless otherwise specifically provided in the code and authorized by
state law, a violation of any provision of the code may subject the violator to
a civil penalty in the amount of not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00)
per violation, unless some other amount shall be specifically delineated.
Unless otherwise specifically provided in the code or a duly adopted City of
Marion Fee Schedule, fines or civil penalties, if imposed, are established as
follows:
   (1)   For parking violations not involving parking in a handicapped space,
the civil penalty shall be ten dollars ($10.00). For handicapped parking
violations, the civil penalty shall be fifty dollars ($50.00).
   (2)   For all other violations of the code, unless otherwise specifically
provided, the civil penalty shall be:
   (i)   The penalty for the first violation of any code provision within a
period of twelve (12) consecutive months preceding the date of violation shall
be punishable by a fine or civil penalty of fifty dollars ($50.00).
   (ii)   The penalty for the second violation of any code provision within a
period of twelve (12) consecutive months preceding the date of violation shall
be punishable by a fine or civil penalty of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for
each violation.
   (iii)   The penalty for the third through fourth violation of any code
provision within a period of twelve (12) consecutive months preceding the date
of violation shall be punishable by a fine or civil penalty of one hundred
fifty dollars ($150.00) for each violation.
   (iv)   The penalty for the fifth through tenth violation of any code
provision within a period of twelve (12) consecutive months preceding the date
of violation shall be punishable by a fine or civil penalty of two hundred
fifty dollars ($250.00) for each violation.
   (v)   The penalty for a violation of any code provision beyond the tenth
violation within a period of twelve (12) consecutive months preceding the date
of violation shall be punishable by a fine or civil penalty of five hundred
dollars ($500.00) for each violation.
   (vi)   If any person shall violate a code provision regulating the operation
or parking of vehicles, such person shall be responsible for an infraction and
shall be required to pay a civil penalty of not more than fifty dollars
($50.00), or such other maximum amount as shall be authorized by North Carolina
General Statutes or specifically established herein or by a duly adopted City
of Marion Fee Schedule, whichever is less.
   The maximum civil penalty for a particular violation within a period of
twelve (12) consecutive months is five thousand dollars ($5,000.00).
   (b)    A violator shall pay any civil penalty within ten (10) days of
issuance of the civil citation to the appropriate city official or if such city
official is not known to Marion City Hall.
   (c)    Civil penalties shall be recovered by the city in a civil action in
the nature of a debt if the violator does not pay the penalty within a period
of ten (10) days after the issuance of the civil citation. Any action to
recover a civil penalty may be joined in an action for appropriate equitable
relief, including injunctions and orders of abatement and including an action
to recover damages owing to the city by reason of expenses incurred by the city
in abating, correcting, limiting and otherwise dealing with the harmful effects
of the offending action. The City of Marion may use any available avenue of
collection for delinquent civil penalties, including but not limited to the
North Carolina Debt Setoff program.
((Ord. No. O-08-01-15-3, § 1(2), 1-15-08; Ord. No. O-14-06-17-6, § 2, 6-17-14)
Sec. 1-10.10. Fine for late payment of civil penalties.
   (a)    The following fines apply for late payment of civil penalties for
parking violations, including handicapped and non-handicapped violations:
    (1)   When the $10.00 civil penalty for a parking violation is not paid
within fourteen (14) days of the issuance of the citation a $25.00 late payment
fine shall be assessed.
    (2)   When the $10.00 civil penalty for a parking violation is not paid
within thirty (30) days for the issuance of the citation a $15.00 late payment
fine shall be assessed.
   (b)    The following fines apply for late payment of civil penalties for
violations of the code not otherwise specifically delineated herein:
[INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK]
(Ord. No. O-11-06-07-5, § 2, 6-7-11; Ord. No. O-14-06-17-6, § 3, 6-17-14)
Sec. 1-10.13. Application of payments.
   Any payment made on a civil penalty shall first be applied to any
outstanding late payment fines related to such civil penalty and then to the
civil penalty itself.
(Ord. No. O-08-01-15-3, 1(2), 1-15-08)
Sec. 1-10.12. Criminal penalties.
   (a)   Notwithstanding any other provision of the Marion City Code, and
except as otherwise specifically set forth in this Section, any person who
shall violate a provision of the code shall be guilty of a misdemeanor as
provided in G.S. 14-4(a), unless it is an infraction as provided by G.S. 14-4
(b), and may be fined not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00), or such
other maximum amount as shall be authorized by North Carolina General Statutes
or specifically established in the code, whichever is less. For each such
violation, a criminal citation or citations may be issued by the enforcement
officer which shall be processed through the criminal courts of the State of
North Carolina.
   (b)   Violations of the Marion City Code concerning the following shall not
be subject to criminal penalties:
   (1)   Parking violations;
   (2)   Planning and regulation of development;
   (3)   Stream clearing programs;
   (4)   Regulation of business and trades;
   (5)   Outdoor advertising;
   (6)   Solar collectors;
   (7)   Cisterns and rain barrels;
   (8)   Taxis;
   (9)   Setback lines;
   (10)   Curb cut regulations; and
   (11)   Trees.
(Ord. No. O-21-11-16-1, § 1, 11-16-21)
Sec. 1-10.13. Summary abatement.
   The city shall have the authority to summarily remove, abate or remedy
everything in the city limits, or within one (1) mile thereof, that is
dangerous or prejudicial to the public health or public safety and the expense
of the action taken by the city shall be paid by the person in violation. If
the expense is not paid, it is a lien on the property where the nuisance
occurred, and certain other property owned by the violator, and shall have the
same priority and be collected as unpaid ad valorem property taxes.
(Ord. No. O-08-01-15-3, 1(2), 1-15-08)
Sec. 1-10.14. Equitable relief sanctioned by court.
   (a)    Any provision of the code may be enforced by an appropriate equitable
remedy issuing from a court of competent jurisdiction. In such case, the
general court of justice shall have jurisdiction to issue such orders as may be
appropriate, and it shall not be a defense to the application of the city for
equitable relief that there is an adequate remedy at law.
   (b)    The equitable relief that may be sought for violation of the code
includes but is not limited to the following:
   (1)   Injunctions. Any provision of the code that makes unlawful a condition
existing upon or use made of real property may be enforced by injunction and/or
order or abatement, and the general court of justice shall have jurisdiction to
issue such orders. When a violation of such a provision occurs, the city may
apply to the appropriate division of the general court of justice for a
mandatory or prohibitory injunction and order of abatement commanding the
defendant to correct the unlawful condition upon or cease the unlawful use of
the property. The action shall be governed in all respects by the laws and
rules governing civil proceedings, including the Rules of Civil Procedure in
general and Rule 65 in particular.
   (2)   Order of abatement. The court may enter an order of abatement as a
part of the judgment in the case. An order of abatement may direct that
buildings or other structures on the property be closed, demolished or removed;
that fixtures, furniture or other movable property be removed from buildings on
the property; that grass or weeds be cut; that improvements or repairs be made;
or that any other action be taken that is necessary to bring the property into
compliance with this Code or such ordinance. If the violator/defendant fails or
refuses to comply with an injunction or with an order of abatement within the
time allowed by the court, violator/defendant may be cited for contempt and the
city may execute the order of abatement. The city shall have a lien on the
property for the cost of executing an order of abatement in the nature of a
mechanic's and materialman's lien. The violator/defendant may secure
cancellation of the order of abatement by paying all costs of the proceedings
and posting a bond for compliance with the order. The bond shall be given with
sureties approved by the clerk of superior court in an amount approved by the
judge before whom the matter is heard and shall be conditioned on the
defendant's full compliance with the terms of the order of abatement within a
time fixed by the judge. Cancellation of an order of abatement shall not
suspend or cancel an injunction issued in conjunction therewith.
   (3)   Contempt. If the violator/defendant fails or refuses to comply with an
injunction or with an order of abatement within the time allowed by the court,
violator/defendant may be cited for contempt and held in contempt in accordance
with the contempt procedures set forth in the N.C. General Statutes.
(Ord. No. O-08-01-15-3, 1(2), 1-15-08)
Sec. 1-10.15. Denial or withholding of permits.
   The city may deny or withhold all permits, certificates, or other forms of
approval or authorization provided in the code until a violation is corrected
and associated penalty is paid. This provision shall apply whether or not the
current owner or applicant for the permit or other approval is responsible for
the violation.
(Ord. No. O-08-01-15-3, 1(2), 1-15-08)
Sec. 1-10.16. Revocation of permits or licenses.
   (a)    Any permit, certificate or other form of approval or authorization
required under the code may be revoked by the issuing authority if:
   (1)   A civil citation has been issued and the violation has not been
corrected within a reasonable period of time; or
   (2)   A notice of violation with an opportunity to correct has been issued
and the violation has not been corrected within the period of time prescribed.
   (b)    When a permit, certificate or other form of approval or authorization
is revoked pursuant to subsection (a), written notice of such revocation shall
be served upon the property owner, agent, applicant or other person to whom the
permit was issued, or such notice may be posted in a prominent location at the
place of violation. The activity that was originally permitted must immediately
cease after service of the revocation notice.
(Ord. No. O-08-01-15-3, 1(2), 1-15-08)
Sec. 1-10.17. Appeal rights.
   (a)   Unless otherwise specified in the code, or applicable North Carolina
law, all appeals, except for parking violations, shall be to the Marion City
Council and must be filed in writing within thirty (30) days of service of the
civil citation, notice of violation with opportunity to correct, or other
enforcement action. Such appeal must include the grounds upon which the appeal
is made.
   (b)   All appeals of parking violations shall be to the City Manager and
must be filed in writing within fourteen (14) days of service of the civil
citation. Such appeal must include the grounds upon which the appeal is made.
Appeals from an adverse ruling by the City Manager on a parking violation
appeal can be made to the Marion City Council by filing a written appeal, which
states the grounds upon which the appeal is made, within fourteen (14) days of
the date of the City Manager's decision.
(Ord. No. O-16-08-16-4, § 2, 8-16-16)
Sec. 1-11. Reserved.
   Editors Note: Section 1, amendment 3 of Ord. No. O-08-01-15-3, adopted Jan.
15, 2008, deleted 1-11, which pertained to penalties and derived from the
original codification of this Code.
Sec. 1-12. Reserved.
   Editors Note: Section 1, amendment 3 of Ord. No. O-08-01-15-3, adopted Jan.
15, 2008, deleted 1-12, which pertained to liability for violations and derived
from the original codification of this Code.
Sec. 1-13. Supplementation of Code.
   (a)    By contract or by city personnel, supplements to this Code shall be
prepared on an annual basis. A supplement to the Code shall include all
substantive, permanent and general parts of ordinances passed by the city
council during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made
thereby in the Code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they
will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages which
have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so
prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through
the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
   (b)    In preparing a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code
which have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission
thereof from reprinted pages.
   (c)    When preparing a supplement to this Code, the codifier (meaning the
person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make
formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included
in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a
unified Code. For example, the codifier may:
   (1)   Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
   (2)   Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections and
other subdivisions of the Code printed in the supplement, and make changes in
such catchlines, headings and titles;
   (3)   Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be
inserted in the Code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change
existing section or other subdivision numbers;
   (4)   Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to
"this chapter," "this article," "this division," etc., as the case may be, or
to "sections ________ to ________" (inserting section numbers to indicate the
sections of the Code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance
incorporated into the Code); and
   (5)   Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original
meanings of ordinance sections inserted into the Code; but in no case shall the
codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance material
included in the supplement or already embodied in the Code.
Sec. 1-14. Amendments to Code; effect of new ordinances; amendatory language.
   (a)    All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code which amend, repeal or
in any way affect this Code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering
system hereof and printed for inclusion herein. When subsequent ordinances
repeal any chapter, section or subsection or any portion thereof, such repealed
portions may be excluded from this Code by omission from reprinted pages. The
subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted in the case of
repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances until such
time that this Code and subsequent ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted
as a new Code by the city council.
   (b)    Amendments to any of the provisions of this Code shall be made by
amending such provisions by specific reference to the section number of this
Code in the following language: "That section ________ of the Code of
Ordinances, City of Marion, North Carolina, is hereby amended to read as
follows: . . . ." The new provisions shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (c)    If a new section not heretofore existing in the Code is to be added,
the following language shall be used: "That the Code of Ordinances, City of
Marion, North Carolina, is hereby amended by adding a section, to be numbered
________, which such section reads as follows: . . . ." The new section shall
then be set out in full as desired.
   (d)    All sections, articles, chapters or provisions desired to be repealed
must be specifically repealed by section, article or chapter number, as the
case may be.
Sec. 1-15. Severability of parts of Code.
   It is hereby declared to be the intention of the council that the sections,
paragraphs, sentences, clauses, and phrases of this Code are severable and if
any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, or section of this Code shall be
declared unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by the valid judgment or decree
of any court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality or invalidity
shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs,
and sections of this Code since the same would have been enacted by the Council
without the incorporation in this Code of any such unconstitutional or invalid
phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section.
(Code 1982, 1-1006)
Secs. 1-16--1-21. Reserved.
   Editors Note: Section 1, amendment 3 of Ord. No. O-08-01-15-3, adopted Jan.
15, 2008, deleted 1-16--1-21, which pertained to civil citations and derived
from an ordinance adopted Oct. 7, 1997; Ord. No. O-02-11-19-3, adopted Nov. 19,
2002; and Ord. No. O-04-03-02-1, adopted Mar. 3, 2004.
Chapter 2
ADMINISTRATION*
__________
*   Charter References: body, §
2.1; city to operate under council-manager form of government, §
4.1.
   Cross References: Civil emergencies,
Ch. 6; flood hazard management, Part IV,
Ch. 8; licenses, permits and business regulations,
Ch. 10; planning, Part IV; planning and zoning board, Part IV,
Ch. 2; downtown advisory board, Part IV,
Ch. 2; police,
Ch. 14.
   State Law References: of council-manager cities, G.S. § 160A-147 et seq.
__________
Art. I. §§ 2-1--2-75
Div. 1. Generally, §§ 2-1--2-20
Div. 2. Definitions, §§ 2-21--2-50
Div. 3. Conflicts of Interest, §§ 2-51--2-75
Art. II. City Council, §§ 2-76--2-100
Art. III. Officers and Employees, §§ 2-101--2-230
Div. 1. Mayor, §§ 2-101--2-125
Div. 2. City Manager, §§ 2-126--2-150
Div. 3. City Attorney, §§ 2-151--2-175
Div. 4. City Clerk, §§ 2-176--2-190
Div. 5. City Finance Officer, §§ 2-191--2-210
Div. 6. City Tax Collector, §§ 2-211--2-230
Art. IV. Boards and Commissions, §§2-231--2-400
Div. 1. General Provisions, §§2-231--2-260
Div. 2. Planning Board, §§2-261--2-300
Div. 3. Board of Adjustment, §§2-301--2-325
Div. 4. Historic Preservation Commission, §§2-326--2-350
Div. 5. Housing Appeals Board, §§2-351--2-375
Div. 6. Watershed Review Board, §§2-376--2-400
Art. V. Personnel (Reserved)
ARTICLE I.
DIVISION 1.
GENERALLY
Sec. 2-1. Oath of Office.
   Every person elected or appointed to any city office or public body shall,
before entering upon the duties of the office, take and subscribe the oath of
office prescribed in Article VI, § 7 of the Constitution.
   The oath of office shall be administered by a person authorized by law to
administer oaths and shall be filed with the city clerk.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-11, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 2-2. Employees, board and commission members hold office at pleasure of
the council.
   All employees, board and commission members appointed by the council hold
their offices at the pleasure of the council and may be removed at any time by
them for good cause.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-11, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 2-3. Vacancies.
   All vacancies occurring either from death, disability, resignation or
otherwise in any appointive office shall be filled by the council at the next
regular meeting, or as soon thereafter as possible.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-11, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 2-4. Criminal history checks.
   In order to protect the citizens of the City of Marion and their properties,
the procedures herein are established to provide for fingerprinting and
criminal history checks, as authorized by sections 143B-945, 160A-11 and 160A-
12 of the North Carolina General Statutes, in evaluating certain applications,
including, but not limited to: all final applicants for full-time, part-time
and temporary employment with the City of Marion; as well as select volunteers
as determined by the City Manager. Subject to subsection (c) of this section,
employment with the City maybe denied for those persons convicted of any crime
against a person, or crimes against property where intent is an element, or any
drug or gambling related offense.
   (a)   The City Manager, or designee, may direct the Police Chief, or
designee, to conduct a criminal investigation of any final candidate for
employment with the City, including, but not limited to: full-time, part- time
and temporary positions, as well as select volunteers as determined by the City
Manager, and it shall be a precondition of employment that an applicant for
such a position shall, upon request, provide fingerprints and all other
necessary personal identification including a birth certificate, social
security number and driver's license, if available, so that the City Manager,
or designee, may cause a thorough search to be made of local and state criminal
records to determine if the applicant has a history of criminal convictions or
the crimes enumerated above by use of the Division of Criminal Information
Network (DCI).
   (b)   The Police Chief, or designee, shall provide the findings to the City
Manager, or designee, from the use of the DCI, provided that all necessary
agreements with the State Bureau of Investigations Division of Criminal
Information have been executed.
   (c)   An evaluation of any crime for the purposes of employment will take
into account the nature and the circumstances of the offense and the time frame
of the offense as it relates to the essential job functions of the position
applied.
   (d)   Prior to denial or termination of employment based upon criminal
history record information (CHRI) received from the Police Chief, or designee,
the existence of a record shall be verified by either obtaining a certified
public record or by submitting a fingerprint card of the individual to the
criminal information and identification section for verification that the CHRI
record belongs to the individual.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-11, §1, 6-15-21)
Secs. 2-5 -- 2-20. Reserved.
DIVISION 2.
DEFINITIONS
Sec. 2-21. Criminal history checks.
   (a)   Advisory Board. Any city appointed board assigned to make legislative
and policy recommendations to the governing board or other board or committee
with decision- making authority.
   (b)   Board. The term "board" means any board, commission, committee, agency
or similar group made up in whole or in part of nonelected appointees of the
city council, whether established by general statute, charter, ordinance,
resolution, motion or otherwise.
   (c)   Board Year. Board year shall mean a twelve-month time period beginning
with the term effective date.
   (d)   Decision-Making Board. The governing board, board of adjustment,
historic preservation commission, housing appeals board, environmental
management board, or any other board having quasi- judicial decision-making
authority pursuant to Chapter 160D of the North Carolina General Statutes.
    (e)   Member. The term "member" means any person appointed, reappointed or
confirmed as a member of any city governing or appointed city board or
commission.
   (f)   Public body. Any elected or appointed authority, board, commission,
committee, council, or other body of the City of Marion that is composed of two
or more members and exercises or is authorized to exercise a legislative,
policy-making, quasi-judicial, administrative, or advisory function.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-11, §1, 6-15-21)
Secs. 2-22--2-50. Reserved.
DIVISION 3.
CONFLICTS OF INTEREST
Sec. 2-51. In General.
   It shall be unlawful for any officers or employees of the city, elective or
appointive, directly or indirectly, to become a contractor for work done for
the city, or to become directly personally interested in or receive profit from
any purchase of supplies for any department of the city. Any such person so
offending shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be removed from office.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-11, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 2-52. Governing Board.
   (a)   A governing board member, including all city council members and the
mayor, shall not vote on any legislative decision, including but not limited to
a development regulation adopted pursuant to G.S. Chapter 160D or Code Chapter
21, where the outcome of the matter being considered is reasonably likely to
have a direct, substantial, and readily identifiable financial impact on the
member.
   (b)   A governing board member shall not vote on any text or map amendment
if the landowner of the property subject to such amendment or the applicant for
the amendment is a person with whom the governing board member has a close
familial, business, or other associational relationship.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-11, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 2-53. Appointed Board.
   (a)   Members of appointed boards shall not vote on advisory, administrative
or legislative decisions, including but not limited to a development regulation
adopted pursuant to G.S. Chapter 160D or Code Chapter 21, where the outcome of
the matter being considered is reasonably likely to have a direct, substantial,
and readily identifiable financial impact on the member.
   (b)   An appointed board member shall not vote on any administrative
decision or text or map amendment if the landowner of the property subject to
such decision or amendment or the applicant for the development approval or
amendment is a person with whom the governing board member has a close
familial, business, or other associational relationship.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-11, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 2-54. Administrative Staff.
   (a)   No staff member shall make a final decision on an administrative
decision, including but not limited to any decision required by G.S. Chapter
160D or Code Chapter 21, if the outcome of the decision would have a direct,
substantial, and readily identifiable financial impact on the staff member or
if the applicant or other person subject to that decision is a person with whom
the staff member has a close familial, business, or other associational
relationship. If a staff member has a conflict of interest, the decision shall
be assigned to the supervisor of the staff person.
   (b)   No staff member shall be financially interested or employed by a
business that is financially interested in a development subject to regulation
under this chapter unless the staff member is the owner of the land or building
involved. No staff member or other individual or an employee of a company
contracting with the town to provide staff support shall engage in any work
that is inconsistent with his or her duties or with the interest of the town as
determined by the town.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-11, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 2-55. Quasi-Judicial Decisions.
   A member of any board exercising quasi-judicial functions shall not
participate in or vote on any quasi- judicial matter in a manner that would
violate affected persons' constitutional rights to an impartial decision maker.
Impermissible violations of due process include, but are not limited to, a
member having a fixed opinion prior to hearing the matter that is not
susceptible to change, undisclosed ex parte communications, a close familial,
business or other associational relationship with the affected person, or a
financial interest in the outcome of the matter.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-11, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 2-56. Resolution of Objection.
   If an objection is raised to a board member's participation at or prior to
the hearing or vote on a particular matter and that member does not recuse
himself or herself, the remaining members of the board shall by majority vote
rule on the objection.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-11, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 2-57. Familial Relationship.
   For purposes of this section, a "close familial relationship" means a
spouse, parent, child, brother, sister, grandparent, or grandchild. The term
includes the step, half, and in-law relationships.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-11, §1, 6-15-21)
State Law References: conflicts of interest, G.S. 160D-1-9.
Secs. 2-58--2-75. Reserved.
ARTICLE II.
CITY COUNCIL*
Sec. 2-76. Council meetings.
   (a)   Regular meetings. There shall be regular meetings of the city council
members at city hall or at such other place as may be designated, on the first
and third Tuesdays of each month at 6:00 p.m., unless otherwise specified in
which case each member of the council shall be so notified. No regular meetings
of city council shall be held on the first Tuesday of July, on the first
Tuesday of August, on the date of a city election on the first Tuesday of
November or on the third Tuesday in December.
   (b)   Special meetings. Special meetings may be held according to the
applicable provisions of the general statutes.
   (c)   Adjourned meetings. If a quorum shall fail to attend any regular or
special meeting of the council or if for any reason such meeting shall fail to
complete transaction of the business before the meeting, such meeting may be
adjourned to any date prior to the next regular meeting agreed upon by a
majority of the members present.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-11, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 2-77. Mayor presides over meetings.
   The mayor shall preside at all meetings of the council. In case of the
absence of the mayor, the mayor pro tem shall preside.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-11, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 2-78. Rules of procedure.
   Except as otherwise provided by this Code, the procedure of the council
shall be governed by Robert's Rules of Order.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-11, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 2-79. Voting requirements; quorum.
   Official action of the council shall in every instance be by majority vote,
provided that a quorum, consisting of a majority of the actual membership of
the council is present. Vacant seats are to be subtracted from the normal
council membership to determine the actual membership.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-11, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 2-80. Council appointments to be by secret ballot.
   All appointments by the council shall be by secret ballot if required by any
two (2) members present.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-11, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 2-81. Resignations of members.
   Resignation of any member of the council shall be in writing and such
resignation shall lie on the table until the next regular meeting, unless
considered by unanimous consent.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-11, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 2-82. Vote of mayor.
   When there is an equal division in the votes of the members of the council
upon any question, or in the election of officers, the mayor may vote to break
the tie, but they shall have no vote under any other circumstances.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-11, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 2-83. Vacancies.
   Any vacancy caused by the death, resignation or disqualification of a member
of the council shall be filled by a majority vote of the council.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-11, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 2-84. Disqualification.
   If any member of the council shall move their residence from the city, their
office shall at once be declared vacant and shall be filled as provided by
section 2-83.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-11, §1, 6-15-21)
Secs. 2-85--2-100. Reserved.
ARTICLE III.
OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES*
DIVISION 1.
MAYOR*
Sec. 2-101. Office of mayor.
   The mayor shall be the official head of the city government and shall
exercise such powers and perform such duties as are conferred upon them by the
general statutes, the Charter and by the ordinances of the city.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-11, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 2-102. Duties of the mayor.
   It shall be the duty of the mayor to:
   (1)   Keep himself informed as to the city's business;
   (2)   Preside over the meetings of the council;
   (3)   Sign all contracts, franchises or paper writings authorized by the
council;
   (4)   Appoint such committees, and outline their powers and duties, as is
deemed necessary to properly care for the affairs of the city; and
   (5)   Make such recommendations as is deemed necessary, or expedient, to the
council.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-11, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 2-103. Compensation.
   The mayor shall receive as compensation such sum as may be fixed by the
council.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-11, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 2-104. Mayor pro tempore; disability of mayor.
   At the organizational meeting, the council shall elect from among its
members a mayor pro tempore to serve at the pleasure of the council. A council
person serving as mayor pro tempore shall be entitled to vote on all matters
and shall be considered a council person for all purposes, including the
determination of whether a quorum is present. During the absence of the mayor,
the council may confer upon the mayor pro tempore any of the powers and duties
of the mayor. If the mayor should become physically or mentally incapable of
performing the duties of the office, the council may by unanimous vote declare
such and confer any of those powers and duties on the mayor pro tempore. Upon
the mayor's declaration that they are no longer incapacitated, and with the
concurrence of a majority of the council, the mayor shall resume the exercise
of their powers and duties. In the event both the mayor and the mayor pro
tempore are absent from a meeting, the council may elect from its members a
temporary chairperson to preside in such absence.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-11, §1, 6-15-21)
Secs. 2-105--2-125. Reserved.
DIVISION 2.
CITY MANAGER*
Sec. 2-126. Appointment.
   Pursuant to the authority of G.S. section 160A-147 requiring the council to
appoint a city manager, and pursuant to section 8 of Chapter 291 of the Private
Laws of 1909, an act amending and consolidating the Charter of the town, the
council shall appoint an officer whose title shall be city manager and who
shall be the head of the administrative branch of the city government, except
as otherwise provided by the Charter. The city manager shall be chosen by the
council solely on the basis of executive and administrative qualifications with
special reference to actual experience or knowledge of accepted practice in
respect to the duties of office as outlined in this division. At the time of
appointment the city manager need not be a resident of the city or state, but
during their tenure of office shall reside within the city. No person elected
to membership on the council shall, subsequent to such election, be eligible
for appointment as city manager until one (1) year has elapsed following the
expiration of the term for which they were elected.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-11, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 2-127. Term; removal.
   The city manager shall be appointed for an indefinite term but may be
removed by a majority vote of the members of the council. The city manager may
within four (4) days demand written charges, or a written statement of the
reasons for removal, which the council shall furnish to the manager within
seven (7) days after the filing of such request. During this period, the city
manager may be suspended from office with pay. The action of the council in
removing the city manager shall be final.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-11, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 2-128. Responsibility of manager; powers of appointment and removal.
   The city manager shall be responsible to the council for the proper
administration of all affairs of the city placed in their charge, and to that
end, except as otherwise provided in this division, they shall have the power
to appoint and remove all officers and employees in the service of the city,
except however, the city manager may authorize the head of the department or
office responsible to them to appoint and remove subordinates in such
department or office.
   Appointments made by or under the authority of the city manager shall be on
the basis of executive and administrative ability and on the training and
experience of such appointees in the work which they are to perform. All such
appointments shall be without definite term unless provisional, temporary, or
emergency service.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-11, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 2-129. Removal of officers and employees.
   Any officer or employee to whom the city manager, or head of a department or
office, may appoint a successor, may be removed by the city manager or other
appointing officer at any time; provided, however, that the city manager shall
promptly inform the mayor and the council of any action taken under this
section and reasons therefor.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-11, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 2-130. Council not to interfere in appointments or removals.
   Neither the council nor any of its committees or members shall direct the
appointment of any person to, or their removal from, office by the city manager
of any of their subordinates, or in any manner take part in the appointment or
removal of officers and employees in the administrative service of the city.
Except for purpose of inquiry, the council and its members shall deal with the
administrative service solely through the city manager, and neither the council
nor any member thereof shall give orders to any subordinate of the city manager
either publicly or privately.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-11, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 2-131. Duties.
   The city manager shall exercise such powers and perform such duties as
presently are or hereafter may be conferred by the general statutes, by the
Charter and by this Code.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-11, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 2-132. Compensation.
    The city manager shall receive such compensation as the council shall fix
from time to time by ordinance.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-11, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 2-133. Supervision of employees during vacancy.
   If the city manager's position becomes vacant, the mayor shall have general
supervision of all employees and departments of the city until such time as the
city council appoints an interim city manager or a new city manager.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-11, §1, 6-15-21)
Secs. 2-134--2-150. Reserved.
DIVISION 3.
CITY ATTORNEY*
Sec. 2-151. Election.
   At the first meeting of the council after their election and qualification
or as soon thereafter as possible, they shall proceed to name a city attorney.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-11, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 2-152. Oath of office.
   Before entering upon their duties the city attorney shall take and subscribe
the same oath as required for the members of the council and other officers of
public trust.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-11, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 2-153. Duties.
   It shall be the duty of the city attorney to:
   (1)   Prosecute and defend suits for and against the city;
   (2)   Advise the mayor, council or any other officer of the city in regard
to matters connected with the city's legal affairs;
   (3)   Attend meetings of the council upon request;
   (4)   Draw such deeds, contracts, bonds, notes and other legal papers as may
be required for the proper conduct of the city's business;
   (5)   Approve all ordinances, as to form, before their introduction;
   (6)   Inspect and pass upon all agreements, contracts, franchises and other
instruments with which the city may be concerned; and
   (7)   Perform other duties required by law or as the council may direct.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-11, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 2-154. Compensation.
   The city attorney shall receive as compensation such sum as may be fixed by
the council.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-11, §1, 6-15-21)
Secs. 2-155--2-175. Reserved.
DIVISION 4.
CITY CLERK*
Sec. 2-176. Appointment.
   The city manager shall appoint a city clerk, to perform the duties
prescribed in section 2-178 below.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-11, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 2-177. Oath of office.
   Before entering upon their duties, the city clerk shall take and subscribe
the same oath as required for the members of the council and other officers of
public trust.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-11, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 2-178. Duties.
   It shall be the duty of the city clerk to:
   (1)   Keep a journal of the proceedings of the council;
   (2)   Maintain in a safe place all records and documents pertaining to the
affairs of the city; and
   (3)   Perform such other duties as may be required by law or as the council
may direct.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-11, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 2-179. Compensation.
   The city clerk shall receive as compensation such sum as may be fixed by the
council.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-11, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 2-180. Bond.
   The city clerk, before entering upon the duties of their office, shall
execute a bond payable to the city in such sum and with such sureties as shall
be required and approved by the council conditioned upon the faithful
performance of the duties of their office and the proper accounting for all
funds that may come into their possession by virtue of their office.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-11, §1, 6-15-21)
Secs. 2-181--2-190. Reserved.
DIVISION 5.
CITY FINANCE OFFICER*
Sec. 2-191. Appointment.
   The city manager shall appoint a city finance officer, to perform the duties
prescribed in section
2-133 below.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-11, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 2-192. Oath of office.
   Before entering upon their duties, the city finance officer shall take and
subscribe the same oath as required for the members of the council and other
officers of public trust.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-11, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 2-193. Duties.
   The city finance officer shall have the following powers and duties:
   (1)   Shall keep the accounts of the city in accordance with generally
accepted principles of governmental accounting and the rules and regulations of
the Local Government Commission.
    (2)   Shall disburse all funds of the city in strict compliance with The
Local Government Budget and Fiscal Control Act, G.S. section 159-7 et seq., the
budget ordinance, and each project ordinance and shall preaudit obligations and
disbursements as required by The Local Government Budget and Fiscal Control
Act, G.S. section 159-7 et seq.
   (3)   As often as may be requested by the council or the city manager, shall
prepare and file with the council a statement of the financial condition of the
city.
   (4)   Shall receive and deposit all moneys accruing to the city, or
supervise the receipt and deposit of money by other duly authorized officers or
employees.
   (5)   Shall maintain all records concerning the bonded debt and other
obligations of the city, determine the amount of money that will be required
for debt service or the payment of other obligations during each fiscal year,
and maintain all sinking funds.
   (6)   Shall supervise the investment of idle funds of the city.
   (7)   Shall perform such other duties as may be assigned by law, by the city
manager, or council, or by rules and regulations of the Local Government
Commission.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-11, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 2-194. City manager may consolidate offices.
   The city manager may in their discretion combine the duties of the city
finance officer with those of the city clerk.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-11, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 2-195. Bond.
   The city finance officer before entering upon the duties of their office
shall execute a bond payable to the city in such sum and with such sureties as
shall be required and approved by the council, conditioned upon the faithful
performance of the duties of their office and the proper accounting for all
funds that may come into their possession by virtue of their office, provided
that if the duties of the office of city finance officer are combined with
those of city clerk, it shall not be necessary for the city finance officer to
execute a second bond.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-11, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 2-196. Compensation.
   The city finance officer shall receive as compensation such sum as may be
fixed by the council.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-11, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 2-197. Dual signatures required for checks or drafts.
   Except as otherwise provided by law, all checks or drafts on an official
depository for more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) shall be signed by the
city finance officer or a properly designated deputy finance officer and
countersigned by another official of the city designated for this purpose by
the council. If the council makes no other designation, the mayor shall
countersign these checks and drafts. The council may waive the requirements of
this subsection if the council determines that the internal control procedures
of the city will be satisfactory in the absence of dual signatures.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-11, §1, 6-15-21)
Secs. 2-197--2-210. Reserved.
DIVISION 6.
CITY TAX COLLECTOR*
Sec. 2-211. Appointment.
   The city manager shall appoint a city tax collector.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-11, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 2-212. Oath of office.
   Before entering upon their duties the city tax collector shall take and
subscribe the same oath as required herein for the members of the council and
other officers of public trust.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-11, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 2-213. Duties.
   It shall be the duty of the city tax collector to collect all taxes,
licenses, fees and other revenues accruing to the city.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-11, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 2-214. Compensation.
   The city tax collector shall receive such compensation as may be fixed by
the council.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-11, §1, 6-15-21)
Secs. 2-215--2-230. Reserved.
ARTICLE IV.
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
DIVISION 1.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
Sec. 2-231. Scope and preamble.
   Unless otherwise specifically provided by separate law or ordinance, all
boards and commissions established by ordinance shall be governed by this
division.
   The city council may establish, by ordinance or resolution a board,
committee, or other public body as it deems necessary for the administration,
regulation, and operation of services, activities, and functions which the city
is authorized by law to perform, regulate, and carry on.
   It is desirable that the city council, in appointing persons to a board,
commission, or other public body, shall attempt to secure reasonable
representation on each such board of all genders, races, geographic sections of
the city. Provided, however, that such representation shall not be required,
and the validity of any appointment may not be challenged on grounds that such
representation has not been achieved.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-11, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 2-232. Appointments.
    a.   All appointments to any board shall be upon the basis of
recommendations made by the mayor or city council, and final appointments in
all cases shall be approved by majority vote by the city council.
   b.   All appointments shall, before entering into their duties, qualify by
taking an oath of office pursuant to code
sec. 2-1.
   c.   All persons selected for membership on any board shall be 18 years of
age or older and shall reside in the corporate limits of Marion unless
otherwise specified by the ordinance or resolution establishing the board. In
cases where city residency is a requirement for membership, the member shall
forfeit their seat upon removing their primary residence from the city.
   d.   By majority vote, the Council may declare nominations for an
appointment to be approved at any regular meeting.
   e.   The council shall make appointments to fill unexpired portions of
terms, created by vacancies, as expeditiously as needed.
   f.   Appointments shall be staggered, with the terms of approximately one-
third of the membership expiring each year to ensure there is always one or
more members with experience on each board.
   g.   All appointments to a board shall be for a three-year term unless a
vacancy is being filled, in which case the vacancy shall be filled for the
remainder of the unexpired term.
   h.   All full-term appointments shall begin on July 1.
   i.   A member of a board shall continue to serve upon expiration of their
term until a successor is duly named and qualified, or unless he or she
resigns.
   j.   No member shall serve on more than two (2) city-appointed boards at any
one (1) time, except approved by city council on a case-by-case basis. This
limitation does not apply to a member serving on a sub- committee of any city-
appointed board.
   k.   Any member of a board resigning prior to the expiration of their term
shall give written notice to the city council through the city clerk.
   l.   The city clerk shall inform the city council at least sixty (60) days
prior to the expiration of any board term.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-11, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 2-233. Powers.
    a.   All boards shall have only those powers and duties which have been
assigned by the city council.
   b.   No individual member shall speak or act on behalf of the board without
action by the board explicitly authorizing the member to speak or act on its
behalf.
   c.   No individual member, or the board itself, shall speak or act on behalf
of the city without action by the city council explicitly authorizing the
member or empowering or authorizing the board to speak or act on its behalf.
   d.   Without an express grant of authority or explicit authorization by the
city council, no individual member, or board, may direct an employee of the
city to take action or engage in actions requiring the expenditure of city
funds.
   e.   No board may create its own committee, sub-committee or working group,
by whatever name denominated, without the explicit advance approval of the city
council.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-11, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 2-234. Bylaws, Rules of Procedure.
   All bylaws, regulations and rules of procedures adopted by a board or
commission shall be approved by the city council prior to adoption. Any
amendments to previously approved bylaws shall also require city council
approval. The city council shall not approve bylaws which are in conflict with
the city code or state statute.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-11, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 2-235. Election of officers.
   a.   All boards, if not specifically provided for within their authorizing
ordinance provisions, shall elect one chair and one vice-chair within thirty
(30) days of appointment.
   b.   The chair and vice-chair of a board shall serve for one year or until
reelected or until their successors are elected.
   c.   Such officers may be reelected to serve additional one-year terms.
   d.   The board shall appoint a secretary, who may be a municipal officer, a
city employee, or a member of the board.
   e.   The city clerk shall maintain a record of all board officers.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-11, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 2-236. Attendance.
   a.   Regular attendance at board meetings by the members is required.
   b.   Any member of the board who is absent without good cause from three
consecutive meetings of the board shall be deemed to have abandoned and
forfeited membership on such board.
    c.   It shall be the responsibility of the chairperson to notify the city
clerk of the absences and the city council may take action to remove the member
from the board and replaced in the manner prescribed for appointments.
   d.   The board may excuse absences for good and sufficient reason. Such
reason must be documented in the minutes of that particular board meeting.
   e.   Upon notification that a vacancy in the membership of a board exists,
the city council will advertise the vacancy and thereafter appoint a member to
fill such vacancy for the duration of the unexpired term.
   f.   If a regular meeting of a board is not held, the board secretary shall
notify the city clerk of the reason for not meeting.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-11, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 2-237. Meetings.
   a.   All boards shall hold regular meetings in accordance with their
ordinance provisions, adopted and approved bylaws, and the North Carolina Open
Meetings Law.
   b.   Special meetings may be called by the chair or by a quorum of members.
It shall be the responsibility of the clerk to notify the news media and city
council of all special meetings.
   c.   The board secretary shall be responsible for notifying the city clerk
and the news media of the regular meeting time and place for that particular
board for all regular meetings in the calendar year.
   d.   The board secretary shall be responsible for notifying the city clerk
and the news media of any changes in regular meeting dates, times and/or
places.
   e.   Proper records of all meetings shall be maintained. It shall be the
responsibility of the board secretary to file approved minutes of each meeting
with the city clerk.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-11, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 2-238. Compensation.
   Members shall serve without compensation, except that it may be reimbursed
for actual expenses incident to the performance of its duties within the limits
of any funds available to the board.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-11, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 2-239. Conflict of Interest.
   Every board member shall adhere to the city conflict of interest policy as
may be amended. Prior to board appointment, each member shall sign a copy of
the conflict of interest policy agreeing to the terms of such policy. A copy of
the signed policy will be maintained with the city clerk.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-11, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 2-240. Removals.
   Any board member who is absent without being excused from three (3)
consecutive meetings of such board or in violation of city code sec. 2-53 may,
upon recommendation of the chairperson or designated officer of such board, be
removed or replaced by the city council.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-11, §1, 6-15-21)
Secs. 2-241--2-260. Reserved.
DIVISION 2.
PLANNING BOARD
Sec. 2-261. Establishment and Authority.
   Pursuant to the authority in G.S. 160D-301, the city council establishes the
planning board and gives the board authority to assist in achieving the city's
comprehensive plan for orderly growth and development by analyzing, evaluating,
and recommending responsible city policies, ordinances, and planning standards
that manage development activity. The planning board shall be governed by the
terms of G.S. 160D and by the city's land development policies and regulations
outlined in Marion Code of Ordinances Part IV Unified Development Ordinance
(UDO).
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-11, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 2-262. Members.
   a.   Membership. The planning board shall be composed of five (5) regular
members appointed pursuant to city code
sec. 2-232.
   b.   Alternate member.
      (1)   The city council may, in its discretion, appoint up to three (3)
alternate members.
      (2)   An alternate member shall be appointed for the same term, at the
same time, and in the same manner as regular members.
      (3)   Alternate members are subject to the same requirements as regular
members.
      (4)   The alternate member, while attending any regular or special
meeting of the board and serving on behalf of any regular member, shall have
and may exercise all the powers and duties of a regular member.
   c.   Extraterritorial members. Pursuant to G.S. 160D-3-7, the city council
shall appoint at least one resident from the extraterritorial planning and
development area to the board to provide proportional representation of
residents of the area regulated under the Unified Development Ordinance (UDO).
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-11, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 2-263. Rules; record, meetings; quorum.
   a.   The board shall adopt rules for the transaction of its business
consistent with this article and
G.S. Chapter 160D-308.
    b.   The board shall keep a public record of its meetings, proceedings and
members' attendance. All records shall be maintained in the office of the city
clerk.
   c.   The board shall hold at least one (1) meeting monthly, and all of its
meetings shall be open to the public.
   d.   A quorum shall be constituted by a simple majority of board members,
excluding vacancies. The chair or the presiding member of the board shall vote
on all matters of business considered by the board.
   e.   There shall be a quorum of three (3) board members for the purpose of
taking any official action.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-11, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 2-264. Powers, duties and functions.
   The planning board shall operate according to powers granted under the
authority of North Carolina G.S. 160D-30l to perform the following duties:
   a.   To develop a comprehensive land use plan for the orderly growth and
development of Marion by setting forth goals, objectives, and policies designed
to manage the quantity, type, cost, location, timing, and quality of
development and redevelopment within the community.
   b.   To make studies of the general development characteristics within its
jurisdiction and surrounding areas;
   c.   To determine objectives to be sought in the development of the study
area;
   d.   To prepare and adopt plans for achieving these objectives;
   e.   To formulate and recommend to the city council the adoption or
amendment of ordinances that, in the opinion of the board will serve to promote
the orderly development of the community in accordance with the comprehensive
land use plan;
   f.   To direct the attention of appropriate city officials to needed
enforcement of any ordinance that may affect the general development of the
community;
   g.   To advise the city council concerning the use and amendment of means
for carrying out plans;
   h.   To perform any other related duties that the city council may direct.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-11, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 2-265. Staffing and resources.
   a.   The planning director or their designee shall serve as secretary to the
board. The secretary shall keep the minutes of the board, shall endeavor to
send out notices of all meetings of the board consistent with the Unified
Development Ordinance sec. 3-1.7. Other duties shall include carrying on
routine correspondence and maintain the files of the board.
   b.   Technical experts and consultants outside ordinary city staff available
to perform such services needed to complete approved duties and functions shall
be recommended by the board to the city council in accordance with the state
and federal law and city policy pertaining to such selection.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-11, §1,
Secs. 2-266--2-300. Reserved.
DIVISION 3.
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
Sec. 2-301. Establishment and Authority.
   Pursuant to the authority in G.S. 160D-302, the city council establishes the
board of adjustment and gives the board authority to hear and decide on all
quasi-judicial development matters consistent with G.S. Chapter 160D and city
code Chapter 21 Unified Development Ordinance (UDO) to ensure the orderly
growth and development.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-11, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 2-302. Members.
   a.   Membership. The board of adjustment shall be composed of five (5)
regular members appointed by city council pursuant to city code sec. 2-232.
   b.   Alternate member.
      (1)   The city council may, in its discretion, appoint up to three (3)
alternate members.
      (2)   An alternate member shall be appointed for the same term, at the
same time, and in the same manner as regular members.
      (3)   Alternate members are subject to the same requirements as regular
members.
      (4)   The alternate member, while attending any regular or special
meeting of the board and serving on behalf of any regular member, shall have
and may exercise all the powers and duties of a regular member.
   c.   Extraterritorial members. Pursuant to G.S. 160D-307, the city council
shall appoint at least one resident from the extraterritorial planning and
development area to the board to provide proportional representation of
residents of the area regulated under the City of Marion's planning and
development jurisdiction.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-11, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 2-303. Rules; record, meetings; quorum.
   a.   The board shall adopt rules for the transaction of its business
consistent with this article and G.S. 160D.
   b.   The board shall keep a public record of its members' attendance, and of
its resolutions, discussions, findings and recommendations.
   c.   The board shall hold at least one (1) meeting monthly, and all of its
meetings shall be open to the public.
   d.   There shall be a quorum of three (3) board members for the purpose of
taking any official action to carry out the duties of the board.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-11, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 2-304. Powers, duties and functions.
   The board of adjustment shall operate according to powers granted under the
authority of North Carolina G.S. 160D-406 to hear and decide on the following
matters:
   a.   Appeals. Except as otherwise provided by G.S. Chapter 160D, the board
shall hear and decide appeals from administrative decisions regarding
administration and enforcement of all development regulations and may hear
appeals arising out of any other ordinance that regulates land use or
development pursuant to G.S. 160D-405, G.S. 160D-406 and chapter 3, article
seven of the Unified Development Ordinance (UDO) of the Marion Code of
Ordinances governing quasi-judicial procedures.
   b.   Special Use Permits. The board of adjustment shall hear and decide
special use permits in accordance with principles, conditions, safeguards, and
procedures specified in the development regulations adopted by the city.
Reasonable and appropriate conditions and safeguards may be imposed upon these
permits. Where appropriate, such conditions made include requirements that
street and utility rights-of-way be dedicated to the public and that provision
be made for recreational space and facilities. Conditions and safeguards
imposed under this section shall include requirements for which local
government does not have authority under statute to regulate nor requirements
for which the courts have held to be unenforceable if imposed by the local
government, including, without limitation, taxes, impact fees, building design
elements within the scope of G.S. 160D-702(b), driveway-related improvements in
excess of those allowed in G.S. 136-18(29) and G.S. 160A-307, or other
unauthorized limitations on the development or use of land. Changes to approved
special use permits are subject to Code Sec. 3-7.1 of the UDO. Special use
permits are required to be recorded with the McDowell County Register of Deeds
upon approval.
   c.   Variances. When unnecessary hardships would result from carrying out
the strict letter of a zoning regulation, the board of adjustment shall vary
any of the provisions of the zoning regulation upon the showing of all of the
following:
      (1)   Unnecessary hardship would result from the strict application of
the regulation. It is not necessary to demonstrate that, in the absence of the
variance, no reasonable use can be made on the property;
      (2)   The hardship results from conditions that are peculiar to the
property, such as location, size, or topography. Hardships resulting from
personal circumstances, as well as hardships resulting from conditions that are
common to the neighborhood or the general public, may not be the basis for
granting a variance. A variance may be granted when necessary and appropriate
to make a reasonable accommodation under the Federal Fair Housing Act for a
person with a disability.
      (3)   The hardship did not result from the actions taken by the applicant
or the property owner. The act of purchasing property with knowledge that
circumstances exist that may justify the granting of a variance is not a self-
created hardship.
      (4)   The requested variance is consistent with the spirit, purpose, and
intent of the regulation, such that public safety is secured and substantial
justice is achieved.
      (5)   The requested variance is not a request to permit a use of land,
building, or structure which is not permitted in the zoning district in which
the property is located.
      (6)   The requested variance is not a request to permit a prohibited
sign.
Appropriate conditions may be imposed on any variance, provided the conditions
are reasonably related to the variance. Other development regulations that
regulate land use or development, including the subdivision regulations, may
provide for variances from the provisions of those ordinances consistent with
the provision of this section. Approved variances are required to be recorded
with the McDowell County Register of Deeds upon approval.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-11, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 2-305. Staffing and records.
   a.   Staffing. The planning director or their designee shall serve as
secretary to the board. The secretary shall keep the minutes of the board,
shall endeavor to send out notices of all meetings of the board consistent with
Unified Development Ordinance sec. 3-1.7. Other duties shall include carrying
on routine correspondence and maintain records of the board.
   b.   Records. The board of adjustment shall keep records of its meetings and
proceedings and of all quasi-judicial matters which shall include the decision
and all documents and exhibits submitted to the board of adjustment, together
with the minutes of the meeting or meetings at which the decision was
considered and decided.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-11, §1, 6-15-21)
Secs. 2-305--2-325. Reserved.
DIVISION 4.
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION
Sec. 2-326. Establishment and Authority.
   Pursuant to the authority in G.S. 160D-303, the city council establishes the
historic preservation commission and gives the commission authority to assist
on the conservation and preservation of historic districts and landmarks within
the city planning and development jurisdiction consistent with G.S. Chapter
160D - Part 4 Historic Preservation and city code Chapter 21 Unified
Development Ordinance (UDO) for the means of listing, regulation, and
acquisition:
   a.   To safeguard the heritage of the city by preserving any district or
landmark therein that embodies important elements of its culture, history,
architectural history, or prehistory.
   b.   To promote the use and conservation of such district or landmark for
the education, pleasure, and enrichment of the residents of the city and the
State as a whole.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-11, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 2-327. Members.
   a.   Membership. The historic preservation commission shall be composed of
three (3) regular members appointed by city council pursuant to city code
sec. 2-232.
   b.   Alternate member.
      (1)   The city council may, in its discretion, appoint up to three (3)
alternate members.
      (2)   An alternate member shall be appointed for the same term, at the
same time, and in the same manner as regular members.
      (3)   Alternate members are subject to the same requirements as regular
members.
      (4)   The alternate member, while attending any regular or special
meeting of the commission and serving on behalf of any regular member, shall
have and may exercise all the powers and duties of a regular member.
   c.   Extraterritorial members. Pursuant to G.S. 160D-307, the city council
shall appoint at least one resident from the extraterritorial planning and
development area to the commission to provide proportional representation of
residents of the area regulated under the City of Marion's planning and
development jurisdiction.
   d.   Technical knowledge. A majority of the members shall have demonstrated
special interest, experience, or education in history, architecture,
archaeology, or related fields.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-11, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 2-328. Rules; record, meetings; quorum.
   a.   The commission shall adopt rules for the transaction of its business
consistent with this article and G.S. 160D.
   b.   The commission shall keep a public record of its members' attendance,
and of its resolutions, discussions, findings and recommendations.
   c.   A quorum shall be constituted by a simple majority of board members,
excluding vacancies. The chair or the presiding member of the board shall vote
on all matters of business considered by the board.
   d.   There shall be a quorum of two (2) board members for the purpose of
taking any official action.
   e.   Vacant positions on the commission and members who are disqualified
from voting on a quasi- judicial matter shall not be considered "members of the
commission" for calculation of the requisite supermajority if there are no
qualified alternates available to take the place of such members.
   f.   As appropriate, decisions rendered by the historic preservation
commission shall be recorded in the office of the county register of deeds.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-11, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 2-329. Powers, duties and functions.
   The historic preservation commission shall operate according to powers
granted under the authority of North Carolina G.S. 160D-303 and 160D-Part 4
Historic Preservation and take action on the following matters:
   a.   Undertake an inventory of properties of historical, prehistorical,
architectural, and/or cultural significance.
   b.   Recommend to the governing board areas to be designated by ordinance as
"Historic Districts" and individual structures, buildings, sites, areas, or
objects to be designated by ordinance as "Landmarks."
   c.   Acquire by any lawful means the fee or any lesser included interest,
including options to purchase, to properties within established districts or to
any such properties designated as landmarks to hold, manage, preserve, restore,
and improve such properties, and to exchange or dispose of the property by
public or private sale, lease or otherwise, subject to covenants or other
legally binding restrictions that will secure appropriate rights of public
access and promote the preservation of the property.
   d.   Restore, preserve, and operate historic properties.
   e.   Recommend to the governing board that designation of any area as a
historic district or part thereof, or designation of any building, structure,
site, area, or object as a landmark, be revoked or removed for cause.
   f.   Conduct an educational program regarding historic properties and
districts within its jurisdiction.
   g.   Cooperate with the state and federal government in pursuance of the
purposes of G.S. 160D-Part 4 Historic Preservation. The governing board or the
commission, when authorized by the governing board, may contract with the
state, or federal government, or any agency of either, or with any other
organization provided the terms are not inconsistent with state or federal law.
   h.   Enter, solely in performance of its official duties and only at
reasonable times, upon private lands for examination or survey of a property
with historic or eligible for historic designation. No member, employee, or
agent of the commission may enter any private building or structure without the
express consent of the owner or occupant or administrative search warrant.
   i.   Prepare and recommend the official adoption of a preservation element
as part of the local government's comprehensive plan.
   j.   Review and act upon proposals for alterations, demolitions, or new
construction within historic districts, or for the alteration or demolition of
designated landmarks, pursuant to G.S. 160D-Part 4 Historic Preservation or the
City of Marion Unified Development Ordinance Chapter Eight, Article Three
Historic Preservation Commission.
   k.   Negotiate at any time with the owner of a building, structure, site,
area, or object for its acquisition or its preservation, when such action is
reasonably necessary or appropriate, as authorized by the governing board.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-11, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 2-330. Staffing and records.
   a.   Staffing. The planning director or their designee shall serve as
secretary to the commission. The secretary shall keep the minutes of the
commission, shall endeavor to send out notices of all meetings of the
commission consistent with Unified Development Ordinance sec. 3-1.7. Other
duties shall include carrying on routine correspondence and maintain records of
the board.
   b.   Records. The historic preservation commission shall keep records of its
meetings and proceedings and of all quasi-judicial matters which shall include
the decision and all documents and exhibits submitted to the historic
preservation commission, together with the minutes of the meeting or meetings
at which the decision was considered and decided.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-11, §1, 6-15-21)
Secs. 2-331--2-350. Reserved.
DIVISION 5.
HOUSING APPEALS BOARD
Sec. 2-351. Authority and Establishment
   The Housing Appeals Board is hereby established pursuant to G.S. 160D-305 to
which appeals may be taken from a decision or order of the public officer
enforcing minimum housing. The Marion City Council shall serve as the Housing
Appeals Board and shall have the duties as specified in G.S. 160D-1208.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-11, §1, 6-15-21)
Secs. 2-252--2-375. Reserved.
DIVISION 6.
WATERSHED REVIEW BOARD
Sec. 2-376. Establishment and Authority.
   The Watershed Review Board is hereby established pursuant to Chapter 160A,
Article 8, Section 174, General Ordinance Authority; and in Chapter 143,
Article 21, Watershed Protection Rules.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-11, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 2-377. Members.
   a.   Membership. The Watershed Review Board shall consist of five (5)
members appointed by the city council pursuant to city code sec. 2-323.
   b.   Alternate member. Two (2) alternate members shall be appointed to serve
on the Watershed Review Board in the absence of any regular member and shall be
appointed for three (3) year terms. While attending in the capacity of a
regular member, the alternate shall have and exercise all the powers and duties
of the absent regular member.
   c.   Extraterritorial members. Pursuant to G.S. 160D-307, the city council
shall appoint at least one resident from the extraterritorial planning and
development area to the board to provide proportional representation of
residents of the area regulated under the City of Marion's planning and
development jurisdiction.
   d.   Designation. The City Council may designate the Board of Adjustment to
serve as the Watershed Review Board.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-11, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 2-378. Rules; record, meetings; quorum.
   a.   The board shall adopt rules for the transaction of its business
consistent with this article and G.S. 160D.
   b.   The board shall keep a public record of its members' attendance, and of
its resolutions, discussions, findings and recommendations.
   c.   The board shall hold at least one (1) meeting monthly, and all of its
meetings shall be open to the public.
   d.   There shall be a quorum of three (3) board members for the purpose of
taking any official action to carry out the duties of the board.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-11, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 2-379. Powers, duties and functions.
   The Board shall carry out the duties and responsibilities of the Watershed
Review Board in accordance with the Lake James Watershed Protection standards
under Part IV Unified Development Ordinance (UDO) Chapter Eight Environmental
and Cultural Resource Protection Article Two.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-11, §1, 6-15-21)
Secs. 2-380--2-400. Reserved.
ARTICLE V.
PERSONNEL*
__________
*   Editors Note: Personnel regulations, including the employee grievance
committee, are in the form of a resolution available through the city manager's
office.
   Cross References: Police personnel, §
14-26 et seq.
__________
Chapter 3
ANIMALS*
__________
*   Editors Note: No. O-08-02-05-12, adopted Feb. 5, 2008, amended chapter 3 in
its entirety to read as herein set out. Former Ch. 3 pertained to the same
subject matter and dervied from an ordinance adopted Feb. 4, 1986; Ord. No. O-
07-03-06-02, adopted Mar. 6, 2007; and Ord. No. O-08-01-15-3, adopted Jan. 15,
2008.
   Cross References: and animal waste, §
9-4; location of animal pens, § 9-7; removal of dead animals, §
9-42; animals and chicken fights prohibited, §
11-10.
__________
Sec. 3-1. Definitions.
   The following words and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall, for the
purpose of this chapter, have the meanings ascribed to them in this section,
except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
   Animal shelter means any premises designated by action of the city for the
purposes of impounding and caring for any animal found running at large in
violation of this chapter.
   At large means any dog or cat when it is off the property of its owner and
not under physical control of a competent person.
   City animal control officer means the person designated by the city as its
enforcement officer.
   County animal warden means the person designated by the county as its
enforcement officer.
   Dangerous dog means a dog that:
   (1)   Without provocation has killed or inflicted severe injury on a person;
or
   (2)   Is determined by the person or board designated by the county or
municipal authority responsible for animal control to be potentially dangerous
because the dog has engaged in one (1) or more of the behaviors listed under
the definition of "potentially dangerous dog"; or
   (3)   Is owned or harbored primarily or in part for the purpose of dog
fighting or any dog trained for dog fighting; or
   (4)   Has inflicted a bite on a person that resulted in broken bones or
disfiguring lacerations or required cosmetic surgery or hospitalization.
   Kennel means any person engaged in the commercial business of breeding,
buying, selling or boarding five (5) or more dogs or cats.
   Owner means any person that owns, keeps or harbors a dog or cat.
   Owner's real property means any real property owned or leased by the owner
of the animal, but does not include any public right-of-way or a common area of
a condominium, apartment complex or townhouse development.
   Potentially dangerous dog means a dog that the person or board designated by
the county or municipal authority responsible for animal control determines to
have:
   (1)   Inflicted an unprovoked bite on a person that resulted in medical
attention; or
   (2)   Killed or inflicted severe injury upon a domestic animal when not on
the owner's real property; or
   (3)   Approached a person when not on the owner's property in a vicious or
terrorizing manner in an apparent attitude of attack.
   Restraint means an animal that is:
    (1)   Controlled by a leash;
    (2)   Within a vehicle being driven or parked on the street and unable to
bite or scratch persons outside the vehicle; or
    (3)   Within the property limits of its owner or keeper.
   Severe injury means any physical injury that results in broken bones or
disfiguring lacerations or required cosmetic surgery, hospitalization or
medical attention.
(Ord. No. O-08-02-05-12, § 2, 2-5-08; Ord. No. O-18-10-02-1, § 2, 10-2-18)
   Cross References: and rules of construction generally, §
1-3.
   State Law References: dogs, G.S. § 67-4.1 et seq.
Sec. 3-2. Rabies vaccination required.
   No person shall own, keep or harbor any dog or cat over the age of six (6)
months within the city limits unless it has been vaccinated for rabies and the
rabies vaccination is current, meaning that the animal has received its first
rabies vaccination within the preceding twelve (12) months or its second or
subsequent rabies vaccination within the previous thirty-six (36) months.
(Ord. No. O-08-02-05-12, § 2, 2-5-08)
   State Law References: G.S. § 130A-184 et seq.
Sec. 3-3. Enforcement.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced by the designated city
animal control officer or the police department or both, under the
organizational arrangement deemed appropriate by the city manager; provided
that the city shall at all times maintain a person designated as animal control
officer.
(Ord. No. O-08-02-05-12, § 2, 2-5-08)
Sec. 3-4. Restraint.
   The owner shall keep his dog under restraint at all times and shall not
permit the dog to be at large.
(Ord. No. O-08-02-05-12, § 2, 2-5-08; Ord. No. O-18-10-02-1, § 2, 10-2-18)
   State Law References: running at large at night, G.S. § 67-12.
Sec. 3-4.1. Tethering of animals.
   (a)    At no time shall a dog or cat deemed dangerous or potentially
dangerous be fastened, chained or tied on any property within the city limits
of the City of Marion.
   (b)    All dogs, cats, horses or other domesticated animals, except for
those described in subsection (a) above, may be housed, fenced or tethered. All
dogs, cats, horses or other domesticated animals that are tethered shall be
tethered in such a manner as to prevent said animal from being within ten (10)
feet of any public or private street, sidewalk or pedestrian walkway. All dogs,
cats, horses or other domesticated animals shall be tethered at least five (5)
feet from any property line not adjacent to a public or private street,
sidewalk or pedestrian walkway. Said animals shall be tethered with a metal
chain or cable of a size appropriate to the size of the animal and not harmful
to the animal.
(Ord. No. O-08-02-05-12, § 2, 2-5-08; Ord. No. O-18-10-02-1, § 2, 10-2-18)
Sec. 3-4.2. City council to serve as dangerous animals appeals board.
   In accordance with G.S. 67-4.1(c), the Marion City Council shall constitute
the dangerous animals appeals board.
(Ord. No. O-08-02-05-12, § 2, 2-5-08)
   State Law References: dogs, G.S. § 67-4.1 et seq.
Sec. 3-4.3. Determination of dangerous or potentially dangerous dog or cat;
appeal.
   (a)    Upon receipt of a complaint or observation that a dog or cat may have
exhibited one (1) or more behaviors listed under the definition for "dangerous
dog" or "potentially dangerous dog", as found in section
3-1 of this chapter, sufficient to designate such dog or cat as dangerous or
potentially dangerous, the animal control officer shall investigate the
specific charges. If the animal control officer determines that the dog or cat
is dangerous or potentially dangerous, the owner of the dog or cat shall be
notified in writing by certified mail, return receipt requested, or by personal
service. The notice shall include a civil citation in accordance with the
provisions of sections
1-10 through
1-10.17 of the City Code and state that the owner's dog or cat has been
determined by the city to be dangerous or potentially dangerous, list the
reasons for the determination and list the steps that must be taken under this
chapter, including confinement requirements listed under section
3-5, for the animal to remain in the city. Upon receipt of the notice of
determination, the owner may appeal the determination by filing a written
appeal stating his or her objections to the determination with the city manager
within three (3) days. Upon receipt of the appeal, the city manager shall
schedule a hearing with the dangerous animal appeals board within a reasonable
time at a regular city council meeting. The city council shall render a
decision upholding or overturning the determination of the animal control
officer within sixty (60) days after receiving said appeal. Any appeal from the
city council shall be taken to superior court, in accordance with G.S. 67-4.1
(c).
   (b)    Upon receipt of a complaint or observation that a dog or cat
previously determined to be dangerous or potentially dangerous may have again
exhibited one (1) or more behaviors listed under the definition for "dangerous
dog" or "potentially dangerous dog" as found in section
3-1 of this chapter, or has been found at large in violation of section
3-4 of this chapter, the animal control officer shall investigate the charges.
If the animal control officer determines that a dog or cat previously
determined to be dangerous or potentially dangerous has again exhibited one (1)
or more behaviors listed under the definition for "dangerous dog" or
"potentially dangerous dog" as found in section
3-1 of this chapter, or has been found at large in violation of section
3-4 of this chapter, the animal control officer shall issue a civil citation in
accordance with the provisions of sections
1-10 through
1-10.17 of the City Code and transfer and impound the animal at the shelter
designated as the McDowell County Animal Shelter. The police department will
notify the owner of any animal transferred to the animal shelter, if the animal
has a collar on which is written the name, address and phone number of the
owner. The owner will not be permitted to keep the animal within the city
limits of the City of Marion at any point in the future.
(Ord. No. O-08-02-05-12, § 2, 2-5-08; Ord. No. O-08-09-16-1, § 2, 9-16-08)
   State Law References: dogs, G.S. § 67-4.1 et seq.
Sec. 3-5. Confinement of dangerous or potentially dangerous dog or cat;
muzzles.
   The owner of every dangerous or potentially dangerous dog or cat shall
confine the animal within a secure building or secure enclosure and not take it
out of the secure building or secure enclosure into a public domain unless it
is securely muzzled with a wire or cage muzzle. Such secure building or secure
enclosure must be locked with a childproof locking device, must be of a height
appropriate for the size of the animal to keep the animal confined inside and
must be constructed of a material sufficient to keep the animal restrained
(screen doors, windows, porches and other screen materials are not deemed
sufficient for purposes of this subsection). In addition, the owner must
prominently display in public view on the property a sign stating "Beware of
Dog".
(Ord. No. O-08-02-05-12, § 2, 2-5-08)
   State Law References: or leashing of vicious animals, G.S. § 130A-200;
dangerous dogs, G.S. § 67-4.1 et seq.
Sec. 3-6. Complaint procedures and impoundment.
   When the police department receives a complaint that a dog or cat is at
large, the person making the complaint shall be asked for permission to locate
an animal cage on their property. If permission is granted, city employees will
place a baited animal cage on the property of the person making the complaint.
When a dog or cat is caught in the cage, the animal will be transferred and
impounded at the shelter designated as the McDowell County Animal Shelter. The
police department will notify the owner of any animal transferred to the animal
shelter, if the animal has a collar on which is written the name, address and
phone number of the owner. If the complaining party refuses to allow the cage
to be located on their property no further action will be taken unless the
animal has attacked someone or appears to be dangerous, potentially dangerous
or sick, in which case the police department will transport the animal to the
McDowell County Animal Shelter. The owner of the animal may appeal the taking
of the animal and the determination that the animal is dangerous, potentially
dangerous or sick by filing a written appeal stating his or her objections to
the taking of the animal and the determination that the animal is dangerous,
potentially dangerous or sick with the city manager within three (3) days. Upon
receipt of the appeal, the city manager shall schedule a hearing with the
dangerous animal appeals board within a reasonable time at a regular city
council meeting. The city council shall render a decision upholding or
overturning the determination of the animal control officer within sixty (60)
days after receiving said appeal. Any appeal from the city council shall be
taken to superior court, in accordance with G.S. 67-4.1(c). Pending a final
decision by the city council, the city shall request the animal shelter not to
euthanize the animal in question, on the condition that the owner of the animal
agrees to pay any applicable impoundment fees charged by the McDowell County
Animal Shelter. However, the city cannot provide a guarantee that the animal
will not be euthanized by the McDowell County Animal Shelter prior to the
appeal being filed, or even after the appeal is filed, in the event that the
McDowell County Animal Shelter does not comply with the request of the city not
to euthanize the animal in question.
(Ord. No. O-08-02-05-12, § 2, 2-5-08)
Sec. 3-6.1. Tampering with cages prohibited.
   Once a cage is set on property, it shall be unlawful for any person to
tamper with said cage, to remove food from the cage, to move or relocate the
cage or to trigger the closing of the cage so as to prevent animals from being
captured in the cage.
(Ord. No. O-08-02-05-12, § 2, 2-5-08)
Sec. 3-7. Redemption of impounded animals.
   The owner may reclaim his impounded dog or cat when he complies with
regulations established by the McDowell County Commissioners and city
ordinances as found in this chapter and pays the necessary impoundment fees
imposed by the county.
(Ord. No. O-08-02-05-12, § 2, 2-5-08)
Sec. 3-8. Barking dogs.
   It shall be unlawful for any dog owner to keep or have within the city a dog
that habitually or repeatedly barks in such a manner or to such extent that it
is a public nuisance.
(Ord. No. O-08-02-05-12, § 2, 2-5-08)
Sec. 3-8.1. Cruel treatment.
   (a)    It shall be unlawful for any person to molest, torture, torment,
deprive of necessary sustenance, cruelly beat, needlessly mutilate or kill,
wound, injure, poison or abandon subject to condition detrimental to its health
or general welfare any animal, or to cause or produce such action.
   (b)    The words "torture", "torment" and "cruelly," as used in this
section, shall be held to include every act, omission or neglect whereby
unjustifiable physical pain, suffering or death is caused or permitted; but
such terms shall not be construed to prohibit lawful taking of animals under
the jurisdiction and regulation of the State Wildlife Resources Commission, or
to prohibit animal control officers or duly authorized persons or veterinarians
from taking or destroying dangerous, unwanted or injured animals in a humane
manner, or to prohibit the lawful use of animals in scientific research, or
legitimate pest control activities.
   (c)    It shall be unlawful for any person to keep animals under unsanitary
or inhumane conditions and to fail to provide proper food and water daily,
shelter from the weather, reasonably clean quarters and proper medical
attention for sick, diseased and injured animals, as well as adequate
inoculation against disease.
   (d)    For purposes of this section, "shelter" shall be defined as an
enclosure of at least three (3) sides, a roof and a floor. The enclosure shall
be ventilated and must have sufficient room for the animal(s) to move around
freely and to lie down comfortably. Animals housed under the following
conditions shall not constitute adequate shelter:
   (1)   Underneath outside steps, deck and stoops; or
   (2)   Inside of vehicles; or
   (3)   Underneath vehicles; or
   (4)   Inside metal barrels placed in direct sunlight during the summer; or
   (5)   Inside cardboard boxes.
(Ord. No. O-08-02-19-3, § 2, 2-19-08; Ord. No. O-09-02-17-4, § 2, 2-17-09)
Sec. 3-8.2. Damage to property.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any animal to allow or permit said
animal to damage the property of anyone other than its owner including, but not
limited to: turning over garbage or recycling containers, damaging gardens,
flowers, shrubs, vegetables, plantings, yards, real property or personal
property or defecating upon the property of another. Section 5. This ordinance
shall become effective upon its adoption.
(Ord. No. O-18-10-02-1, § 4, 10-2-18)
Sec. 3-9. Investigation.
   To discharge the duties imposed by this chapter and to enforce its
provisions the city animal control officer, any agent of the city animal
control officer or any police officer may obtain an administrative search
warrant to enter any premises where a dog or cat is kept or harbored and may
require the animal's owner to show proof the animal has a current rabies
vaccination, as described in section
3-2.
(Ord. No. O-08-02-05-12, § 2, 2-5-08)
   State Law References: search and inspection warrants, G.S. § 15-27.2.
Sec. 3-10. Interference with animal control officer.
   No person shall interfere with, hinder, or molest any agent of the city
animal control officer in performing any of his duties or seek to release any
animal from the custody of the city animal control officer, his agents or the
instrument of capture except as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. No. O-08-02-05-12, § 2, 2-5-08)
Sec. 3-11. Records.
   (a)    The police department shall keep or cause to be kept accurate and
detailed records of the impoundment of all animals that come into its custody.
   (b)    The police department shall keep or cause to be kept accurate and
detailed records of all bite cases reported and of the investigation of the
bites.
(Ord. No. O-08-02-05-12, § 2, 2-5-08)
Sec. 3-12. Fowl running at large prohibited.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit turkeys, geese, ducks,
chickens, or other domestic fowl to run at large upon any land in the city.
(Ord. No. O-08-02-05-12, § 2, 2-5-08)
Sec. 3-13. Grazing prohibited.
   No person shall permit any cattle, sheep or other animals to graze, or tie
such animal up, on any vacant lot or within fifty (50) feet of any dwelling or
street within the city.
(Ord. No. O-08-02-05-12, § 2, 2-5-08)
Sec. 3-14. Hitching animals.
   No person shall hitch any horse or other animal to any of the trees,
lampposts, electric lights, power, telephone or telegraph poles, mailboxes,
wires or hydrant on any of the streets, sidewalks, squares or parks in the
city.
(Ord. No. O-08-02-05-12, § 2, 2-5-08)
Sec. 3-15. Pigs, hogs, swine prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person to harbor, feed, keep in possession by
confinement, or otherwise maintain any pigs, hogs or swine within the city,
except as follows:
   (a)   No more than one (1) miniature potbellied pig kept as a household pet
is allowed per property. Pigs kept as livestock are not permitted.
   (b)   Potbellied pigs must be kept in an enclosure. Enclosures must be kept
clean and provide adequate shelter, water and food.
   (c)   Enclosures must be kept at least fifty (50) feet away from any
dwelling and at least ten (10) feet away from adjoining property lines. If the
ten (10) foot setback from property lines cannot be met, the pig owners must
submit letters of support to the city from the owners of property within ten
(10) feet of a pig enclosure, in order to be considered for a waiver to this
condition.
   (d)   Potbellied pig owners must register their pig with the city annually
and pay any fees set in the city fee and rate schedule.
   (e)   A potbellied pig cannot exceed 120 pounds in weight.
   (f)   Potbellied pigs are only allowed on residentially zoned properties
containing no more than one (1) single-family residential house. Potbellied
pigs are not permitted on multi-family residential, commercial, office and
institutional, industrial or other properties.
(Ord. No. O-22-09-06-4, § 1, 9-6-22)
Sec. 3-16. Restriction as to certain animals in public places.
   No person shall permit his horse, mule, donkey, hog, sheep, goat, or cattle
of any kind, to run at large in the streets, sidewalks, parks, squares or
cemeteries of the city. Horses or mules which are being used for riding or
driving may be fastened to hitching posts or blocks, but no person shall stake
or otherwise fasten any such animal, for grazing purposes, in any of the
streets, sidewalks, parks, squares, or cemeteries of the city, nor shall any
person feed any such animal in any of the streets, sidewalks, parks or squares
of the city.
(Ord. No. O-08-02-05-12, § 2, 2-5-08)
   Cross References: sidewalks and other public places,
Ch. 15.
Sec. 3-17. Cleanliness and location of animal enclosures.
   (a)    Every stable and place where cattle, horses, chickens, geese or other
animals are kept, shall be maintained in a clean and healthy condition at all
times. No person shall erect upon any lot any cow, horse, mule, sheep or goat
stable or any coop or pen for the keeping of any chickens, geese, turkeys,
ducks, or any other gallinaceous birds, within one hundred (100) feet of any
street or dwelling within the city.
   (b)    This section shall not apply to animals located within the city prior
to the date of adoption of the ordinance from which this section derives.
However, the number of animals shall not be increased nor shall the animals be
replaced or relocated to some other property in violation of this section.
(Ord. No. O-08-02-05-12, § 2, 2-5-08; Ord. No. O-17-01-02-9, § 2, 2-1-18)
   State Law References: and sanitation,
Ch. 9.
Sec. 3-17.1. Continuation of activities after area annexed into the city.
   (a)   Any activity involving the keeping of animals, as described in this
chapter, shall be allowed to continue in the same manner as is being earned out
at the time the property is annexed into the city, provided that the
continuation of the keeping of livestock not in compliance with this chapter
shall be permitted only on parcels of two (2) or more acres in size.
   (b)   No activity involving the keeping of animals shall be expanded or
enlarged beyond the size, dimension and intensity that exists at the time the
property on which the activity is located is annexed into the city.
(Ord. No. O-17-01-02-9, § 2, 2-1-18)
Sec. 3-18. Bird sanctuary; eradication of pests.
   (a)    The entire area embraced within the corporate limits of the city is
hereby designated as a bird sanctuary.
   (b)    It shall be unlawful to trap, hunt, shoot, or attempt to shoot or
molest in any manner any bird or wild fowl or to rob bird nests or wild fowl
nests; provided, however, that if starlings or similar birds are found to be
congregating in such numbers in a particular locality that they constitute a
nuisance or menace to health or property in the opinion of the city council,
then the city council may bring the matter to the attention of the state
commissioner of agriculture or state pesticide board which shall make such
disposition of the matter as may be appropriate pursuant to the provisions of
G.S. 113-300.2.
(Ord. No. O-08-02-05-12, § 2, 2-5-08)
   State Law References: wild animal or bird a pest, G.S. § 113-300.2; bird
sanctuaries, G.S. § 160A-188.
Chapter 4
RESERVED*
*Editor’s Note: For regulations regarding buildings and building regulations,
see Part IV of the Marion Code of Ordinances.
 
Chapter 4.5
BUSINESSES
   Art. I. In General, §§ 4.5-1--4.5-25
   Art. II. Sexually Oriented Businesses, §§
4.5-26--4.5-47
ARTICLE I.
IN GENERAL
Secs. 4.5-1--4.5-25. Reserved.
ARTICLE II.
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Sec. 4.5-26. Purpose.
   The purpose of this article shall be to set forth the regulatory and
licensing requirements for adult establishments located within the City of
Marion. Adult establishments, because of their very nature, are recognized as
having serious objectionable operational characteristics. Studies and
experiences that are relevant to North Carolina have shown that lower property
values and increased crime rates tend to accompany and are brought about by
adult establishments. The city council finds that regulation of these uses is
necessary to ensure that these adverse secondary effects do not contribute to
the blighting of surrounding neighborhoods and to regulate acts, omissions or
conditions detrimental to the health, safety or welfare and the peace and
dignity of the city. Regulation to achieve these purposes can be accomplished
by the procedures set forth hereinafter.
   The provisions of this article have neither the purpose nor effect of
imposing a limitation or restriction on the content of any communicative
materials, including sexually oriented materials. Similarly, it is not the
intent nor effect of this article to restrict or deny access by adults to
sexually oriented materials protected by the First Amendment, or to deny access
by the distributors and exhibitors of sexually, oriented entertainment to their
intended market. This article represents a balancing of the legitimate ends of
the community by imposing an incidental, content neutral place, time and manner
regulation of sexually oriented businesses, without limiting alternative
avenues of communication and at the same time, requiring the business to carry
its share of financing administrative and enforcement activities.
of 7-18-00, § 1)
Sec. 4.5-27. Definitions.
   The following words, terms and phases, when used in this article, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   Adult bookstore means a bookstore:
   (1)   Which receives a majority of its gross income during any calendar
month from the sale or rental of publications (including books, magazines,
which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting,
describing, or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas, as defined in this section or other periodicals, videotapes, compact
discs, other photographic, electronic, magnetic, digital, or other imaging
medium)
   (2)   Having as a preponderance (Either in terms of the weight and
importance of the material or in terms of greater volume of materials) of its
publications, including books, greeting cards, magazines, other periodicals,
videotapes, compact discs, other photographic, electronic, magnetic, digital,
or other imaging medium, which are distinguished or characterized by their
emphasis on matter depicting describing, or relating to specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas, as defined in this section.
   Adult cabaret means a nightclub, bar, restaurant, or similar commercial
establishment that on a regular, sporadic, or transient basis features:
   (a)   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or semi-nudity; or
   (b)   Live performances that are characterized by the exposure of "specified
anatomical areas" or "specified sexual activities", or
   (c)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other photographic
reproductions that are characterized by the depiction or description of
"specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas"; or
   (d)   Persons who engage in erotic dancing or performances that are intended
for the sexual interests or titillation of an audience or customers.
   Adult establishment means an adult bookstore, adult cabaret, adult motel,
adult motion picture theater, adult mini motion picture theater, escort agency,
exotic car wash, exotic maid service, nude modeling studios, sexual encounter
center or any other sexually oriented business that is similar in nature or
intent to any other adult entertainment business as defined in this section .
   Adult live entertainment means any performance of or involving the actual
presence of real people which exhibits specified sexual activities or specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, as defined in this section.
   Adult live entertainment business means any establishment or business
wherein adult live entertainment is shown for observation by patrons. This
shall apply whether the entertainment is presented on a regular, sporadic, or
transient basis.
   Adult motel means a hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment that:
   (a)   Offers accommodation to the public for any form of consideration and
provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions, films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other photographic reproductions that are
characterized by the depiction or description of "specified sexual activities"
or "specified anatomical areas"; and has a sign visible from the public right
of way that advertises the availability of this adult type of photographic
reproductions; or
   (b)   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is less than
twenty-four (24) hours; or
   (c)   Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to sub-rent the room
for a period of time that is less than twenty-four (24) hours.
   Adult motion picture theater means an enclosed building or premises used for
presenting motion pictures, a preponderance of which are distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing, or relating to
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, as defined in this
section, for observation by patrons therein. "Adult motion picture theater"
does not include any adult mini motion picture theater as defined in this
section.
   Adult mini motion picture theater means an enclosed building with viewing
booths designed to hold patrons which is used for presenting motion pictures, a
preponderance of which are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas as defined in this section, for observation by
patrons therein.
   Employee means a person who performs any service on the premises of a
sexually oriented business on a full time, part time, contract basis, or
independent basis, whether or not the person is denominated an employee,
independent contractor, agent, or otherwise, and whether or not the said person
is paid a salary, wage, or other compensation by the operator of said business.
"Employee" does not include a person exclusively on the premises for repair or
maintenance of the premises or equipment on the premises, or for the delivery
of goods to the premises, nor does "employee" include a person exclusively on
the premises as a patron or customer.
   Enlargement of a sexually oriented business means the increase in floor
areas occupied by the business by more than ten (10) percent, as the floor
areas exist on July 18, 2000.
   Escort means a person who, for consideration, agrees or offers to act as a
companion, guide, or date for another person, or who agrees or offers to
privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for another
person and whose advertisements, promotions, or obvious intent to the public is
sexual in nature.
   Escort agency means a person or business association who furnishes, offers
to furnish, or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary business
purposes for a fee, tip, or other consideration and whose advertisements,
promotions, or obvious intent to the public is sexual in nature.
   Entertainer means any person who provides entertainment within or at an
adult establishment, whether or not a fee is charged or accepted for
entertainment and whether or not entertainment is provided by that person as an
employee or an independent contractor.
   Erotic refers to any seductive, titillating, lustful, immodest, indecent,
suggestive, passionate, or similar, reference, act, service or deed.
   Establishment means and includes any of the following:
   (a)   The opening or commencement of any sexually oriented business as a new
business;
   (b)   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually
oriented business, to any sexually oriented business;
   (c)   The additions of any sexually oriented business to any other existing
sexually oriented business; or
   (d)   The relocation of any sexually oriented business.
   Exotic car wash means a facility that offers a car cleaning or washing
service performed by employees that are in a state of nudity or semi-nudity.
   Exotic maid service means any cleaning service for a residence or business
where the employee is in a state of nudity or semi-nudity.
   Licensed day-care facility means a facility licensed by the state of North
Carolina whether situated within the city of not that provides care, training,
education, custody, treatments or supervision for children under fourteen (14)
years of age, where such children are not related by blood, marriage or
adoption to the owner or operator of the facility, for less than twenty-four
(24) hours a day, regardless of whether or not the facility is operated for a
profit or charge for the services it offers.
   Licensee means a person in whose name a license has been issued, as well as
the individual listed as an applicant on the application for a license.
   Licensed group care facility means a facility licensed by the state of North
Carolina to provide custodial care for physically or mentally challenged
individuals regardless of age.
   Nude model studio means any place where a person who appears in a state of
nudity or displays "specified anatomical areas" is provided to be observed,
sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed, or similarly depicted by
other persons for consideration.
   Nudity or a state of nudity means the appearance of a human bare buttock,
anus, anal cleft or cleavage, pubic area, male genitals, female genitals, or
vulva, with less than fully opaque covering; or human male genitals in a
discernibly turgid state even if completely and opaquely covered.
   Person means an individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation,
association, or other legal entity.
   Premises means the real property upon which the sexually oriented business
is located, and all appurtenances thereto and buildings thereon, including, but
not limited to, the sexually oriented business, the grounds, private walkways,
and parking lots and/or parking garages adjacent thereto, under the ownership,
control, or supervision of the licensee, as described in the application for a
business license pursuant to section 4.5-29 of this chapter.
   Semi-nude means the appearance of the female breast below a horizontal line
across the top of the areola at its highest point. This definition shall
include the entire lower portion of the human female breast, but shall not
include any portion of the cleavage of the human female breast exhibited by a
dress, blouse, skirt, leotard, bathing suit, other wearing apparel provided the
areola is not exposed in whole or in part.
   Sexual encounter center means a business or commercial enterprise that, as
one of its principal business purposes, offers for any form of consideration:
   (a)   Physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between persons
of the opposite sex; or
   (b)   Activities between male and female persons and/or persons of the same
sex when one or more of the persons is in a state of nudity or semi-nude.
   Sexually oriented devices means without limitation any artificial or
simulated specified anatomical area or their device or paraphernalia that is
designed principally for specified sexual activities but shall not mean any
contraceptive device.
   Specified anatomical areas means:
   (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered:
   A.   Human genitals, pubic region;
   B.   Buttock; or
   C.   Female breast below a point immediately above the top of the areola; or
   (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if completely
and opaquely covered.
   Specified sexual activities means:
   (1)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal;
   (2)   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse or sodomy; or
   (3)   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic regions,
buttocks or female breasts.
   Sexually oriented business means any businesses or enterprises that have as
one of their principal business purposes or as a significant portion of their
business an emphasis on matter and conduct depicting, describing, or related to
anatomical areas and sexual activities as specified in N.C.G.S. 14-202.10. This
term may be used interchangeably with adult establishment.
   Transfer of ownership or control of a sexually oriented business means and
includes any of the following:
   (a)   The sale, lease, or sublease of the business;
   (b)   The transfer of securities that form a controlling interest in the
business, whether by sale, exchange, or similar means; or
   (c)   The establishment of a trust, gift, or other similar legal device that
transfers the ownership of control of the business, except for the transfer by
bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person possessing the
ownership or control.
   City means City of Marion, North Carolina.
   City clerk, as used in this article, means chief administrative city
official. The city clerk is responsible for the enforcement of this article.
of 7-18-00, § 2)
Sec. 4.5-28. Application for licenses.
   (a)    Business license.
   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or maintain an adult
establishment in the city unless the owner or operator thereof has obtained an
adult establishment license from the city. It shall also be unlawful for any
person to operate such business after such license has been revoked or
suspended by the city or has expired.
   (2)   It shall be unlawful for any entertainer to knowingly perform any
work, service or entertainment directly related to the operation of an
unlicensed adult establishment within the city.
   (3)   It shall be prima facie evidence that any adult establishment that
fails to have posted, in the manner required by this article, an adult
establishment license, has not obtained such a license. In addition, it shall
be prima facie evidence that any entertainer who performs any service or
entertainment in an adult establishment in which an adult establishment license
is not posted, in the manner required by this article, had knowledge that such
business was not licensed.
   (b)    Entertainer license. It is unlawful for any person to work as an
entertainer at an adult establishment without first obtaining a license to do
so from the city, or to work as an entertainer at an adult establishment after
such person's license to do so has been revoked or suspended by the city or has
expired.
   (c)    License classification and fees.
   (1)   The term of all licenses required under this article shall be for a
period of twelve (12) months, commencing on the date of issuance of the
license. The application for a license shall be accompanied by payment in full
of the fees referred to in this article and established by the city council.
Payment shall be made by certified or cashier's check or money order. No
application shall be considered complete until all such fees are paid.
   (2)   All license shall be issued for a specific location and/or person and
shall be non-refundable and nontransferable.
   (3)   The license fees shall be as set by the city council from time to time
and be recorded in the city council meeting minutes at which they are set.
of 7-18-00, § 3)
Sec. 4.5-29. Application procedures.
   (a)    Adult establishment business license. All persons desiring to secure
a license to conduct, operate or maintain an adult establishment under the
provisions of this article shall make a verified application to the city clerk.
All applications shall be submitted in the name of the person proposing to
conduct, operate or maintain the adult establishment. All applications shall be
submitted on a form supplied by the city clerk and shall require the following
information:
   (1)   The applicant's full name and any aliases or other names by which the
applicant is known or which the applicant has used at any time, and the
residence addresses for the past two years, the business and home telephone
numbers, occupation, date and place of birth, social security number, drivers
license number, and a recent photograph of the applicant.
   (2)   (a)   The name of the adult establishment, a description of the adult
entertainment to be performed on the licensed premises, the name of the owner
of the premises where the adult establishment will be located, the business
address and McDowell County parcel identification number on which the business
resides;
   (b)   If the persons identified as the fee owner of the tract of land in
item (a) is/are not also the owner of the establishment, then the lease,
purchase contract, purchase option contract, lease option contract or other
document evidencing the legally enforceable right of the owners or proposed
owners of the adult establishment to have or obtain the use and possession of
the tract or portion thereof that is to be used for the purpose of the
operation of an adult establishment;
   (c)   A current certificate and straight-line drawing prepared within thirty
(30) days prior to application by a registered land surveyor depicting the
property lines and the structures containing any existing sexually oriented
businesses within one thousand five hundred (1,500) feet of the property to be
certified; the property lines of any established religious institution/
synagogue, school, library, or public park or recreation area within one
thousand five hundred (1,500) feet of the property to be certified. For
purposes of this section, a use shall be considered existing or established if
it is in existence at the time an application is submitted;
   (d)   Any of the criteria above shall not be required for a renewal
application if the applicant states that the documents previously furnished the
city clerk with the original application or previous renewals thereof remain
correct and current.
   (3)   The names, residence addresses for the past two (2) years, social
security numbers and dates of births of all partners, if the applicant is a
partnership; and if the applicant is a corporation, the same information for
all corporate officers, directors, and individuals having a ten (10) percent or
greater interest in the corporation.
   (4)   A statement from the applicant, or from each partner, or from each
corporate officer, director, or ten (10) percent shareholder that each such
person has not been convicted of, released from confinement for conviction of,
or diverted from prosecution on:
   a.   A felony criminal act within five (5) years immediately preceding the
application, or
   b.   A misdemeanor criminal act within two (2) years immediately preceding
the application.
   Where such felony or misdemeanor criminal act involved sexual offenses,
prostitution, promotion of prostitution, sexual abuse of a child, pornography
or related offenses as defined in the laws of North Carolina or any other
comparable violation of the laws of this state or the laws of any other state.
   (5)   If the applicant is a corporation, a current certificate of existence
issued by the North Carolina Secretary of State.
   (6)   A statement signed under oath that the applicant has personal
knowledge of the information contained in the application and that the
information contained therein is true and correct and that the applicant has
read the provisions of this article regulating adult establishments.
   (7)   All applicants shall submit to fingerprinting by the Marion Police
Department. The fingerprint cards shall be submitted to the S.B.I. for
processing. Returned fingerprint cards and criminal histories shall be kept on
file in the Marion Police Department.
   (8)   A statement signed under oath that the applicant consents to
investigation of his/her background by the city to include fingerprinting and
that the applicant agrees to furnish within ten days at his/her expense, a
criminal history from the clerk of court of any county in which the applicant
has resided during the five (5) preceding years. Failure to provide the
information and documentation required by this subsection shall constitute an
incomplete application and it shall not be processed until complete.
   (b)    Adult entertainer license. All persons desiring to secure a license
under the provisions of this article to be an entertainer shall make a verified
application to the city clerk. All applications shall be made in person to the
city clerk or his designee. All applications shall be submitted on a form
supplied by the city clerk and shall require the following information:
   (1)   The applicant's full name and any aliases or other names by which the
applicant is known or which the applicant has used at any time, and the
residence addresses for the past two (2) years, the home telephone number, date
and place of birth, social security number, and any stage names or nicknames
used in entertaining.
   (2)   The name and address of the adult establishment where the applicant
intends to work as an entertainer.
   (3)   A statement from the applicant, that the applicant has not been
convicted of, released from confinement for conviction of, or diverted from
prosecution on:
   (a)   A felony criminal act within five (5) years immediately preceding the
application, or
   (b)   A misdemeanor criminal act within two (2) years immediately preceding
the application, where such felony or misdemeanor criminal act involving sexual
offenses, prostitution, promotion of prostitution, sexual abuse of a child,
pornography or related offenses as defined in the laws of the State of North
Carolina or any other comparable violation of the laws of this state or the
laws of any other state.
   (4)   Photographs shall be taken of the applicant by the Marion Police
Department. The police department shall have the photographs processed and
retain the copies.
   (5)   All applicants shall submit to fingerprinting by the Marion Police
Department. The fingerprint cards shall be submitted to the S.B.I. for
processing. Returned fingerprint cards and criminal histories shall be kept on
file in the Marion Police Department.
   (6)   The applicant shall present to the city clerk for copying
documentation that the applicant has attained the age of twenty-one (21) years
at the time the application is submitted. Any of the following shall be
accepted as documentation of age:
   a.   A motor vehicle operator's license issued by any state, bearing the
applicant's photograph and date of birth;
   b.   A state-issued identification card bearing the applicant's photograph
and date of birth;
   c.   An official and valid passport issued by the United States of America;
   d.   An immigration card issued by the United States of America;
   e.   Any other form of picture identification issued by a governmental
entity that is deemed reliable by the city clerk; or
   f.   Any other form of identification deemed reliable by the city clerk.
   (7)   A statement signed under oath that the applicant consents to
investigation of his/her background by the city to include fingerprinting and
that the applicant agrees to furnish within ten days at his/her expense, a
criminal history from the clerk of court of any county in which the applicant
has resided during the five (5) preceding years. Failure to provide the
information required by this subsection shall constitute an incomplete
application and it shall not be processed until complete.
   (c)    Application processing. Upon receipt of a complete application for an
adult establishment license or for an entertainer licenses, the city clerk
shall immediately commence investigation of the application as follows:
   (1)   In the case of an application for a license for an adult
establishment, the city clerk shall:
   a.   Transmit a copy of the application to the code enforcement officer, the
board of adjustment and to the Marion Police Department.
   b.   The city clerk, no later than fifteen (15) working days after the
receipt of the application, shall determine whether or not a proposed adult
establishment complies with the requirements of the zoning ordinance regarding
location of the adult establishment, building, fire, health, or similar State
or local codes. In the event that the city clerk fails to make such a
determination within the prescribed time period, the city clerk shall proceed
with processing the application.
   c.   The board of adjustment shall review the application to confirm
compliance with the zoning ordinance. If the board confirms compliance then a
special exception shall be granted and the findings transmitted to the city
clerk within twenty (20) working days of receipt of the application.
   d.   The police department shall report to the city clerk no later than
twenty (20) working days after the receipt of the application by the police
department the results of its investigation of the applicant. In the event that
the police department fails to report to the city clerk within this time
period, the city clerk shall proceed with processing the application.
   e.   Upon completion of his/her investigation, payment of the applicable
license fee, and upon receipt of the report of the board of zoning adjustment
and the police department (or upon expiration of the time periods referenced
above without receiving a report), the city clerk shall determine whether or
not a license shall be issued. In no event shall the time period for
determination by the city clerk exceed forty-five (45) working days from the
date the application is received by the city clerk, unless consented to by the
applicant.
   (2)   In the case of an application for a license for an entertainer, the
city clerk shall:
   a.   Transmit a copy of the application to the Marion Police Department.
   b.   The police department shall report to the city clerk no later than
twenty (20) working days after receipt of the application the results of its
investigation of the applicant. In the event that the police department fails
to report to the city clerk within this time period, the city clerk shall
proceed with processing the application.
   c.   Upon completion of his/her investigation, payment of the appropriate
license fee, and upon receipt of the report of the police department (or upon
expiration of either or both time periods referenced above without receiving a
report), the city clerk shall determine whether or not a license shall be
issued. In no event shall the time period for determination by the city clerk
exceed sixty (60) days from the date the application is received by the city
clerk, unless consented to by the applicant.
   (d)    Reasons for disapproval. The city clerk shall deny the license
application for one or more of the following reasons:
   (1)   The license application is incomplete so as to not contain all
information required by this article.
   (2)   The applicant (including any partners, corporate officers, directors,
and shareholders where applicable), has been convicted of a crime in the local,
state or federal court systems for any violations listed in this section.
   (3)   The applicant (including any partners, corporate officers and
directors, where applicable), has made false or fraudulent statements in the
application, evidence of which is disclosed by a city background investigation
or by any other lawful means.
   (4)   The application for an adult establishment does not meet the
requirements of this article.
   (5)   The applicant for a sexually oriented business has not received
special exception from the zoning board of adjustment.
   (e)    Notice of approval or disapproval.
   (1)   Upon a determination by the city clerk of the disapproval or approval
of the application, the city clerk shall notify the applicant by personal
delivery or certified mail, return receipt requested, to the address of the
applicant as shown on the application. In the event that the application is
disapproved, the notification shall state the basis for such disapproval.
   (2)   In the event an application is disapproved, the applicant shall have
thirty (30) days from the receipt of the notice of disapproval to appeal that
determination to the Superior Court of McDowell County.
   (f)    Changes to application. All applicants shall notify the city clerk of
any changes to the application within five (5) working days of the date the
change occurs.
of 7-18-00, § 4)
Sec. 4.5-30. Prohibited acts and conduct.
   (a)    No person under the age of twenty-one (21) years shall be permitted
on the premises of any adult establishment.
   (b)    No person under the age of twenty-one (21) years shall be granted a
license for an adult establishment business or as an entertainer.
   (c)    No owner, operator, manager, employee or entertainer, nor any
customer or patron, shall appear "bottomless" or in a state of nudity while on
the premises of the adult establishment.
   (d)    No owner, operator, manager, employee or entertainer, nor any
customer or patron, shall perform any specified sexual activities as defined in
this article, wear or use any device or covering exposed to view which
simulates any specified anatomical area, use artificial devices or inanimate
objects to perform or depict any of the specified sexual activities, as defined
in this article, or participate in any act of prostitution while on the
premises of the adult establishment.
   (e)    No owner, operator, manager, employee, entertainer, customer or
patron of an adult establishment shall knowingly touch, fondle or caress any
specified anatomical area of another person, or knowingly permit another person
to touch, fondle or caress any specified anatomical area of his or hers,
whether such specified anatomical areas are clothed, unclothed, covered or
exposed, while on the premises of the adult establishment.
   (f)    There shall be a minimum separation of twenty-four (24) inches
between any entertainer or performer and any patron or customer.
   (g)    No owner,operator, manager or employee shall mix, dispense, or serve
any alcoholic beverage while in a state of nudity or semi-nudity.
   (h)    No owner, operator, manager or employee shall solicit, receive, or
accept nor shall any customer, or patron give, offer, or provide any gratuity,
tip, payment or any other form of compensation for entertainment for or while
either or both is/are in a state of nudity or semi-nudity. This also pertains
to the purchase of an unrelated item that includes a "free" dance, act, or
service.
   (i)    No owner, operator, manager or other person in charge of the premises
of an adult entertainment premises shall knowingly allow or permit any person
under the age of twenty-one (21) years of age to be in or upon the premises or
knowingly allow or permit a violation of this article.
of 7-18-00, § 4)
Sec. 4.5-31. License; posting and display.
   (a)    Every person, corporation or partnership licensed under this article
as an adult establishment shall post such license in a conspicuous place and
manner of the adult establishment premises.
   (b)    Every person holding a license as an entertainer shall post his or
her license in his or her work area on the adult establishment premises so it
shall be readily available for the inspection by city authorities responsible
for enforcement of this article.
of 7-18-00, § 6)
Sec. 4.5-32. Inspections.
   All adult establishments shall permit representatives of the mayor and city
council, the Marion Police Department, the McDowell County Sheriff's
Department, and all city or state departments or agencies acting in their
official capacity, to inspect the premises as necessary to ensure that the
business is complying with all applicable regulations and laws.
of 7-18-00, § 7)
Sec. 4.5-33. Suspension of revocation of licenses.
   (a)    The city clerk shall conduct a hearing to determine whether or not a
license should be suspended or revoked, with the hearing conducted within ten
(10) working days of his/her knowledge that:
   (1)   The owner or operator of an adult establishment or the holder of a
license as an entertainer has violated, or knowingly allowed or permitted the
violation of any of the provisions of this article; or
   (2)   There have been recurrent violations of provisions of this article
that have occurred under such circumstances that the owner or operator of an
adult establishment knew or should have known that such violations were
committed; or
   (3)   The license was obtained through false statements in the application
for such license, or renewal thereof; or
   (4)   The license has been materially altered or defaced or is being or was
used by a person other than the license holder or at a location other than that
identified on the license or for a use or type other than that for which the
license was issued; or
   (5)   The licensee failed to make a complete disclosure of all information
in the application for such license, or renewal thereof; or
   (6)   The owner or operator, or any partner, or any corporate officer or
director holding an adult establishment license has become disqualified from
having a license by a conviction as provided in this article; or
   (7)   The holder of an entertainer license has become disqualified from
having a license by a conviction as provided in this article.
   (b)    At the hearing, the licensee shall have an opportunity to be heard,
to present evidence and to be represented by an attorney. Based on the evidence
produced at the hearing, the city clerk shall take, within five (5) working
days after the hearing, any of the following actions:
   (1)   Suspend the license for up to ninety (90) days; or
   (2)   Revoke the license; or
   (3)   Place the license holder on administrative probation or a period of up
to one (1) year, on the condition that no further violations of this article
occur during the period of probation; or
   (4)   Take no action.
   (c)    The city clerk shall provide written notice of his/her decision to
the applicant by certified mail, returned receipt requested. The notice shall
be sent immediately after the city clerk determines what action to take, as
described above.
   (d)    In the event of suspension or revocation of the license or the
placement on administrative probation, the licensee shall have the right to
appeal that determination to the Superior Court of McDowell County within
thirty (30) days of receipt of the notice of suspension, revocation or
probation.
of 7-18-00, § 8)
Sec. 4.5-34. License renewal.
   (a)    A license may be renewed by making application to the city clerk on
application forms provided for that purpose. Any license issued under this
article shall expire as of the end of the 12-month period from the date of its
issuance, and renewal applications for such licenses shall be submitted no
sooner than forty-five (45) days prior to expiration and no later than the city
business day immediately preceding the date of expiration of the license.
   (b)    Upon timely and proper application for renewal and the payment in
full of the license fee, the city clerk shall issue to the applicant a receipt
showing the date of the renewal application and granting to the applicant a
temporary extension of the license for a period of forty-five (45) days or
until the application for renewal is approved or disapproved. Any license
issued under the provisions of this article may be renewed by issuance of a new
license for an additional 12-month period. All applications for renewal of
license shall be processed in the manner provided for the issuance of the
initial license.
of 7-18-00, § 9)
Sec. 4.5-35. Transfer of license.
   A licensee shall not transfer his/ her license to another, nor shall a
licensee operate a sexually oriented business under the authority of a license
at any place other than the address designated in the application.
of 7-18-00, § 10)
Sec. 4.5-36. Locational restrictions.
   Sexually oriented businesses may be permitted as a special exception in the
following zoning districts: C-1 central business district and C-2 general
business district provided that:
   (a)   The sexually oriented business may not be located or operated within
one thousand five hundred (1,500) feet of:
   (1)   A church, synagogue, or regular place of worship;
   (2)   A public or private elementary or secondary school;
   (3)   A public library;
   (4)   A public park or playground;
   (5)   A licensed child-care facility;
   (6)   A licensed group-home facility;
   (7)   An entertainment business that is oriented primarily towards children;
   (8)   Another sexually oriented business.
   (b)   For the purpose of this article, measurement shall be made in a
straight line, without regard to intervening structures or objects, from the
nearest portion of the building or structure used as part of the premises where
a sexually oriented business is conducted, to the nearest property line of the
premises of any use listed in (a) above.
of 7-18-00, § 11; Ord. O-06-01-17-3, § 2, 01-17-06)
Sec. 4.5-37. Non-conforming uses.
   (a)    Any business lawfully operating on the effective date of the
ordinance from which this article derives that is in violation of the
locational or structural configuration requirements of this article shall be
deemed a nonconforming use. The nonconforming use will be permitted to continue
for a period not to exceed two (2) years, unless sooner terminated for any
reason or voluntarily discontinued for a period of thirty (30) days or more.
Such non-conforming uses shall not be increased, enlarged, extended or altered
except that the use may be changed to a conforming use. If two (2) or more
sexually oriented businesses are within one thousand five hundred (1,500) feet
of one another and otherwise in a permissible location, the sexually oriented
business that was first established and continually operating at a particular
location is the conforming use and the later-established business is non-
conforming.
   (b)    A sexually oriented business lawfully operating as a conforming use
is not rendered a non-conforming use by the location, subsequent to the grant
or renewal of the sexually oriented business license. This provision applies
only to the renewal of a valid business license, and does not apply when an
application for a business license is submitted after a business license has
expired or has been revoked.
of 7-18-00, § 12)
Sec. 4.5-38. Additional regulations for adult motels.
   (a)    Evidence that a sleeping room in a hotel, motel, or similar
commercial enterprise has been rented and vacated two (2) or more times in a
period of time that is less than ten (10) hours creates a rebuttable
presumption that the enterprise is an adult motel as that term is defined in
this article.
   (b)    It is unlawful if a person, as the person in control of a sleeping
room in a hotel, motel, or similar commercial enterprise that does not have a
sexually oriented business license, rents or sub-rents a sleeping room to a
person and, within ten (10) hours from the time the room is rented, he rents or
sub-rents the same sleeping room again.
   (c)    For purposes of subsection (b) of this section, the terms "rent" or
"sub-rent" mean the act of permitting a room to be occupied for any form of
consideration.
of 7-18-00, § 13)
Sec. 4.5-39. Additional regulations for escort agencies.
   (a)    An escort agency shall not employ any person under the age of twenty-
one (21) years.
   (b)    A person commits an offense if the person acts as an escort or agrees
to act as an escort for any person under the age of twenty-one (21) years.
of 7-18-00, § 14)
Sec. 4.5-40. Additional regulations for nude model studios.
   (a)    A nude model studio shall not employ any person under the age of
twenty-one (21) years.
   (b)    A person under the age of twenty-one (21) years is in violation of
this article if the person appears semi-nude or in a state of nudity in or on
the premises of a nude model studio. It is a defense to prosecution under this
subsection if the person under twenty-one (21) years was in a restroom not open
to the public view or visible by any other person.
   (c)    It is a violation of this article if the person appears in a state of
nudity, or knowingly allows another to appear in a state of nudity in an area
of a nude model studio premises which can be viewed from the public right-of-
way.
   (d)    A nude model studio shall not place or permit a bed, sofa, or
mattress in any room on the premises, except that a sofa may be placed in a
reception room open to the public.
of 7-18-00, § 15)
Sec. 4.5-41. Regulations pertaining to exhibition of sexually explicit films,
videos, and live performances.
   (a)    A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented
business, other than an adult motel, which exhibits on the premises in a
viewing room of less than one hundred fifty (150) square feet of floor space, a
film, video cassette, other video reproduction, or live performance that
depicts specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, shall comply
with the following requirements:
   (1)   Upon application for a sexually oriented business license, the
application shall be accompanied by a diagram of the premises showing a plan
thereof specifying the location of one or more manager's stations and the
location of all overhead lighting fixtures and designating any portion of the
premises in which patrons will not be permitted. A manager's station may not
exceed thirty-two (32) square feet of floor area. The diagram shall also
designate the place at which the business license will be conspicuously posted,
if granted. A professionally prepared diagram in the nature of an engineer's or
architect's blueprint shall not be required; however, each diagram should be
oriented to the north or to some designed street or object and should be drawn
to a designated scale or with marked dimensions sufficient to show the various
internal dimensions of all areas of the interior of the premises to an accuracy
of plus or minus six (6) inches. The city clerk may waive the foregoing diagram
for renewal applications if the applicant adopts a diagram that was previously
submitted and certifies that the configuration of the premises has not been
altered since it was prepared.
   (2)   The application shall be sworn to be true and correct by the
applicant.
   (3)   No alteration in the configuration or location of a manager's station
may be made without the prior approval of the city clerk or his designee.
   (4)   It is the duty of the owners and operator of the premises to ensure
that at least one (1) employee is on duty and situated in each manager's
station at all times that any patron is present inside the premises.
   (5)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner that
there is an unobstructed view from a manager's station of the entire area of
the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose excluding
restrooms. Restrooms may not contain video reproduction equipment. If the
premises has two or more manager's stations designed, then the interior of the
premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is an unobstructed
view of the entire area of the premises to which any patron is permitted access
for any purpose from at least one of the manager's stations. The view required
in this subsection must be by direct line of sight from the manager's station.
   (6)   It shall be the duty of the owners and operator, and it shall also be
the duty of any agents and employees present in the premises, to ensure that
the view area specified in subsection (5) remains unobstructed by any doors,
walls, merchandise, display racks or other materials at all times and to ensure
that no patron is permitted access to any area of the premises that has been
designated as an area in which patrons will not be permitted in the application
filed pursuant to subsection (1) of this section.
   (7)   No viewing room may be occupied by more than one (1) person at any
time.
   (8)   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted
access at an illumination of not less than 5.0 foot-candle as measured at the
floor level.
   (9)   It shall be the duty of the owners and operator, and it shall also be
the duty of any agents and employees present in the premises, to ensure that
the illumination described above is maintained at all times that any patron is
present in the premises.
   (10)   No licensee shall allow an opening of any kind to exist between
viewing rooms or booths.
   (11)   No person shall make or attempt to make an opening of any kind
between viewing booths or rooms.
   (12)   The operator of the sexually oriented business shall, during each
business day, inspect the walls between the viewing booths to determine if any
openings or holes exist.
   (13)   The operator of the sexually oriented business shall cause all floor
coverings in viewing booths to be nonporous, easily cleanable surfaces, with no
rugs or carpeting.
   (14)   The operator of the sexually oriented business shall cause all wall
surfaces and ceiling surfaces in viewing booths to be constructed of, or
permanently covered by, nonporous, easily cleanable material. No wood, plywood,
composition board or other composition board or other porous material shall be
used within forty-eight (48) inches of the floor.
   (b)    A person having a duty under subsections (1) through (14) of this
section is in violation of this article if he/she knowingly fails to fulfill
that duty.
of 7-18-00, § 16)
Sec. 4.5-42. Exterior portions of sexually oriented businesses.
   (a)    It shall be unlawful for an owner or operator of a sexually oriented
business to allow the merchandise or activities of the establishment to be
visible from a point outside the establishment.
   (b)    It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of a sexually oriented
business to allow the exterior portion of the sexually oriented business to
have flashing lights, or any words, lettering, photographs, silhouettes,
drawings, or pictorial representations of any manner except to the extent
permitted by the provisions of the ordinance.
   (c)    It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of a sexually oriented
business to allow exterior portions of the establishment to be painted any
color other than a single achromatic color. This provision shall not apply to a
sexually oriented business if the following conditions are met:
   (1)   The establishment is a part of a commercial multi-unit center; and
   (2)   The exterior portions of each individual unit in the commercial multi-
unit center, including the exterior portions of the business, are painted the
same color as one another or are painted in such a way so as to be a component
of the overall architectural style or pattern of the commercial multi-unit
center.
   (d)    Nothing in this article shall be construed to require the painting of
an otherwise unpainted exterior portion of a sexually oriented business.
   (e)    A violation of any provision of this section shall constitute a
violation of this article.
of 7-18-00, § 17)
Sec. 4.5-43. Signage.
   (a)    It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of any sexually
oriented business or any other person to erect, construct, or maintain any sign
for the sexually oriented business other than as permitted in the zoning
ordinance for the City of Marion.
   (b)    Primary signs shall contain no photographs, silhouettes, drawings, or
pictorial representations in any manner, and may contain only the name of the
enterprise.
of 7-18-00, § 18)
Sec. 4.5-44. Massages or baths administered by a person of the opposite sex.
   It shall be unlawful for any sexually oriented business, regardless of
whether in a public or private facility, to operate as a massage salon, massage
parlor or any similar type business where any physical contact with the
recipient of such services is provided by a person of the opposite sex.
Violation of this section shall constitute a misdemeanor.
of 7-18-00, § 19)
Sec. 4.5-45. Hours of operation.
   No sexually oriented business, except for an adult motel, may remain open at
any time between the hours of one o'clock (1:00 a.m.) and ten o'clock (10:00
a.m.) on weekdays and Saturdays, and one o'clock (1:00 a.m.) and twelve o'clock
(12:00 p.m.) on Sundays.
of 7-18-00, § 20)
Sec. 4.5-46. Exemptions.
   It is a defense to prosecution under this article that a person appearing in
a state of nudity did so in a modeling class operated:
   (1)   By a proprietary school, licensed by the State of North Carolina, a
college, junior college, or university supported entirely or partly by
taxation;
   (2)   By a private college or university that maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation.
of 7-18-00, § 21)
Sec. 4.5-47. Notices.
   (a)    Any notice required or permitted to be given by the city clerk or any
other city office, division, department or other agency under this article to
any applicant, operator or owner of a sexually oriented business may be given
either by personal delivery or by certified United States mail, postage
prepaid, return receipt requested, addressed to the most recent address as
specified in the application for the license, or any notice of address change
that has been received by the city clerk. Notices mailed as above shall be
deemed given upon their deposit in the United States mail. In the event that
any notice given by mail is returned by the postal service, the city clerk or
his designee shall cause it to be posted at the principal entrance to the
establishment.
   (b)    Any notice required or permitted to be given to the city clerk by any
person under this article shall not be deemed given until and unless it is
received in the office of the city clerk.
   (c)    It shall be the duty of each owner who is designated on the license
application and each operator to furnish notice to the city clerk in writing of
any change of residence or mailing address.
of 7-18-00, § 22)
Sec. 4.5-48. Reserved.
   Editors Note: 1, amendment 3 of Ord. No. O-08-01-15-3, adopted Jan. 15,
2008, deleted §
4.5-48, which pertained to injunctions and derived from § 23 of an ordinance
adopted July 18, 2000.
Chapter 5
CEMETERIES*
__________
*   Cross References: Planning, Part IV; streets, sidewalks and other public
places,
Ch. 15; zoning, Pt. IV.
   State Law References: cemeteries, G.S. § 65-37 et seq.; North Carolina
Cemetery Act, G.S. § 65-46 et seq.; authority to establish and operate
cemeteries, G.S. § 160A-341; regulation of city cemeteries, G.S. § 160A-348.
__________
Sec. 5-1. Permit for disinterment.
   No person shall disinter the remains of any human body, without first having
obtained written permission from the city clerk and thereafter proceeding in
accordance with the provisions of G.S. section 65-13 et seq.
(Code 1982, § 4-3001)
   State Law References: of graves, G.S. § 65-13; exhumations, G.S. § 130A-390.
Sec. 5-2. Depth of graves.
   All graves over four and one-half (4 1/2) feet in length shall have a depth
of at least six (6) feet.
(Code 1982, § 4-3002)
Sec. 5-3. Reopening graves for interment of additional bodies.
   No grave shall be reopened for the interment of an additional body, except
in accordance with Section
5-12 of this Chapter.
(Ord. No. O-15-10-06-5, § 2, passed 10-6-15)
Sec. 5-4. Memorial plantings.
   In memory of persons buried at Oak Grove Cemetery, friends and relatives of
the deceased may have the opportunity to place a memorial planting on the
grounds of the cemetery, as long as the following guidelines are met:
   (1)   The planting desired by the sponsoring individual or group must
receive prior approval from city officials as to species of tree and location
and date for the planting.
   (2)   All costs for the tree and its planting are the responsibility of the
sponsor. Whether the sponsor or city personnel plants the tree shall be at the
discretion of city officials.
   (3)   The sponsor, through signing this form, releases the city and its
employees from any responsibility for upkeep and survival of the memorial
planting, including watering, trimming, fertilizing, and weeding.
   (4)   If, in the opinion of city officials, the memorial tree needs to be
relocated or cut down for any reason, such action may be taken by the city
without notice to the sponsor. If the tree is cut down, the sponsor may have
the option of requesting another planting under the same terms as specified in
this form.
   (5)   A plaque, engraved marker, or other recognition of the deceased which
the sponsor may desire to have placed at the planting site must be approved by
city officials. Such markers may not exceed six (6) inches by twelve (12)
inches or seventy-two (72) square inches, must not protrude above ground level,
and should be made of metal, rock, or other equally durable material.
of 11-22-88)
Sec. 5-5. Night visits prohibited.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to enter any cemetery at any time
between sunset and sunrise for any purpose without written consent from the
city manager.
Sec. 5-6. Damaging graves and related items; trespassing prohibited.
   (a)    No person shall disturb any grave, or deface, pull up or remove any
grave markers or ornamentation, or any paling or wall around a grave or remove
any plank, post or timbers in a graveyard, except by order of or with the
permission of the person in charge of such graveyard, or that of the owner of
such grave.
   (b)    It shall be unlawful for any person to trespass on the burial lots in
Oak Grove Cemetery, throw stones, break the flowers or shrubbery on such lots,
or take away or molest in any manner the flowers or ornaments placed upon the
graves or upon the lots, or in any way commit any depredation or damage.
(Code 1982, §§ 4-3004--4-3005)
   State Law References: or desecrating grave sites, G.S. § 14-148;
desecrating, plowing over or covering up graves, G.S. § 14-149; removal of
graves, G.S. § 65-13.
Sec. 5-7. Sale of merchandise prohibited.
   No person shall sell or offer for sale any article of merchandise or any
fruit, drink, or beverage, or any other thing of value within the limits of the
cemetery.
(Code 1982, § 4-3006)
Sec. 5-8. Playing.
   No person shall use any part of any cemetery as a playground.
(Code 1982, § 4-3007)
Sec. 5-9. Permission of city clerk required.
   No person shall do any work of any kind on any cemetery lot belonging to any
other person, without first notifying the city clerk thereof and presenting to
him a written order from the owner of such lot.
(Code 1982, § 4-3009)
Sec. 5-10. Plan not to be disturbed.
   No person authorized to do the work mentioned in the preceding section shall
do the same in such manner as to interfere with the walks, decoration or
general arrangement of such cemetery, except with the permission of the city
clerk.
(Code 1982, § 4-3010)
Sec. 5-11. Driving over walks prohibited.
   No person shall drive any vehicle over any walks of a cemetery, or allow
such vehicle to stand thereon.
(Code 1982, § 4-3011)
Sec. 5-12. General rules for Oak Grove Cemetery.
   The following general rules shall apply within Oak Grove Cemetery and shall
be enforced by the city manager or his designee:
   (a)   No interment of any body, or the cremated remains of any body, other
than that of a human being, shall be permitted in the Oak Grove Cemetery.
   (b)   Floral arrangements for mausoleum vaults or columbarium units are
permitted only in approved memorial vases. The city reserves the right to
remove any floral arrangements, as well as items which the city manager or his
designee deems to detract from the unifonn appearance of the mausoleum or
columbarium.
   (c)   Payment of any and all indebtedness due the City of Marion from the
purchase of a mausoleum vault, columbarium niche, or gravesite must be received
in full before interment will be allowed.
   (d)   Remains that are not cremated must be in a suitable casket and of such
sufficient durable construction as approved by the funeral director.
   (e)   The City of Marion shall in no way be held liable for any delay in the
disposition of a body, or for delay in the fulfillment of any of its contract
or legal obligations, including but not limited to maintenance, care, memorial
work or construction, which may arise from causes beyond the city's reasonable
control and especially from delays caused by the elements, an act of God,
equipment breakdown, common enemy, thieves, vandals, malicious mischief makers,
explosions, unavoidable accidents, invasions, insurrections, or order of any
military or civil authority.
   (f)   The city does not provide and is not responsible for temporary storage
of caskets or urns.
   (g)   All funerals and burials shall be under the direction of the public
works director or designee upon entering the city cemetery.
   (h)   No more than one (1) body or cremated remains of a body may be placed
in any single gravesite, mausoleum vault, or columbarium niche, with the
following exceptions:
      1.   Where a single family owns a block of four (4) or more contiguous
gravesites, in which case one (1) additional gravesite may be permitted only if
physical space exists within the bounds of the family owned block to allow an
additional gravesite. Such additional gravesite shall not be allowed to extend
into any walkway or common area of the cemetery.
      2.   Up to two (2) cremated remains of bodies may be placed in one (1)
single gravesite, if physical space exists within the bounds of said gravesite
to allow for two (2) sets of cremated remains. In such a case, only one marker
shall be permitted per gravesite.
      3.   If a single gravesite already contains a casket, one (1) additional
cremated remains of a body may also be buried in said gravesite, if physical
space exists within the gravesite to allow for the burial of the cremated
remains. In such a case, only one marker shall be permitted per gravesite.
      4.   Up to two (2) cremated remains of bodies may be placed in one (1)
single mausoleum vault, if physical space exists within said vault to allow the
placement of two (2) sets of cremated remains. In such a case, only one marker
shall be permitted per mausoleum vault.
      5.   If a mausoleum vault already contains a casket, one (1) additional
cremated remains of a body may also be placed in said vault, if physical space
exists within the vault to allow for the placement of the cremated remains. In
such a case, only one marker shall be permitted per mausoleum vault.
   (i)   The cost of a mausoleum vault or columbarium niche does not include
any cost for a plaque. After payment for the plaque is made, in the amount set
by city council, the city will approve, order and install the appropriate
plaque at the request of family.
   (j)   The city is not responsible for any unauthorized cremated remains or
ashes deposited on the grounds of the city cemetery.
   (k)   The opening and closing of a mausoleum vault or columbarium niche to
place or remove a body or the cremated remains of a body shall be performed
only by city personnel after payment of a predetermined charge, as set by city
council. Such charge must also be paid for the opening and closing of a
mausoleum vault for the placement of a second set of cremated remains.
   (l)   No body shall be placed in any mausoleum vault unless it has been
embalmed.
   (m)   Vaults or concrete boxes must be installed for burials in a gravesite,
to help prevent graves from sinking.
   (n)   Cremated remains to be placed in a gravesite, mausoleum vault or
columbarium niche must be in an approved container designed for the sole
purpose of holding human ashes.
(Ord. No. O-15-10-06-5, § 3, passed 10-6-15)
Chapter 6
CIVIL EMERGENCIES*
__________
*   Cross References: Fire prevention and protection,
Ch. 7; flood hazard management, Part IV,
Ch. 8; planning, Part IV; police,
Ch. 14.
   State Law References: of municipalities to enact ordinances to deal with
states of emergency, G.S. § 14-288.12; local emergency authorizations, G.S. §
166A-8.
__________
   Art. I. In General, §§ 6-1--6-25
   Art. II. State of Emergency, §§ 6-26--6-28
ARTICLE I.
IN GENERAL
Secs. 6-1--6-25. Reserved.
ARTICLE II.
STATE OF EMERGENCY
Sec. 6-26. Definition; mayor's powers.
   (a)    A state of emergency shall be deemed to exist whenever, during times
of great public crisis, disaster, rioting, catastrophe, or similar public
emergency, for any reason, municipal public safety authorities are unable to
maintain public order or afford adequate protection for lives or property.
   (b)    In the event of an existing or threatened state of emergency
endangering the lives, safety, health and welfare of the people within the
city, or threatening damage to or destruction of property, the mayor is hereby
authorized and empowered to issue a public proclamation declaring to all
persons the existence of such a state of emergency, and, in order to more
effectively protect the lives and property of people within the city, to place
in effect any or all of the restrictions authorized in this section.
   (c)    The mayor is hereby authorized and empowered to:
   (1)   Limit by the proclamation the application of all or any part of such
restrictions to any area specifically designated or described within the
corporate limits of the city and to specific hours of the day or night; and
   (2)   Exempt from all or any part of such restrictions law enforcement
officers, firemen and other public employees, doctors, nurses, employees of
hospitals and other medical facilities, on-duty military personnel whether
state or federal; on-duty employees of public utilities, public transportation
companies, newspaper, magazine, radio broadcasting, and television broadcasting
corporations operated for profit, and such other classes of persons as may be
essential to the preservation of public order and immediately necessary to
serve the safety, health, and welfare needs of the people within the city.
   (d)    The mayor shall proclaim the end of such state of emergency or all or
any part of the restrictions imposed as soon as circumstances warrant or when
directed to do so by the city council.
   (e)    During the existence of a proclaimed state of emergency, the mayor
may impose by proclamation any or all of the following restrictions:
   (1)   Prohibit or regulate the possession off one's own premises of
explosives, firearms, ammunition, or dangerous weapons of any kind, and
prohibit the purchase, sale, transfer or other disposition thereof;
   (2)   Prohibit or regulate the buying or selling of beer, wine, or
intoxicating beverages of any kind, and their possession or consumption off
one's own premises;
   (3)   Prohibit or regulate any demonstration, parade, march, vigil, or
participation therein from taking place on any of the public ways or upon any
public property;
   (4)   Prohibit or regulate the sale of gasoline, kerosene, naphtha, or any
other explosive or inflammable fluids or substances;
   (5)   Prohibit or regulate travel upon any public street, alley, or roadway
or upon any other public property, except by those in search of medical
assistance, food, or other commodity or service necessary to sustain the well-
being of themselves or their families or some member thereof;
   (6)   Prohibit or regulate the participation in or carrying on of any
business activity, and prohibit or regulate the keeping open of places of
business, places of entertainment, and any other places of public assembly.
   (f)    Any proclamation may be extended, altered, or repealed in any
particular during the continued or threatened existence of a state of emergency
by the issuance of a subsequent proclamation.
   (g)    During the existence of a proclaimed state of emergency, it shall be
unlawful for any person to violate any provision of any restriction imposed by
any proclamation authorized by this section.
(Code 1982, § 3-3001)
   Cross References: Mayor, §
2-101 et seq.
Sec. 6-27. Form and content of emergency proclamations.
   The proclamation for the declaration of a state of emergency and the
imposition of specific prohibitions and restrictions shall take substantially
the following form.
"WHEREAS, The governing body of the ________ of ________, has duly adopted an
ordinance authorizing the Mayor to determine and proclaim the existence of a
state of emergency and to impose various restrictions after he determines that
such restrictions are necessary as a response to an emergency.
"NOW THEREFORE, I, ________, Mayor of the ________ of ________ proclaim that:
   I.
"An emergency exists, and restrictions set forth in this proclamation are
necessary in order to maintain an acceptable level of public order, services,
and protection of lives, safety, and property during this emergency.
   II.
   Editors Note: proclamation may specify any one or more of the following
restrictions which are presented herein as options.
"I proclaim the following restrictions:
   A.    No person shall be a part of any assembly of three or more persons in
the area bounded by the Corporate limits of ________, ________.
   B.    Possession, consumption, and transfer of intoxicating liquor.
1. No person shall possess or consume any intoxicating liquor, including beer
and wine, other than on his premises.
2. No person shall sell or otherwise transfer any intoxicating liquor,
including beer and wine.
   C.    Curfew.
   1.    No person not exempted by this proclamation shall appear in public in
the geographic area described in this proclamation between the hours of
________ p.m. and midnight or between the hours of midnight and ________ a.m.
of any day until I remove this curfew by proclamation.
   2.    This curfew shall apply to the area bounded by ________.
   3.    I find it necessary to the preservation of the public health, safety,
and welfare to exempt from these curfew restrictions the following classes of
people in the circumstances indicated:
   (a)    (Those whose appearance is essential in order to obtain or furnish a
service or commodity which is immediately necessary to sustain the health or
well-being of themselves or of someone within curfew area.)
   (b)    (Those whose appearance necessarily occurs in the process of leaving
a place at which they were temporarily engaged and from which they could not
reasonably have planned their departure so as to avoid appearing during the
period during which the curfew was applicable.)
   (c)    ________
   (d)    ________
   D.    Possession and transfer of dangerous weapons or substances.
   1.    No person shall possess any dangerous weapons or substances unless
they remain in a place of storage on his premises, or, if they cannot be
readily stored on his premises, unless they remain in a customary place of
storage not readily available to the possessor. No person may transport or sell
or otherwise transfer any dangerous weapons or substances.
   2.    I find it necessary to the prevention of the public health, safety,
and welfare to exempt from these restrictions the following classes of people
in the circumstances indicated:
   Police officers may possess any weapon necessary to carry out their duties
when on active duty.
   Anyone may possess gasoline when the gasoline is in the tank of a car in his
possession.
________ may transfer ________ when ________
   E.    Access for restricted areas.
   1.    I direct the Chief of Police and his subordinates to restrict or deny
access to any area, location, or street where such a restriction is necessary
in order to help overcome this emergency or to prevent the emergency from
worsening. These restrictions on access shall be indicated by means of
barricades, posted notices, or orders to anyone in the area.
   2.    No person shall obtain access or attempt to obtain access to any area,
location, or street to which the Chief of Police and his subordinates have
restricted access according to the directions I have just given to them.
   III.
"Anyone violating any restriction imposed by this proclamation or under its
authority violates a City ordinance and is guilty of a misdemeanor.
   IV.
"This proclamation shall take effect immediately.
 
                  Hour and Date
                  Mayor
SEAL OF THE CITY"
 
(Code 1982, § 3-3002)
Sec. 6-28. Reserved.
   Editors Note: 1, amendment 3 of Ord. No. O-08-01-15-3, adopted Jan. 15,
2008, deleted § 6-28, which pertained to penalties for violations and derived
from the 1982 Code.
Chapter 7
FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION*
__________
*   Cross References: Burning permit required, 9-39; discharge of fireworks
prohibited, 11-8; fire lanes, 18-39.
   State Law References: Fire protection, G.S. 69-1 et seq., 160A-291 et seq.
__________
Art. I. In General, 7-1--7-35
Art. II. Fire Prevention Code, 7-36--7-55
Art. III. Blasting and Pyrotechnics, 7-56--7-61
ARTICLE I
IN GENERAL
Sec. 7-1. Primary fire limits established.
   The primary fire limits of the city are established and defined as follows:
   Beginning at the corner of Logan and Fort Streets, running with Fort Street
to Garden Street, with Garden Street to State Street, State Street to and
across Main Street to Morgan Street, Morgan Street across Railroad and up Depot
Street to Henderson Street, Henderson Street to Logan Street, Logan Street to
beginning.
   State Law References: Establishment of fire limits, G.S. 160A-435.
Sec. 7-2. Chief of the fire department.
   Subject to the Charter, the chief of the fire department shall have general
control of the fire department, the personnel, apparatus and fire alarm system.
(Code 1982, 3-2001) (Ord. O-10-06-15-5, 1, 6-15-10)
   Cross References: Officers and employees, §
2-101 et seq.
Sec. 7-3. Assistant chief.
   In the absence of the chief of the fire department or if he is prevented
from attending to his duties by sickness or otherwise, the assistant chief
shall perform all duties required of the chief and shall be clothed with the
same authority as the chief.
(Code 1982, 3-2002)
   Cross References: Officers and employees, §
2-101 et seq.
Sec. 7-4. Duties of fire chief.
   Where not otherwise prescribed, the duties of the fire chief shall be to
preserve and care for fire apparatus, have charge of fighting and extinguishing
fires and training the fire department, seek out and have corrected all places
and conditions dangerous to the safety of the city and its citizens from fire,
and make annual reports to the council concerning these duties.
(Code 1982, 3-2003)
   State Law References: Duties of fire chief, G.S. 160A-292.
Sec. 7-5. Investigation of fires; submission of fire report.
   (a)    The state attorney general, through the state bureau of
investigation, and the chief of the fire department, are hereby authorized to
investigate the cause, origin, and circumstances of every fire occurring in the
city in which property has been destroyed or damaged, and shall specially make
investigation whether the fire was the result of carelessness or design. A
preliminary investigation shall be made by the chief of the fire department and
must be begun within three (3) days, exclusive of Sunday, of the occurrence of
the fire, and the attorney general, through the state bureau of investigation,
shall have the right to supervise and direct the investigation when he deems it
expedient or necessary.
   (b)    The chief of the fire department shall forthwith notify the attorney
general, and must within one (1) week of the occurrence of the fire furnish to
the attorney general a written statement of all facts relating to the cause and
origin of the fire, the kind, value and ownership of the property destroyed,
and such other information as is called for by the forms provided by the
attorney general.
(Code 1982, 3-2004)
   State Law References: Investigation of fires and inspection of premises,
G.S. 69-1 et seq.
Sec. 7-6. Record of fires to be kept.
   The chief of the fire department shall maintain a file with copies of all
written statements of facts on the forms required to be submitted to the
attorney general as specified in section
7-5.
(Code 1982, 3-2005)
Sec. 7-7. Inspection to be made upon complaint.
   Whenever any person shall make written complaint to the chief of the fire
department that any business or premises constitutes a fire hazard, it shall be
the duty of the chief of the fire department to have such business or premises
inspected immediately.
(Code 1982, 3-2006)
Sec. 7-8. Chief to order fire hazards remedied.
   Whenever the chief of the fire department shall find that any building or
premises constitutes a fire hazard for any reason, he shall serve upon the
owner and the occupant of such building a written notice specifying the
condition complained of, ordering the same to be remedied promptly, and
indicating a reasonable time for the compliance with such order.
(Code 1982, 3-2007)
Sec. 7-9. Service of order.
   The service of the order to remedy a defect may be made upon the occupant of
the premises, either by delivering a copy of the order to the occupant
personally or by delivering the same to any person in charge of the premises
or, in case no person is found upon the premises, by affixing a copy of the
order in a conspicuous place to the entrance of the premises. If the owner of
the premises is some person other than the occupant thereof, service of notice
may be made by delivering a copy of it to the owner personally or by mailing
the copy to his last known address. If the occupant or owner is a partnership,
service upon any partner shall be sufficient or, if a corporation, upon any
official or local agent thereof.
(Code 1982, 3-2008)
Sec. 7-10. Failure to comply with order unlawful.
   It shall be unlawful to fail to comply within a reasonable time after the
service of such order with the requirements thereof.
(Code 1982, 3-2009)
Sec. 7-11. Right to enter a building or premises.
   The chief of the fire department or any member of the fire department when
so directed by the chief of the fire department shall have the right to enter
any building or premises at any reasonable hour for the purpose of making any
inspection provided for by this chapter.
(Code 1982, 3-2010)
Sec. 7-12. Fire department official may call on citizens to assist in
extinguishing fires and protecting property.
   During the continuance of any fire, the chief of the fire department and
each of the captains of the fire department shall have the power to call on any
and all citizens to assist in extinguishing such fire, or in removing any
goods, wares, merchandise or furniture from any building on fire or in danger
to some place of safety. No person shall fail to obey any such order given for
the purpose specified in this section.
(Code 1982, 3-2011)
Sec. 7-13. Interference with fire department prohibited.
   No person shall be in any street, alley or square near where a fire is in
progress, in such a way as to interfere with the activities of the fire
department.
(Code 1982, 3-2012)
   State Law References: Authority of firemen; penalty for willful interference
with firemen, G.S. 69-39.
Sec. 7-14. Interference with firemen or fire apparatus prohibited.
   No person shall interfere with a fireman in the discharge of his duty, nor
shall any person, other than a member of the fire department, loiter about any
fire station or change, handle or meddle in any manner with any fire engine or
other fire apparatus.
(Code 1982, 3-2013)
   State Law References: Approach of police, fire department or rescue squad
vehicles or ambulances; driving over fire hose or blocking firefighting
equipment; parking, etc., near police, fire department or rescue squad vehicle
or ambulance, G.S. 20-157.
Sec. 7-15. Riding on fire truck prohibited.
   No person other than a bona fide member of the fire department shall mount
any fire engine, wagon or apparatus while on its way to or from a fire, or at
any other time, unless by permission of the driver or officer in command of
such engine, wagon or other apparatus.
(Code 1982, 3-2014)
   Cross References: Traffic,
Ch. 18.
Sec. 7-16. Interfering with fire alarm apparatus prohibited.
   No person shall interfere or tamper with the fire alarm system or injure the
poles, wires, boxes or other apparatus connected therewith.
(Code 1982, 3-2015)
   State Law References: Molesting fire alarm system, G.S. 14-286.
Sec. 7-17. Giving false fire alarm unlawful.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to wantonly and willfully give or cause
to be given, or to advise, counsel, or aid and abet anyone in giving, a false
alarm of fire, or to break the glass key protector, or to pull the slide, arm,
or lever of any station or signal box of any fire alarm system, except in case
of fire.
(Code 1982, 3-2016)
   State Law References: Giving false fire alarms, G.S. 14-286.
Sec. 7-18. Unlawful to pass fire truck.
   It shall be unlawful for any automobile or truck to overtake a fire truck
while such fire truck is answering a fire alarm.
(Code 1982, 3-2017)
   Cross References: Traffic,
Ch. 18.
Sec. 7-19. Protection of fire hose.
   It shall be unlawful to drive any automobile or other vehicle, however
propelled, over any hose connected with the water line and in use by the city
or the fire department for any purpose.
(Code 1982, 3-2018)
   State Law References: Driving over fire hose, G.S. 20-257.
Sec. 7-20. Fire inspections--Schedule.
   In order to preserve and protect public health and safety, and to satisfy
the requirements of G.S. 153A-364 and G.S. 160A-124, and assuming inspection
duties, as set out in G.S. 153A-351 and G.S. 160-411, the following fire
inspection schedule is hereby established:
   Once every year. Hazardous, institutional, high-rise, assembly and
residential, except one- and two-family dwellings and only interior common
areas of dwelling units of multifamily occupancies.
   Once every two years. Educational (except public schools) and industrial.
   Once every three years. Business, mercantile storage, churches and
synagogues.
   The fire department will not inspect facilities outside the city limits.
(Ord. of 11-2-93, 1)
   Editors Note: An ordinance of Nov. 2, 1993, purported to amend the Code by
the inclusion of new provisions pertaining to fire inspections, to be
designated as 7-50 and 7-51. For purposes of classification, such provisions
have been redesignated as 7-20 and 7-21, at the discretion of the editor.
Sec. 7-21. Same--Fees.
   (a)    There will be no charge for required fire inspections as listed in
section
7-20; however, there will be a charge for re-inspections for serious violations
and for requested inspections more frequently than required.
   (b)    The schedule for fire inspection fees as set from time to time by the
council shall be kept current and maintained in the office of the clerk.
(Ord. of 11-2-93, 1)
   *Note: See editor's note following 7-20.
Secs. 7-22--7-35. Reserved.
ARTICLE II
FIRE PREVENTION CODE
Sec. 7-36. Adoption of fire prevention code.
   The City Council hereby adopts the North Carolina Fire Code currently
adopted by the State of North Carolina. Such code is hereby adopted and
incorporated fully as if set out at length in this article, and from the date
of adoption of the ordinance from which this section derives, the provisions
thereof shall be controlling within the limits of the city.
(Ord. No. O-23-02-07-3, § 1, 2-7-23)
Sec. 7-37. Enforcement.
   The code hereby adopted shall be enforced by the chief of the fire
department.
(Code 1982, 3-2022)
Sec. 7-38. Definition.
   Wherever the word municipality is used in the Fire Prevention Code, it shall
be held to mean the City of Marion.
(Code 1982, 3-2023)
   Cross References: Definitions and rules of construction generally, 1-3.
Sec. 7-39. Establishment of limits of district in which storage of flammable
liquids, other explosives restricted.
   The limits referred to in section 12.5b of the code hereby adopted in which
storage of explosives and blasting agents is prohibited, the limits referred to
in section 16.22a of the code hereby adopted in which storage of Class I
liquids in outside aboveground tanks is prohibited, and the limits referred to
in section 21.6a of the code hereby adopted, in which bulk storage of liquefied
petroleum gas is restricted are hereby established as in section
7-40.
(Code 1982, 3-2024)
Sec. 7-40. Key box system.
   (a)   A key box entry system is required in all new and existing commercial
and multi-tenant residential structures containing automatic sprinkler systems
or fire alarm systems.
   (b)   An authorization order form shall be obtained from the fire
department, which identifies the proper size, type, and placement of the key
box.
   (c)   The owner/tenant of the business is responsible for all entry keys to
be retained in the key box and to be current at all times.
   (d)   For existing commercial and multi-tenant residential structures
presently without a key box system but, otherwise containing an automatic
sprinkler system and or alarm system prior to the effective date of the
ordinance, a key box is not required.
   (e)   Response to the structure shall be provided by the owner or a
designated key holder within 15 minutes of the initial alarm for fire
department access. This shall be provided 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. If
this requirement cannot be met, conformance to the key box system designated
and described in this section shall apply.
(Ord. No. O-15-09-15-1, § 1, 9-15-15)
   Cross Reference: North Carolina Fire Code Section 506.1
Sec. 7-41. Amendments made in the fire prevention code.
   The Fire Prevention Code is amended and changed in the following respects:
    (1)   Page 49, Section 12.5b--delete "The storage of explosives, and
blasting agents is prohibited within the limits established by laws as the
limits of the district in which such storage is to be prohibited, except for:
" Add "The storage of explosives, and blasting agents is prohibited within the
corporate limits of the City of Marion, except for:"
    (2)   Page 102, Section 16.22a.--delete "The storage -- to be prohibited"
Add a. "RESTRICTED LOCATIONS" The storage of Class I liquids in aboveground
tanks outside of buildings is prohibited within the primary fire limits of the
City of Marion.
    (3)   Page 204, Section 21.6a--delete "Within the limits . . . water
capacity;" Add "Within the established primary fire limits of the City of
Marion, the aggregate capacity of any one (1) installation shall not exceed two
thousand (2,000) gallons water capacity;"
(Code 1982, § 3-2025) (Ord. No. O-15-09-15-1, § 2, 9-15-15)
Secs. 7-42--7-55. Reserved.
ARTICLE III
BLASTING AND PYROTECHNICS*
__________
*   Cross References: Buildings and building regulations,
Ch. 4.
   State Law References: Authority to regulate explosives, G.S. 160A-183.
__________
Sec. 7-56. Precautions to prevent damage by blasting; who may blast.
   Any person engaged in blasting shall take all necessary precautions to make
such blasting harmless to persons and property. None but an experienced
blaster, authorized by a permit issued pursuant to the provisions of section
7-57, shall directly superintend or carry on as a workman any blasting
operations in the city.
(Code 1982, 8-6001)
   State Law References: Explosive or incendiary device or material defined,
G.S. 14-50.1; exploding dynamite cartridges and bombs, G.S. 14-283; regulation
of sale of explosives, G.S. 14-284.1.
Sec. 7-57. Permit for blasting.
   Every permit for blasting shall be issued in the name of the contractor who
is to do the specified blasting. Every such permit shall show on the face
thereof the name of the foreman or other person authorized directly to
superintend the blasting operations covered by the permit, together with the
name of every person authorized to participate in such blasting operations. A
separate permit shall be required for the blasting incident to each separate
construction, excavation or other project. If, during the course of any
authorized blasting operation, any person named in the permit is for some
reason unable to continue his work under the permit, the chief of the fire
department may, upon application by the holder of the permit, substitute for
such person any other qualified person.
(Code 1982, 8-6002)
   Cross References: Licenses, permits and business regulations,
Ch. 10.
Sec. 7-58. Pyrotechnics defined; exceptions.
   The term "pyrotechnics" whenever used in this article shall be deemed to be
included and all kinds of fireworks and explosives, which are used for
exhibitions or amusement [purposes; provided, however, that nothing contained
in this] section shall prevent the manufacture, purchase, sale, transportation,
and use of explosives or signaling flares used in the course of ordinary
business or industry, or shells or cartridges used as ammunition in firearms.
This section shall not apply to the sale, use, or possession of the following:
   (1)   Explosive caps designed to be fired in toy cap pistols, provided that
the explosive mixture of such explosive caps shall not exceed twenty-five
hundredths (0.25) of a gram for each cap.
   (2)   Snake devices consisting of a tube or sphere containing a pyrotechnic
mixture that produces white or colored smoke.
   (3)   Smoke devices consisting of a tube or sphere containing a pyrotechnic
mixture that produces white or colored smoke.
   (4)   Trick noisemakers which produce a small report designed to surprise
the user and which include:
   a.   A party popper, which is a small plastic or paper item containing not
in excess of sixteen (16) milligrams of explosive mixture. A string protruding
from the device is pulled to ignite the device, expelling paper streamers and
producing a small report.
   b.   A string popper, which is a small tube containing not in excess of
sixteen (16) milligrams of explosive mixture with string protruding from both
ends. The strings are pulled to ignite the friction-sensitive mixture,
producing a small report.
   c.   A snapper or drop pop, which is a small, paper wrapped item containing
no more than sixteen (16) milligrams of explosive mixture coated on small bits
of sand. When dropped, the device produces a small report.
   (5)   Wire sparklers consisting of wire or stick coated with nonexplosive
pyrotechnic mixture that produces a shower of sparks upon ignition. These items
must not exceed one hundred (100) grams of mixture per item.
   (6)   Other sparkling devices which emit showers of sparks and sometimes a
whistling or crackling effect when burning, do not detonate or explode, do not
spin, are hand-held or ground-based, cannot propel themselves through the air,
and contain not more than two hundred (200) grams if multiple tubes are used.
(Code 1982, 8-6003; Ord. of 10-8-02 2)
   Cross References: Definitions and rules of construction generally, 1-3.
   State Law References: Pyrotechnics defined; exceptions, G.S. 14-414.
Sec. 7-59. Possession and use of pyrotechnics.
   No person, without a permit therefor, as provided in section
7-61 shall have in his possession, or cause to be fired, any pyrotechnics
within the city limits.
(Code 1982, 8-6005)
Sec. 7-60. Sale of pyrotechnics.
   No person shall sell at retail within the city any pyrotechnics, except to a
person holding a permit for a pyrotechnic display, issued under the provisions
of section
7-61, nor shall any person sell at wholesale any pyrotechnics, to be resold in
the city, except for an authorized pyrotechnic display. This section shall not
be construed to prevent the sale of pyrotechnics by wholesale merchants,
holding a permit therefor, to any merchant whose place of business is outside
the city.
(Code 1982, 8-6006)
Sec. 7-61. Permit for pyrotechnics.
   No person shall store, sell or use pyrotechnics without securing a permit
therefor. The chief of the fire department may, upon due application, issue a
permit to a properly qualified person for giving a display of fireworks in the
public parks or other places within the city. Such permit shall impose such
restrictions as may be necessary to properly safeguard life and property.
(Code 1982, 8-6007)
   Cross References: Licenses, permits and business regulations,
Ch. 10.
   State Law References: Manufacture, sale and use of pyrotechnics prohibited;
public exhibitions permitted; common carriers not affected, G.S. 14-410.
Chapter 8
RESERVED*
*Editor’s Note: For regulations regarding flood hazard management, see Part IV
of the Marion Code of Ordinances.
Chapter 9
HEALTH AND SANITATION*
__________
*   Cross References: Cleanliness and location of animal enclosures restricted,
3-17; street sanitation, 15-86 et seq.
   State Law References: Local health departments, G.S. 130A-34; authority of
city to prohibit or regulate conditions detrimental to health, safety or
welfare of the citizens, G.S. 160A-174(a).
   Cross References: Animals,
Ch. 3.
   State Law References: Regulation of the placing of trash, refuse and garbage
within municipal limits, G.S. 160A-303.1.
__________
Art. I. In General, 9-1--9-25
Art. II. Solid Waste, 9-26--9-60
Art. III. Abandoned Vehicles, 9-61--9-100
Art. IV. Noise, 9-101--9-120
Art. V. Nuisances, 9-121--9-149
Art. VI. Graffiti, 9-150--9-153
ARTICLE I
IN GENERAL
Sec. 9-1. Unlawful to violate county health regulations.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any lawfully adopted rule or
regulation of the county board of health. The enforcement of this section shall
be under the supervision of the county health officer.
(Code 1982, 8-5001)
Sec. 9-2. Unlawful to interfere with health officer.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, obstruct or delay the health
officer or any of his assistants in the lawful discharge of their duties.
(Code 1982, 8-5002)
Sec. 9-3. Right of entry.
   The county health officer shall have the right to enter any premises at any
reasonable hour for the purpose of making the inspections or investigations.
(Code 1982, 8-5003)
Sec. 9-4. Human and animal waste; dead animals.
   (a)    It shall be unlawful for any person to urinate or deposit any human
waste on any street, lot or premises except in an approved sanitary facility.
No vendor of merchandise of any kind shall leave any refuse on the streets or
on the lots of the city.
   (b)    Owners of animals dying in the city shall, upon notice of their
death, immediately remove such animals.
(Code 1982, 8-5004; Ord. of 9-22-98, 1)
Sec. 9-5. Butchering restricted.
   No person shall butcher any cattle, hogs or sheep within the corporate
limits of the city.
(Code 1982, 8-5006)
Secs. 9-6--9-25. Reserved.
ARTICLE II
SOLID WASTE*
__________
*   Cross References: Water and sewerage,
Ch. 20.
   State Law References: Control of litter, G.S. 14-399 et seq.; radioactive
waste, G.S. 104E-1 et seq.; solid waste management, G.S. 130A-290 et seq.;
location of garbage collection containers on state highway rights-of-way, G.S.
136-18.3; placing glass, etc., or injurious obstructions in road, G.S. 136-91;
municipal regulation of trash and garbage, G.S. 160A-192; municipal abatement
of public health and public safety nuisances, G.S. 160A-193; regulation of the
placing of trash, refuse and garbage within municipal limits, G.S. 160A-303.1;
public enterprises, G.S. 160A-311 et seq.
__________
Sec. 9-26. Residential collection.
   All garbage shall be placed in plastic bags and tied securely and deposited
in strong, sound cans of not more than thirty-five-gallon capacity which shall
be covered with tight-fitting, flyproof tops when they contain garbage. Each
can shall be equipped with two (2) handles. Cans of less capacity than fifteen
(15) gallons need be equipped with only one (1) handle.
(Ord. of 6-25-87, 1; Ord. of 4-18-89, 1; Ord. of 9-22-98, 2)
Sec. 9-27. Limitation on container weight.
   The total weight of containers when filled shall not exceed fifty (50)
pounds.
(Ord. of 6-25-87, 1.1)
Sec. 9-28. Placement of dry refuse.
   All dry refuse of any kind shall be placed near the edge of the sidewalk or
the edge of the street, if there is no sidewalk, but not onto the sidewalk or
onto the street.
(Ord. of 6-25-87, 2.1; Ord. of 9-22-98, 3)
Sec. 9-29. Pickup of leaves.
   The city leaf machine will pick up leaves that are raked to the edge of the
sidewalk or the edge of the street, if there is no sidewalk, during the months
of October, November, and December, provided that leaves are separated from
other items or materials. Leaves shall not be raked onto the sidewalk or onto
the street. During all other months of the year the city will only pick up
leaves that are bagged and placed near the curb but not onto the sidewalk or
onto the street. During the months of October, November and December of each
year, the city will, upon request, provide a number of free leaf bags to
citizens to be used for leaves only. The public works department shall
determine the number of free bags.
(Ord. of 6-25-87, 2.2; Ord. of 9-22-98, 4)
Sec. 9-30. Specifications for removal of dry refuse.
   Trees, limbs, trimmings and other dry refuse of this nature will be removed
by the city if the following specifications are met:
   (1)   They shall be placed at the edge of the sidewalk or the edge of the
street but not onto the sidewalk or onto the street.
   (2)   They shall be placed in an area with no less than ten (10) feet of
overhead clearance.
   (3)   Tree trunks and limbs shall not exceed eight (8) feet in length and
one hundred (100) pounds in weight;
   (4)   Tree trunks and limbs shall not exceed four (4) inches in diameter.
   (5)   Tree trunks and limbs shall be placed with all cut ends facing in the
same direction.
   (6)   Tree stumps of no more than one hundred (100) pounds in weight will be
removed.
(Ord. No. O-19-10-15-4, §2, 10-15-19)
Sec. 9-31. Refuse from commercial tree trimmers or employees of businesses or
nonprofits not removed.
   The city will not remove any trees, limbs, stumps or trimmings cut by
commercial or contracted tree trimmers or landscapers. In addition, the city
will not remove any trees, limbs, stumps or trimmings cut by employees of
businesses or nonprofit organizations located in residential units eligible to
receive yard waste and brush collection. In situations where it is unclear
whether the city may collect yard waste or brush from a residential unit
pursuant to this section, the city manager shall determine whether yard waste
or brush collection shall be performed by the city.
(Ord. of 6-25-87, 2.4; Ord. No. O-04-02-17-1, 2, 2-17-04)
   Cross References: Licenses, permits and business regulations,
Ch. 10; trees,
Ch. 19.
Sec. 9-32. Regulation of number of refuse pickups; pickup of bulky items
restricted.
   Only one (1) truckload of dry refuse will be collected from any one (1)
location on any one (1) regular pickup day. The city will provide additional
pickups on a contract basis. Persons requiring additional pickups shall pay to
the city, in advance, an amount to be determined by the public works director.
Bulky items such as furniture and appliances will be picked up by the city only
upon request but only on the day that is set aside by the public works director
for special pickups. The city will not pick up refrigerators, hot-water
heaters, heavy automobile parts, washers, dryers, stoves, dishwashers, couches,
tubs, toilets, heavy chairs or any extremely large items of this nature except
by calling the public works department and arranging for a special pickup. The
public works director will determine what items will be picked up and the
amount to be charged for each pickup, in accordance with the City Fee and Rate
Schedule adopted by the City Council, and the payment will be made to the city
in advance. Residents may request a trailer from the public works department
for loading of items, except items prohibited for collection under this
Article, upon paying the fee established by the City Fee and Rate Schedule.
(Ord. No. O-17-06-06-1, § 2, 6-6-17)
Sec. 9-33. Prohibition on pickup of dangerous items.
   Under no circumstances will the city pick up any item that may be considered
dangerous to handle as determined by the public works director.
(Ord. of 6-25-87, 2.6; Ord. of 9-22-98, 7)
Sec. 9-34. Regulation of metal containers (dumpsters) for businesses.
   (a)    Each business, commercial establishment, or industry, that generates
more than three (3) thirty-five-gallon containers of solid waste per week,
shall be required to use a metal container (dumpster).
   (b)    The city will provide an eight-cubic-yard container (dumpster) for
each business requesting solid waste pick-up services by the city. The city
shall own and maintain the container (dumpster). The city council shall set a
monthly rental charge for use of each container. In addition, a monthly service
fee, based on per container pickup, will be charged each business. The service
fee shall be at such rates as may be established from time to time by the city
council. Each business must enter a contract with the city or provide for
removal of its own solid waste.
   (1)   All accounts shall be paid by the due date printed on the bill.
   (2)   Customers who fail to pay the amount charged for solid waste services
by 5:00 p.m. local time, the fifteenth day of the month in which the statement
is received shall be charged a late penalty in the amount stated in the current
ordinance establishing commercial garbage/recycling collection rates. Customers
who fail to pay the amount charged for solid waste services by 5:00 p.m. local
time the twenty-fifth day of the month in which the statement is received shall
be charged an additional late penalty in the amount stated in the current
ordinance establishing commercial garbage/recycling collection rates and solid
waste service to the premises shall be terminated.
   (3)   Delinquent accounts where solid waste service has been terminated
shall not have such services restored until such delinquent account, including
all penalties, has been paid in full.
   (c)    It shall be unlawful to pile garbage or trash on or around a
container. The lid to each container must remain closed at all times except
when trash or garbage is being placed in the container, the container is being
cleaned or repaired, or when the container is being emptied. If the
establishment is producing more garbage or trash than can be adequately handled
by the container the public works director or his designee can require added
pickups.
   (d)    The public works director or his designee shall determine the
location or placement of each container.
(Ord. of 6-25-87, 3.1--3.4; Ord. of 4-19-88, 1; Ord. of 6-20-00, 1; Ord. No. O-
11-06-21-3, 2, 6-21-11)
Sec. 9-34.1. Use of containers and other trash receptacles.
   (a)   Nothing herein is intended to prevent commercial establishments from
the joint use of a bulk container; however, such use shall be with the consent
of the business or property owner contracting with the city or a private
company for said container. The business or property owner contracting with the
city or a private company for the bulk container contract shall be responsible
for all solid waste discarded into the container, for the maintenance of the
area around the bulk container and, in the case of city bulk containers, be
responsible for the payment of the monthly solid waste bill to the city.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful, however, for any person to discard, deposit or
dispose of solid waste in any bulk container or other trash receptacle without
the prior consent of the property owner, resident or business contracting with
the city for solid waste collection from said bulk container(s) or trash
receptacle(s). If a property owner, resident or business wants the city to
enforce this subsection, said property owner, resident or business owner will
need to provide clear and convincing evidence of the unauthorized use of bulk
containers or other trash receptacles to the city, through video and/or
photographic evidence that allows for the clear identification of the person
depositing solid waste in the bulk container or other trash receptacles of said
property owner, resident or business.
(Ord. No. O-21-10-19-3, § 2, 10-19-21)
Sec. 9-35. Tires.
   The city shall not collect tires from any business, residence or any other
property.
(Ord. O-12-03-06-4, 2, 3-6-12)
Sec. 9-36. Owner required to remove construction waste.
   The city will not be responsible for removing building and construction
waste. All refuse, lumber and debris remaining both as a result of the repair
of any building or of the erection and completion of any new buildings shall be
removed by the property owner within ten (10) days of the completion of such
work.
(Ord. of 6-25-87, 4)
Sec. 9-37. Littering prohibited.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place in or on any sidewalk, street,
alley, public highway or any private premises, any rubbish, dirt, or other
substance or rubbish matter of any kind whatsoever which would render the
streets and premises unclean, except in receptacles as hereinabove provided, at
the edge of the sidewalk or edge of the street. It shall be unlawful for any
person, firm or corporation to rake, sweep or blow any trash, grass clippings
or other materials onto any public sidewalk or street. Said trash or grass
clippings shall be bagged for pick up.
(Ord. of 6-25-87, 5; Ord. of 9-22-98, 9)
Sec. 9-38. Solid waste to be deposited in landfill.
   All nonhazardous solid waste shall be disposed of in the county sanitary
landfill.
(Ord. of 6-25-87, 6)
Sec. 9-39. Permit required for burning.
   No burning of solid waste is permitted in the city limits without a permit
issued by the fire chief.
(Ord. of 6-25-87, 6.1)
   Cross References: Fire prevention and protection,
Ch. 7; licenses, permits and business regulations,
Ch. 10.
Sec. 9-40. Open dumps prohibited.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use, maintain, or operate an open
dump.
(Ord. of 6-25-87, 6.2)
Sec. 9-41. Hazardous waste disposal to comply with state law.
   All hazardous waste shall be collected and disposed of in accordance with
state laws.
(Ord. of 6-25-87, 6.3)
   State Law References: Dumping of toxic substances, G.S. 14-284.1.
Sec. 9-42. Removal of dead animals.
   (a)    Dead animals will be removed upon notice of the existence of the dead
animal. The dead animal should be placed in a plastic bag and should not be
placed in containers or garbage cans. Citizens should arrange to have the
animal picked up by calling the public works department. Public works employees
will not crawl under houses or enter the backyards of residences to retrieve
dead animals.
   (b)    The city will pick up and dispose of dead domestic animals weighing
less than seventy-five (75) pounds from residences and veterinarians at such
charge as may be established from time to time by the city council, provided
the dead animal is placed in a plastic bag. Said payment shall be made in
advance of service.
(Ord. of 6-25-87, 7, 7.1; Ord. of 9-22-98, 10)
   Cross References: Animals,
Ch. 3.
Sec. 9-43. Permit required to process refuse.
   No person shall collect, handle or transport over any of the streets,
alleys, or other public ways in the city any garbage or refuse, for a fee,
without first obtaining a permit from the city.
(Ord. of 6-25-87, 8)
   Cross References: Licenses, permits and business regulations,
Ch. 10.
Sec. 9-44. Solid waste collection fee.
   All residences of the city shall be provided, solid waste collection
services as set forth in this chapter and shall be subject to solid waste
collection fees as adopted by city council regardless of whether such services
are accepted by the owner or occupant of said residence. In addition to all
other charges for utility service furnished to customers by the city, there
shall be charged to each utility statement furnished to a customer a fee at the
prevailing charge, which shall be known as a solid waste collection fee.
Failure to pay the solid waste collection fee as a part of the total utility
charge shall result in a termination of all utility service.
(Ord. No. O-18-07-17-5, § 2, 7-17-18)
Sec. 9-45. Scavenging, private collection.
   It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to scavenge, sort, pick
through or remove refuse, trash, yard wastes or recyclables stored in any
dumpster or bin or set out for collection, or for any person other than the
City or its contractors to collect recyclables in the City where those
materials have been prepared and set out for collection by the City in
accordance with this chapter, except with permission from the resident or
business setting out such items for collection.
(Ord. No. O-19-07-16-1, §2, 7-16-19)
Secs. 9-46--9-60. Reserved.
ARTICLE III
ABANDONED VEHICLES*
__________
*   Cross References: Traffic,
Ch. 18.
__________
Sec. 9-61. Administration.
   The police department and city manager (or his designee) shall be
responsible for the administration and enforcement of this article. The police
department shall be responsible for administering the removal and disposition
of vehicles determined to be "abandoned" on the public streets and highways
within the city, and on property owned by the city. The city manager (or his
designee) shall be responsible for administering the removal and disposition of
"abandoned," "nuisance," or "junked" motor vehicles located on private
property. The city may, on an annual basis, contract with private tow truck
operators or towing businesses to remove, store and dispose of abandoned
vehicles, nuisance vehicles and junked motor vehicles in compliance with this
article and applicable state laws. Nothing in this article shall be construed
to limit the legal authority or powers of officers of the city police
department and fire department in enforcing other laws or in otherwise carrying
out their duties.
(Ord. of 6-8-93, 1)
Sec. 9-62. Definitions.
   For the purpose of this article, certain words and terms are defined as
herein indicated:
   Abandoned vehicle(s). As authorized and defined in G.S. 160A-303, an
abandoned motor vehicle is one that:
   (1)   Is left upon a public street or highway in violation of a law or
ordinance prohibiting parking; or
   (2)   Is left on a public street or highway for longer than seven (7) days;
or
   (3)   Is left on property owned or operated by the town for longer than
twenty-four (24) hours; or
   (4)   Is left on private property without the consent of the owner, occupant
or lessee thereof, for longer than two (2) hours.
   Authorizing official. The supervisory employee of the police department or
city manager (or his designee) respectively, designated to authorize the
removal of vehicles under the provisions of this article.
   Motor vehicle or vehicle. All machines designed or intended to travel over
land by self-propulsion or while attached to any self-propelled vehicle.
   Junked motor vehicle. As authorized and defined in G.S. section 160A-303.2,
the term "junked motor vehicle" means a vehicle that does not display a current
license plate lawfully upon that vehicle and that:
   (1)   Is partially dismantled or wrecked; or
   (2)   Cannot be self propelled or moved in the manner in which it originally
was intended to move; or
   (3)   Is more than five (5) years old and appears to be worth less than one
hundred dollars ($100.00).
   Nuisance vehicle. A vehicle on public or private property that is determined
and declared to be a health or safety hazard, a public nuisance and unlawful,
including a vehicle found to be:
   (1)   A breeding ground or harbor for mosquitoes, or other insects, rats, or
other pests; or
   (2)   A point of heavy growth of weeds or other noxious vegetation over
eight (8) inches in height; or
   (3)   A point of collection of pools or ponds of water; or
   (4)   A point of concentration of quantities of gasoline, oil or other
flammable or explosive materials as evidenced by odor; or
   (5)   One which has areas of confinement which cannot be operated from the
inside, such as trunks, hoods, etc.; or
   (6)   So situated or located that there is a danger of it falling or turning
over; or
   (7)   One which is a point of collection of garbage, food waste, animal
waste or any other rotten or putrescible matter of any kind; or
   (8)   One which has sharp points thereon which are jagged or contain sharp
edges of metal or glass; or
   (9)   Any other vehicle specifically declared a health and safety hazard and
a public nuisance by the city council.
(Ord. of 6-8-93, 2)
Sec. 9-63. Abandoned vehicle unlawful; removal authorized.
   (a)    It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a vehicle to cause or allow such vehicle to be abandoned as the
term is defined herein.
   (b)    Upon investigation, proper authorizing officials of the town may
determine that a vehicle is an abandoned vehicle and order the vehicle removed.
(Ord. of 6-8-93, 3)
Sec. 9-64. Nuisance vehicle unlawful; removal authorized.
   (a)    It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee, or occupant of the
real property upon which the vehicle is located, to leave or allow the vehicle
to remain on the property after it has been declared a nuisance vehicle.
   (b)    Upon investigation, the city manager (or his designee) may determine
and declare that a vehicle is a health or safety hazard and a nuisance vehicle
as defined above and order the vehicle removed.
(Ord. of 6-8-93, 4)
Sec. 9-65. Junked or inoperable motor vehicle regulated; removal authorized.
   (a)    It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
the possession of a junked or inoperable motor vehicle, or for the owner,
lessee, or occupant of the real property upon which a junked or inoperable
motor vehicle is located, to leave or allow the vehicle to remain on the
property after the vehicle has been ordered removed.
   (b)    It shall be unlawful to have more than one (1) junked or inoperable
motor vehicle, as defined herein, on the premises of public or private property
except as provided in subsection (e) of this section. A single, permitted
junked motor vehicle must strictly comply with the location, screening and
concealment requirements of this section.
   (c)    It shall be unlawful for any owner or person entitled to the
possession of a junked or inoperable motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee,
or occupant of the real property upon which a junked or inoperable motor
vehicle is located, to fail to comply with the location requirements of this
section.
   (d)    Subject to the provisions of subsection (e) of this section, upon
investigation, the city manager (or his designee) may order the removal of a
junked or inoperable motor vehicle after finding in writing that the aesthetic
benefits of removing the vehicle outweigh the burdens imposed on the private
property owner. Such finding shall be based on a balancing of the monetary loss
of the apparent owner against the corresponding gain to the public by promoting
or enhancing community, neighborhood or area appearance. The following, among
other relevant factors, may be considered:
   (1)   Protection of property values;
   (2)   Promotion of tourism and other economic development opportunities;
   (3)   Indirect protection of public health and safety;
   (4)   Preservation of the character and integrity of the community; and
   (5)   Promotion of the comfort, happiness and emotional stability of
residents.
   (e)    Permitted concealment or enclosure of a junked or inoperable motor
vehicle:
   (1)   One (1) junked motor vehicle, in its entirety, may be located in the
rear yard, as defined in the city zoning ordinance, provided the junked motor
vehicle is entirely concealed from public view from a public street and/or
abutting premises by an acceptable covering. Junked motor vehicles kept on the
premises shall be kept inside a completely enclosed building. The city manager
(or designee) has the authority to determine whether any junked motor vehicle
is adequately concealed as required by this provision. The covering must remain
in good repair and must not be allowed to deteriorate.
   (2)   Any more than one (1) junked or inoperable motor vehicle must be kept
in a garage or building structure that provides a complete enclosure so that
the junked or inoperable motor vehicle(s) cannot be seen from a public street
or abutting property. A garage or building structure means either a lawful,
nonconforming use or a garage or building structure erected pursuant to the
lawful issuance of the building permit and which has been constructed in
accordance with all zoning ordinances and building code regulations.
   (f)    To the extent that the provisions in this chapter 9, article III are
inconsistent with chapter 21, article VII, sections 21-7.5 and 21-7.8 or
article VIII, subsection 21-8.5(c), the most restrictive provisions shall
apply.
(Ord. of 6-8-93, 5; Ord. No. O-03-10-21-02, 2, 10-21-03; Ord. No. O-08-01-15-3,
1(6), 1-15-08)
Sec. 9-66. Removal of abandoned, nuisance, junked or inoperable motor vehicles;
pre-towing notice requirements.
   Except as set forth in section
9-67 below, abandoned, nuisance, junked or inoperable vehicles which are to be
removed shall be towed only after notice to the registered owner or person
entitled to possession of the vehicle(s). In the case of nuisance, junked or
inoperable vehicles, if the names and mailing addresses of the registered owner
or person entitled to the possession of the vehicle(s), or the owner or lessee
or occupant of the real property upon which the vehicle(s) is located can be
ascertained in the exercise of reasonable diligence, the notice shall be given
by first class mail. The person who mails the notice(s) shall retain a written
record to show the name(s) and address(es) to which mailed, and the date
mailed. If such names and addresses cannot be ascertained or if the vehicle to
be removed is an abandoned motor vehicle, notice shall be given by affixing on
the windshield or some other conspicuous place on the vehicle, a notice
indicating that the vehicle will be removed by the city on a specified date (no
sooner than seven (7) days after the notice is affixed). The notice shall state
that the vehicle(s) will be removed by the town on a specified date, no sooner
than seven (7) days after the notice is affixed or mailed, unless the vehicle
(s) are moved by the owner or legal possessor prior to that time.
   With respect to abandoned vehicles on private property, nuisance vehicles
and junked motor vehicles to which notice is required to be given, if the
registered owner or person entitled to possession does not remove the vehicle
but chooses to appeal the determination that the vehicle is abandoned, a
nuisance vehicle or in the case of a junked or inoperable motor vehicle that
aesthetic benefits of removing the vehicle outweigh the burdens, such appeal
shall be made to the city council in writing, heard at the next regularly
scheduled meeting or the city council, and further proceedings to remove the
vehicle(s) shall be stayed until the appeal is heard and decided.
(Ord. of 6-8-93, 6; Ord. No. O-03-10-21-02, 3, 10-21-03)
Sec. 9-67. Exceptions to prior notice requirement.
   This requirement that notice be given prior to the removal of an abandoned,
nuisance or junked motor vehicle may, as determined by the authorizing
official, be omitted in those circumstances where there is a special need for
prompt action to eliminate traffic obstructions or to otherwise maintain and
protect the public safety and welfare. Such findings shall, in all cases, be
entered by the authorizing official in the appropriate daily records.
Circumstances justifying the removal of vehicles without prior notice include:
   (1)   Vehicles abandoned on the streets. For vehicles left on the public
streets and highways, the city council hereby determines that immediate removal
of such vehicles may be warranted when they are:
   a.   Obstructing traffic;
   b.   Parked in violation of an ordinance prohibiting or restricting parking;
   c.   Parked in a no-stopping or -standing zone;
   d.   Parked in loading zones;
   e.   Parked in bus zones; or
   f.   Parked in violation of temporary parking restrictions imposed under
Code sections.
   (2)   Other abandoned or nuisance vehicles. With respect to abandoned or
nuisance vehicles left on city-owned property other than the streets and
highways, and on private property, such vehicles may be removed without giving
prior notice only in those circumstances where the authorizing official finds a
special need for prompt action to protect and maintain the public health,
safety and welfare. By way of illustration and not of limitation, such
circumstances include vehicles blocking or obstructing ingress or egress to
businesses and residences, vehicles parked in such allocation or manner as to
pose a traffic hazard, and vehicles causing damage to public or private
property.
(Ord. of 6-8-93, 7)
Sec. 9-68. Removal of vehicles; post-towing notice requirements.
   Any abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle which has been ordered
removed may, as directed by the city, be removed to a storage garage or area by
the tow truck operator or towing business contracting to perform such services
for the town. Whenever such a vehicle is removed, the authorizing city official
shall immediately notify the last known registered owner of the vehicle, such
notice to include the following:
   (1)   The description of the removed vehicle;
   (2)   The location where the vehicle is stored;
   (3)   The violation with which the owner is charged, if any;
   (4)   The procedure the owner must follow to redeem the vehicle; and
   (5)   The procedure the owner must follow to request a probable cause
hearing on the removal.
   The city shall attempt to give notice to the vehicle owner by telephone;
however, whether or not the owner is reached by telephone, written notice,
including the information set forth in subsections (1) through (5) above, shall
also be mailed to the registered owner's last known address, unless this notice
is waived in writing by the vehicle owner or his agent.
   If the vehicle is registered in North Carolina, notice shall be given within
twenty-four (24) hours. If the vehicle is not registered in the state, notice
shall be given to the registered owner within seventy-two (72) hours from the
removal of the vehicle.
   Whenever an abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle is removed, and such
vehicle has no valid registration or registering plates, the authorizing town
official shall make reasonable efforts, including checking the vehicle
identification number, to determine the last known registered owner of the
vehicle and to notify him of the information set forth in subsections (1)
through (5) above.
(Ord. of 6-8-93, 8)
Sec. 9-69. Right to probable cause hearing before sale or final disposition of
vehicle.
   After the removal of an abandoned vehicle, nuisance vehicle or junked motor
vehicle, the owner or any other person entitled to possession is entitled to a
hearing for the purpose of determining if probable cause existed for removing
the vehicle. A request for hearing must be filed in writing with the county
magistrate designated by the chief district court judge to receive such hearing
requests. The magistrate will set the hearing within seventy-two (72) hours of
receipt of the request, and the hearing will be conducted in accordance with
the provisions of G.S. section 20-219.11, as amended.
(Ord. of 6-8-93, 9)
Sec. 9-70. Redemption of vehicle during proceedings.
   At any stage in the proceedings, including before the probable cause
hearing, the owner may obtain possession of the removed vehicle by paying the
towing fee, including any storage charges, or by posting a bond for double the
amount of such fees and charges to the tow truck operator or towing business
having custody of the removed vehicle. Upon regaining possession of a vehicle,
the owner or person entitled to the possession of the vehicle shall not allow
or engage in further violations of this article.
(Ord. of 6-8-93, 10)
Sec. 9-71. Sale and disposition of unclaimed vehicle.
   Any abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle which is not claimed by the
owner or other party entitled to possession will be disposed of by the tow
truck operator or towing business having custody of the vehicle. Disposition of
such a vehicle shall be carried out in coordination with the town and in
accordance with article 1 of chapter 44A of the North Carolina General
Statutes.
(Ord. of 6-8-93, 11)
Sec. 9-72. Conditions on removal of vehicles from private property.
   As a general policy, the town will not remove a vehicle from private
property if the owner, occupant or lessee of such property could have the
vehicle removed under applicable state law procedures. In no case will a
vehicle be removed by the city from a private property without a written
request of the owner, occupant or lessee, except in those cases where a vehicle
has been ordered removed by the city manager (or his designee). The city may
require any person requesting the removal of an abandoned, nuisance or junked
motor vehicle from private property to indemnify the city against any loss,
expense or liability incurred because of the removal, storage or sale thereof.
(Ord. of 6-8-93, 12)
Sec. 9-73. Protection against criminal or civil liability.
   No person shall be held to answer in any civil or criminal action to any
owner or other person legally entitled to the possession of an abandoned,
nuisance or junked motor vehicle, for disposing of such vehicle as provided in
this article.
(Ord. of 6-8-93, 13)
Sec. 9-74. Exceptions.
   Nothing in this article shall apply to: (1) any vehicle not visible from the
public roadway or adjoining property and located in an enclosed building, or
(2) which is in an appropriate enclosed storage place or depository maintained
in a lawful place and manner as permitted by the city.
(Ord. of 6-8-93, 14; Ord. No. O-03-10-21-02, 4, 10-21-03)
Sec. 9-75. Unlawful removal of impounded vehicle.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or attempt to remove from any
storage facility designated by the town any vehicle which has been impounded
pursuant to the provisions of this Code unless and until all towing and
impoundment fees which are due, or bond in lieu of such fees, have been paid.
(Ord. of 6-8-93, 15)
Secs. 9-76--9-100. Reserved.
ARTICLE IV
NOISE*
__________
*   Cross References: Zones of quiet, 18-36.
   State Law References: Authority of city to regulate and prohibit noise, G.S.
160A-184.
__________
Sec. 9-101. Scope.
   This article shall apply to all sound, sound vibration, and noise
originating within the corporate limits of the City of Marion. Nothing in this
article shall be construed to limit or prevent the City or any person from
pursuing any other legal remedies for damages or the abatement of noises in the
City.
(Ord. No. O-13-01-15-3, § 2, 1-15-13)
Sec. 9-102. Definitions.
   The words and phrases defined in this section shall have the meaning
indicated when used in this article unless otherwise specifically provided, or
unless otherwise clearly required by the context:
   Amplified sound means any sound or noise, including the human voice, that is
increased in volume or intensity by means of electrical power.
   Construction means erection, repair, assembly, alteration, landscaping, or
demolition of any building or building site.
   Daytime hours means 7:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m., local time.
   Motorized vehicles means:
   Generally—Any vehicle as defined in G.S. 20-4.01(49) including, but not
limited to:
   (1)   Excursion passenger vehicles as defined in G.S. 20-4.01(27)a.
   (2)   Common carriers of passengers as defined in G.S. 20-4.01(27)c.
   (3)   Motorcycles and mopeds as defined in G.S. 20-4.01(27)d. and d.1.
   (4)   Truck tractors as defined in G.S. 20-4.01(48).
   (5)   Farm tractors as defined in G.S. 20-4.01(11).
   Nightime hours means 11:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m., local time.
   Noise means any sound or combination of sounds which, because of its volume
or quality, tends to disturb reasonable persons of normal sensitivity or to
interfere with normal human activity.
   Noise disturbance means any unreasonably loud and raucous sound or noise
which:
   (1)   Endangers or injures the health or safety of humans or animals;
   (2)   Endangers or injures personal or real property; or
   (3)   Disturbs a reasonable person of normal sensitivity.
   To determine whether a noise or sound constitutes a noise disturbance, the
following factors incident to such noise are to be considered: whether the
noise occurred during daytime or nighttime hours, proximity to residential
areas, whether the noise is recurrent, intermittent or constant, the volume and
intensity, whether the noise has been enhanced in volume or range by any type
of mechanical means and the nature and zoning of the area.
   Person means any individual, association, firm, partnership, corporation, or
business entity.
   Residential Areas means any area in the City that is zoned the following: R-
1 Single Family Residential or R-2 Neighborhood Residential.
   Sound means any disturbance of the air or other medium that is detectable by
the unaided human ear or which produces vibrations detectable by reasonable
persons of normal sensitivity.
(Ord. No. O-13-01-15-3, § 2, 1-15-13; Ord. No. O-15-01-20-2, § 2, 1-20-15)
Sec. 9-103. General regulation.
   Except as allowed in this article, no person shall willingly engage in any
activity on any premises or public area in the City, which activity produces or
constitutes a noise disturbance on occupied neighboring premises or public
areas.
(Ord. No. O-13-01-15-3, § 2, 1-15-13)
Sec. 9-104. Noise producing activities; frequent sources of complaint; noise
sensitive areas.
   In addition to the general prohibition set forth above, the following
activities are recognized as tending to produce unreasonably loud and raucous
noises and as tending to constitute noise disturbances when conducted or
permitted in an unreasonable manner. No person shall engage in any of the
enumerated activities so as to cause a noise disturbance on neighboring
premises.
   (1)   Operation of radios, televisions, or other personal sound reproduction
devices in such a manner as to be plainly audible by persons other than those
for whose use the device is being operated, including the operation of
automobile sound systems in such a manner as to be plainly audible by
pedestrians or the occupants of other vehicles;
   (2)   Playing of any amplified or nonamplified musical instrument;
   (3)   Keeping of any animal or bird that frequently or for long periods of
time makes noises that tend to annoy or disturb others;
   (4)   Operation of domestic power tools or mechanical devices;
   (5)   Repair or testing of any motor vehicle, however fueled or powered;
   (6)   Operation of any motor vehicle with an improper muffler system in
violation of G.S. 20-128(a) and (b), or which is equipped with a muffler
designed to emit unreasonably loud noises or vibration;
   (7)   Operation of any motor vehicle so as to cause the tires to squeal or
screech unnecessarily;
   (8)   Operation of model cars, boats, or airplanes, go carts, mini bikes,
scooters or all-terrain vehicles or other unlicensed toy or recreational
vehicles or devices powered by an internal combustion engine;
   (9)   Street vending or peddling;
   (10)   Sounding of any automobile horn except as a warning or danger signal,
or as required by law;
   (11)   Construction operations, including excavating, demolition,
alteration, or repair of any building in a residential or business district,
other than between the hours of 7:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. on weekdays and 8:00
a.m. to 9:00 p.m. on weekends. The building inspector is authorized to grant
exceptions from these time periods through the issuance of a permit in
emergency situations, in the case of urgent necessity in the interest of public
safety or in situations necessary for health or medical reasons, which permit
may be renewed for a period of three (3) days, or less, while the emergency
continues. Exceptions from these time periods for the reasons listed above for
a period longer than three (3) days requires the approval of the City Council;
   (12)   The use of any gong or siren upon any vehicle other than police,
fire, ambulance or other official emergency vehicle;
   (13)   The blowing of any steam whistle attached to any stationary boiler,
except as a warning of danger;
   (14)   The operation of machinery in connection with loading or unloading
any vehicles or the opening and destruction of bales, boxes, crates, and
containers;
   (15)   The use of any drum, loudspeaker or other instrument or device for
the purpose of attracting attention by creation of noise to any performance,
show, or sale or display of merchandise;
   (16)   The firing or discharge of firearms, squibs, crackers, gun powder,
pyrotechnics or other combustible substances in the streets or elsewhere,
except by permit from the police department or as part of an event specifically
approved by the City Council;
   (17)   Yelling, shouting;
   (18)   Parties;
   (19)   The sounding or permitting the sounding of any exterior burglar or
fire alarm or any motor vehicle burglar alarm for more than fifteen (15)
minutes from the time of activation unless there is a real emergency or the use
of any such alarm that is not properly repaired or maintained such that false
alarms routinely occur.
   (20)   The use of any automobile, motorcycle or other vehicle so out of
repair, overloaded or loaded in such manner as to create loud or unnecessary
grating, grinding, rattling, or other noises;
   (21)   The use of any mechanical device operated by compressed air, unless
the noise created thereby is effectively muffled;
   (22)   The use of any mechanical loud speakers or amplifiers on trucks or
other moving vehicles, for advertising or other purposes, except where specific
license is given by the Police Department;
   (23)   For any engineer, fireman or other person to blow the whistle of any
locomotive engine within the city, the drivers of passenger trains excepted
when blowing necessary signals;
   (24)   Using any language calculated to annoy the public or to bring on a
breach of the peace;
    (25)   Willfully or wantonly disturbing any public meeting or gathering;
   (26)   The conducting, operating or maintaining of any garage or filling
station in the residential district so as to cause loud or offensive noises to
emit therefrom between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.;
   (27)   Cursing or swearing on any street or other public place loud enough
to be heard by a passerby;
   (28)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate within the corporate
limits of the city at any time any electric welding torch or device, or any
other similar device or implement, the operation of which produces a brilliant
and blinding light, unless such torch, device or implement at the time of such
operation is enclosed in a building from which such light cannot escape; and
   (29)   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct, operate, carry on or
engage in any business within the corporate limits of the city between the
hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., the conduct or operation of which produces
any loud and disturbing noise or any brilliant and blinding light or lights;
   It is further recognized that certain uses, including churches, synagogues
and other places of worship, medical and convalescent facilities, funeral homes
and mortuaries, schools and courthouses are particularly sensitive to sound and
noise. Noise-producing activities, including those specified above, may become
noise disturbances when conducted in the immediate vicinity of those uses
during their hours of operation.
(Ord. No. O-13-01-15-3, § 2, 1-15-13; Ord. No. O-20-03-17-1, §2, 3-17-20; Ord.
No. O-20-04-21-3, §2, 4-21-20)
Sec. 9-105. Exceptions.
The following are excepted from the application of this article:
   (1)   Construction activity performed by an agency of government provided
that all equipment is operated in accordance with manufacturer's specifications
and is equipped with all noise-reducing equipment in proper condition;
   (2)   Sound or noise of safety signals, warning devices, emergency pressure
relief valves and church bells or chimes between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and
midnight;
   (3)   Sound or noise emanating from street fairs, festivals, or celebrations
conducted by or with the approval of the City;
   (4)   Sound or noise emanating from film and video production activities for
which permits have been issued by the City; provided all equipment such as
generators are properly muffled;
   (5)   Sound or noise from lawful fireworks;
   (6)   Lawnmowers and agricultural equipment operated between the hours of 7:
00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. when operated in accordance with manufacturer's
specifications and with all standard noise reducing equipment in place and in
proper condition;
   (7)   Musical accompaniment to parades or military ceremonies;
   (8)   Sound emanating from regularly scheduled athletic events at City or
County parks, athletic facilities and public or private schools;
   (9)   Governmental emergency vehicles in the course of performing their
official duties;
   (10)   Railroad operations, to the extent said operations are in furtherance
of interstate commerce;
   (11)   Sound or noise emanating from construction or repair work and
regulated activities of utilities regulated by the North Carolina Utilities
Commission;
   (12)   Commercial refuse collection vehicles operating between the hours of
6:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.; and
   (13)   Unamplified noncommercial speeches made from a fixed location in non-
residentially zoned areas.
(Ord. No. O-13-01-15-3, § 2, 1-15-13)
Sec. 9-106. Non-exclusivity.
   Nothing in this article shall be construed to prevent or limit any person
from seeking any remedy available in law or equity for activities that are or
may be subject to regulation by this chapter, or from pursuing said remedy
simultaneously with proceedings under this chapter, nor shall any of the
procedures specified herein be a condition precedent to the initiation of any
legal action.
(Ord. No. O-13-01-15-3, § 2, 1-15-13)
Sec. 9-107. Violations; owner and occupant responsibility.
   Violations of this article shall subject the offender to penalties as set
forth in Sections
1-10 through
1-10.17, subject to the limitations set forth below:
   (1)   Penalties for violations of this article may be assessed against
persons responsible for the premises or device producing or causing the noise
disturbance.
   (2)   An owner of any premises subject to this article who is not also an
occupant of the premises shall be responsible for any actions by tenants,
guests, or other licensees that constitute second or subsequent violations of
this article; provided, that no absentee owner shall be liable unless notified
of first or previous violations of the article, and further provided that such
first or previous violations shall have occurred within the previous 12-month
period. Notice of any first or previous violations pursuant to this paragraph
shall be effected by registered or certified mail. No absentee owner may be
subjected to criminal liability under this section, but shall be subject to
civil penalties and equitable relief as provided in herein. This section shall
in no way relieve any other person from responsibility for violations of this
article.
   (3)   The person responsible for any premises shall be responsible and
liable for any violations of this article by tenants, guests, or licensees on
the premises if the person responsible is actively or constructively present at
the time of the violation.
(Ord. No. O-13-01-15-3, § 2, 1-15-13)
Sec. 9-108. Enforcement; penalties for violation; remedies; additional civil
penalty for subsequent offenses.
   (a)   Violations of the provisions of this article shall be subject to the
civil penalties set forth in City Code Section
1-10.9.
   (b)   In addition to the civil penalties provided for above, the City may
enforce the provisions of this article by appropriate equitable remedies as set
forth in Section
1-10.14.
   (c)   This article may be enforced by employees of the City Police
Department as designated by the Police Chief and by other employees of the City
as designated by the City Manager. Animal control officers employed by the
City, or employees of an animal control agency working under contract with the
City for the enforcement of animal control ordinances, and who have been
designated by the Police Chief may enforce the provisions of this article
relating to animals and animal noises.
(Ord. No. O-13-01-15-3, § 2, 1-15-13)
Secs. 9-109--9-120. Reserved.
ARTICLE V
NUISANCES*
__________
*   Editors Note: Ord. No. O-06-03-07-5, adopted Mar. 7, 2006, amended Art. V,
9-121--9-128, in its entirety to read as herein set out. Former Art. V
pertained to similar subject matter and derived from an ordinance of July 5,
1979; the 1982 Code; an ordinance of Feb. 2, 1988; an ordinance of May 6, 1997;
and an ordinance of June 6, 2000.
   Cross References: Health and sanitation,
Ch. 9.
   State Law References: Authority to regulate trash and garbage, G.S. 160A-
192, 160A-303.1.
__________
Sec. 9-121. General provisions; definition.
   (a)    For purposes of this article, the term "nuisance" means any condition
or use of property, or any act or omission affecting the condition or use of
property which directly threatens the safety of citizens or adversely affects
the general health, happiness, security and welfare of others, or is
detrimental to the rights of others to the full use of their own property and
their own comfort, happiness and emotional stability because of decreased
property values and the unattractiveness and livability of neighborhoods.
Further, the city council finds and declares that the following specific
conditions are prejudicial to the general health, safety and welfare of the
city and its citizens, lessen the attractiveness and livability of the city and
when located on any lot or parcel of land within the city limits of the city
are a nuisance and therefore unlawful:
   (1)   Overgrowth or heavy growth of weeds, bushes, poison oak, poison ivy or
other noxious vegetation or overgrowth of grass and weeds over six (6) inches
in height;
   (2)   Conditions which have become or will become, if not corrected, a
breeding ground or harbor for mosquitoes, snakes, rats or other pests;
   (3)   A collection place for lumber, brick, blocks, nails, building
materials and building rubbish unless such conditions are temporary in nature
for a period not to exceed thirty (30) days and caused by current construction
in progress pursuant to a lawfully issued building permit;
   (4)   Any accumulation of garbage, food waste, litter, animal waste, trash
and refuse or any other rotten or putrescible matter of any kind which is the
result of the absence of or the result of overflowing or improperly closed
trash or garbage containers;
   (5)   Rotten, damaged or dilapidated sheds, outbuildings, portable canopies,
garages or other uninhabited structures which have collapsed or partially
collapsed or pose a danger of fire or pose a risk to neighborhood children or
to adjacent property and property owners;
   (6)   An open or unsecured storage or collection place for chemicals, oils,
gasoline, flammable liquids or other similar harmful or dangerous substances,
gases or vapors;
   (7)   Any accumulation of garbage, rubbish, trash or junk causing or
threatening to cause a fire hazard, or causing or threatening to cause the
accumulation of stagnant water, or causing or threatening to cause the
inhabitation therein of rats, mice, snakes, mosquitoes or vermin prejudicial to
the public health;
   (8)   A collection or storage place for old, worn out, broken or discarded
machinery, car parts, glass, junk, furniture, stoves, refrigerators and
appliances, cans or containers, household goods or plumbing and electrical
fixtures or other similar materials;
   (9)   An open place of concentration of combustible items such as
mattresses, wood, boxes, paper, automobile tires and tubes, garbage, trash,
refuse, brush, old clothes, rags, or any other combustible materials or objects
of a like nature;
   (10)   A collection place or pool or pond of stagnant or foul water caused
by any manmade berm, dam, ditch or impoundment;
   (11)   A storage place or place of collection for broken bottles, glass,
tin, aluminum and other sharp, pointed, jagged or rusted metal;
   (12)   Barns, animal pens and enclosures, dog lots and runs or other similar
places that house animals and which are not kept in a sanitary condition,
attract flies and other pests or emit foul odors;
   (13)   A collection place for sewage and sewage drainage or the seepage from
septic tanks;
   (14)   A collection place for tree limbs, dried brush, dead vegetation or
other rubbish;
   (15)   Any discharge into or polluting of any stream, creek, river or other
body of water of any dangerous substance or any other material likely to harm
the water or any vegetation, fish or wildlife in or along the water or the
storage of such harmful materials and substances in a manner so that it is
likely that such streams, creeks, rivers or other bodies of water will be
polluted;
   (16)   Any conditions or use of property which results in the emission of
pollutants and particles into the atmosphere or causes noxious odors and
stenches to be emitted into the air;
   (17)   The use of portable screening devices such as a tarp, fabric, canvas,
nylon, vinyl, plastic or other nonrigid material to cover or hide the above
referenced collection, accumulation or storage of any and all conditions
referenced in this section.
   (18)   Any other act or condition declared to be a nuisance in the manner
provided in this article by the city council.
(Ord. No. O-06-03-07-5, 2, 3-7-06)
Sec. 9-122. Findings; policy.
   (a)    The city council finds as a fact that there are many parcels of land
and vacant lots throughout the city which are overgrown with weeds and other
noxious growth, that have become a collection place for trash, garbage, debris,
junk or other undesirable material or have specific unattractive conditions
located thereon. The city council further finds as a fact that such conditions
adversely affect one (1) or more of the following:
   (1)   The safety of the citizens of the city;
   (2)   The general health and welfare of the citizens of the city;
   (3)   The health and safety of children who are attracted to such
conditions;
   (4)   The quality of urban attractiveness and aesthetic appearance of the
city;
   (5)   The protection of property values throughout the city;
   (6)   The preservation of the livability and attractiveness of
neighborhoods;
   (7)   The opportunities for full economic development of the city;
   (8)   The comfort, happiness and emotional stability of occupants of
property in the vicinity of unattractive conditions and nuisances;
   (9)   The full use, ownership and enjoyment of property in the vicinity of
such conditions.
   (b)    It is the policy of the city that each person is entitled to live in
a community which is generally safe and free of conditions which adversely
affect the general health and welfare of the community. Citizens also ought to
have the right to live in an attractive community free of litter, garbage and
unsightly junk especially when such conditions do not further individual rights
or ownership of property. To protect against such conditions, the city intends
to define, prohibit and restrain nuisances or to cause such nuisances to be
removed from the city. The city manager or his or her designee shall be
responsible for the administration and enforcement of this article.
(Ord. No. O-06-03-07-5, 2, 3-7-06)
Sec. 9-123. Nuisances prohibited.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to create a nuisance or cause a nuisance
to be created or for the owner, lessee, occupant, caretaker or person in
possession of any lot, parcel or tract of land in the city to create a nuisance
or otherwise permit, allow or suffer a nuisance to be created or to allow a
nuisance to remain on such property after it has been declared a nuisance.
(Ord. No. O-06-03-07-5, 2, 3-7-06)
Sec. 9-124. Exceptions.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of section
9-123, the use of property for a lawful business or commercial purpose pursuant
to all required licenses and permits and in full compliance with the zoning
rules and regulations in effect in the city shall not be considered as a
nuisance so long as the use of the property and the conditions created thereon
further such lawful business use or commercial use.
(Ord. No. O-06-03-07-5, 2, 3-7-06)
Sec. 9-124.1. Notice; abatement.
   (a)   When any condition in violation of this Article is found to exist, the
City Manager or his designee shall give notice of the owner of the premises to
abate or remove such conditions within seven (7) days. Such notice shall be in
writing, shall include a description of the premises sufficient for
identification and shall set forth the violation and state that, if the
violation is not corrected within seven (7) days, the City may proceed to
correct the same as authorized by this Article. Service of such notice shall be
any one of the following methods:
   (1)   By delivery to any owner personally or by leaving the notice at the
usual place of abode of the owner with a person who is over the age of sixteen
(16) years old and a member of the family of the owner.
   (2)   By mailing a copy of the notice by registered or certified mail,
return receipt requested, addressed to the person to be served and delivered to
the addressee;
   (3)   By delivering a copy of the notice to any officer, employee or agent
of a corporation, partnership or business; or
   (4)   By posting, for ten (10) days, a copy of the notice in placard form,
in a conspicuous place on the premises on which the violation exists, when
notice cannot be served by (1), (2) or (3) above.
   (b)   When the owner of any property fails to comply with a notice given
pursuant to this Article, within seven (7) days after the service of such
notice, he or she shall be subject to any criminal or civil penalties
authorized by
Chapter 1 of the City Code in accordance with law and each day that such
failure continues shall be a separate offense. In addition, the City Manager or
his designee may have the condition described in the notice abated, removed or
otherwise corrected and all expenses incurred thereby shall be chargeable to
and paid by the owner of the property and shall be collected as taxes and
levies are collected. All such expenses shall constitute a lien against the
property on which the work was done.
   (c)   The city may notify a chronic violator of the City's public nuisance
ordinance that, if the violator's property is found to be in violation of the
ordinance, the City shall, without further notice in the calendar year in which
notice is given, take action to remedy the violation, and the expense of the
action shall become a lien upon the property and shall be collected as unpaid
taxes. The notice shall be sent by certified mail. A chronic violator is a
person who owns property whereupon, in the previous calendar year, the City
took remedial action at least three times under any provision of the public
nuisance ordinance.
   (d)   The procedure set forth in this article shall be in addition to any
other remedies that may now or hereafter exist under law for the abatement of
public nuisances, and this chapter shall not prevent the City from proceeding
in a criminal action against any person, firm or corporation violating the
provisions of the Article as provided in G.S. 14-4.
(Ord. No. O-12-06-19-4, § 2, passed 6-19-12)
Sec. 9-124.2. Emergency action.
   Notwithstanding the notice provisions set out in section
9-124.1, the city manager shall have authority to summarily remove, abate or
remedy any condition that is dangerous or prejudicial to the public health or
public safety.
(Ord. No. O-06-03-07-5, 2, 3-7-06)
Sec. 9-124.3. Other nuisances not enumerated.
   (a)    In addition to the conditions declared to be a nuisance enumerated
above, the city council may, by ordinance, define, prohibit, regulate or abate
other acts, omissions or conditions detrimental to the health, safety or
welfare of its citizens and the peace and dignity of the city.
   (b)    Prior to adopting such ordinance, the city council shall conduct a
hearing at any regularly scheduled or specially convened meeting of the city
council after giving written notice to the owner, occupant or person in
possession of the premises on which the conditions alleged to be a nuisance are
located. The notice shall describe the conditions believed to be a nuisance and
shall set forth the date, place and time of the public hearing. The notice
shall be served in the same manner other notices are served in this article;
except, that if the notice is served by posting on the property, then such
notice shall also be advertised once in a newspaper having local circulation at
least ten (10) days prior to the hearing.
   (c)    At the hearing, the city council may receive and consider evidence in
the form of testimony, affidavits, statements, documents or other written proof
and the property owner, occupant or person in possession of the premises shall
have a right to appear and show cause why the conditions are not a nuisance or
ought not to be abated.
   (d)    If the conditions are thereafter determined by the city council to be
a nuisance, the city council may order the removal or abatement of the nuisance
or take such other remedial action as may be appropriate except that the city
council may not declare unattractive conditions a nuisance and order the
abatement thereof without finding in writing that the aesthetic benefits of
removing or abating the conditions outweigh the burdens imposed upon the
private property owner. Such special findings shall be based upon a balancing
of the monetary loss of the apparent owner against the corresponding gain to
the public by promoting or enhancing community, neighborhood or area
appearance, including protection of property values, promotion of economic and
community development opportunities, indirect protection of the public health
and safety, preservation of the character and integrity of the community and
the promotion of the comfort, happiness and emotional stability of area
residents.
(Ord. No. O-06-03-07-5, 2, 3-7-06)
Sec. 9-125. Policy to promote safety.
   It shall be the policy and intent of the city council of the city to promote
and provide for the safety of pedestrians and operators and passengers of motor
vehicles using public streets, roads, ways and sidewalks within the city. It is
fundamentally important that all such pedestrians and operators of motor
vehicles be able to have access to and use all public streets, roads, ways and
sidewalks without visual interference, obstruction or impairment.
(Ord. No. O-06-03-07-5, 2, 3-7-06)
Sec. 9-126. Unlawful to obstruct vision along streets.
   (a)    It shall be unlawful for any owner or occupant of any premises within
the city to plant, install, build, maintain, cultivate or allow to exist any
bush, shrub, hedge, tree, living plant, fence, wall or other item which
obstructs vision if such item:
   (1)   Is located within five (5) feet of the outer edge of the curb (or
other edge of the pavement if there is no curb) of a public street;
   (2)   Has a height greater than two and one-half (2 ) feet; or
   (3)   Is located in any other place of any height if such item interferes
with, obstructs or impairs the vision of any pedestrian or operator of a motor
vehicle in gaining access to or using any public street, road, way or sidewalk.
   (b)    Buildings in existence as of February 2, 1988, shall be exempt from
this article.
(Ord. No. O-06-03-07-5, 2, 3-7-06)
Sec. 9-127. Notice to remove visual obstruction; remedy for noncompliance.
   If any person violates the provisions of this article, it shall be the duty
of the building inspector or his or her designee to give notice to the owner,
or to any person in possession and occupying said premises, directing that
within ten (10) days or sooner from the time of such notice, all plant growth
or fence or other visual obstruction shall be pruned, trimmed, shortened or
removed from the designated area. If such owner or occupant fails or refuses to
take such corrective action so as to come into compliance with this article,
the building inspector shall promptly take such corrective action as is
necessary to remove the visual obstruction, and all costs and charges shall be
charged against the premises. If such costs and charges are not paid within
thirty (30) days, they shall become a lien against said property and shall be
collected in the manner provided for the collection of delinquent taxes.
(Ord. No. O-06-03-07-5, 2, 3-7-06)
Sec. 9-128. Location of portable toilets; permit required.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to locate a
portable toilet within the city without first applying for and receiving a
permit issued by the public works director or his designee. The public works
director or his or her designee shall direct the specific location where the
portable toilet(s) shall be located and it shall not be relocated without a new
permit. Portable toilets shall be located, where possible, out of public view,
so as not to be conspicuous.
(Ord. No. O-06-03-07-5, 2, 3-7-06)
Secs. 9-129--9-149. Reserved.
ARTICLE VI
GRAFFITI
Sec. 9-150. Graffiti defined.
   As used in this article, the word "graffiti" shall refer to any marks made
by drawing, painting or writing one, or inscribing or otherwise defacing any
real or personal property without the prior consent of the owner or person in
control of the premises.
(Ord. No. O-01-09-18-1, 2, 9-18-01)
Sec. 9-151. Graffiti declared a public nuisance.
   Graffiti on public or private property creates a condition tending to reduce
the value of such property, to promote blight and deterioration, to reflect
poorly on the community, and may be injurious to the general welfare.
Furthermore, graffiti has been used as a forum for gang-related activities and
can lead to an increase in crime in the city, which is detrimental to the
health and safety of the citizens of the city. Therefore, the presence of
constitute a public nuisance which may be summarily abated as such in
accordance with provisions of this chapter, or any other applicable provision
of law.
(Ord. No. O-01-09-18-1, 2, 9-18-01)
Sec. 9-152. Premises to be kept free of graffiti.
   Every person, owning or occupying any premises in the city, shall keep such
premises free from graffiti.
(Ord. No. O-01-09-18-1, 2, 9-18-01)
Sec. 9-153. Notice to remove: removal; lien for cost.
   If any person shall violate the provisions of section
9-152, it shall be the duty of the chief of police to give notice to the owner
or to any person in possession of such premises, directing that, within ten
(10) days or sooner from the time of such notice, all graffiti shall be removed
from such premises. Should any owner or any person in possession refuse, or
fail to abate such nuisance, the chief of police shall proceed to remove it or
have it removed. The cost of such removal shall be charged against such
premises and shall become a lien upon such property, and if such cost is not
paid within thirty (30) days it shall be collected in the manner as is provided
for the collection of delinquent taxes. Each day on which any of the provisions
of this section are violated shall constitute a separate offense which shall
also be punishable in accordance with the provisions of section
1-10.
(Ord. No. O-01-09-18-1, 2, 9-18-01)
Chapter 10
LICENSES, PERMITS AND BUSINESS REGULATIONS*
__________
*   Cross References: Permits, Part IV,
Ch. 7; permit for blasting, §
7-57; permit for pyrotechnics, §
7-61; establishment of development permit, Part IV,
Ch. 7;  removal of refuse from commercial tree trimmers,
9-31; burning permit required,
9-39; refuse processing permit required,
9-43; excavation permit required for streets,
15-41; driveway construction permit required,
15-70; driveway standards for businesses,
15-72; display of goods on streets prohibited,
15-134; sale of newspapers restricted,
15-138; demonstration permit required,
15-157; taxicab license required,
17-3; taxicab driver's permit required,
17-61 et seq.
   State Law References: Authority to regulate and license businesses, trades
and forms of amusement, G.S. 160A-194; municipal taxation, G.S. 160A-206 et
seq.
__________
Art. I. In General, 10-1--10-10
Art. II. Business License, 10-11--10-55
Div. 1. Generally, 10-11, 10-12
Div. 2. Requirement for License, 10-13--10-17
Div. 3. Licenses, 10-18--10-29
Div. 4. Enforcement, §§ 10-30--10-75
Art. III. Reserved
Art. IV. Reserved
Art. V. Peddlers and Solicitors, 10-111--10-150
Div. 1. Generally, 10-111--10-125
Div. 2. Permit, 10-126--10-150
Art. VI. Pawnbrokers, 10-151--10-170
Art. VII. Itinerant Merchants, 10-171--10-190
Art. VIII. Franchise Tax on Electric Power, 10-191--10-204
ARTICLE I
IN GENERAL
Secs. 10-1--10-10. Reserved.
ARTICLE II
BUSINESS LICENSE *
__________
*   Editors Note: Ord. No. O-08-01-15-9, adopted Jan. 15, 2008, amended art. II
in its entirety. Former art. II consisted of §§ 10-26--10-50, pertained to
similar subject matter and derived from an ordinance adopted May 8, 1990. Ord.
No. O-10-06-01-1, adopted June 1, 2010, repealed and replaced art. II in its
entirety. Ord. No. O-11-06-07-6, adopted June 7, 2011, repealed and replaced
art. II in its entirety. Ord. No. O-15-11-17-1, adopted November 17, 2015,
repealed and replaced art. II in its entirety.
   State Law References: Regulating and licensing businesses, trades, etc.,
G.S. 160A-194; authority to levy privilege license taxes, G.S. 160A-211.
__________
DIVISION 1.
GENERALLY
Sec. 10-11. Definitions.
   When used in this chapter (unless the context requires a different meaning):
   Administrator shall be the person designated by the City Manager to operate
the program required by this article.
   Business includes each trade, occupation, profession, business, and
franchise licensed under this chapter.
   Person includes any individual, trustee, executor, other fiduciary,
corporation, unincorporated association, partnership, sole proprietorship,
company, firm, or other legal entity.
   A business is seasonal in nature when it is conducted for profit six (6)
months out of the year or less.
(Ord. No. O-15-11-17-1, § 2, 11-17-15)
Sec. 10-12. Construction of this article.
   This article is enacted for regulation purposes only. In addition, issuance
of a license in accordance with this article does not excuse a licensee from
compliance with any other applicable ordinance or statute. This article does
not prevent the City from requiring licenses for additional businesses.
(Ord. No. O-15-11-17-1, § 2, 11-17-15)
DIVISION 2.
REQUIREMENT FOR LICENSE
Sec. 10-13. Who must be licensed.
   Each person who conducts a business within this City is subject to this
article. A person conducts business "within the City" if he or she maintains a
business location within the City; or if, either personally or through agents,
he or she (1) solicits business within the City limits or (2) picks up or
delivers goods or services within the City limits.
(Ord. No. O-15-11-17-1, § 2, 11-17-15)
Sec. 10-14. Period of license; due date.
   (a)   Annual licenses. Unless the section of this article applicable to a
particular business provides otherwise, a license issued in accordance with
this article is good for the 12-month period beginning July 1 and ending June
30.
   (b)   Licenses for periods shorter than one year. If the section of this
article applicable to a particular business so provides, a license may be
issued for a period of one (1) day, one (1) week, or some comparable period of
less than a full license year. A person may not commence a business conducted
within the City until the business license is obtained and may not continue
such a business beyond the period for which the license is issued.
(Ord. No. O-15-11-17-1, § 2, 11-17-15)
Sec. 10-15. Refunds.
   If for any reason a licensee discontinues his or her business during the
license year, he or she is not entitled to a refund.
(Ord. No. O-15-11-17-1, § 2, 11-17-15)
Sec. 10-16. Separate businesses.
   A separate license is required for each place of business unless two (2) or
more places of business under common ownership are contiguous to each other,
communicate directly with and open into each other, and are operated as a unit.
(Ord. No. O-15-11-17-1, § 2, 11-17-15)
Sec. 10-17. Exemptions.
   Except as otherwise provided by state law, no person is exempt from the
requirement of obtaining a license required by this chapter.
(Ord. No. O-15-11-17-1, § 2, 11-17-15)
DIVISION 3.
LICENSES
Sec. 10-18. Application.
   A person shall apply to the Administrator for each license required by this
article before commencing business. The application, which shall be submitted
on forms provided by the Administrator, shall contain:
   (a)   The name of the applicant and whether the applicant is an individual,
a partnership, a corporation, or some other entity.
   (b)   The nature of the business.
   (c)   Where the business is conducted.
   (d)   An address where notices and statements may be mailed to as required
by this chapter.
   (e)   Whether the business is regulated by a state occupational licensing
board subject to G.S. Chapter 93B, and, if so, the serial number of the state
license the applicant currently holds.
   (f)   Any other information the Administrator determines to be necessary to
issue the license.
   The application shall be accompanied by the payment of a license fee, which
is described in Section
10-22 below. In compliance with state law, this fee shall not exceed the cost
to the City of the administrative process of the production and issuance of the
license.
(Ord. No. O-15-11-17-1, § 2, 11-17-15)
Sec. 10-19. Reasons for refusal or revocation of a license.
   The Administrator shall refuse to issue a license or shall revoke a license
for either of the following reasons:
   (a)   The applicant misrepresents a fact relevant to his or her
qualifications for a license.
   (b)   The applicant refuses to provide necessary information.
(Ord. No. O-15-11-17-1, § 2, 11-17-15)
Sec. 10-20. Unqualified applicants; right to a conference.
   After receipt of the completed application, if the Administrator believes
that a reason exists for refusing a license under Section
10-19 of this article, the Administrator shall not issue the license. At the
applicant's request, the Administrator shall, in accordance with Section
10-29 of this article, give the applicant a written statement of the reason for
refusing the license. The applicant may, within ten (10) days after the day the
statement is received, request a conference to discuss the refusal. In the
request, the applicant shall specify why the application for a license should
not be refused. The Administrator shall arrange the conference within a
reasonable time.
   If the Administrator refuses to issue a license, the applicant may reapply
for a license at any time thereafter. If the reason for which the application
was refused no longer exists, and if no other reason exists for refusing to
issue a license, the Administrator shall issue the license in compliance with
Section
10-21 of this article.
(Ord. No. O-15-11-17-1, § 2, 11-17-15)
Sec. 10-21. Administrator to issue license; payment of license fee a
prerequisite.
   After receipt of the completed application and payment of the license fee,
if the Administrator believes that no reason exists for refusal of a license
under Section
10-19 of this article, the Administrator shall issue the license.
(Ord. No. O-15-11-17-1, § 2, 11-17-15)
Sec. 10-22. License fee.
   The fee required of every applicant for any business conducted or engaged in
within the City as required by this article shall be set forth and made a part
of the City of Marion Fee and Rate Schedule adopted by the City Council, as
amended from time to time. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the fee shall in no
case be more than the maximum permitted by state law for that particular
business or enterprise.
(Ord. No. O-15-11-17-1, § 2, 11-17-15)
Sec. 10-23. Revocation.
   The Administrator shall revoke a license if a reason exists to revoke it as
set forth in Section
10-19 of this article. Before revoking a license, the Administrator shall give
the licensee written notice of the grounds for revocation, in accordance with
Section
10-29 of this article. The licensee may, within ten (10) days after the day on
which notice is served, request a conference with the Administrator in writing.
The request shall specify the reasons why the license should not be revoked.
The Administrator shall arrange the conference within a reasonable time.
   If the licensee fails to request a conference within ten (10) days after the
day on which notice is served, the Administrator shall revoke the license. If
the licensee requests a conference, the Administrator may not revoke the
license until after the conference.
   If the Administrator revokes a license, the former licensee may apply for a
new license at any time thereafter. If the reason for which the license was
revoked no longer exists and if no other reason exists for refusing to issue a
license, the Administrator shall issue the license in accordance with Section
10-21 of this article.
(Ord. No. O-15-11-17-1, § 2, 11-17-15)
Sec. 10-24. Form and contents of license.
   A license shall show the name of the person licensed, the place where the
business is conducted (if it is to be conducted at one place), the nature of
the business licensed and the period for which the license is issued. The
Administrator shall keep a copy of each license issued.
(Ord. No. O-15-11-17-1, § 2, 11-17-15)
Sec. 10-25. Assignments.
   A license may be assigned if (1) a business licensed under this article and
carried on at a fixed place is sold as a unit to any person, and (2) the
purchaser is to carry on the same business at the same place. Such a change
shall be reported to the Administrator in accordance with Section
10-26 of this article. Otherwise, each license issued under this article is a
personal license and is not assignable.
(Ord. No. O-15-11-17-1, § 2, 11-17-15)
Sec. 10-26. Changes in the business conducted by licensee during the year.
   A licensee or an assignee shall report a change in the information contained
in the license application to the Administrator within ten (10) days after the
change occurs. If information shown on the license itself is affected, the
licensee or assignee shall surrender the license to the Administrator when
reporting the change.
   (a)   Fee for change. If the change does not result in a separate license
fee, the Administrator shall reissue a license reflecting the change upon
payment of a fee of $5.00.
   (b)   Change requiring refusal of a license. If there is reason for revoking
the license under Section
10-19 of this article, the Administrator shall refuse to reissue a license and
shall instead begin proceedings to revoke the license in accordance with
Section 10-23 of this article.
(Ord. No. O-15-11-17-1, § 2, 11-17-15)
Sec. 10-27. Administrator to furnish duplicates.
   Upon satisfactory proof that a license has been lost or destroyed, the
Administrator shall furnish a duplicate for a fee of $5.00.
(Ord. No. O-15-11-17-1, § 2, 11-17-15)
Sec. 10-28. Record of conferences.
   The Administrator shall maintain for three (3) years a record of each
conference held in accordance with this article. The record shall contain the
applicant's or licensee's name, the date of the conference, and a brief
statement of the issues discussed and the result reached. After three (3)
years, the Administrator shall dispose of the record in accordance with G.S.
121-5.
(Ord. No. O-15-11-17-1, § 2, 11-17-15)
Sec. 10-29. Providing notice to an applicant or licensee.
   Whenever this article requires the Administrator to give a written statement
or notice to an applicant or a licensee, the Administrator may do so in one of
three (3) ways:
   (a)   By personally delivering the statement or notice to the applicant or
licensee;
   (b)   By mailing the statement or notice by registered or certified mail and
returning the receipt requested to the address specified for that purpose in
the license application; or
   (c)   By causing the statement or notice to be served on the applicant or
licensee in accordance with the procedures for service of process under Rule 4,
North Carolina Rules of Civil Procedure.
(Ord. No. O-15-11-17-1, § 2, 11-17-15)
DIVISION 4.
ENFORCEMENT AND COLLECTION
Sec. 10-30. Duty to determine whether license is required.
   Each person has the duty to determine whether the business he or she
conducts is required to be licensed under this article and, if so, whether that
license has been obtained.
(Ord. No. O-15-11-17-1, § 2, 11-17-15)
Sec. 10-31. Administrator to investigate.
   If the Administrator has reason to believe that a person is conducting a
business in the City in violation of this chapter, the Administrator shall
conduct an investigation to determine the status of the business.
(Ord. No. O-15-11-17-1, § 2, 11-17-15)
Sec. 10-32. Duty to permit inspection.
   Each person who conducts business in the City shall permit the Administrator
to inspect the business premises during normal business hours to determine the
nature of the business conducted there.
(Ord. No. O-15-11-17-1, § 2, 11-17-15)
Sec. 10-33. Duty to post license.
   A licensee shall post the license or licenses conspicuously in the place of
business licensed. If the licensee has no regular place of business, the
license must be kept where it may be inspected at all times by the proper City
officials.
(Ord. No. O-15-11-17-1, § 2, 11-17-15)
Sec. 10-34. Enforcement of ordinance.
   (a)   Criminal remedies. Conducting business within this City without a
valid license issued in accordance with this chapter, or without posting a
valid license in compliance with Section
10-33 of this article is a misdemeanor, punishable as provided in G.S. § 14-4.
Each day that a person conducts business in violation of this article is a
separate offense.
   (b)   Equitable remedies. In addition to the criminal remedies set forth in
subsection (a) of this section and in compliance with G.S. 160A-175(d), the
City may seek an injunction against any person who conducts a business in
violation of this article.
(Ord. No. O-15 -11-17-1, § 2, 11-17-15)
Secs. 10-35 - 10-110. Reserved.
ARTICLE III
RESERVED
ARTICLE IV
RESERVED
ARTICLE V
PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS*
__________
*   State Law References: Authority of city to regulate solicitation campaigns,
flea markets and itinerant merchants, G.S. 160A-178.
__________
DIVISION 1.
GENERALLY
Sec. 10-111. Definitions.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   Peddler means any person who transports goods from place to place and sells
or offers for sale such goods, or who, without traveling from place to place,
sells or offers for sale any good from any vehicle or device, provided, that
any person who separates the acts of sale and delivery for the purposing of
evading the provisions of this article shall be deemed a peddler.
   Solicitor means any person who travels from residence to residence taking or
offering to take orders for the sale of goods for future delivery or for
personal services to be performed in the future, whether or not samples are
displayed or money is collected in advance.
(Code 1982, 6-1071)
   Cross References: Definitions and rules of construction generally, 1-3.
Sec. 10-112. Prohibited on certain streets.
   No person, whether he possesses a permit required by this article or not,
shall peddle any merchandise upon the following streets or sidewalks abutting
such streets:
   (1)   Main Street, from Crawford Street to Logan Street;
   (2)   Court Street, from Academy Street to Madison Street;
   (3)   State Street, from Main Street to Garden Street;
   (4)   Railroad Street, from Main Street to Willow Street; and
   (5)   Henderson Street, from Garden Street to Burgin Street.
   (6)   Garden Street, from State Street to Fort Street.
   (7)   Logan Street, from Henderson Street to Main Street.
(Code 1982, 6-1077; Ord. of 9-6-94, 1)
Sec. 10-113. Badge.
   (a)    The city clerk shall, in addition to the license issued under section
10-128, issue to each successful applicant a badge which shall be substantially
in the following form:
20 ________ City of Marion, North Carolina No. ________
   SOLICITOR'S BADGE
________ has registered with the City Clerk as required by Ordinance.
(date) ____
____
   City Clerk
   (b)    During the time the applicant is engaged in the business of a peddler
or solicitor, this badge shall be worn on the front of his outer garment in
such manner as to be conspicuous.
(Code 1982, 6-1075)
Sec. 10-114. Certain exceptions.
   (a)    The provisions of this article shall not apply to persons while
engaged in selling farm or dairy products produced by such persons or members
of their immediate families, nor to the sale of newspapers.
   (b)    Nothing contained in this article shall prohibit the sale of articles
of merchandise or the solicitation of funds by residents of the county, in
behalf of civic, religious or charitable organizations based in such county, or
the public schools, for purely religious, educational or charitable purposes,
provided such organizations shall furnish for each person selling articles of
merchandise or soliciting funds for said organizations, a hat, badge, pin,
uniform or identification card which will identify the organization for whom
such person is selling or soliciting.
(Code 1982, 6-1078)
Secs. 10-115--10-125. Reserved.
DIVISION 2.
PERMIT
Sec. 10-126. Required.
   In order to protect the public health, safety and welfare, it shall be
unlawful for a peddler or solicitor as defined by section
10-111 of this article to engage in such business within the city without first
obtaining a permit therefor in compliance with the provisions of this article.
Should any person employed by another as a peddler or solicitor change
employment, such person shall be required to secure a new permit.
(Code 1982, 6-1072)
Sec. 10-127. Application.
   Each and every person doing business in the city as a peddler or solicitor
shall file with the city clerk on a form to be provided for this purpose an
application for a permit, which shall contain the following information:
   (1)   Name and address of individual filing application;
   (2)   Name and address of principal or employer if applicant is an agent or
employee;
   (3)   Credentials showing relationship of agent or employee;
   (4)   Description of applicant including height, weight, sex, age, color and
distinguishing characteristics, if any;
   (5)   The goods to be sold or offered for sale, or the type of services to
be rendered;
   (6)   The period of time during which the business will be carried on in the
city;
   (7)   Description of automobile or other vehicle to be used in the business,
including the make, model, body style, color and license number;
   (8)   Whether or not the applicant, his principal or employer, or any other
person having management or supervision of the applicant's business has been
convicted of a crime, the nature of the offense, and the punishment assessed
therefor; and
   (9)   Such other information as to the identity of the applicant or the
nature of his business as the city clerk may deem proper to protect the public
health, safety and welfare.
(Code 1982, 6-1073)
Sec. 10-128. Issuance.
   (a)    Upon receipt of an application, the city clerk shall cause to be made
such investigation of the applicant's moral character and business
responsibility as is necessary to protect the public health, safety and
welfare.
   (b)    A criminal records background check is required for applicants for a
license under this article, in order to protect the public health, safety and
welfare. Such background check shall be conducted by the police department in
conformity with state law. The result of the background check can determine the
suitability of the applicant.
   (c)    If, as a result of this background check, the character and
responsibility of the applicant appear to be satisfactory, the city clerk shall
issue a permit, providing that the applicant complies with sections
10-112 and 10-113.
   (d)    The city clerk shall not issue a permit required by this article to
any person who, as a result of the investigation and background check:
   (1)   Appears to have an unsatisfactory character and business
responsibility; or
   (2)   As a result of the criminal background check, is deemed by the city
clerk to be unfit to conduct the activities for which the license is applied.
(Code 1982, 6-1074; Ord. No. O-03-02-18-2, 2, 2-18-03)
Sec. 10-129. Fee; privilege license tax.
   The city clerk shall charge and collect a fee in an amount as may be
established from time to time by the city council in order to recover the
administrative costs of processing each application for a permit. In addition
to the permit fee, the city clerk shall also collect the annual privilege
license tax from each successful applicant before issuing a permit to such
applicant.
(Code 1982, 6-1076)
Secs. 10-130--10-150. Reserved.
ARTICLE VI
PAWNBROKERS*
__________
*   Editors Note: An ordinance of January 8, 1991, 1--3, did not specifically
amend the Code; therefore, inclusion as 10-151 was at the discretion of the
editor.
__________
Sec. 10-151. Rules and regulations adopted by reference; penalty.
   (a)    The city council herewith adopts the provisions of G.S. Chapter 91A,
"Pawnbrokers Modernization Act of 1989," in accordance with G.S. section 91A-
12.
   (b)    The city council reserves the right to adopt further such rules and
regulations governing this activity as it deems appropriate, subject to the
specific limitations of G.S. Chapter 91A, and specifically the limitations of
G.S. section 91A-12.
   (c)    Any person who shall violate or fail to comply with this section
shall be deemed to be guilty of an offense and shall be punished by a fine not
to exceed fifty dollars ($50.00) or by imprisonment not to exceed thirty (30)
days.
(Ord. of 1-8-91, 1--3)
Sec. 10-152. Criminal history check authorized; disqualifications.
   In order to protect the public health, safety and welfare of the citizens of
Marion and their properties, the procedures herein are established to provide
for fingerprinting and criminal history checks on all applicants for pawnbroker
licenses. Subject to subsection (c) of this section, a pawnbroker license may
be denied for those persons convicted of any crime against a person, or crimes
against property where intent is an element, or any drug or gambling related
offense.
   (a)   The city manager, or designee, shall conduct an investigation of any
person applying for a pawnbroker license and it shall be a precondition of a
pawnbroker license that an applicant for a pawnbroker license shall, upon
request, provide fingerprints and all other necessary personal identification
including a birth certificate, social security number and driver's license, if
available, so that the city manager, or designee, may cause a thorough search
to be made of local and state criminal records to determine if the applicant
has a history of criminal convictions or the crimes enumerated above by the use
of the Division of Criminal Information Network (DCI).
   (b)   The Marion Police Department shall provide the findings from the use
of the DCI to the city manager or designee, provided that all necessary
agreements with the State Bureau of Investigations Division of Criminal
Information have been executed.
   (c)   An evaluation of any crime for purposes of issuing a pawnbroker
license will take into account the nature and the circumstances of the offense
and the time frame of the offense as it relates to the pawnbroker license.
   (d)   Prior to denial or termination of a pawnbroker license based upon
criminal history record information (CHRI) received from the Marion police
department, the city manager shall verify the existence of a record by either
obtaining a certified public record or by submitting a fingerprint card of the
individual to the criminal information and identification section for
verification that the CHRI record belongs to the individual.
(Ord. No. O-11-09-20-3, 3, 9-20-11)
Secs. 10-153--10-170. Reserved.
ARTICLE VII
ITINERANT MERCHANTS
Sec. 10-171. License required.
   It shall be unlawful for an itinerant merchant as defined in section
10-172 to engage in such business within the city without first obtaining a
license in compliance with the provisions of this article.
(Ord. No. O-02-03-19-1, 2, 3-19-02)
Sec. 10-172. Definitions.
   For the purpose of this article, an itinerant merchant is defined as any
person, firm or corporation, whether as owner, agent, consignee or employee,
whether a resident of the city or not, who engages in a temporary business of
selling and delivering goods, wares and merchandise within the city, and whom,
in furtherance of such purposes hires, leases, uses or occupies any building,
structure, motor vehicle, railroad box car, public room in hotels, lodging
houses, apartments, shops, or any street, alley or other place within the city
for the exhibition and sale of such goods, wares and merchandise, either
privately or at public auction.
(Ord. No. O-02-03-19-1, 2, 3-19-02)
Sec. 10-173. Exemptions.
   The definition of itinerant merchant shall not be construed to include:
   (a)   Any licensed auctioneer selling goods at an auction.
   (b)   Any person selling farm or nursery products he or she produces.
   (c)   A licensed automobile dealer.
   (d)   Any person selling Christmas trees and holiday decorations.
   No person, firm, or corporation so engaged in the sale of goods, wares and
merchandise shall be relieved from complying with the provisions of this
chapter merely by reason of associating temporarily with any local dealer,
trader, merchant or auctioneer, or by conducting such transient business in
connection with, as a part of, or in the name of any local dealer, trader,
merchant or auctioneer.
(Ord. No. O-02-03-19-1, 2, 3-19-02)
Sec. 10-174. Application for license.
   An application for an itinerant merchant license must be obtained from the
city zoning administrator two (2) weeks prior to the time of the sale. The
application for license will be approved or disallowed by the zoning
administrator after an investigation by the city police chief. The zoning
administrator shall determine if the city zoning ordinance allows the sale of
the goods, wares and merchandise to be sold in the proposed location(s). The
itinerant merchant will be notified in writing if the application has been
approved or disapproved. If the application is disapproved, the itinerant
merchant will not be permitted to conduct business within the city limits of
Marion. No application from an applicant previously convicted of a felony or
misdemeanor involving fraud, forgery, sale of counterfeit goods, ticket
scalping, violation of tax laws, or business license laws will be approved. No
application will be approved that would involve the sale of goods, wares and
merchandise in a location in violation of the city zoning ordinance. All
approved itinerant merchant applicants will be required to submit a crew and
vehicle registration form for purposes of information and identification. If
the application is approved, the license fee set by city council and on file in
the office of the tax collector must be paid prior to the issuance of the
itinerant merchant license.
(Ord. No. O-02-03-19-1, 2, 3-19-02; Ord. No. O-08-04-15-1, 1, 4-15-08)
Sec. 10-175. Reserved.
   Editors Note: Ord. No. O-03-11-19-2, adopted Nov. 19, 2003, deleted in its
entirety 10-175 which pertained to bonds and derived from Ord. No. O-02-03-19-
1, adopted Mar. 19, 2002.
Sec. 10-176. Display and possession of license and identification.
   An itinerant merchant shall keep the license required by this article
conspicuously and prominently displayed so as to be visible for inspection by
patrons of the itinerant merchant at the place or locations at which the goods
are to be sold or offered for sale. Upon the request of any customer or city
official, an itinerant merchant shall provide their name and permanent address.
If the itinerant merchant is not a corporation, or is an employee of a
corporation, he shall, upon the request of any customer, state or local revenue
or law enforcement agent, provide a valid driver's license, a special
identification card issued under G.S. section 20-37.7, a military
identification, or a passport bearing a physical description of the person
named reasonably describing the itinerant merchant. If the itinerant merchant
is a corporation, it shall, upon request of any customer, state or local
revenue or law enforcement agent, give the name and registered agent of the
corporation and the address of the registered office of the corporation, as
filed with the state secretary of state or the county register of deeds.
(Ord. No. O-02-03-19-1, 2, 3-19-02)
Sec. 10-177. Permission of property owner.
   An itinerant merchant shall obtain a written statement, signed by the owner
or lessee of any property upon which the itinerant merchant offers goods for
sale giving the owner's or lessee's permission to offer goods for sale upon the
property of the owner or lessee, the location of the premises for which the
permission is granted, and the dates during which the permission is valid.
(Ord. No. O-02-03-19-1, 2, 3-19-02)
Sec. 10-178. Display area.
   Any itinerant merchant conducting business shall have a display area with a
tent not less than ten (10) feet by ten (10) feet. No items are to be displayed
on automobiles, trucks, tractors or the ground.
(Ord. No. O-02-03-19-1, 2, 3-19-02)
Sec. 10-179. Method of payment.
   Payment of the license will be accepted only in the form of cash, money
order, or cashier's check.
(Ord. No. O-02-03-19-1, 2, 3-19-02)
Sec. 10-180. License not transferable.
   No license issued under this article shall be transferable.
(Ord. No. O-02-03-19-1, 2, 3-19-02)
Sec. 10-181. Duty of police to enforce.
   It shall be the duty of the police officers of the city to enforce the
provisions of this article.
(Ord. No. O-02-03-19-1, 2, 3-19-02)
Sec. 10-182. Issuance of license and renewal.
   (a)    All licenses issued under the provision of this article shall conform
to section 10-5 of this chapter.
   (b)    The applicant shall make a written application for renewal stating
that the person or persons managing the business are the same as those listed
in the original application, that the place or places where the applicant
proposes to conduct business have not changed, and a statement explaining any
material change in circumstances from the information given in the original
application.
(Ord. No. O-02-03-19-1, 2, 3-19-02; Ord. No. O-08-04-15-1, 1, 4-15-08)
Sec. 10-183. Appeal.
   Any person aggrieved by a decision of city staff to deny an application for
a license may appeal to the city council. Such appeal shall be taken by filing
with the city manager within fourteen (14) days after notice of the decision by
the city staff has been mailed to such person's last known address, a written
statement setting forth the grounds for the appeal. The city council shall set
the time and place for a hearing on such appeal and notice of such hearing
shall be given to such persons by first class mail. The decision of the city
council regarding the appeal shall be final.
(Ord. No. O-02-03-19-1, 2, 3-19-02)
Secs. 10-184--10-190. Reserved.
ARTICLE VIII
FRANCHISE TAX ON ELECTRIC POWER
Sec. 10-191. Citation.
   This article shall be known and may be cited as the "City of Marion's
Franchise Tax on Electric Power Ordinance", and shall be codified as chapter
10, article VIII.
(Ord. No. O-02-06-18-1, 6-18-02)
Sec. 10-192. Definitions.
   In addition to the common meanings of words, the following definitions shall
be applicable herein:
   City shall mean the City of Marion.
   City franchise tax shall mean the franchise enacted by this article.
   Revenue Act shall mean Subchapter I of Chapter 105 of the General Statutes
of North Carolina.
   Secretary of revenue shall mean the secretary of revenue of the State of
North Carolina.
   State franchise tax shall mean the franchise or privilege tax imposed on an
electric power company engaged in the business of furnishing electricity,
electric lights, current or power as provided in G.S. Chapter 105, Article 3
entitled "Franchise Tax."
   State Franchise Tax Act shall mean Article 3 of Chapter 105 of the General
Statutes of North Carolina.
   Tax collector means the department of the [city/town/village] government or
the official agency of the state designated by law and authorized by law to
administer the collection of the tax herein levied.
   Taxpayer(s) shall mean any electric power company liable for the taxes
imposed by this article.
   Except as otherwise provided in this article, the definitions of words,
terms and phrases as set forth and/or applied in Article 3, Chapter 105 of the
North Carolina General Statutes are hereby adopted by reference and made a part
hereof. Reference to any provision or provisions in the General Statutes shall
include the same as may be from time to time amended, modified, supplemented,
revised or superceded.
(Ord. No. O-02-06-18-1, 6-18-02)
Sec. 10-193. Ratifications of existing permits.
   All valid and subsisting permits to do business issued by the secretary of
revenue pursuant to the Revenue Act are for the purposes of this article,
hereby ratified, confirmed, and adopted in lieu of any requirement for an
additional city permit for the same purpose.
(Ord. No. O-02-06-18-1, 6-18-02)
Sec. 10-194. Levy of tax.
   A franchise tax is hereby levied and imposed for the period(s) designated in
section
10-195 of this article upon the electric power companies engaged in the
business of furnishing electricity, electric lights, current or power within
the corporate limits of the city. The tax shall be 3.09 percent of the
companies' taxable gross receipts from the business of furnishing electricity,
electric lights, current or power within the corporate limits of the city. It
is intended that taxable gross receipts hereunder shall be the same as those
taxable under the State Franchise Tax Act.
(Ord. No. O-02-06-18-1, 6-18-02)
Sec. 10-195. Period for which tax due.
   When a distribution to the city as required under the State Franchise Tax
Act shall not be made, the city franchise tax shall be levied for the periods
herein described. A period for which the tax shall be due shall begin on the
first day of the first calendar month following the month during which a
distribution under the State Franchise Tax Act was due, but not made, to the
city and shall continue from month to month until such time as a distribution
as required under the State Franchise Tax Act shall be made. The city shall
notify taxpayers within a reasonable time after a required distribution is or
is not made by the secretary of revenue.
(Ord. No. O-02-06-18-1, 6-18-02)
Sec. 10-196. Report and payment of tax.
   The tax shall be paid to the tax collector at the time and in the form and
manner provided for the payment of sales and use taxes pursuant to and in
accordance with G.S. section 105-164.16 as the same applies to a taxpayer who
is consistently liable for more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) but less
than ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) a month. As applicable to sales and use
taxes, such a taxpayer must file a return and pay the taxes due on a monthly
basis. The tax shall be due and payable when a return is required to be filed.
(Ord. No. O-02-06-18-1, 6-18-02)
Sec. 10-197. Refunds.
   Upon the resumption of distributions by the secretary of revenue as required
under the State Franchise Tax Act, a refund may be due to a taxpayer as
specified in this section. A refund in the amount indicated herein below shall
be due to a taxpayer within thirty (30) days after presentation to the city by
the taxpayer of a written certification made by the secretary of revenue
stating that portion of the city's percentage distribution amount of the State
Franchise Tax that was paid by the taxpayer and allocable to the calendar
quarter for which the most recent distribution was made. The amount of a refund
shall equal the portion of the percentage distribution amount designated by the
secretary of revenue.
(Ord. No. O-02-06-18-1, 6-18-02)
Sec. 10-198. Penalties and remedies.
   The provisions with respect to remedies and penalties applicable to the
State Franchise Tax Act as contained in Article 9, Subchapter 1, Chapter 105 of
the General Statutes, shall be applicable in like manner to the tax authorized
to be levied and collected under this article, to the extent that the same are
not inconsistent with the provisions hereof. The city council of the city may
exercise any power the secretary of revenue may exercise in collecting the
State Franchise Tax.
(Ord. No. O-02-06-18-1, 6-18-02)
Sec. 10-199. Administration.
   In addition to the provisions herein and to the extent that the same are not
inconsistent with the provisions of this article, the levy and collection of
taxes herein imposed shall be otherwise administered in the same manner as the
State Franchise Tax Act as contained in Article 9, Subchapter 1, Chapter 105 of
the General Statutes.
(Ord. No. O-02-06-18-1, 6-18-02)
Sec. 10-200. Confidentiality of records.
   The confidential and privileged nature of the records and files concerning
the administration of the City Franchise Tax is legislatively recognized and
declared, and to protect the same the provision of Chapter 105 of the North
Carolina General Statutes are adopted by reference and made fully effective and
applicable to administration of the tax levied herein as if set forth in full.
(Ord. No. O-02-06-18-1, 6-18-02)
Sec. 10-201. Ordinance as cumulative.
   The provisions hereof shall be cumulative, and in addition to any and all
other taxing provisions of city ordinances.
(Ord. No. O-02-06-18-1, 6-18-02)
Sec. 10-202. Severability.
   The provisions hereof are hereby declared to be severable, and if any
section, paragraph, sentence, or clause of this article is for any reason held
invalid or inoperative by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision
shall not affect any other section, paragraph, sentence, or clause thereof.
(Ord. No. O-02-06-18-1, 6-18-02)
Sec. 10-203. Service upon electric power companies.
   The city shall serve a copy of this article upon the registered agent for
any electric power companies affected hereby.
(Ord. No. O-02-06-18-1, 6-18-02)
Sec. 10-204. Effective date.
   This article shall become and be effective on the date and time as passed by
the city council of the city.
(Ord. No. O-02-06-18-1, 6-18-02)
Chapter 11
OFFENSES
Sec. 11-1. Display of firearms prohibited.
   (a)    It shall be unlawful to display on the person any firearm on the
streets, sidewalks, alleys or other public property within the city except as
follows:
   (1)   When a firearm is being transported for repair or sale;
   (2)   When a firearm is carried by an on duty member of the national guard.
   (b)    No firearm carried or transported pursuant to the exceptions of this
section shall be loaded under any circumstances.
   (c)    This section is not intended to apply to law enforcement personnel
who are authorized to carry a weapon in the performance of their official
duties.
Sec. 11-2. Public disorderliness.
   No person shall be disorderly in any street, alley, or public place.
(Code 1982, 8-1002)
   State Law References: Disorderly conduct, G.S. 14-288.4; intoxicated and
disruptive in public, G.S. 14-444.
Sec. 11-3. Indecent conduct.
   Any person who shall willfully expose the genitals or buttocks of his person
in any business or public place and in the presence of any other person, or who
aids or abets in any such act, or who procures another to perform such act; or
any person, who knowingly as owner, manager, lessee, director, promoter or
agent, or in any other capacity, hires, leases or permits the land, building,
or premises of which he is owner, lessee or tenant, or over which he has
control, to be used for purposes of any such act, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(Code 1982, 8-1003)
   State Law References: Similar provisions, G.S. 14-190.9; offenses against
public morals, G.S. 19-1 et seq.
Sec. 11-4. Displaying obscene pictures.
   No person shall display on any street or alley, or in any store, shop or
public place, any vulgar or obscene pictures, marks, words, or representations
of any kind.
(Code 1982, 8-1008)
   State Law References: Obscene literature and exhibitions, G.S. 14-190.1;
offenses against public morals, G.S. 19-1 et seq.
Sec. 11-5. Prostitution.
   (a)    No person shall knowingly sell, rent or use any house to be used as a
house of prostitution.
   (b)    No person shall solicit any man or woman for sexual intercourse on
any of the streets or public places.
(Code 1982, 8-1009, 8-1011)
   Cross References: Use of taxicabs for soliciting prostitution unlawful, 17-
15.
   State Law References: Prostitution, G.S. 14-203 et seq.
Sec. 11-6. Begging in public places prohibited.
   No person shall beg, panhandle, solicit alms or conduct any type of
performance for donations in any public street, alley, right-of-way or sidewalk
in the city or on any property owned or leased by the city. This section shall
not apply to performances conducted in conjunction with city-sponsored or
approved events on public streets or sidewalks or on property owned or leased
by the city. The permission of the event organizer is required for performances
conducted in conjunction with city sponsored or approved events on public
streets or sidewalks or on property owned or leased by the city.
(Code 1982, 8-1013; Ord. No. O-09-08-18-3, 2, 8-18-09)
   State Law References: Authority of city to regulate begging, G.S. 160A-179.
Sec. 11-7. Propelling harmful objects; archery exception.
   No person shall shoot or hurl any stone, rock, shot or other hard substance
by means of a slingshot, bean shooter, air rifle, shot shooter, pop gun, bow or
other similar contrivance, provided that archery shooting may be practiced in
such places as may be set aside and approved by the council.
(Code 1982, 8-1015)
Sec. 11-8. Discharge of firearms and fireworks prohibited; exception.
   (a)   No person shall fire any pistol, gun or other firearm, fireworks or
other pyrotechnics in the City Limits.
   (b)   Subsection (a) shall not apply when a weapon is used in a lawful
manner:
   (1)   In self-defense;
   (2)   By a law enforcement officer in the discharge of his or her duties;
   (3)   In a licensed shooting gallery; or
   (4)   At a historical, ceremonial or commemorative function with the
approval of the Police Chief, provided that in no event shall live ammunition
be used or discharged.
(Ord. No. O-12-8-21-6, § 2, 8-21-12)
Sec. 11-9. Sleeping in stairways, being on private premises without consent,
blocking public way prohibited.
   It shall be unlawful to:
   (1)   Sleep on, or at the foot of the stairway of any building;
   (2)   Sit upon the bridge railings or on anything on the sidewalk, or on the
private premises, or grounds, of another, without the consent of the person in
control of such premises or grounds;
   (3)   Assemble in such numbers as to interfere with the full and free use
and passage of public traffic on sidewalks, streets, bridges, alleys, or other
public places;
   (4)   Park in a business parking lot after business hours, when signs are
posted in a conspicuous place prohibiting such parking after business hours; or
   (5)   Skate or skateboard on any private property or parking lot, when signs
are posted in a conspicuous place prohibiting such activities.
(Code 1982, 8-1017; Ord. of 9-7-99, 1)
Sec. 11-10. Animal and chicken fights.
   No person shall incite or cause any dogs, or other animals, or any chickens
to fight.
(Code 1982, 8-1021)
   Cross References: Animals,
Ch. 3.
   State Law References: Cockfighting, G.S. 14-362; animal fights other than
cockfights and animal baiting, G.S. 14-362.1.
Sec. 11-11. Unauthorized use of police whistles and fire signals.
   No person, without authority from the police department or fire department,
shall carry or use any whistles, bells, horns or sirens, similar in appearance
or sound to the whistles, horns or sirens used by the police department or fire
department.
(Code 1982, 8-1022)
   State Law References: Unlawful to equip unauthorized vehicle with siren or
compression whistle, G.S. 20-125.
Sec. 11-12. Damaging public property.
   (a)    It shall be unlawful to deface any public property within the city.
   (b)    No person shall willfully, or negligently, injure, or interfere with,
any valve, valve box, meter, meter box, storm or sanitary sewer, manhole cover,
storm sewer catch basin cover, fire hydrant, police or fire alarm box, traffic
signal or any other property used in the city's water, sewer, police or fire
alarm systems.
(Code 1982, 8-1023, 8-1024)
   State Law References: Willful and wanton injury to real property, G.S. 14-
127; damaging public buildings and facilities, G.S. 14-132; molesting fire-
alarm, fire-detection or fire-extinguishing system, G.S. 14-286.
Sec. 11-13. Posting signs on city property prohibited.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to post any bill, poster, placard or
sign of any type on any pole, post or tree on any city-owned property including
parking lots, street and alley rights-of-way.
(Code 1982, 8-1025)
   State Law References: Unlawful posting of advertisements, G.S. 14-145.
Sec. 11-14. Distributing notices on public streets prohibited.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw or place any written or printed
notices, posters, or pamphlets of any kind upon any public street or alley or
to place such materials under the windshield wipers of vehicles or on any type
vehicle.
(Code 1982, 8-1026)
Sec. 11-15. Unlawful to carry certain items; exceptions.
   (a)    It shall be unlawful for any person to have in his possession, except
when on his own premises, or to carry or use, any bowie knife, dirk, dagger,
razor or knife, with a blade of over three (3) inches in length, anywhere
within the corporate limits of the city.
   (b)    This section shall not apply to the following persons: officers and
enlisted personnel of the armed forces of the United States when in discharge
of their official duties as such and acting under orders requiring them to
carry arms or weapons, civil officers of the United States while in the
discharge of their official duties, officers and soldiers of the militia and
the state guard when called into actual service, officers of the state or of
any county, city, or town, charged with the execution of the laws of the state,
when acting in the discharge of their official duties.
(Code 1982, 8-6010, 8-6011)
   State Law References: Carrying concealed weapons, G.S. 14-269; possession
and sale of spring-loaded projectile knives prohibited, G.S. 14-269.6.
Sec. 11-16. Weapons prohibited on city property.
   (a)   Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this
article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section:
   (1)   City recreational facility shall mean the following properties,
including all buildings, parking lots, internal driveways and walkways and any
other improvements associated with the listed properties, but excluding areas
within the state or city public rights of way:
   a.   The Community Building Park, on North Main Street, including
playground, basketball court, tennis court, splash pad and all other athletic
facilities.
   b.   The West Marion Community Park, on Addie's Chapel Drive, including
playground and basketball court.
   c.   The Cross Mill Community Park, on Granby Street, including playground,
basketball court, volleyball court and disc golf course.
   d.   The Eastfield Community Park, on Perry Street, including playground and
basketball court.
   e.   The Clinchfield Community Park, on Hill Street, including playground
and basketball court.
   (2)   City building or public property shall mean the following properties
including all buildings, parking lots, internal driveways and walkways and any
other improvements associated with the listed properties, but excluding areas
within the state or city public rights of way.
   a.   City Hall, on North Main Street
   b.   Community Building, on North Main Street
   c.   Historic Depot, on Depot Street
   d.   Police Department, on South Main Street
   e.   Fire Department, on West Court Street
   f.   Public Works Department/City Warehouse, on Shop Drive
   g.   City Firing Range, on Old Greenlee Road
   h.   Water Plant, on Old Greenlee Road
   i.   Wastewater Treatment Plant, on NC Highway 226 South
   j.   Marion ABC Store #1, on East Court Street
   k.   Marion ABC Store #2, on US 221 North
   l.   Buck Creek Water Intake, on US 70 West
   m.   Historic Marion Tailgate Shelter, on West Henderson Street
   (b)   Concealed weapons. As allowed by G.S. 14-415.23, the city prohibits
the carrying of concealed handguns as follows:
   (1)   It is prohibited, and not within the scope of any concealed handgun
permit, for any person to possess or carry a concealed handgun in or upon any
city building and appurtenant premises as specifically described herein above.
   (2)   It is prohibited for any person to possess or carry a concealed
handgun in or upon an City Recreational Facility as specifically described
herein above, except for legally carried concealed handguns, which are
permitted under State law (presently G.S. § 14-415.23).
   (3)   State law (presently G.S. 14-269(b)) provides that certain persons are
not subject to the prohibition against carrying concealed weapons. Such persons
are also exempt from the prohibitions in this subsection.
   (4)   State law (presently G.S. 14-415.23) provides that, notwithstanding
local ordinances forbidding concealed handguns on recreational facilities,
handgun permittees are allowed to secure a handgun "in a locked vehicle within
the trunk, glove box, or other enclosed compartment or area within or on the
motor vehicle." Therefore, handguns stored in such areas shall not be in
violation of this section.
   (5)   A conspicuous notice shall be posted at each entrance to any property
set forth in subsection (a)(1) or (a)(2), indicating that carrying a concealed
weapon or possession of a weapon, unless expressly allowed by state law, is
prohibited therein, as well as on the premises thereof. Signs on buildings
shall be visibly posted on the exterior of each entrance by which the general
public can access the building. The city manager or his designee shall exercise
discretion in determining the number and appropriate location of signs to be
placed on or within appurtenant premises and parks.
   (c)   Open weapons on city recreational facilities, in city buildings and on
city public property. As allowed by G.S. 160A-189, it shall be unlawful for any
person to display weapons (unconcealed) on any city recreational facilities as
defined herein above, in any city building as defined herein above, on any city
public property as defined herein above, on any other city owned or controlled
property or on any street, alley, right-of-way or sidewalk owned or controlled
by the city. As used in this section, '"weapon" shall mean a rifle, pistol,
shotgun, bowie knife, dirk, dagger, sling shot, loaded cane, metallic knuckles,
razor, shurikin, stun gun, or other dangerous or deadly item of like kind. This
prohibition shall not apply to the following persons:
   (1)   Officers and enlisted personnel of the armed forces of the United
States when in discharge of their official duties as such and acting under
orders requiring them to carry arms and weapons;
   (2)   Civil officers of the United States while in the discharge of their
official duties;
   (3)   Officers and soldiers of the militia and the national guard when
called into actual service;
   (4)   Sworn law enforcement officers.
   (d)   Seizure of weapons. The chief of police or any member of the police
department is hereby authorized to seize and hold any firearm or mechanism
involved in a violation of this section, and to hold such property, subject to
release only upon an order of a court of appropriate jurisdiction.
   (e)   Punishment. Any person who violates any provision of this section
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished in accordance with
chapter 1 of the Marion City Code.
   (f)   Exception. Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, the
chief of police may, in his discretion, issue a permit authorizing the display
and discharge of certain weapons in connection with organized training and
certification programs, or competitions conducted by bona fide civic groups or
entities. All such permits must be in writing, with such terms and conditions
as the chief of police may require, provided that all permits must contain
provisions that clearly absolve and release the city from any and all liability
related to the event.
(Ord. No. O-11-11-01-1, § 2, 11-1-11; Ord. No. O-13-11-19-2, § 2, 11-19-13)
   State Law References: Statewide uniformity of local regulation, G.S. 14-
409.40; permit to carry concealed handgun; scope of permit, G.S. 14-415.11;
statewide uniformity, G.S. 14-415.23; firearms, G.S. 160A-189; pellet guns,
G.S. 160A-190; carrying concealed weapons, G.S. 14-269.
Sec. 11-17. Consumption of alcoholic beverages.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to consume any alcoholic beverage
as defined by G.S. 18B-101 on any property owned or controlled by the city or
upon any public vehicular area; provided, that this section shall not apply to
the premises of those establishments that have an "on-premises" ABC permit as
prescribed under G.S. 18B-1001 or in situations defined in subsections (c)
through (f) of this section.
   (b)   Such public vehicular area shall mean and include any drive, driveway,
road, roadway, street, sidewalk, alley, parking area or other space open for
the purpose of vehicular traffic or operation upon the grounds or premises of:
   (1)   Any public or private hospital, college, school or church or any
institution maintained and supported by the State of North Carolina, McDowell
County or the City of Marion.
   (2)   Any service station, car wash, supermarket, store, restaurant,
amusement center, lounge, shopping center, office building, or any other
business or municipal establishment or groups of such establishments providing
parking space for customers, patrons, employees or the public; provided, that
this section shall not apply to the premises of those establishments that have
an "on-premises" ABC permit as prescribed under G.S. 18B-1001.
   (c)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, it shall not be unlawful for any person
to consume any alcoholic beverage within the premises of a sidewalk cafe;
permitted pursuant to the provisions of
Chapter 15 of the city code and for which a valid ABC permit exists.
   (d)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, it shall not be unlawful for any person
to possess or consume beer or wine within the area designated for such
possession or consumption as part of specially designated City of Marion
events, Marion Business Association events, or events run by outsides
organizations approved by the city such as parades, concerts, festivals and
events of the City of Marion; or at other events approved by the City Council
to take place on public streets, sidewalks, alleys, properties or sidewalks,
for which a public assembly alcohol permit has been approved subject to the
provisions of
Chapter 12, Parks and Recreation, Article III, Festivals and Events, of the
city code.
   (e)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, it shall not be unlawful for any person
to possess or consume alcoholic beverages in the Community Building or Depot as
part of an event approved by the city and in compliance with the Community
Building main level, Community Building basement or Depot rules and regulations
and applicable local and state regulations.
   (f)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, it shall not be unlawful for any person
to possess or consume alcoholic beverages in an approved social district, the
boundaries, days and hours of operation, management and maintenance of which
are defined by the City of Marion, subject to the provisions of
Chapter 12, Parks and Recreation, of the city code.
(Ord. No. O-23-07-18-3, § 1, 7-18-23)
Sec. 11-18. Use of tobacco products in city-owned buildings, vehicles, parks
and in certain locations around city facilities prohibited.
   (a)   Smoking or the use of any tobacco product is prohibited in the
following locations:
   (1)   Inside all buildings or structures owned or leased by the city.
   (2)   In any vehicle owned or leased by the city.
   (3)   On the following grounds and locations:
   a.   On all sidewalks in front of any building or structure owned or leased
by the city.
   b.   Within a thirty (30) foot radius of any public entrance to any building
or structure owned or leased by the city.
   c.   Within a ten (10) foot radius of any non-public entrance to any
building or structure owned or leased by the city.
   d.   Within any park or greenway owned or leased by the city, including but
not limited to the Community Building Park, the Community Building Splash Pad,
the North Main Street Gazebo Park, the South Main Street Gazebo Park, the West
Marion Community Park, the Cross Mill Community Park, the Eastfield Community
Park, the Clinchfield Community Park, the Catawba River Greenway and the
Historic Depot Courtyard.
   e.   Under the Historic Marion Tailgate Market Shade Shelter.
   f.   At any other location designated and posted as a "no smoking area" by
the city.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to deposit any portion of a cigarette,
cigar, smoking device, or any refuse related to smoking on property, sidewalks,
streets, alleys and rights-of-way owned, leased or maintained by the city,
except in a receptacle designated for that purpose.
   (c)   It shall be a defense to any violation under this section that the
violation occurred on private property.
(Ord. No. O-10-05-04-2, 2, 5-4-10)
Sec. 11-19. Loitering for the purpose of engaging in drug-related activity.
   (a)    Definition. For purposes of this section, "public place" means any
area generally accessible to the public for common usage and access, including
any street, sidewalk, bridge, alley or alleyway, park, playground, driveway,
parking lot or public vehicular area, the doorways and entrance-ways, stairway,
hall, courtyard, passageway or common area to any building which fronts on any
of those places, or a motor vehicle in or on any of those places or any
property owned by the city.
   (b)    It shall be unlawful for a person to remain or wander about in a
public place in a manner and under circumstances manifesting the intent to
engage in a violation of any subdivision of the North Carolina Controlled
Substances Act, G.S. Chapter 90, Article 5. To establish the intent to violate
the aforementioned statutes, it must be shown that:
   (1)   Such person is at a location frequented by persons who use, possess or
sell drugs; and
   (2)   At least two (2) of the following circumstances exist:
   a.   Repeatedly beckoning to, stopping, or attempting to stop passersby, or
repeatedly attempting to engage passersby in conversation; or
   b.   Repeatedly stopping or attempting to stop motor vehicles; or
   c.   Repeatedly interfering with the free passage of other persons; or
   d.   Such person behaves in such a manner as to raise a reasonable suspicion
that he or she is about to engage in or is engaged in an unlawful drug-related
activity; or
   e.   Such person repeatedly passes to or receives from passersby, whether on
foot or in a vehicle, or by courier, money or objects; or
   f.   Such person takes flight upon the approach or appearance of a law
enforcement officer.
   (c)    Punishment. Any person who violates this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00), or
imprisoned for not more than thirty (30) days, or both.
(Ord. of 3-8-94)
   Editors Note: An ordinance of Mar. 8, 1994, did not specifically amend the
Code; hence, inclusion of the substantive provisions of such ordinance as 11-19
was at the discretion of the editor.
Sec. 11-20. False alarms.
   (a)    Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in
this article, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except
where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
   Alarm system means any electronic or mechanical device which transmits an
electronic alarm signal or recorded message to the city or county
communications center or other receiving station indicating an actual or
attempted unauthorized entry into a building, indicating the commission or
attempted commission of a crime in or about a building or indicating a possible
fire or chemical or gas contamination of a building. For purposes of this
definition, the term "other receiving station" means any person or business
that receives an electronic alarm signal or recorded message and transmits
information regarding such signal or message to the city police or fire
departments or to the county communications center.
   Alarm system owner means any person, corporation, partnership, governmental
or education entity owning or leasing an alarm system.
   Audible alarm system means any alarm owned by an alarm system owner that, by
sound of a whistle, bell, buzzer, siren or other noise generator, alerts those
inside or outside a home, building or vehicle, and in the near vicinity, of a
break-in, robbery, possible fire or chemical or gas contamination, but does not
transmit a signal by telephone or other communications device.
   False alarm means activation of an alarm system that elicits a response by
the police or fire departments when no situation requiring such a response
does, in fact, exist. This includes accidental, avoidable and unnecessary alarm
activation due to user error, equipment malfunction, improper or unsuited
equipment, but does not include alarm activation caused by violent conditions
of nature or other extraordinary circumstances not reasonably subject to
control by the alarm user including disruption of the telephone circuits, an
area power failure, or failure of the equipment at the receiving station.
   (b)    Penalties for excessive false alarms. There shall be a fee of fifty
dollars ($50.00) per false alarm for the fourth and each subsequent false alarm
received by the city police or fire department per calendar year. For purposes
of this section, a false alarm is defined as any signal communicated by any
means to solicit police or fire response, when the signal originated due to
defective or poorly operating equipment or the alarm was otherwise sent
accidentally.
   (c)    Continuous sounding audible alarms. If an audible alarm system is
activated and the sound does not cease after fifteen (15) minutes, then the
city police or fire department may use any reasonable means to silence the
alarm.
(Ord. No. O-06-11-07-1, 2, 11-7-06)
Chapter 12
PARKS AND RECREATION*
__________
*   Cross References: Planning, Part IV; streets, sidewalks and other public
places,
Ch. 15; zoning, Part IV.
   State Law References: and recreation, G.S. § 160A-350 et seq.
__________
   Art. I. In General, §§ 12-1--12-25
   Art. II. Tennis Facilities, §§ 12-26--12-50
   Art. III. Festivals and Events, §§ 12-51--12-60
   Art. IV. Hazardous Recreational Activities, §§ 12-61--12-67
ARTICLE I.
IN GENERAL
Sec. 12-1. Hours of operation of community building tennis and basketball
courts.
   No persons shall be on the community building tennis or basketball courts
between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. local time.
of 5-7-91, § 1; Ord. No. O-07-10-23-1, § 1, 10-23-07)
   Editors Note: ordinance of May 7, 1991, did not specifically amend the Code;
hence, inclusion of § 1 of such ordinance as § 12-1 was at the discretion of
the editor.
   Cross References: facilities, § 12-26 et seq.
Sec. 12-2. Hours of operation for other city park facilities.
    (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to enter any City owned or
maintained park facility other than the community building tennis courts or
basketball courts or the City Stage property at any time between sunset and
sunrise for any purpose without written consent from the City Manager. Persons
renting the basement of the Community Building are exempted from this
requirement, to the extent authorized by their approved rental application.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to enter the City Stage property
on North Main Street between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m., except
during events approved by the City Council or City Manager, in which case the
City Stage property may be entered during the duration of said event.
(Ord. No. O-18-07-17-4, § 2, 7-17-18)
Sec. 12-3. Registered sex offenders prohibited from entering parks or
recreational facilities.
   (a)    For purposes of this section the following definitions shall apply:
   (1)   Registered sex offender. An individual who is registered by any state
or federal agency as a sex offender and whose name is published on any state or
federal registered sex offender listing, including, but not limited to, the sex
offender registry established in G.S. § 14-27A.
   (2)   Public park. Any publicly owned, leased, operated or maintained land
or buildings which are designated by the City of Marion as a park or
recreational facility.
   (b)    No registered sex offender shall enter into or upon any public park
operated by the City of Marion. Each entry into a public park, regardless of
the time period between such entries, shall constitute a separate offense under
this section.
   (c)    The city manager or his or her designee shall post this regulation at
the main entrance of each park within thirty (30) days of passage of this
section.
(Ord. No. O-08-09-02-1, § 1, 9-2-08)
Secs. 12-4--12-25. Reserved.
ARTICLE II.
TENNIS FACILITIES*
__________
*   Cross References: of operation for community building tennis courts, § 12-
1.
__________
Sec. 12-26. Playing time restricted.
   Any person using the tennis facilities at the community building will
restrict play to one (1) hour when others are waiting to play.
of 6-16-87, § 1)
Sec. 12-26.1. Prohibitions on certain activities.
   No objects with wheels shall be allowed on the tennis courts, except for
wheelchairs. No games of any sort other than tennis are allowed to be played on
the tennis court.
(Ord. No. O-05-05-17-1, § 2, 5-17-05)
Sec. 12-27. Limitations on commercial activities and tournaments.
   No person shall participate in any money making activities at the tennis
courts or at the community building without the approval of the city council.
No person shall give tennis lessons for a fee nor shall any tournament play
take place on these facilities without the consent of the city council.
of 6-16-87, § 2)
Sec. 12-28. Disorderly conduct prohibited.
   No person shall swear, fight or consume alcoholic beverages on the community
building grounds or the tennis courts.
of 6-16-87, § 3)
Sec. 12-29. Reserved.
   Editors Note: 1, amendment 3 of Ord. No. O-08-01-15-3, adopted Jan. 15,
2008, deleted § 12-29, which pertained to penalties and derived from an
ordinance adopted June 16, 1987.
Secs. 12-30--12-50. Reserved.
ARTICLE III.
FESTIVALS AND EVENTS
Sec. 12-51. Specially designated festivals and events; activities prohibited.
   (a)   Purpose. Specially designated City of Marion events, Marion Business
Association (hereafter referred to as "MBA") events, or events run by outside
organizations and approved by the city such as parades, concerts, festivals and
other events are defined as any special happening that attracts a large number
of people and which continue for variable time periods. Due to the congestion
and the duration of such events, the city enacts this article to promote the
public health, safety and welfare, and to provide orderly recreation at events
to which these provisions are made to apply. The city believes that pistols or
other projectiles, such as silly string, and the throwing of flying discs and
balls could create undue risk of injury to person and damage property.
Additionally, the city desires to permit and regulate the vendors appearing at
the events to protect the public safety. Special events frequently feature
organized activities, live entertainment, food concessions and many authorized
exhibitors who display and offer for sale artwork, crafts, food and related
items. The MBA or the appropriate city department, depending on the event,
issues permits and/or grants permission to persons desiring to place or
maintain booths or concession stands and the City of Marion issues itinerant
business licenses to peddlers or roving-type vendors. The exhibition or
offering for sale of merchandise or food and beverages by unauthorized vendors
poses a threat to the public safety and welfare, interferes with planned
traffic flow and the maintenance of order, frequently violates the city zoning
code and detracts from the authorized exhibits and concessions.
   (b)   Applicability. This section shall apply during the times listed on an
approved City of Marion application permit for parades, festivals, concerts,
picket lines, group demonstrations, and other events, or on the rain dates, if
necessary, to cover all of the period of time encompassed by the event provided
that no event shall extend beyond 12:00 midnight without the approval of the
City Council. The area and boundaries of any city event to which these
provisions shall be made to apply shall be determined by the appropriate city
department or the MBA as designated by the City Manager or his or her designee,
depending on the event, and shall include any public street, sidewalk or other
publicly owned area that is within or constitutes the boundary of that event.
   (c)   Unlawful to operate bicycle or other wheeled vehicle. It shall be
unlawful for any person to operate a bicycle, tricycle, unicycle, moped,
skateboard or any other wheeled vehicle, roller skates or roller blades (all
hereafter referred to as "wheeled vehicle") on or within the boundaries of any
event to which these provisions have been made to apply. For purposes of this
section, "operate" shall mean the use, putting into action, or causing to
function of a wheeled vehicle by a person mounted thereon. This section shall
not apply to wheelchairs, baby strollers, or baby carriages.
   (d)   Unlawful to throw balls, shoot projectiles, etc. except as otherwise
permitted herein as part of a permitted or approved activity. It shall be
unlawful for any person to shoot projectiles or to toss or throw a ball, flying
disc, model airplane or similar object on or within the boundaries of any city
event to which these provisions have been made to apply.
   (e)   Unlawful to use fireworks. It shall be unlawful for any person to
purchase, sell, deal in, transport, possess, receive, use or cause to be used
or discharged, any fireworks on or within the boundaries of any city event. For
the purpose of this section, "fireworks" shall include all devices that are
legal or illegal in the State of North Carolina, including items that explode
and nonexploding items that produce heat, smoke, noise, light or movement. This
section shall not apply to fireworks displays conducted by a licensed
professional pyrotechnician contracted by the city or the MBA as part of a city
event.
   (f)   Unlawful to conduct outside sales. It shall be unlawful for any person
to exhibit, display, offer for sale or to sell any merchandise or other item,
any service, food or beverage from any outside location (hereafter referred to
as "outside sales") on public in or within one hundred (100) feet of the
boundaries of a city event, without the issuance of a permit or permission by
the City of Marion or the Marion MBA. Any person issued a permit to conduct
outside sales shall display the permit issued by the City of Marion in a
conspicuous place at the location of the outside sales.
   (g)   City exhibit permits. Upon the request of a law enforcement officer, a
city employee or an MBA representative, any person shall produce or exhibit any
permit or approval from the MBA or the City of Marion for outside sales or
permitted activities at an event so that the city may ensure compliance with
this section. The permit may include limits on hours of display issued by the
MBA and the City of Marion.
   (h)   Failure to cease activities. It shall be unlawful for a person on or
within the boundaries of an event to which these provisions have been made to
apply, to fail to obey the command of a law enforcement officer to:
   (1)   Cease the operation of a wheeled vehicle;
   (2)   Cease the shooting or throwing of a ball, flying disc, model plane, or
other projectile; or
   (3)   Cease exhibiting, displaying, offering for sale or selling any
merchandise, service, food or beverage, on public property in or within one
hundred (100) feet of the boundaries of the city event without a valid permit
or written permission from the MBA or the City of Marion.
   (i)   Exception. This section shall not apply to the operation of a
wheelchair for the benefit of the handicapped, to the operation of any wheeled
vehicle or the throwing or tossing of any ball, flying disc or other object if
the otherwise prohibited activity is part of an authorized exhibit, activity or
display. The Executive Director of the MBA or his or her designee or the City
Manager or his or her designee as it relates to the event shall have the
authority to specify the conditions under which wheeled vehicles may be
operated and balls, flying discs, or objects may be thrown or tossed for the
protection of the public.
   (j)   Animals at events. Pursuant to section
3-4 of the City Code, which requires animal owners to keep their dog or cat
under restraint, animals, except leashed dogs, or cats or dogs carried by their
owners, are prohibited at city events. This section shall not apply to animals
in a petting zoo or animal rides if the otherwise prohibited animals are part
of an authorized exhibit, activity or display. Service animals must comply with
the federal Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) requirements. Dogs or cats
designated under section
3-5 of the City Code as "fierce, dangerous, or vicious" are not permitted
within the boundaries of the festival. If any animal exhibits aggressive or
vicious behavior at an event, the owner of the animal must remove the animal
from the event area upon instruction to do so from designated city or event
staff or the festival organizer.
   (k)   Alcoholic beverages. Alcoholic beverages may not be sold, distributed,
possessed or consumed on public streets, sidewalks, alleys, properties or
parking lots at specially designated City of Marion, MBA sponsored or city-
approved outside organization parades, concerts and festivals and events, or at
other events approved by the City Council to take place on public streets,
sidewalks, alleys, properties or sidewalks (hereafter jointly referenced as
"special events"), except within the boundaries of an approved Social District
or unless the following conditions are met:
   (1)   A public assembly alcohol permit (hereinafter referred to as "permit")
has been approved by the City Manager or his or her designee making provisions
for the sale, distribution, possession and consumption of beer or wine on
public streets, sidewalks, alleys, properties or parking lots at the special
event, to the extent permitted by such permit.
   a.   Permits issued in accordance with this section are effective for the
time period and event specified.
   b.   Permits issued pursuant to this section shall not be transferrable or
assignable.
   c.   Permits issued pursuant to this section may be issued to a non-profit
organization, civic club, unit of local government or to a business possessing
necessary state permits for the sale and/or distribution of beer or wine. The
non-profit organization, civic club, unit of local government or business
receiving such permit is hereinafter referred to as "vendor."
   d.   Permits issued in accordance with this section must be approved at
least ten (10) days in advance of the scheduled event by the City Manager or
his or her designee. The City Manager or his or her designee is authorized to
request such information from the vendor that will allow for a determination to
be made regarding the issuance of the permit.
   e.   A fee shall be levied for each permit issued pursuant to this section
in accordance with the city's adopted fee schedule.
   (2)   Beer or wine can only be possessed, consumed, sold, or distributed in
such areas as approved by the City Manager or his or her designee, which area
is to be conspicuously marked by the vendor.
   a.   The vendor must provide colored wrist bands or other identification
devices, approved by the Police Chief or his or her designee, to be used by the
wearer or bearer to purchase or receive beer or wine. New colored wrist bands
or different identification devices shall be used on succeeding days of multi-
day events. Before issuing a wrist band or identification device, the vendor is
responsible for determining if the person to be issued a wrist band or
identification device is of the legal age to possess alcoholic beverages.
   b.   It is unlawful for a person authorized to purchase or possess an
alcoholic beverage as set out herein to pass on an alcoholic beverage to any
other person not wearing an authorized wristband.
   c.   No person shall possess or consume an alcoholic beverage except as set
out herein and only upon wearing the appropriately colored wristband issued, or
possessing the particular identification device designated, for the day of the
special event.
   d.   Alcoholic beverages not obtained or acquired as set out in this section
are not permitted and the possession, consumption, sale or distribution of such
alcoholic beverages is considered a violation of this article.
   e.   A wristband or other identification device issued as set out herein is
not transferable and can only be worn by the person to whom such wristband is
issued by the vendor.
   (3)   There shall be a reasonable plan approved by the City Manager for
security and crowd control as well as emergency services. The City Manager may
require the vendor to hire an off-duty police officer or officers to oversee
alcohol sales at the event, or in the case of a city or MBA sponsored special
event may provide on-duty police officers to oversee alcohol sales at the
special event, and may place any other reasonable conditions on a permit issued
pursuant to this section.
   (4)   The vendor conducting the distribution and/or sale of beer or wine
shall obtain all applicable permissions, licenses and permits for such
distribution and/or sale. The City Manager is authorized to require any
applications and proofs as he or she may deem necessary to make a determination
on the ability of a vendor to distribute or sell alcoholic beverages as
provided herein.
   (5)   The sale, distribution, possession and consumption of beer or wine
within the public area shall be in full compliance with all state and local
laws governing such matters.
   (6)   In consideration of the granting of permission for the distribution
and/or sale of beer or wine, the vendor conducting such distribution and/or
sale shall indemnify and hold harmless the city, its officers, agents and
employees against all loss, expense or liability of any kind, including
attorney fees, caused by or in any way related to the sale, distribution,
possession and consumption of beer or wine during the special event.
   (7)   To assure such indemnity, the vendor conducting the distribution and/
or sale of beer or wine shall secure and at all times maintain in full force
and effect a comprehensive general liability insurance policy providing liquor
liability protection in the amount of at least one million (1,000,000) dollars.
The insurance shall be issued by a company rated by A.M. Best's rating service
as A - - or better and shall name the city as an additional insured party. Said
policy shall remain in effect for the entire time period of the special event.
Evidence of such insurance shall be provided to the City Manager at least seven
(7) days before the date scheduled for the special event.
   (8)   For the sale of beer or wine only involving off-premises consumption,
with no consumption of the beer or wine sold at the event on public property or
in the special event or in the special event area, the City Manager or his or
her designee may issue the permit with only the requirements listed in
subsection (1) and subsections (4) through (7) being required.
   (l)   Denial or revocation of alcohol permit approved by the City Manager or
his or her designee for the serving, sale, possession or consumption of beer or
wine on public streets, sidewalks, alleys, properties or parking lots at a
special event.
   (1)   The City Manager or his or her designee may deny or revoke an alcohol
permit for the serving, sale possession or consumption of beer or wine on
public streets, sidewalks, alleys, property or parking lots at a special event
if he or she finds that the granting or continuation of the permit would not be
in the public's interest or if he or she finds that the vendor has:
   a.   Made a deliberate misrepresentation or provided false information in
the application;
   b.   Operated such public street, alley, sidewalk, property or parking lot
in such a manner as to create a public nuisance or constitute a hazard to the
public health, safety, or welfare;
   c.   Failed to keep the street, alley, sidewalk, property or parking lot
clean and free of refuse, unless the city is responsible for keeping such areas
clean and free of refuse during the event;
   d.   Failed to maintain any health, business or other permit or license
required by law;
   e.   Violated any of the terms of this section;
   f.   Failed to obtain or maintain the amount and type of insurance required
herein; or
   g.   Failed to uphold the terms of the permit.
   (2)   Before the denial or revocation of a permit, the City Manager shall
notify the permit holder of his or her intent to deny or revoke the permit and
the reasons therefor and shall afford the permit holder a reasonable
opportunity to be heard on the question of such denial or revocation. After the
hearing, the City Manager shall notify the permit holder in writing of this
decision and the reasons therefor. A decision of the City Manager to revoke a
permit may be appealed to the City Council in accordance with the provisions of
subsection (3).
   (3)   The applicant may appeal a denial of a permit to the City Council by
submitting a request in writing to the City Manager within ten (10) working
days after the date of the written denial. Upon receipt of such appeal, the
City Manager shall schedule the appeal to be heard at the next available
regular City Council meeting. Upon hearing the appeal, the City Council may
take action to uphold or deny the appeal. The findings and determination of the
City Council shall be final.
   (m)   Enforcement. A violation of this article is a misdemeanor or
infraction as provided by G.S. § 14-4 and § 160A-175. As an alternative or
additional measure of enforcement, any law enforcement officer or authorized
city employee may issue a citation for a civil penalty for violation of this
section in accordance with the requirements of
Chapter 1, General Provisions, of the City Code. This authority shall be in
addition to any other authority and shall not preclude in any way any law
enforcement officer from exercising any authority or carrying out the duties of
a law enforcement officer, nor preclude the city from any other available legal
enforcement procedure. Enforcement of an unpaid citation may be by issuance of
a criminal summons, by the filing of a complaint to collect the unpaid debt
owed to the city or by other means authorized by state law or outlined in
Chapter 1, General Provisions, of the City Code.
(Ord. No. O-23-03-21-2, § 1, 3-21-23)
Sec. 12-52. Social Districts.
   (a)   Definitions.
   (1)   ABC Commission. The North Carolina Alcoholic Beverage Control
Commission established under G.S. § 18B-200.
   (2)   ABC permit or permits. Any written or printed authorization issued by
the ABC Commission pursuant to the provisions of G.S. Ch. 18B, other than a
purchase-transportation permit. Unless the context clearly requires otherwise,
as in the provisions concerning applications for permits, "ABC permit" or
"permit" means a presently valid permit.
   (3)   Alcoholic beverage. Any beverage containing at least one half of one
percent (0.5%) alcohol by volume, including malt beverages, unfortified wine,
fortified wine, spirituous liquor, mixed beverages and any alcohol consumable.
   (4)   Alcohol, consumable. Any manufactured and packaged ice cream, ice-pop,
gum-based or gelatin-based food product containing at least one-half of one
percent (0.5%) alcohol by volume.
   (5)   City. The City of Marion.
   (6)   Customer. A person who purchases an alcoholic beverage from a
permittee that is in a social district.
   (7)   Fortified wine. Any wine or alcohol consumable containing more than
sixteen percent (16%) and no more than twenty-four percent (24%) alcohol by
volume, made by fermentation from grapes, fruits, berries, rice or honey; or by
the addition of pure cane, beet or dextrose sugar; or by the addition of pure
brandy from the same type of grape, fruit, berry, rice or honey that is
contained in the base wine and produced in accordance with the regulations of
the United States.
   (8)   Malt beverage. Beer, lager, malt liquor, ale, porter, and any other
brewed or fermented beverage or alcohol consumable, except fortified or
unfortified wine as defined by G.S. Ch. 18B, containing at least one-half of
one percent (0.5%) and not more than fifteen percent (15%), alcohol by volume.
   (9)   Mixed beverage. Either of the following:
   a.   A drink composed in whole or in part of spirituous liquor and served in
a quantity less than the quantity contained in a closed package.
   b.   A premixed cocktail served from a closed package containing only one
serving.
   (10)   Non-permittee business. A business that is located in a social
district and does not hold any ABC permit.
   (11)   Open container. A container whose seal has been broken or a container
other than the manufacturer's unopened original container.
   (12)   Permittee. An establishment holding any of the following permits
issued by the ABC Commission:
   a.   An on-premises malt beverage permit issued pursuant to G.S. § 18B-1001
(1).
   b.   An on-premises unfortified wine permit issued pursuant to G.S. § 18B-
1001(3).
   c.   An on-premises fortified wine permit issued pursuant to G.S. § 18B-1001
(5).
   d.   A mixed beverages permit issued pursuant to G.S. § 18B-1001(10)
   e.   A wine shop permit issued pursuant to G.S. § 18B-1001(16).
   f.   A distillery permit issued pursuant to G.S. § 18B-1100(5).
   (13)   Person. An individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
limited liability company, other organization or group or other combination of
persons acting as a unit.
   (14)   Police department. The City of Marion Police Department.
   (15)   Premises. A fixed permanent establishment, including all areas inside
or outside the licensed establishment, where the permittee has control through
a lease, deed or other legal process.
   (16)   Social district. A defined area in which a person may consume
alcoholic beverages sold by a permittee. A social district may include both
indoor and outdoor areas of businesses within or contiguous to the defined area
during the days and hours set by the city by ordinance pursuant to G.S. § 18B-
300.1(d). A social district may include privately owned property, including
permittees and non-permittee businesses, multi-tenant establishments, as
defined in G.S. § 18B-1001.5, and public streets, crosswalks or parking areas,
whether or not the streets or parking areas are closed to vehicle traffic.
   (17)   Spirituous liquor or liquor. Distilled spirits or ethyl alcohol, and
any alcohol consumable containing distilled spirits or ethyl alcohol, including
spirits of wine, whiskey, rum, brandy, gin and all other distilled spirits and
mixtures of cordials, liqueur and premixed cocktails, in closed-containers
regardless of their dilution.
   (18)   Unfortified wine. Any wine or alcohol consumable containing sixteen
percent (l6%) or less alcohol by volume that is made by fermentation from
grapes, fruits, berries, rice or honey; or by the addition of pure cane, beet
or dextrose sugar; or by the addition of pure brandy from the same type of
grape, fruit, berry, rice or honey that is contained in the base wine and
produced in accordance with the regulations of the United States.
   (b)   Designated map. The city shall have on file a map of its social
district. This map will include the restaurants, businesses, streets,
sidewalks, dining areas, alleyways and other areas that are part of the defined
social district.
   (c)   Hours of operation. The hours of the social district shall be seven
(7) days per week from 11:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. These hours are clearly marked
and posted at conspicuous locations in and around the district boundaries.
   (d)   Social district maintenance and management. The City Manager or his/
her designee is hereby authorized to create maintenance and management plans
for the Downtown Marion Social District consistent with the requirements of
this article and other applicable law. The maintenance and management plan may
include coordination with the Police Department, Public Works Department and
downtown business owners. Proper signage in the social district and information
will be placed on the city website and social media. Maintenance and management
plans shall be readily available for public inspection at all times.
   (e)   Sale of alcoholic beverages.
   (1)   A permittee shall only sell alcoholic beverages for consumption within
the social district in which it is located or contiguous.
   (2)   The permittee shall only sell and serve alcoholic beverages for
consumption within the social district on its licensed premises.
   (3)   The permittee shall only sell alcoholic beverages for consumption in
the social district in a container that meets all of the requirements of the
management and maintenance plan.
   (4)   The permittee may allow a customer to possess and consume on the
business's premises alcoholic beverages purchased from any ABC permittee
located in or contiguous to the social district.
   (f)   Possession and consumption of alcoholic beverages.
   (1)   Alcoholic beverages purchased from a permittee located within or
contiguous to the social district may be possessed and consumed within the
designated social district.
   (2)   Alcoholic beverages may only be consumed within the designated social
district.
   (3)   Alcoholic beverages shall only be in containers meeting the
requirements set forth in subsection (f)(7) (a-e) of this section.
   (4)   Alcoholic beverages shall only be possessed and consumed during the
days and hours set by the City Council in accordance with subsection (c) of
this section.
   (5)   Nothing in this subdivision shall be construed as authorizing the sale
and delivery of alcoholic beverage drinks in excess of the limitation set forth
in G.S. § 18B-1010.
   (6)   A person shall dispose of any alcoholic beverage in the person's
possession prior to exiting the social district unless the person is reentering
the licensed premises where the alcoholic beverage was purchased.
   (7)   Alcoholic beverages shall be in containers that meet the following
requirements:
   a.   The container clearly identifies the permittee from which the alcoholic
beverage was purchased.
   b.   The container clearly displays a logo or some other mark that is unique
to the social district in which it will be consumed.
   c.   The container is not made of glass.
   d.   The container displays, in no less than twelve (12)-point font, the
statement, "Drink Responsibly - Be 21."
   e.   The container shall not hold more than sixteen (16) fluid ounces.
   (g)   Enforcement. A violation of this section is a misdemeanor or
infraction as provided by G.S. § 14-4 and § 160A-175. As an alternative or
additional measure of enforcement, any law enforcement officer or authorized
city employee may issue a citation for a civil penalty for violation of this
section in accordance with the requirements of Chapter 1, General Provisions,
of the City Code. This authority shall be in addition to any other authority
and shall not preclude in any way any law enforcement officer from exercising
any authority or carrying out the duties of a law enforcement officer, nor
preclude the city from any other available legal enforcement procedure.
Enforcement of an unpaid citation may be by issuance of a criminal summons, by
the filing of a complaint to collect the unpaid debt owed to the city or by
other means authorized by state law or outlined in Chapter 1, General
Provisions, of the City Code.
(Ord. No. O-23-07-18-2, § 1, 7-18-23)
Secs. 12-53--12-60. Reserved.
ARTICLE IV.
HAZARDOUS RECREATIONAL ACTIVITIES*
__________
*   Editors Note: No. O-05-12-06-2, adopted Dec. 6, 2005, enacted new
provisions to be designated as Art. III, §§ 12-51--12-57. Inasmuch as there
already exists an Art. III, said new provisions have been redesignated as Art.
IV, §§ 12-61--12-67. Original section designations have been maintained in the
history notes following each section.
__________
Sec. 12-61. Purpose.
   The purpose of this article is to promote the health, safety and welfare of
those persons desiring to engage in hazardous recreational activities within
designated areas of the City of Marion. This article is intended to comply with
and supplement the Hazardous Recreation Parks Safety and Liability Act, G.S.
Chapter 99E, Article 3, and shall be interpreted in accordance therewith.
(Ord. No. O-05-12-06-2, § 2(12-51), 12-6-05)
Sec. 12-62. Authority and enactment.
   This article is adopted under the authority and provision of the G.S.
Article 6, Chapter 153A-121.
(Ord. No. O-05-12-06-2, § 2(12-52), 12-6-05)
Sec. 12-63. Jurisdiction.
   This article shall apply to the McDowell County Recreation Center located at
25 Academy Street in the corporate limits of the City of Marion and any other
designated areas as defined by the city council.
(Ord. No. O-05-12-06-2, § 2(12-53), 12-6-05)
Sec. 12-64. Definition of terms.
   (a)    Protective equipment shall mean helmets, elbow pads and kneepads.
   (b)    Helmet shall mean protective headgear that meets or exceeds standards
established by the American National Safety Institute.
   (c)    Hazardous recreational activities shall mean skateboarding, inline
skating or freestyle bicycling.
   (d)    Designated areas shall mean those areas within the City of Marion
specifically set aside for those engaging in hazardous recreational activities.
A list of designated areas shall be maintained by the city clerk and each
designated area shall include a sign clearly identifying such area for
hazardous recreational activities use.
   (e)    Participant shall mean a person, regardless of age, who engages in a
hazardous recreational activity within any designated area.
(Ord. No. O-05-12-06-2, § 2(12-54), 12-6-05)
Sec. 12-65. Rules and regulations.
   The city manager shall develop rules and regulations governing the use of
all designated areas; however, the rules and regulations for the skate park
located at the McDowell County Recreation Center at 25 Academy Street in the
corporate limits of the City of Marion shall be developed by the McDowell
County Director of Parks and Recreation, with input from the city. The rules
and regulations shall be posted prominently near the entrances to all
designated areas. Any person may request, at no charge, a written copy of the
current rules and regulations.
(Ord. No. O-05-12-06-2, § 2(12-55), 12-6-05)
Sec. 12-66. Duties of participants.
   All persons shall wear protective equipment while engaging in any hazardous
recreational activity within a designated area. All participants shall comply
with all rules and regulations applicable to designated areas. Specifically,
and without limitation, any person riding a skateboard or similar device within
any designated area shall wear elbow pads, kneepads and a helmet that is
properly fitted with chin strap fastened.
(Ord. No. O-05-12-06-2, § 2(12-56), 12-6-05)
Sec. 12-67. Violations.
   Any person violating this article shall be subject to penalties established
in Chapter 1 of the City Code.
(Ord. No. O-05-12-06-2, § 2(12-57), 12-6-05)
Chapter 13
RESERVED
Chapter 14
POLICE*
__________
*   Cross References: Administration,
Ch. 2; civil emergencies,
Ch. 6; offenses,
Ch. 11.
   State Law References: Municipal law enforcement, G.S. 160A-281 et seq.
__________
Art. I. In General, 14-1--14-25
Art. II. Personnel, 14-26--14-50
Art. III. Operations, 14-51--14-70
Art. IV. Reserve Police Force, 14-71--14-79
ARTICLE I
IN GENERAL
Secs. 14-1--14-25. Reserved.
ARTICLE II
PERSONNEL
Sec. 14-26. Personnel complement.
   The normal personnel complement of the department shall consist of the chief
of police and such other personnel as may be required as established by the
chief of police and directed by city council.
(Code 1982, 3-1011)
   State Law References: Authorization to appoint chief of police and employ
other police officers, G.S. 160A-281.
Sec. 14-27. Responsibilities and duties of chief of police.
   The chief of police has the overall responsibility for the operation and
administration of the department. These duties shall consist of, but are not
limited to:
   (1)   Assignment of personnel;
   (2)   Hiring and firing of personnel;
   (3)   Overall operational control;
   (4)   Administration including reports and communications;
   (5)   Maintenance and accountability of department vehicles and equipment;
   (6)   Promotion, demotion and disciplinary actions of department personnel;
and
   (7)   Any other duties and responsibilities as directed by the city manager.
(Code 1982, 3-1012; Ord. of 8-18-92, 1)
Sec. 14-28. Reserved.
   Editors Note: Section 2 of Ord. No. O-10-06-15-5, adopted June 15, 2010,
deleted section
14-28, which pertained to residency requirements for the chief of police.
Sec. 14-29. Salary basis.
   Personnel of the police department are employed by the city on a salary
basis after filing an application and meeting the requirements set forth by the
North Carolina Criminal Justice Education and Training Standards Commission.
Final approval rests with the chief of police and the requirements of the
department.
(Code 1982, 3-1016)
Sec. 14-30. Employment requirements.
   Individuals seeking employment with the department shall complete the
standard application form for employment with the city. In addition, forms and
requirements as set forth in general statutes section 17C, must be completed
and met prior to any consideration for employment.
(Code 1982, 3-1017)
Sec. 14-31. Demotions and pay increases.
   (a)    Demotions shall be made at the discretion of the chief of police for
inefficiency, attitude, violation of policy and any other considerations that
may be detrimental to the department and the city.
   (b)    Pay increases shall be made upon the recommendation of the chief of
police in accordance with the city pay plan.
(Code 1982, 3-1019)
Sec. 14-32. Reservation of right to terminate employment.
   The city, through the chief of police, retains the right to terminate and
discharge any employee for inefficiency, insubordination, malfeasance, immoral
conduct and any other circumstances which would interfere with the orderly
enforcement of the law, or prove detrimental to the department or the city.
(Code 1982, 3-1021)
Sec. 14-33. Training.
   From time to time interdepartmental training classes and outside training
classes at the local technical institutes or at other locations will be
scheduled. These classes are scheduled for the benefit of all officers and the
department. Schedules will be posted well in advance of classes and all
personnel concerned will be notified. All training classes are mandatory
attendance unless otherwise excused by the chief of police.
(Code 1982, 3-1023)
Secs. 14-34--14-50. Reserved.
ARTICLE III
OPERATIONS
Sec. 14-51. Generally.
   Operations of the department include the routine patrol of police vehicles,
traffic control, investigation of accidents, investigation of crimes of any
category, traffic control through issuance of parking tickets, arrests, court
appearances, filing reports, foot patrols, security of business establishments,
communications and numerous other procedures for law enforcement and providing
for public safety.
(Code 1982, 3-1031)
Sec. 14-52. Officers' and civilian employees' personal responsibilities.
   All officers and employees will conduct themselves as gentlemen or ladies at
all times and keep their personal affairs in such a manner so as not to
embarrass the department or the city.
(Code 1982, 3-1034)
Sec. 14-53. Unlocking of vehicles.
   Police Department officers and employees are authorized to unlock vehicles
upon request within the City Limits, subject to the following provisions:
   (a)   The Police Department shall unlock a vehicle the first time free of
charge. A $25.00 fee shall be charged by the City the second time that a
vehicle is unlocked by the Police Department. A $50.00 fee shall be charged by
the City the third and subsequent times that a vehicle is unlocked by the
Police Department. An invoice for fees charged under this section shall be
issued to the person requesting the unlocking service.
   (b)   If the fees listed under subsection (a) above are not paid within
thirty (30) days after the date the unlocking service is provided, a $25.00
late payment fee shall be assessed.
   (c)   Any payment made on fees listed in this section shall first be applied
to any outstanding late payment fees and then to the original fee itself.
   (d)   Notwithstanding subsection (a) above, fees shall not be charged for
unlocking services provided for any of the following emergency situations:
   (1)   The vehicle’s engine is running.
   (2)   Children or animals are locked inside of the vehicle.
   (3)   A locksmith is unavailable to respond within one (1) hour.
   (4)   Any other emergency situation deemed necessary by the shift
supervisor.
   (e)   Prior to any unlocking service being provided by the Police
Department, the person requesting the service shall be required to sign a
waiver, releasing the City from any claims and liability related to damages
caused to the vehicle by the unlocking service.
(Ord. No. O-15-03-17-2, § 2, 3-17-15)
Secs. 14-54--14-70. Reserved.
ARTICLE IV
RESERVE POLICE FORCE*
__________
*   State Law References: Authorization to provide for organization of
auxiliary police department, G.S. 160A-282.
__________
Sec. 14-71. Established.
   A reserve police force is hereby established to be a volunteer organization
composed of not more than ten (10) members, separate and distinct from the
police department of the city, but to be headed by the chief of police.
(Code 1982, 3-1041)
Sec. 14-72. Chief of police to have control.
   The chief of police shall have complete authority, control and command,
subject to the provisions of this article, over the reserve police force. He
may appoint as members thereof, subject to approval by the mayor and city
council, any persons he may deem to be qualified, and he may reject any
applications for membership. He shall provide for the training of candidates
for membership, and for the further training of members.
(Code 1982, 3-1042)
Sec. 14-73. Membership requirements.
   No person shall be deemed a member of the reserve police force until he has
been registered as such with the North Carolina Criminal Justice Education and
Training Standards Commission and in the roster to be kept by the chief of
police, and until he has taken his oath that he will observe and obey the
Constitution of the United States, the constitution of this state, and the laws
of this nation, this state and the city, and he will carry out the duties of a
member of the reserve police force of this city to the best of his ability.
Persons wishing to apply for membership may do so by completing the standard
application for employment form and must meet all standards as set forth by the
North Carolina Criminal Justice Education and Training Standards Commission.
(Code 1982, 3-1043)
Sec. 14-74. Duties.
   (a)    The duties of the reserve police force, subject at all times to the
direction, supervision and control of the chief of police, shall be to assist
the regular members of the police department of the city in the enforcement of
law and the maintenance of peace. The chief may by order establish rules and
regulations to govern the reserve police force, fix the specific duties of its
members, and provide for the maintenance of discipline. He may change such
orders from time to time, and he may command members of the reserve force to
obey the instructions of regular police officers in carrying out their duties.
   (b)    Each reserve officer shall be required to work a minimum of twelve
(12) hours per month. The chief of police may prescribe other duties than those
mentioned in this article to be performed by the reserve police force not
inconsistent with the provisions hereof.
(Code 1982, 3-1044)
Sec. 14-75. Identification.
   One (1) complete uniform and identification card and such other insignia or
evidence of identity as the chief may prescribe shall be issued to each member,
who must carry the card and other identification at all times while on duty,
and he must surrender them upon the termination of his membership.
(Code 1982, 3-1045)
Sec. 14-76. Termination of employment; resignation.
   The membership of any person may be terminated by the chief of police at any
time, and any member may resign from the reserve police force at any time, but
it shall be his duty to notify the chief of police of his resignation.
(Code 1982, 3-1046)
Sec. 14-77. Carrying of firearms.
   No member of the reserve police force shall while on duty carry or use any
firearms except upon the express written order of the chief of police. No
member shall carry firearms until and unless said member has received training
in the use of firearms.
(Code 1982, 3-1047)
Sec. 14-78. Summary expulsion order.
   In addition to the penalties provided by law, any violation of law under
cover of the performance of his duties as a member of the reserve police force,
and any breach of the rules and regulations established by the chief shall
subject any member to summary expulsion and the fact thereof may be published
at the order of the chief.
(Code 1982, 3-1051)
Sec. 14-79. Impersonating an officer.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to wear, carry or display a reserve
police force identification card or insignia or otherwise deceitfully represent
himself to be connected with that force, unless he is in fact a member thereof.
(Code 1982, 3-1052)
   State Law References: Impersonation of a law enforcement or other public
officer, G.S. 14-277.
Chapter 14.5
SIGNS*
__________
*   Cross References: Buildings and building regulations, Part IV,
Ch. 7; sign regulations, Part IV,
Ch. 6.
   State Law References: than official signs prohibited, G.S. § 136-32;
billboard obstructing view at entrance to school, church or public institution
unlawful, G.S. § 136-99; Outdoor Advertising Control Act, G.S. § 136-126 et
seq.
__________
   Art. I. In General, §§
14.5-1--14.5-25
   Art. II. Reserved
ARTICLE I.
IN GENERAL
Sec. 14.5-1. Maintenance required.
   All signs located within the city shall be maintained in good condition and
appearance by the owners of such signs. Upon written notice from the building
inspector, the owner of any sign in need of repair, shall see that such sign is
repaired or removed within ten (10) days of such notice.
of 6-7-83, §§ 1--4; Ord. of 9-18-89, § 5)
Sec. 14.5-2. Fees and construction inspection charge.
   (a)    Sign permit fees for signs constructed or located inside the city
limits shall be the same as building permit fees listed in the schedule of fees
and charges maintained in the city clerk's office.
   (b)    There shall be an inspection charge for the construction, erection or
attachment to a building of any sign. Size and location of signs shall be in
accordance with city ordinances. The inspection charge shall be in an amount
determined from time to time by the city council and listed in the schedule of
fees and charges maintained in the city clerk's office.
   (c)    No permit or fee will be required for nonilluminated "For Sale" or
"For Rent" signs not exceeding four (4) square feet in area.
of 9-18-89, § 5)
Secs. 14.5-3--14.5-25. Reserved.
ARTICLE II.
RESERVED*
__________
*   Editors Note: ordinance of June 22, 1993, repealed an ordinance of June 20,
1989, formerly set out herein as §§ 14.5-26--14.5-34, 14.5-46--14.5-53, 14.5-
65--14.5-70, 14.5-82 and 14.5-83. Prior to repeal, such provisions had
pertained to off-premises sign control.
__________
Chapter 15
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND OTHER PUBLIC PLACES*
__________
*   Cross References: Restriction on certain animals in public places, §
3-16; buildings and building regulations, Part IV,
Ch. 7; cemeteries,
Ch. 5 ; parks and recreation,
Ch. 12 ; planning, Part IV; subdivisions, Part IV,
Ch. 5 ; zoning, Part IV.
   State Law References: Streets and highways in and around municipalities,
G.S. 136-66.1 et seq.
__________
   Art. I. In General, 15-1--15-15
   Art. II. Streets, 15-16--15-130
   Div. 1. Generally, 15-16--15-25
   Div. 2. Acceptance, 15-26--15-40
   Div. 3. Right-of-Way Use, 15-41--15-60
   Div. 4. Improvements, 15-61--15-85
   Div. 5. Sanitation, 15-86--15-110
   Div. 6. Utility Poles, 15-111--15-130
   Art. III. Sidewalks, 15-131--15-155
   Div. 1. Generally, §§ 15-131--15-140
   Div. 2. Sidewalk Cafes, §§ 15-141--15-155
   Art. IV. Parades and Demonstrations, 15-156--15-163
ARTICLE I
IN GENERAL
Sec. 15-1. Unlawful to damage streets.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drag, or run, or cause to be dragged
or run any harrow or other implement, engine, machine or tool upon any type of
permanently paved street of the city which shall be liable in any way to injure
or cut the surface thereof. It shall also be unlawful to injure any dirt street
in the same manner.
(Code 1982, 4-1030)
   State Law References: Restrictions as to fire equipment, G.S. 20-122; weight
restrictions, G.S. 20-121.
Sec. 15-2. House moving.
   No person shall move any house or building upon or across the public streets
or sidewalks without a permit issued by the chief of police and the deposit of
a good and sufficient bond in the sum of five hundred dollars ($500.00) to
cover damage done to such street or sidewalk or to any property of any person.
(Code 1982, 4-1031)
   Cross References: Buildings and building regulations,
Ch. 4.
   State Law References: Professional housemoving, G.S. 20-356 et seq.
Sec. 15-3. Damaging municipal property prohibited.
   No person shall injure, tamper with, remove, paint upon or deface any
bridge, culvert, ditch and drain, sign, sign post, street light, traffic
signal, bulletin board or other municipal property upon the streets and
sidewalks except employees of the city in performance of their duties.
(Code 1982, 4-1032)
   State Law References: Willful and wanton injury to real property, G.S. 14-
127; injuring public buildings and facilities, G.S. 14-132; injuring bridges,
G.S. 14-146.
Sec. 15-4. Building and house numbers.
   (a)    All houses and other primary buildings located within the city limits
shall have displayed on the front of the house or building a number or numbers
assigned by the City of Marion to be used with the name of the street in front
of the house or building to designate the address of the property on which it
is located.
   (b)    Said numbers shall be attached to the front of the house or building
and shall be of a size sufficient to be seen from the street in front of the
property.
   (c)    The owner of the property shall be responsible for the installation
of said house and/or building numbers.
   (d)    Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate or fail to comply
with this section shall be guilty of an offense and upon conviction shall be
punished by a fine not to exceed fifty dollars ($50.00) or by imprisonment not
to exceed thirty (30) days.
(Ord. of 3-5-91, 1--4)
   Editors Note: An ordinance of March 5, 1991, 1--4, did not specifically
amend the Code; therefore, inclusion as 15-4 was at the discretion of the
editor.
Sec. 15-5. Drainage pipes.
   (a)    It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to install
any storm drainage pipe on any public property, street or street right-of-way
within the city without first having received a written permit issued by the
public works director.
   (b)    The public works director shall determine the size and type of pipe
to be installed.
   (c)    The cost of said permit shall be ten dollars ($10.00).
(Ord. of 5-18-99)
Secs. 15-6--15-15. Reserved.
ARTICLE II
STREETS*
__________
*   State Law References: Streets and highways in and around municipalities,
G.S. 136-66.1 et seq.; city's authority and control over public streets and
ways of public passage, G.S. 160A-296.
__________
DIVISION 1.
GENERALLY
Secs. 15-16--15-25. Reserved.
DIVISION 2.
ACCEPTANCE*
__________
*   Cross References: Subdivisions,
Ch. 16.
__________
Sec. 15-26. Policy for acceptance of streets.
   The policy of the city for the acceptance of streets dedicated for public
use and the policy for improving all streets shall be as prescribed in this
article.
(Code 1982, 4-1001)
Sec. 15-27. Requirements for acceptance of new streets.
   No street, alley or other public way dedicated for public use within the
city will be accepted by the city as a public street and no maintenance or
improvement will be authorized thereon unless the following requirements have
been complied with.
   (1)   Prior to opening any street, alley or other public way, the property
owner, owners or developer shall submit a preliminary plan to the council for
their approval. Such preliminary plan shall show the location of the proposed
street, alley or other public way, the right-of-way width, all adjacent
property owners, water courses and such other information as the council may
require.
   (2)   Minimum standards for new streets, extensions or existing streets or
alleys for which approval is required shall be as follows:
   a.   A minimum right-of-way width of fifty (50) feet dedicated for street
purposes. In addition, the council may require a right-of-way width greater
than fifty (50) feet if such street is to be used as a major thoroughfare or
where greater widths are required by a major street plan.
   b.   A minimum right-of-way of twenty (20) feet for all service alleys.
   c.   Streets shall conform to the general street plan or major thoroughfare
plan of the city as to location.
   d.   Streets shall intersect as nearly as possible at right angles and no
street shall intersect at less than sixty (60) degrees.
   e.   Property lines at street intersections shall be rounded with a minimum
radius of twenty (20) feet. At an angle of intersection of less than seventy-
five (75) degrees a greater radius may be required. Where a street intersects a
highway, the design standards of the state highway commission shall apply.
   (3)   If the street plan is approved, the owner, owners, or developer shall
be required to make the following improvements at no cost to the city prior to
the city accepting such street or alley as a public street.
   a.   The right-of-way shall be cleared and graded to its final grade for the
full width of the right-of-way. Grades shall not as far as practical exceed
five (5) percent.
   b.   Streets shall be crowned and adequate street drainage provided in
accordance with the street improvement construction specifications of the city.
   c.   Top soil, gravel or other suitable base course material shall be put in
place for a minimum width of thirty (30) feet, which shall be the minimum width
for an improved street. Additional improved street widths may be required for
major thoroughfares by the council. Provided, the improved width of alleys need
not exceed twenty (20) feet.
   d.   Storm sewer drainage facilities, including drainage, pipe inlets and
other necessary incidentals as may be required by city specifications.
   e.   Curb and gutter as required by city specifications.
   f.   Street surfacing according to city specifications for a width of thirty
(30) feet.
   (4)   When the requirements of this section have been met to the
satisfaction of the council and the public works director, the council may by
resolution accept such street or alley for public use.
(Code 1982, 4-1002)
Secs. 15-28--15-40. Reserved.
DIVISION 3.
RIGHT-OF-WAY USE*
__________
*   State Law References: Openings, structures, pipes, trees and issuance of
permits, G.S. 136-93.
__________
Sec. 15-41. Purpose.
   The purpose of this division is to provide for the proper management of the
public rights-of-way in order to preserve the health, safety, and welfare of
the citizens of Marion. Specifically, this division is intended to provide for
the reasonable regulation of the excavation and construction by private owners,
utilities, contractors, and other entities within the public rights-of-way and
the time, place, and manner in which such excavation and construction occurs.
(Ord. No. O-12-03-06-2, 2, 3-6-12)
Sec. 15-42. Definitions.
   For the purposes of this division, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   Utility. A company that owns and provides services to customers through
utility facilities located in the right-of-way. This definition shall include
the City of Marion for purposes of the city's ownership of water, wastewater,
and stormwater utility facilities.
   Utility facility. A pole, tower, water main or line, sanitary sewer pipe or
line, stormwater pipe or structure, gas pipe or gas line, telecommunications
line or equipment, power line, conduit, or any like structure.
(Ord. No. O-12-03-06-2, 2, 3-6-12)
Sec. 15-43. Permit required.
   All excavation and construction within public rights-of-way within the
Marion city limits shall require a permit issued by the city upon application
of the property owner, licensed contractor, or utility performing the work.
Excavation and construction includes, but is not limited to, the installation,
repair, and replacement of driveways, sidewalks, all public and other
utilities, and other projects involving construction activities over, upon, or
beneath the public rights-of-way. Excavations and construction extending for a
linear distance of one-half mile or greater shall require the approval of the
city council, except in the case of franchise utilities exempted by franchise
agreements.
(Ord. No. O-12-03-06-2, 2, 3-6-12)
Sec. 15-44. Emergencies.
   In an emergency, excavation or construction may commence without a permit
provided the person or entity performing the work has made a reasonable effort
to inform the city and any utility whose facilities might be involved and shall
make written application for a permit at the earliest practical moment. For
purposes of this section, an emergency situation shall not include any new
construction.
(Ord. No. O-12-03-06-2, 2, 3-6-12)
Sec. 15-45. Fees.
   Fees shall be paid for all permits, such fees to be determined from time to
time by the Marion city council. Franchise utilities exempted by franchise
agreement and initial installations of public improvements within new
subdivisions shall not be required to pay permit fees. In lieu of fees being
charged, the city council may elect to allow the provision of alternate sources
of public benefit to the city and/or local governmental, educational or non-
profit organizations.
(Ord. No. O-12-03-06-2, 2, 3-6-12)
Sec. 15-46. Rules and regulations.
   The city shall also establish standard specifications and details for the
making of cuts, for related matters involving excavation and construction
within the public rights-of-way, and requirements for backfilling of
excavations and restoration of pavements or surfacing.
(Ord. No. O-12-03-06-2, 2, 3-6-12)
Sec. 15-47. Above-ground structures.
   New or expanded above-ground utility facilities (other than poles and
facilities located on poles) such as pedestals, terminals, cross boxes,
interfaces, remote terminals, and other items of industry standard nomenclature
("above-ground structure") that are part of a utility's distribution system
(i.e., does not include facilities or devices that primarily serve individual
properties) may be located in the right-of-way only upon issuance of a permit
in accordance with the standards set forth below. Above-ground structures shall
not interfere with the operation and maintenance of existing utilities,
facilities, roadways, or walkways within the public right-of-way. If at any
time the city determines that an above-ground structure is at a location that
has a higher than average accident potential, it may require the structure to
be relocated at the utility's expense.
   In determining whether to issue a permit for a new or expanded above-ground
structure in the right-of-way, the city shall consider the following:
   (a)   the technical need for the structure and the need to locate the
structure at the proposed location;
   (b)   whether the structure would create an unacceptable sight obstruction
or other safety hazard; and
   (c)   whether a location outside of the right-of-way is reasonably available
and whether the utility has made reasonable efforts to secure such a location.
This subsection shall not apply to expansions of existing equipment already
located in the right-of-way.
   In approving a permit for a new or expanded above-ground structure, the city
may impose reasonable screening, appearance, and other conditions to minimize
the impact of the structure. In the event that screening, appearance, or other
conditions are not adequate to minimize the impact of the structure, the permit
may be denied.
(Ord. No. O-12-03-06-2, 2, 3-6-12)
Sec. 15-48. Indemnification of city.
   Any person obtaining a permit as provided for in section
15-43 agrees, as a condition of the issuance of such permit to indemnify and
hold harmless the city against any claims or expenses, including attorney's
fees, for bodily injury or property damage for accidents or occurrences arising
out of the person's operations, excluding only the liability of the city for
its sole negligence except in connection with general supervision of work
performed by such person.
(Ord. No. O-12-03-06-2, 2, 3-6-12)
Sec. 15-49. Restoration of excavation to original condition.
   When any part of any street, sidewalk, alley or other public place of the
city shall be torn or dug up for any purpose, the person making such excavation
or opening shall have the duty of refilling such excavation or opening so as to
restore it to essentially the same condition that existed prior to the
excavation or opening, and such refilling shall be done in accordance with the
standards and specifications issued by the public works director. Any person
neglecting, refusing, or failing to comply with any provisions of this section
shall be guilty of a violation thereof, and where such neglect, refusal or
failure is continued, after notice from the public works director, every day's
continuance thereafter shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. No. O-12-03-06-2, 2, 3-6-12)
Sec. 15-50. Leaving excavations unprotected.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who obtains a permit to do any
excavation of any kind which may create or cause a dangerous condition in or
near any street, alley, sidewalk or public place of the city without placing
and maintaining proper guard rails and signal lights or other warnings at, in
or around such dangerous condition, sufficient to warn the public of such
excavation or work, and to protect all persons using reasonable care from
injuries on account of such excavation.
(Ord. No. O-12-03-06-2, 2, 3-6-12)
Sec. 15-51. Supervision and control.
   All excavations and work in streets, sidewalks, alleys or public places of
the city shall be under the supervision and control of the public works
director, whose duty it shall be to inspect such work from time to time during
the progress thereof. Upon the completion thereof, he shall make a final
inspection and see that the street, sidewalk or public place is restored to a
condition as good in all respects as before the excavation or work was made or
done, and that all debris, materials, tools and equipment are removed
therefrom. Any person refusing or failing to comply with any provision of this
section shall be guilty of a violation thereof. When such failure or refusal is
continued after notice from the public works director, every day's continuance
shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
(Code 1982, 4-1026; Ord. No. O-12-03-06-2, 2, 3-6-12)
Sec. 15-52. Disposition of fees.
   All fees collected under the provisions of this division shall be paid into
the city's general fund.
(Ord. No. O-12-03-06-2, 2, 3-6-12)
Secs. 15-53--15-60. Reserved.
DIVISION 4.
IMPROVEMENTS
Sec. 15-61. Petition for street improvements.
   Except as authorized by the Charter, the city will not consider paving or
otherwise improving any street or alley unless a petition is presented to the
council on forms provided by the city, signed by a majority of the property
owners who represent a majority of the lineal footage on the street proposed to
be improved, requesting that the total cost of such improvements be assessed
against abutting property owners.
(Code 1982, 4-1003)
   Charter References: Assessments for street and sidewalk improvements,
petition unnecessary,
5.1.
Sec. 15-62. Itemization of street improvement cost.
   (a)    Street improvements for all streets which shall be included in the
property owners' petition, the total cost of which shall be assessed against
the abutting property owners, shall include the following:
   (1)   Storm sewer drainage facilities, including drainage pipe thirty (30)
inches or less in diameter, inlets and other necessary incidentals as may be
required by city specifications;
   (2)   Curb and gutter as required by city specifications;
   (3)   Grading for a width of thirty (30) feet on those streets which were
opened prior to the effective date of this article and which need to be graded
prior to surfacing;
   (4)   Base course material for a width of thirty (30) feet if existing base
course is not adequate in accordance with city specifications;
   (5)   Street surfacing according to city specifications for a width of
thirty (30) feet.
   (b)    The improvement costs for street widths in excess of thirty (30)
feet, the cost of required drainage facilities which are larger in size than
required in this article, and the total cost of all improvements at street
intersections shall not be assessed against abutting property owners and shall
be paid for by the city.
(Code 1982, 4-1004)
Sec. 15-63. Street improvement project procedure.
   (a)    Upon the receipt of a petition for street improvements, the city
clerk shall examine the petition and certify as to its sufficiency to the
council. No petition shall be considered for street improvements where streets
have been opened after the effective date of the article from which this
section derives in violation of section
15-27. In addition, no petition shall be considered for a street less than one
(1) normal block in length.
   (b)    If the petition from the property owners is found to be sufficient,
the council shall direct the city public works director to estimate the total
cost of the street project in accordance with street specifications, to
determine the total cost per foot of property frontage and the total cost to
the city for intersections and other improvements the cost of which is to be
borne by the city.
   (c)    When cost estimates are received, the council shall consider the
availability of funds for street improvements, the degree of development along
the street proposed to be improved and may approve such street improvement
project as they deem best. The city will pay twenty-five (25) percent of the
cost of improvements and the property owners, when property abuts the street
improvements, shall be assessed for seventy-five (75) percent of the cost.
   (d)    When a street improvement project is approved, the property owners
abutting such improvement shall be notified of the total estimated cost per
foot of frontage and further notified that each owner has the opportunity to
pay his proportionate share in cash in advance.
   (e)    The street improvement assessment procedure as authorized in general
statutes section 160A, article 10 shall be followed and assessments shall be
made against the properties abutting upon such improvement according to an
equal rate per front foot. Property owners who have made a cash deposit in
advance as authorized in this section shall be credited for such payments on
the assessment rolls. In accordance with the requirements of the general
statutes, property owners not paying assessments in cash in advance shall pay
their assessments in five (5) equal annual installments which shall bear
interest at a rate to be determined by the council.
   (f)    If the actual cost of improvements is less than the estimated cost,
such excess shall be refunded to property owners. In event the actual cost
exceeds the estimated cost the property owners will be assessed for this amount
or may pay such amount in cash in the manner provided by law.
(Code 1982, 4-1005; Ord. of 2-21-89)
   State Law References: Petition for street or sidewalk improvements, G.S.
160A-217.
Sec. 15-64. Installation of utilities.
   The council prior to approving any project or authorizing any street
improvement shall determine if water and sewer facilities have been installed
within that portion of the street located between curbs. If such facilities
have not been installed or if facilities are inadequate and will have to be
replaced, the council shall postpone the street improvement project pending the
installation of such facilities.
(Code 1982, 4-1007)
   Cross References: Water and sewerage,
Ch. 20.
Sec. 15-65. Responsibility of property owners.
   (a)    Property owners along streets which are surfaced and have curb and
gutter are responsible for replacing any driveway or walkway within the street
right-of-way as a result of new street construction improvements. Driveway
entrances and aprons at the curb line will be constructed by the city at the
location designated by the property owner and the cost thereof will be included
in the total cost assessed for street improvements.
   (b)    Property owners shall be responsible for seeding, landscaping or
otherwise improving the area between curbs and the property line as they may
desire, provided no walls or other permanent structures are located within the
street right-of-way.
   (c)    Drainage pipes and other material on the right-of-way at the time of
construction which were purchased by the property owner will be removed and
placed on the lot of the owner for his disposition. The city will haul away
such items if requested by the owner and with the owner's permission during
construction.
(Code 1982, 4-1008)
Sec. 15-66. Construction according to specifications; supervision.
   All street grading, base course preparation, storm drainage, surfacing, curb
and gutter, and other improvements shall be constructed in accordance with the
written specifications of the city which have been approved by the council. All
work shall be done under the supervision of the public works director.
(Code 1982, 4-1009)
Sec. 15-67. Opening and improving streets without petition.
   When in the opinion of the council a new street should be opened and
improved and no petition is filed asking for the assessment of the cost
thereof, and when the council is of the opinion that the public benefit will be
greater than the benefit to abutting property owners, the council may direct
that such improvement be made and the entire cost thereof paid by the city, or
assessed in accordance with the procedure provided in Article V of the city
Charter.
(Code 1982, 4-1010)
Sec. 15-68. Resurfacing improvements.
   Whenever it is necessary to resurface any street which has been surfaced
under the policy established in this article, the city will undertake such
resurfacing when funds are appropriated, and the city shall bear the entire
cost of such work.
(Code 1982, 4-1011)
Sec. 15-69. Planting and protection of trees.
   Citizens may plant trees in front of their lots and around their lots on the
sidewalks under the supervision of the public works director, provided they
shall not plant any that are detrimental to the city. No trees shall be planted
in the streets or gutters. No person shall cut or damage any tree upon the
sidewalks of the city without the permission of the public works director or
shall dig up or injure any tree or shall tack or post any advertisement upon
said tree in the city.
(Code 1982, 8-5005)
   Cross References: Trees,
Ch. 19.
Sec. 15-70. Permit for driveway construction.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct a driveway across any
public sidewalk, walkway or parkway or into any street or cut any curb for such
purpose without first having obtained a permit therefore.
(Ord. of 5-20-86, 1)
   Cross References: Licenses, permits and business regulations,
Ch. 10.
Sec. 15-71. Application for driveway permit.
   Application for a driveway construction permit shall be made to the
inspection department and shall state among other things the location, grade
and dimensions of the proposed driveway and the purpose for which it is
desired. If the proposed driveway complies with the provisions of this article,
the building inspector shall issue a permit therefor. If the proposed driveway
is to connect to a street maintained by the state department of transportation,
there must also be a permit from the state department of transportation
authorizing such connection.
(Ord. of 5-20-86, 1)
Sec. 15-72. Driveway standards for businesses.
   (a)    No driveway for a commercial or business establishment shall exceed
thirty-six (36) feet in width at the driveway opening or throat of the driveway
toward the property away from the street.
   (b)    No driveway for a commercial or business establishment shall be less
than twelve (12) feet wide at the driveway opening or throat of the driveway
towards the property away from the street.
   (c)    All radii connecting the driveway to the curb shall be as specified
for business and commercial buildings by the building inspector. The radii
shall be not less than two and one-half (2 ) feet nor greater than twenty (20)
feet.
   (d)    Not more than three (3) driveways shall be permitted to service one
(1) business or commercial installation from one (1) street and then only if
the two (2) driveways are at least fifty (50) feet apart.
   (e)    Any business or commercial establishment located at the intersection
of two (2) or more streets and which desires a driveway into two (2)
intersecting streets shall construct the driveways so as to comply with the
minimum requirements established by the building inspector.
   (f)    No driveway apron shall extend out into the street further than the
face of the curb and under no circumstance shall such driveway apron extend
into the gutter area.
   (g)    At all business or commercial driveway entrances a white line, not
less than two and one-half (2 ) inches in width, shall be maintained along the
entire width of the driveway or ramp to clearly define the sidewalk area on the
property side of the sidewalk.
(Ord. of 5-20-86, 1)
   Cross References: Licenses, permits and business regulations,
Ch. 10.
Sec. 15-73. Standards for residential driveways.
   (a)    No driveway for a residence shall exceed twenty-five (25) feet in
width at the outer or street edge of the driveway nor twenty (20) feet wide at
the driveway opening or throat of the driveway toward the property, away from
the street.
   (b)    No driveway for a residence shall be less than fifteen (15) feet in
width at outer or street edge of the driveway nor ten (10) feet wide at the
driveway opening or throat of the driveway towards the property, away from the
street.
   (c)    Residences shall not have more than two (2) driveways on the same
street and then only if the two (2) driveways are at least twenty (20) feet
apart.
   (d)    Driveways for residences shall comply with section
15-72.
   (e)    All radii of curves of driveways where the same meets the curb shall
comply with the requirements of the building inspector.
(Ord. of 5-20-86, 1)
Sec. 15-74. Driveway construction.
   All driveway entrances within the city shall be constructed by the city. The
owner and/or tenant, requesting such driveway entrance, shall be responsible to
pay, in advance, such amount as determined by the public works director, to
cover the total cost for materials, equipment, and labor, for construction and/
or removal and replacement of such driveway entrance. Any person(s) objecting
to the amount charged shall have the right of appeal to the city council, prior
to construction.
(Ord. of 5-19-98(1), 1)
Secs. 15-75--15-85. Reserved.
DIVISION 5.
SANITATION*
__________
*   Cross References: Health and sanitation,
Ch. 9.
__________
Sec. 15-86. Dumping trash prohibited.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw or deposit upon any street or
sidewalk, or upon any private property, except with written permission of the
owner or occupant of such private property, any trash, refuse, garbage,
building material, cans, bottles, broken glass, paper, or any type of litter.
(Code 1982, 6-2011)
   State Law References: Littering, G.S. 14-399; dumping litter, G.S. 14-399.1.
Sec. 15-87. Littering from vehicle prohibited.
   It shall be unlawful for any person while a driver or a passenger in a
vehicle to throw or deposit litter upon any street or other public place within
the city or upon private property.
(Code 1982, 6-2012)
   Cross References: Traffic,
Ch. 18.
Sec. 15-88. Penalty.
   Any person found guilty of violating sections
15-86 and
15-87 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined two hundred dollars
($200.00) for the first offense and five hundred dollars ($500.00) for the
second and subsequent offenses.
(Code 1982, 6-2013)
Sec. 15-89. Public areas adjacent to businesses--Trash control.
   Every owner, lessee, tenant, occupant or person in charge of any commercial
establishment or premises which maintains any paved or unpaved areas for the
use of the public, either for parking or as access area and incident to the
carrying on of the principal business of any such commercial establishment or
premises and which parking or access areas abut or lie within ten (10) feet of
any public street or other public way, shall keep and maintain such areas clean
and free from trash, litter, rubbish and any materials liable to be blown,
deposited or cast upon such street or other public way.
(Code 1982, 6-2014)
Sec. 15-90. Same--Receptacles required.
   Suitable receptacles shall be provided in all parking or access areas within
the meaning of section
15-89. Such receptacles shall be plainly marked and constructed to prevent
scattering of any trash, litter, rubbish or other material deposited therein.
(Code 1982, 6-2015)
   State Law References: Regulation of trash and garbage, G.S. 160A-192;
regulation of the placing of trash, refuse and garbage within municipal limits,
G.S. 160A-303.1.
Sec. 15-91. Reserved.
   Editors Note: Section 1, amendment 3 of Ord. No. O-08-01-15-3, adopted Jan.
15, 2008, deleted 15-91, which pertained to penalties and derived from 6-2016
of the 1982 Code.
Sec. 15-92. Acts and conditions requiring special street cleaning or repair
prohibited.
   (a)    Any act, neglect or omission or any condition caused or allowed to
continue, which creates or results in causing a condition in or upon any public
street, sidewalk or storm drain which requires special cleaning or repair of
such street, sidewalk or storm drain is hereby prohibited. Prohibited acts,
negligence, omissions and conditions which result in requiring special cleaning
or repair shall include but shall not be limited to:
   (1)   The hauling of dirt, debris, materials removed from the sites of
construction or reconstruction of buildings or structures, or waste materials
of any kind, in such manner that any portion of such dirt, debris or materials
is spilled, lost, dropped or left upon the streets or sidewalks;
   (2)   The depositing or leaving upon the streets or sidewalks of mud, dirt
or any other material as a result of the use of trucks, construction equipment
or machinery, regardless of whether such materials are spilled, lost or dropped
in transit or are deposited upon the surface of the street or public property
by the tires or wheels of such trucks, construction equipment or machinery; and
   (3)   The grading of lots, land or driveways at elevations higher than
street or sidewalk level, or any other acts, negligence or conditions created
or allowed to exist upon such property which results in mud, dirt, soil,
gravel, debris or other materials being washed onto city streets or sidewalks
or into the city storm drainage system.
   (b)    Special cleaning or repair of streets, sidewalks and the storm
drainage system be deemed to be required when their condition is such that the
public health, safety, welfare or public use of the same is threatened, limited
or impaired; the use and enjoyment of property abutting such streets or
sidewalks is diminished or limited; or substantial damage is caused to the
streets, sidewalks or drainage facilities or to such abutting property. The
words special cleaning or repair as used in this section shall include
resurfacing, restoration of gravel and similar repairs made necessary by
prohibited acts, negligence or conditions.
(Code 1982, 6-2017)
Sec. 15-93. City to perform special cleaning and repair; computation of costs.
   (a)    The public works department will clean and repair all streets,
sidewalks and storm drains as and when special cleaning or repair is required
by conditions defined in section
15-92.
   (b)    The public works department will keep records of the costs of all
such specially required cleaning and repair, which may be computed on the basis
of established per mile and per hour cost of the use of city equipment, plus
labor and materials, including water, likewise computed at cost to the city.
(Code 1982, 6-2018)
Sec. 15-94. Penalty; payment of costs.
   (a)    Any person who violates section
15-92 or
15-93 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished in accordance with
the provisions of section
1-10.
   (b)    Any person whose act, negligence, omission, or who, by permitting a
condition to continue, whether done or neglected directly or through an agent,
servant or employee, causes additional expense to the city for necessary
special street, sidewalk or storm drain cleaning or repair shall reimburse the
city for its expense within thirty (30) days after receipt of an itemized
statement of expense submitted by the city, and upon failure to reimburse the
city within such period of thirty (30) days, shall incur and be liable to the
city for a civil penalty of two hundred dollars ($200.00), in addition to such
expense.
   (c)    The public works department shall send to any person responsible for
additional expense to the city an itemized statement of the expense incurred
and a request for reimbursement. The city attorney is authorized to bring suit
in the name of the city to recover any such unpaid penalties.
(Code 1982, 6-2019)
Secs. 15-95--15-110. Reserved.
DIVISION 6.
UTILITY POLES
Sec. 15-111. Erection of poles limited to single line.
   No permit shall be issued for the erection of poles on any street where
there exists a line of poles on such street for the purpose of supporting
electric, telephone, cable television or telegraph wires.
(Code 1982, 4-1033)
Sec. 15-112. Accommodation of wires on preexisting line of poles.
   Whenever any electric, telephone, telegraph or cable television company
shall desire to place a line or wires along any particular street upon which it
does not have a line of poles, but upon which such street there exists a line
of poles owned by another company, then such companies may maintain their wires
upon the same poles. If an agreement cannot be reached between the companies
owning the poles and the companies desiring to place wires thereon, then the
said companies may submit the question of compensation to three (3)
disinterested persons for arbitration or they may submit the same to the
council for determination. This section shall apply to poles owned by the city,
as well as poles owned by companies operating under franchises from the city.
(Code 1982, 4-1034)
Sec. 15-113. Care and inspection of poles.
   It shall be the duty of the owners of all poles supporting electric,
telephone, telegraph wires or cable television to keep such poles in a safe
condition, and, for that purpose, inspect the same once every three (3) months.
(Code 1982, 4-1035)
Secs. 15-114--15-130. Reserved.
ARTICLE III
SIDEWALKS*
__________
*   Cross References: Driving within a sidewalk area prohibited,
18-61; riding bicycles on sidewalks,
18-195.
__________
DIVISION 1.
GENERALLY
Sec. 15-131. Improvements.
   Petitions for street improvements may include requests for sidewalk
improvements in accordance with city specifications or sidewalk improvements
may be petitioned only. Such sidewalk improvements may be constructed as part
of the street improvement project and in the same manner, except that one
hundred (100) percent of the total cost of sidewalk improvements exclusive of
the cost at intersections shall be assessed against the property owner.
(Code 1982, § 4-1006; Ord. No. O-15-01-06-3, § 3, 1-6-15)
   Charter References: Petition unnecessary for sidewalk improvements, §
5.1.
Sec. 15-132. Construction.
   No sidewalk of any description shall be built by any person of any brick,
wood, or other material without a written permit from the city. Nor shall any
permanent structure be installed in a city sidewalk without permission from
city council.
(Code 1982, § 4-1029; Ord. No. O-05-06-21-04, § 3, 6-21-05; Ord. No. O-15-01-
06-3, § 3, 1-6-15)
Sec. 15-133. Assembly on sidewalk.
   All persons are forbidden from assembling or collecting and standing so as
to obstruct any sidewalk or street, and all persons so collecting and standing
shall disperse and move upon the demand of any police officer.
(Code 1982, § 6-2001; Ord. No. O-15-01-06-3, § 3, 1-6-15)
   State Law References: Standing, sitting or lying upon highways or streets
prohibited, G.S. § 20-174.1; regulation of mass gatherings, G.S. § 130A-251 et
seq.
Sec. 15-134. Sidewalk display of merchandise prohibited; exceptions.
   (a)    No person shall place for display or sale any goods, wares or
merchandise of any kind upon any of the sidewalks of the city, except in the
central business district, as defined in the zoning chapter for the city and
then only upon the following conditions:
    (1)   Goods, wares or merchandise may only be placed directly in front of
the businesses fronting on the street by the owners or occupants of such
businesses.
    (2)   All materials, tables, racks or other items must be removed from the
sidewalk at the close of each business day, with the following exceptions:
       a.   Tables and chairs used by a restaurant or coffee shop or other
business establishment serving food or non-alcoholic beverages may remain on
the sidewalk at all times, subject to the other provisions of this section,
unless the business owner is instructed to remove said tables and chairs by the
city. Such tables and chairs shall be for the exclusive use of patrons of the
business providing the tables and chairs, and in no case shall alcoholic
beverages be served to or consumed by any persons using said tables and chairs.
      b.   Tables and chairs used by a sidewalk café permitted pursuant to
Division 2 of this Chapter.
    (3)   No goods, wares, merchandise, tables, racks, or other items for sale
or containing items for sale may be placed within seven (7) feet of the face of
curbline in front of the building, with the following exceptions:
       a.   Tables and chairs for use by a restaurant or other business for the
purpose of seating customers and serving food or non-alcoholic beverages may be
placed on the sidewalk within seven (7) feet of the face of the curbline in
front of the building so long as the City Manager or his or her designee
approves the location and placement of the tables and chairs. The City Manager
or his or her designee shall, upon application, grant approval of table and
chair placement for the purposes above described once it is determined and
agreed upon that the tables and chairs do not pose a safety hazard or adversely
impact parking areas. Furthermore, if parking patterns change or safety hazards
emerge, the City Manager or his or her designee reserves the power to withdraw
permission for certain or all table(s) or chair(s) placement.
      b.   Tables and chairs used by a sidewalk café permitted pursuant to
Division 2 of this Chapter.
    (4)   Prior to placing any goods, wares, merchandise or any items on the
sidewalk, the merchant owning or occupying the business shall provide the city
manager with a signed, notarized statement accepting total and complete
responsibility for any accidents or other problems relating to the items placed
on the sidewalk in front of his or her business. The statement shall include
the beginning and ending date of the time covered by the statement.
   (b)    This section shall not prohibit the city council from authorizing
sidewalk sales in the central business district or street fairs and festivals
which allow vendors and craftspeople to display wares in streets which are
blocked off from vehicular traffic.
(Code 1982, § 6-2002; Ord. of 10-3-89, §§ 1, 2; Ord. of 5-8-01, § 2; Ord. of 5-
22-01, § 2; Ord. No. O-15-01-06-3, § 3, 1-6-15)
   Cross References: Licenses, permits and business regulations,
Ch. 10.
Sec. 15-135. Placing objects on streets and sidewalks.
   No brick, stone or wood or other substance obstructing the free passage of
persons and vehicles shall be placed or suffered to lie in any of the alley
ways, streets or other routes of the city, nor shall any person place on or in
any of the streets, sidewalks or alley ways of the city any boxes, crates,
casks, or barrels of any description, or any other obstruction of any kind,
provided that any person erecting a building may with permission place building
material for immediate use on the streets in such a way as to not interfere
with the usual traffic.
(Code 1982, § 6-2003; Ord. No. O-15-01-06-3, § 3, 1-6-15)
   State Law References: Placing glass or injurious obstruction upon highway
prohibited, G.S. § 136-91; city's duty to keep public streets free from
unnecessary obstructions, G.S. § 160A-296(a)(2); city's authority to prohibit
placing trash on streets, G.S. § 160A-303.1.
Sec. 15-136. Construction near sidewalk.
   Before building or remodeling at any place where such building or remodeling
is in close proximity to the sidewalk, the sidewalk shall be blocked off or an
overhead covered passage way shall be constructed so as to leave the sidewalk
unobstructed and provide safe and easy passage.
(Code 1982, § 6-2004; Ord. No. O-15-01-06-3, § 3, 1-6-15)
Sec. 15-137. Structures and appurtenances over sidewalks.
   No person shall erect over any sidewalk or street any part of a building
except marquees and signs which are approved by the building inspector. Awnings
may be attached to buildings provided they are supported upon metallic frames
and at least eight (8) feet above the level of the sidewalk. Reconstruction of
porches and balconies of historic significance shall be permitted to extend ten
(10) feet over the sidewalk and eight (8) feet above the sidewalk, provided
that the structure is five (5) feet from the vehicular travel way.
Reconstruction shall be permitted only if evidence of historic features exists
in photos and when features are noted in the U.S. Department of Interior
description of "Historic and Architectural Resources in Downtown Marion".
Reconstruction of historic features shall be comparable to original
construction.
(Code 1982, § 6-2005; Ord. No. O-05-06-21-04, § 2, 6-21-05; Ord. No. O-15-01-
06-3, § 3, 1-6-15)
Sec. 15-138. Salespeople to remain on sidewalk; motorists not to stop.
   (a)    Persons selling newspapers and other commodities shall be prohibited
from selling such items within fifty (50) feet of any street intersection and
all persons selling such items shall remain on the sidewalk while selling such
items and not venture into the street.
   (b)    It shall be unlawful for any motorist to stop a vehicle in a traveled
portion of any street for the purpose of purchasing newspapers and other
commodities.
(Code 1982, § 6-2006; Ord. No. O-15-01-06-3, § 3, 1-6-15)
   Cross References: Licenses, permits and business regulations,
Ch. 10.
Sec. 15-139. Signs and banners across street prohibited.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hang, suspend or otherwise place any
sign or banner over and across any of the streets of the city. This section
shall not apply to Christmas decorations approved by the city manager.
(Code 1982, § 6-2007; Ord. of 10-7-86, § 1; Ord. of 8-18-98, § 1; Ord. No. O-
15-01-06-3, § 3, 1-6-15)
Sec. 15-140. Reserved.
   Editors Note: Section 1, amendment 3 of Ord. No. O-08-01-15-3, adopted Jan.
15, 2008, deleted § 15-140, which pertained to penalties and derived from an
ordinance adopted Oct. 7, 1986.
DIVISION 2.
SIDEWALK CAFES
Sec. 15-141. Definition.
   Sidewalk cafe means any group of tables and chairs, and its authorized
decorative and accessory devices situated and maintained upon the public
sidewalk for use in connection with the consumption of food and beverages sold
to the public from or in an adjoining indoor restaurant which is located within
the City of Marion Central Business District, as indicated on the Official
Zoning Map of the City.
(Ord. No. O-15-01-06-3, § 3, 1-6-15)
Sec. 15-142. General.
   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Code to the contrary, sidewalk
cafes or sidewalk dining shall be permitted in the Central Business District as
indicated on the Official Zoning Map of the City and shall be subject to such
regulations as are set forth in this division.
(Ord. No. O-15-01-06-3, § 3, 1-6-15)
Sec. 15-143. Permit required.
   No restaurant owner may operate a sidewalk cafe without first obtaining a
permit from the City Manager in accordance with the requirements of this
division. As used in this section, the term City Manager includes his or her
authorized representative(s).
(Ord. No. O-15-01-06-3, § 3, 1-6-15)
Sec. 15-144. Application.
   Any restaurant owner desiring to operate a sidewalk cafe shall prepare and
file an application with the City Manager which shall contain the following
information:
   (a)   The name, address, and telephone number of the restaurant desiring to
operate a sidewalk cafe.
   (b)   The name, address, and telephone number of the restaurant operator.
   (c)   The name, address and telephone number of the property owner.
   (d)   The hours of operation of the restaurant and the proposed hours of
operation of the sidewalk cafe.
   (e)   A drawing or site plan clearly delineating the defined area of
sidewalk or pedestrian way to be used for the sidewalk cafe, and the section to
be kept clear for pedestrian and fire lane use, and depicting the proposed
placement of tables, chairs, barricades, umbrellas, trash receptacles, and
other furnishings on the sidewalk or pedestrian way. The dimensions of proposed
tables and the number of tables and chairs proposed must be specified on the
application.
   (f)   Documentation of comprehensive general liability and products and
completed operations coverage in the amount of $1,000,000.00, insuring against
personal injury, wrongful death and property damage and including the City as
an additional party insured and insuring the City against any liability
resulting from the uses permitted pursuant to this division. Such insurance
policy shall provide that the policy shall not terminate or be canceled prior
to the expiration date without thirty (30) days' advance written notice to the
City. The permit holder shall continuously maintain the insurance required by
this section and shall continuously provide the City with evidence of the
insurance required by this section.
   (g)   Copies of all permits and licenses showing all required approvals by
the County Health Department and any other applicable regulatory agencies.
   (h)   Copies of all applicable State ABC permits pertaining to the location
for which a sidewalk café is requested.
   (i)   Execution of a statement on the permit application wherein the
applicant holds harmless and indemnifies the City from any claims or causes of
action arising out of or related to the permitted activity, including, but not
limited to, compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act, the North
Carolina State Building Code and all other health and safety laws and
regulations.
   (j)   A sworn statement certifying that the restaurant operator has not
violated any law, regulation or ordinance relating to the possession, sale,
transportation or consumption of intoxicating beverages or controlled
substances for the three years preceding the date of the application.
   (k)   Payment of an application fee, as set by the City Fee Schedule, to
cover the cost of processing and investigating the application and issuing the
permit shall be submitted with the application.
   (l)   Other information deemed necessary by the City Manager.
(Ord. No. O-15-01-06-3, § 3, 1-6-15)
Sec. 15-145. Operational requirements.
   Operation of a sidewalk café shall conform to the following requirements:
   (a)    There shall be a five- (5) foot-wide unobstructed contiguous walkway
within the public sidewalk area for use by pedestrians, and handicapped
accessibility shall be provided as required by law. The outdoor activity shall
not impede pedestrian or vehicle traffic.
   (b)   The sidewalk cafe must be associated with an operating restaurant such
that it is under the same management and shares the same food preparation
facilities, restroom facilities, and other customer convenience facilities as
the restaurant. The sidewalk cafe must be operated under the same name as the
restaurant and may not be open or operated at any time when the restaurant is
not open for business.
   (c)   The operation of the sidewalk cafe must be clearly incidental to the
associated restaurant business. The number of tables and chairs and the seating
capacity allowed for the sidewalk cafe shall be set in the permit approval by
the City Manager or his/her designee. At no time may the number of tables and
chairs in the sidewalk café exceed the number approved in the sidewalk café
permit.
   (d)   The placement of tables, chairs and other furnishings as shown in the
drawing submitted with the site plan must be done in such a manner that at
least five (5) feet of unobstructed space remains on the sidewalk or pedestrian
way for the passage of pedestrians. No fire exits or lanes may be blocked and
such must remain clear at all times. The pedestrian passage may not be used for
the display of merchandise or for portable signs otherwise authorized pursuant
to
Chapter 21 Zoning, Division 4 Sign Regulations, of the Marion City Code.
   (e)   The premises of the sidewalk café must be clearly defined at all times
during the hours of business operation, using a means of separation between the
sidewalk and the premises of the sidewalk café, as approved by the City Manager
or his or her designee.
   (f)   The restaurant seeking to operate the sidewalk cafe must front on and
open onto the sidewalk proposed for the sidewalk cafe, or be situated below
sidewalk level with direct access to the sidewalk by means of an open-air
stairwell. The placement of tables, chairs, and other furnishings may not
extend beyond the sidewalk or pedestrian way property frontage of the
associated restaurant.
   (g)   All outdoor dining furniture, including tables, chairs, umbrellas and
planters, shall be movable and suitable for outdoor use. Umbrellas must be
secured with a minimum base weight of not less than sixty (60) pounds. At any
time outdoor dining furniture is in disrepair, the restaurant operator shall
repair or replace the furniture within fourteen (14) days after notice is
provided by the City.
   (h)   Except as elsewhere permitted by the Code, the operation or furnishing
of the sidewalk cafe shall involve no permanent alteration to or encroachment
upon any street, sidewalk, or pedestrian way or to the exterior of the
associated restaurant, unless approval is given by the City Manager or his or
her designee.
   (i)   Amplified sound equipment shall not permitted within the area of the
sidewalk café.
   (j)   At all times the permittee must comply with all other local, state or
federal laws, ordinances and regulations, including but not limited to health,
safety and welfare rules, laws and regulations and the City of Marion Noise
Ordinance.
(Ord. No. O-15-01-06-3, § 3, 1-6-15)
   State law reference— Local regulation of places of amusement, G.S. 160A-181.
   State law reference— Noise regulation, G.S. 160A-184.
Sec. 15-146. Alcoholic beverages.
   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Code, alcoholic beverages may
be served in approved sidewalk cafes provided that the following requirements
are met:
   (a)   The sidewalk cafe shall be part of a restaurant which shall otherwise
be authorized, permitted or licensed under the state law and this Code to serve
and sell alcoholic beverages for on-premises consumption.
   (b)   The sidewalk cafe must be included as part of the premises for which
an ABC permit is issued pursuant to state law, for the purpose of applying and
enforcing state laws regarding the sale or consumption of alcoholic beverages.
   (c)   Signs shall be posted, visible at all exit points from the sidewalk
cafe, that it is unlawful to remove alcoholic beverages from the premises.
   (d)   The restaurant operator shall not have violated any law, regulation or
ordinance relating to the possession, sale, transportation or consumption of
intoxicating beverages or controlled substances for the three years preceding
the commencement of the sale of alcoholic beverages at the sidewalk cafe.
   (e)   No outdoor bar is allowed within the sidewalk cafe, nor shall outdoor
preparation of alcoholic beverages be permitted except that unfortified wine
may be decanted or beer poured at a table along with food.
(Ord. O-17-02-07-01, § 2, 2-7-17)
Sec. 15-147. Days and hours of operation.
   The hours of operation of a sidewalk cafe may be the particular restaurant's
normal operating business hours Monday through Saturday and after 12:00 noon on
Sundays.
(Ord. No. O-15-01-06-3, § 3, 1-6-15)
Sec. 15-148. Trash.
   (a)   The sidewalk cafe permittee shall maintain in a clean and sanitary
manner all areas where the furniture is located, including maintaining
appropriate trash receptacles, sweeping on a daily basis the full right-of-way
where the furniture is located and immediately cleaning and washing any liquid,
food, debris, broken glass and other trash from the right-of-way.
   (b)   Overnight storage of trash and refuse for the sidewalk cafe shall not
be permitted within the outdoor dining area or on adjacent sidewalk areas, and
the permittee shall remove all trash and litter as it accumulates.
(Ord. No. O-15-01-06-3, § 3, 1-6-15)
Sec. 15-149. Terms and transfer.
   (a)   Upon successfully completing an application, upon meeting all of the
requirements in this Chapter and the City Code and upon the payment of any
permit fees set in the City Fee Schedule, the City Manager or his/her designee
shall issue permits and/or execute encroachment and hold harmless agreements to
allow sidewalk cafes.
   (b)   If a permittee discontinues the restaurant operation or the sidewalk
cafe, no refund of the permit fee shall be made. Permits issued pursuant to
this section shall not be transferable or assignable. Permits may prohibit
operation of sidewalk cafes during special events and contain other conditions
and restrictions as may be necessary to protect the public health, safety and
welfare.
(Ord. No. O-15-01-06-3, § 3, 1-6-15)
Sec. 15-150. Denial.
   (a)   Any applicant denied a permit under this division shall receive a
statement, in writing, outlining the reasons for denial of the permit.
   (b)   Any applicant denied a permit to operate a sidewalk café shall receive
a written statement outlining the grounds on which the denial was based. The
applicant may appeal the denial of the permit to the City Council within
fifteen (15) working days after the date of the written denial, and the City
Council may take such action as it shall find necessary. The findings and
determination of the City Council shall constitute final action by the city.
(Ord. No. O-15-01-06-3, § 3, 1-6-15)
Sec. 15-151. Revocation/suspension.
   (a)   The City specifically retains the right to revoke or suspend a
sidewalk cafe permit any time it deems such revocation to be in the best
interest of the public health, safety or welfare, or where the permittee has
failed to comply with applicable City requirements or is found to have provided
false or misleading information in the permit application. Any such permit
revocation or suspension shall be provided in writing to the business by the
City Manager or his/her designee.
   (b)   Such decision of the City Manager or his/her designee may be appealed
to the City Council by written notice thereof filed with the City Clerk within
fifteen (15) days of the date of receipt of the notice of suspension or
revocation. The City Council may take action as it shall find necessary. The
findings and determination of the City Council shall constitute final action by
the City.
(Ord. No. O-15-01-06-3, § 3, 1-6-15)
Sec. 15-152. Penalties.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any of the requirements of
this division or of the permit issued under this division.
   (a)   Such violations shall be a misdemeanor and punishable as provided by
G.S. Section 14-4.
   (b)   Unless otherwise provided within the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Marion or in state law, persons violating the provisions of this division shall
be assessed a civil penalty as provided in
Chapter 1 of the Marion City Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. No. O-15-01-06-3, § 3, 1-6-15)
Secs. 15-153--15-155. Reserved.
ARTICLE IV
PARADES AND DEMONSTRATIONS*
__________
*   Cross References: Drivers in a procession,
18-62.
   State Law References: Demonstrations or assemblies of persons kneeling or
lying down in public buildings, G.S. 14-132.1; picketing or parading with
intent to obstruct justice, G.S. 14-225.1; local authorities may regulate
processions and assemblages, G.S. 20-169; standing, sitting or lying upon
highways or streets prohibited, G.S. 20-174.1; regulation of mass gatherings,
G.S. 130A-251.
__________
Sec. 15-156. Definitions.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   Block means that portion of any street lying between its intersections with
other streets.
   Group demonstration means any assembly together or concert of action between
or among two (2) or more persons for the purpose of protesting any matter or of
making known any position or promotion of such persons, or of or on behalf of
any organization or class of persons, or for the purpose of attracting
attention of such assembly.
   Parade means any assemblage of two (2) or more persons participating in or
operating any vehicle in any march, ceremony, show, exhibition or procession of
any kind in or upon the public streets, sidewalks, alleys, parks, or other
public grounds or places.
   Picket line means any two (2) or more persons formed together for the
purpose of making known any position or promotion of such persons, or on behalf
of any organization or class of persons.
(Code 1982, 6-2021)
   Cross References: Definitions and rules of construction generally,
1-3.
Sec. 15-157. Permit required.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to organize, conduct or participate in
any parade, picket line, or group demonstration in or upon any street,
sidewalk, alley, or other public place within the city unless a permit therefor
has been issued by the city in accordance with the provisions of this article.
(Code 1982, 6-2022)
   Cross References: Licenses, permits and business regulations,
Ch. 10.
Sec. 15-158. Requirements for issuance of permit.
   The city manager is authorized to issue permits as required in section
15-157, and in the issuance thereof he shall:
   (1)   Require a written application for permit to be filed not less than
twelve (12) hours in advance of such parade, picket line, or group
demonstration. Such application shall be on a form prescribed by the city
manager, shall require the application to be signed by the adult applicant or
applicants, shall require that the adult applicant show the proposed time,
place, purpose and size of such parade, picket line or group demonstration.
   (2)   Refuse to issue such permit when the activity or purpose stated in the
application would violate any ordinance of the city or statute of the state, or
when the activity or purpose would constitute a clear and present danger to the
public health or safety or would hinder or prevent the orderly movement of
pedestrian or vehicular traffic on the streets, alleys, or sidewalks;
   (3)   Require that the application for a permit shall specify and the permit
shall designate the adult person in charge of the activity. Such adult person
shall be required to accompany the parade, picket line, or group demonstration
and shall carry such permit with him at that time. Such permit shall not be
valid in the possession of any other person;
   (4)   The permit may:
   a.   Set the starting time, duration, speed of travel, and space between
persons or vehicles in the parade, picket line, or group demonstration;
   b.   Prescribe the portions or areas of streets, alleys, sidewalks, or other
public places to be used; and
   c.   Impose such other reasonable requirements as the city manager may
prescribe for the control and free movement of pedestrian or vehicular traffic,
or for the health, safety and property rights of the participants and the
general public.
   (5)   Among other considerations, he shall consider and find as a requisite
to issuance that the activity:
   a.   Will not require excessive diversion of the police from other necessary
duties;
   b.   Will not interfere with the right of property owners in the area to
enjoy peaceful and lawful occupancy and use of their property;
   c.   Can be conducted without unreasonable interference with normal
pedestrian or vehicular traffic in the area;
   d.   Will not prevent normal police and fire protection to the public; and
   e.   Will not be likely to cause injury to persons or property, to provoke
disorderly conduct or to create a public disturbance.
(Code 1982, 6-2023; Ord. No. O-05-03-01-2, 2, 3-1-05)
Sec. 15-159. Revocation of permit.
   The city manager shall revoke any permit granted for a parade, picket line,
or group demonstration for any of the following causes:
   (1)   The violation by any participant of section
15-158;
   (2)   The failure to comply with the terms and conditions of the permit.
(Code 1982, 6-2025)
Sec. 15-160. Interference prohibited.
   No person shall hamper, obstruct, impede, or interfere with any parade,
picket line, or group demonstration being conducted under authority of a permit
duly issued by the city manager.
(Code 1982, 6-2026)
Sec. 15-161. Regulation of picketing.
   Picket lines and picketing shall be subject to the following regulations:
   (1)   Picketing may be conducted only on the sidewalks reserved for
pedestrian movement, and may not be conducted on the portion of a street used
primarily for vehicular traffic;
   (2)   Not more than ten (10) pickets promoting the same objective shall be
permitted to use either of the two (2) sidewalks within a single block at any
one (1) time;
   (3)   Pickets may carry written or printed placards or signs not exceeding
two (2) feet in width and two (2) feet in length promoting the objective for
which the picketing is done, provided the words used are not derogatory or
defamatory in nature;
   (4)   Pickets must march in single file and not abreast and must not march
closer together than fifteen (15) feet, except in passing one another. Pickets
shall not be allowed to walk more than five (5) feet from the curb line and
shall be in continuous motion.
(Code 1982, 6-2027)
Sec. 15-162. Prohibited activities.
   The following acts or activities, when performed or undertaken in
conjunction with or as a part of, any parade, picket line, or group
demonstration, are hereby prohibited and declared unlawful:
   (1)   The carrying on or about the person any firearm, or any weapon or
article, including but not limited to blackjacks, nightsticks, or flashlights
which by their use might constitute a deadly weapon;
   (2)   The taking or keeping of any dog or other vicious animal, whether
leashed or unleashed.
(Code 1982, 6-2024)
   State Law References: Weapons at parades prohibited, G.S. 14-277.2.
Sec. 15-163. Exceptions.
   The provisions of this article shall not apply to:
   (1)   Funeral processions;
   (2)   Any governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
(Code 1982, 6-2028)
Chapter 16
RESERVED*
*Editor’s Note: For regulations regarding subdivisions, see Part IV of the
Marion Code of Ordinances.
Chapter 17
TAXICABS*
__________
*   Cross References: permits and business regulations,
Ch. 10; traffic,
Ch. 18; parking of taxicabs regulated, § 18-235; taxicab stands restricted, §
18-236.
   State Law References: fortified wine or spirituous liquor in a for-hire
passenger vehicle, G.S. § 18B-401; age limits for drivers of public passenger-
carrying vehicles, G.S. § 20-10; general municipal powers as to taxicabs, G.S.
§§ 20-37, 160A-304; passenger vehicle registration fees, G.S. § 20-87; for-hire
vehicles to be marked, G.S. § 20-101; financial responsibility, G.S. § 20-280.
__________
   Art. I. In General, §§ 17-1--17-40
   Art. II. Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity, §§ 17-41--17-60
   Art. III. Driver's Permit, §§ 17-61--17-66
ARTICLE I.
IN GENERAL
Sec. 17-1. Definitions.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   Callbox stand means a place where the city has authorized a holder of a
certificate of public convenience and necessity to install a telephone or
callbox for the taking of calls and the dispatching of taxicabs.
   Certificate means a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued
by the city, authorizing the holder thereof the conduct of a taxicab business
within the city.
   Cruising means the driving of a taxicab on the streets, alleys or other
public places of the city in search of, or soliciting prospective passengers
for hire.
   Manifest means a daily record prepared by a taxicab driver of all trips made
by such driver, showing time and place of origin, destination, number of
passengers, and amount of fare.
   Open stand means a public place alongside the curb of the street or
elsewhere in the city which has been designated by the city as reserved
exclusively for the use of taxicabs.
   Owner means a person to whom a certificate of public convenience and
necessity has been issued.
   Rate card means a card issued by the city for display in each taxicab, which
card contains the rates of fares then enforced.
   Taxicab means a motor vehicle regularly engaged in the business of carrying
passengers for hire, having a seating capacity of less than six (6) persons and
not operated on a fixed route.
   Taxi driver permit means the permission granted by the city to a person to
drive a taxicab upon the streets of the city.
   Waiting time means the time when a taxicab is not in motion from the time of
acceptance of a passenger to the time of discharge, but it does not include any
time that the taxicab is not in motion due to any cause other than the request,
act or fault of a passenger.
(Code 1982, § 6-1001; Ord. of 11-22-88)
   Cross References: and rules of construction generally, §
1-3.
Sec. 17-2. Compliance with laws by driver.
   Every driver permitted under this chapter shall comply with all city, state
and federal laws. Failure to do so will justify the city council in suspending
or revoking his permit.
(Code 1982, § 6-1030; Ord. of 11-22-88)
Sec. 17-3. Vehicle license required; inspection.
   Prior to the use and operation of any vehicle under the provisions of this
chapter, it shall be thoroughly examined and inspected by the police department
and found to comply with state safety and equipment requirements and such
reasonable rules and regulations as may be prescribed by the chief of police
and the city manager. When the police department finds that a vehicle has met
the standards as established by the city, the chief of police shall issue a
license to that effect which shall also state the authorized maximum seating
capacity of the vehicle.
(Code 1982, §§ 6-1021, 6-1023; Ord. of 11-22-88)
   Cross References: permits and business regulations,
Ch. 10.
Sec. 17-4. Periodic inspections; cleanliness.
   (a)    Every vehicle operating under this chapter may be periodically
inspected by the police department at such intervals as shall be established by
the chief of police to insure the continuing maintenance of safe operating
condition, but at least once each year. Inspection shall include:
   (1)   Verification of state safety inspection;
   (2)   Verification of compliance with this Code; and
   (3)   Such other items as required by the chief of police.
   (b)    Vehicles must be kept in a clean and sanitary condition. Every
vehicle operating under this chapter shall be kept in a clean and sanitary
condition according to rules and regulations promulgated by the chief of police
and furnished to the owner.
(Code 1982, § 6-1021; Ord. of 11-22-88)
Sec. 17-5. Identification of cab company.
   Each taxicab shall bear an identifying design approved by the chief of
police.
(Ord. of 11-22-88; Ord. No. O-09-05-19-5, § 2, 5-19-09)
Sec. 17-6. Basis of fare; rate card required.
   (a)    Rates for the use of taxicabs within the city limits of the City of
Marion shall be based upon mileage. Customers using taxicabs shall pay not more
than:
   (1)   Two dollars and fifty cents ($2.50) for the initiation (drop) of the
meter and twenty-five cents ($0.25) for each one-tenth of a mile of travel
thereafter.
    (2)   There shall be an additional charge of two dollars ($2.00) for each
ten (10) minutes of waiting time or major fraction thereof, when the customer
is out of the taxicab or when waiting is at the request of the customer.
    (3)   There shall be a charge of fifty cents ($0.50) for each trunk or
piece of heavy baggage handled by the taxicab driver.
    (4)   There shall be an additional charge of seventy-five cents ($0.75) for
handling groceries or laundry if the driver is required to leave the vehicle.
   (5)   Flat rates for additional requested services not listed above are
permitted, as long as such charges are posted inside the taxicab or are normal
and customary fees.
   (b)    The mileage charged to a customer shall be based upon the odometer
reading of the taxicab or other taxicab meter approved by the chief of police.
The owner of the taxi company shall cause each vehicle under his ownership and
in active use for purpose of vehicles for hire to be inspected for accurate
odometer and other approved taxicab meter reading at least semiannually. The
owner must maintain the inspection records for each vehicle and provide copies
of such records to the police department for inspection by the city and the
public. Upon inspection, if any odometers or other approved taxicab meters are
found to be inaccurate the owner shall cause same to be repaired and
appropriate records maintained.
(Code 1982, § 6-1017; Ord. of 11-22-88; Ord. No. O-04-03-07-2, § 2, 3-7-06;
Ord. No. O-15-12-01-1, § 2, 12-1-15)
Sec. 17-7. Rate card and meter to be in view of customer.
   Every taxicab operated under this chapter shall have a rate card setting
forth the authorized rates of fare, and displayed in such a place as to be in
view of all passengers. Further, the odometer and other approved taxicab meter
in each taxicab shall be kept clear of any obstructions in order for customers
to view the odometers to assure proper mileage charges.
(Code 1982, § 6-1042; Ord. of 11-22-88)
Sec. 17-8. Receipts.
   The driver of any taxicab shall upon the request of any passenger render to
such passenger a receipt on which shall be the name of the owner, the amount of
the charges, and date of transaction.
(Ord. of 11-22-88)
Sec. 17-9. Passenger solicitation.
   (a)    No driver shall solicit passengers for a taxicab except when sitting
in the driver's compartment of such taxicab or while standing immediately
adjacent to the side thereof. The driver of any taxicab shall remain in the
driver's compartment or immediately adjacent to his vehicle at all times when
such vehicle is on the public street, except that when necessary a driver may
be absent from his taxicab for not more than ten (10) consecutive minutes and
provided further that nothing contained in this section shall prohibit any
driver from alighting to the street or sidewalk for the purpose of assisting a
passenger into or out of such vehicle.
   (b)    No driver shall solicit patronage in a loud or annoying tone of voice
or by sign or any manner annoy any person or obstruct the movement of any
person or follow any person for the purpose of soliciting passengers.
(Ord. of 11-22-88)
Sec. 17-10. Receipt and discharge of passengers.
   Drivers of taxicabs shall not receive or discharge passengers in the roadway
except as set out in this section, but shall pull up to the right-hand sidewalk
as nearly as possible or in the absence of a sidewalk, pull to the extreme
right-hand side of the road and receive or discharge passengers, except that
upon one-way streets passengers may be discharged at either the right or left-
hand sidewalk or side of the roadway in the absence of a sidewalk.
(Ord. of 11-22-88)
Sec. 17-11. Cruising prohibited.
   No driver shall cruise in search of passengers.
(Code 1982, § 6-1034; Ord. of 11-22-88)
Sec. 17-12. Passenger regulations.
   (a)    No driver shall permit any second person to occupy or ride in such
taxicab unless the person first employing the taxicab shall consent to the
acceptance of the additional passengers.
   (b)    No driver shall permit more persons to be carried in a taxicab as
passengers than the authorized maximum seating capacity of the taxicab as
stated in the license for such vehicle issued by the chief of police. A child
in arms shall not be counted as a passenger.
   (c)    No driver shall refuse or neglect to convey any orderly person upon
request, unless previously engaged or unable or forbidden by the provisions of
this chapter to do so.
   (d)    It shall be unlawful for the driver of any taxicab to permit any
person to ride other than within the passenger compartment of said vehicle, and
it shall be unlawful for any such person to ride other than within the
passenger compartment of the vehicle.
(Code 1982, § 6-1035; Ord. of 11-22-88)
Sec. 17-13. Deception of passengers prohibited.
   No driver shall deceive or attempt to deceive any passenger or prospective
passenger as to his destination or rate of fare to be charged, nor shall he
convey or cause to be conveyed any passenger to a place other than directed,
nor shall he take a longer route to the destination directed by the passenger
than necessary, unless requested to do so by the passenger. All drivers shall
comply with all reasonable and lawful requests of passengers as to speed and
routes to be taken.
(Code 1982, § 6-1032; Ord. of 11-22-88)
Sec. 17-14. Lost articles to be returned to owner.
   Every driver shall thoroughly search his taxicab at the termination of each
trip for lost articles which may be left in the cab by passengers, and any
articles found shall be immediately returned to its rightful owner, if he be
known; otherwise, it should be deposited with the owner or operator of cabs and
shall, within twenty-four (24) hours, be reported and turned over to the police
department.
(Code 1982, § 6-1033; Ord. of 11-22-88)
Sec. 17-15. Sale of intoxicating beverage and soliciting for prostitution
unlawful.
   It shall be unlawful for any driver of a taxicab to engage in selling
intoxicating beverages or solicit business for any house of ill repute or use
his vehicle for any purpose other than the transporting of passengers.
(Ord. of 11-22-88)
   Cross References: generally, §
11-5.
Sec. 17-16. Manifest.
   (a)    Every driver shall maintain a daily manifest upon which are recorded
trips that are made each day showing time and place or origin and destination
of each trip, and all such completed manifests shall be returned to the owner
by the driver at the conclusion of his tour of duty. The forms for each
manifest shall be furnished to the driver by the owner and shall be of a
character approved by the chief of police.
   (b)    Every holder of a certificate of public convenience and necessity
shall retain and preserve all manifests in a safe place for at least the
calendar year next succeeding the current year, and all manifests shall be
available to the police department for examination at any time.
(Ord. of 11-22-88)
Sec. 17-17. Quality of service.
   All persons engaged in the taxicab business in the city shall render an
overall service to the public desiring to use taxicabs. Holders of certificates
of public convenience and necessity shall maintain a central place of business
for the purpose of receiving calls and dispatching cabs, and may provide an
alternate telephone where calls are to be received during other than usual
business hours. They shall answer all calls received by them for services
inside the city as soon as they can do so, and if such services cannot be
rendered within a reasonable time, they shall then notify the prospective
passengers how long it will be before the call can be answered and give the
reason therefor. Any holder who shall refuse to accept a call anywhere within
the city at any time when such holder has available cabs, or who shall fail or
refuse to give overall service shall be deemed a violator of this article and
the certificate granted to such holder may be revoked at the discretion of the
governing body.
(Ord. of 11-22-88)
Sec. 17-18. Open stands.
   (a)    The city council may establish open stands in such places upon the
streets of the city as it deems necessary for the use of taxicabs. The city
council will not create an open stand without taking into consideration the
needs for such stands by the companies and the convenience of the general
public. The city council may prescribe the number of cabs that shall occupy
such open stands. The board shall not create an open stand where such stands
would tend to create traffic hazards.
   (b)    Open stands shall be used by different drivers on a first come, first
serve basis. The driver shall pull on to the open stand from the rear and shall
advance forward as cabs ahead pull off. Drivers shall stay within five (5) feet
of their cabs. They shall not solicit passengers or engage in loud or
boisterous talk while at an open stand. Nothing in this section shall be
construed as preventing a passenger from boarding the cab of his choice that is
parked at an open stand.
(Ord. of 11-22-88)
Sec. 17-19. Callbox stands.
   (a)    The city council may authorize the holder of a certificate to
establish callbox stands upon private property abutting upon the streets in
such places as in its discretion it deems proper. A holder desiring to
establish a callbox stand shall make written application to the city council.
Upon filing of such application, the police department shall investigate the
effect of such stand on traffic conditions at such place and shall thereafter
submit a written recommendation to the city council. No holder shall obtain a
permit for more than one (1) callbox stand within the downtown business area.
   (b)    A holder operating a callbox stand shall be allowed to have on duty
at such stand a starter or other employee for the purposes of assisting in
loading of passengers, receiving calls, dispatching cabs, and of the soliciting
of passengers, at such stand. The words "at such stand" shall mean that part of
the sidewalk immediately adjacent to and of equal length to the width of such
callbox stand. It shall be unlawful for any such starter or other employee to
go beyond the area designated in this section for the purpose of soliciting
passengers or assisting them in boarding such cabs.
(Ord. of 11-22-88)
Sec. 17-20. Reserved.
   Editors Note: 1, amendment 3 of Ord. No. O-08-01-15-3, adopted Jan. 15,
2008, deleted § 17-20, which pertained to penalties and derived from § 6-1043
of the 1982 Code; and an ordinance adopted Nov. 22, 1988.
Secs. 17-21--17-40. Reserved.
ARTICLE II.
CERTIFICATE OF PUBLIC CONVENIENCE AND NECESSITY
Sec. 17-41. Required.
   No person shall operate or permit a taxicab owned or controlled by him to be
operated as a vehicle for hire upon the streets of the city without having
first obtained a certificate of public convenience and necessity from the city
council.
(Code 1982, § 6-1002; Ord. of 11-22-88)
Sec. 17-42. Application.
   An application for a certificate shall be filed with the city clerk upon
forms provided by the city. Such application shall be verified under oath and
shall contain the following information:
   (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
   (2)   Financial status of the applicant, including all unpaid judgments
against the applicant and the nature of transactions or acts giving rise to
such judgment;
   (3)   The experience of the applicant in the transportation of passengers;
   (4)   Any facts which the applicant believes tends to prove that public
convenience or necessity require the granting of a certificate;
   (5)   The number of vehicles to be operated or controlled by the applicant
and the location of proposed depots and terminals;
   (6)   The identification to designate the vehicles of the applicant;
   (7)   Proof of financial responsibility;
   (8)   Such further information as the city council may require.
(Code 1982, § 6-1003; Ord. of 11-22-88)
Sec. 17-43. Public hearing on application.
   Upon the receipt of an application, the city council shall fix as soon as
reasonably possible, a time and place for a public hearing thereon. Notice of
such hearing shall be given to the applicant and to all persons to whom
certificates of public convenience and necessity have been theretofore issued.
Due notice shall also be given the general public by publishing a notice of
such hearing in a newspaper having general circulation within the city. Any
interested person may file with the city council a memorandum in support of or
in opposition to the issuance of a certificate.
(Ord. of 11-22-88)
Sec. 17-44. Issuance.
   (a)    A criminal records background check is required for applicants for a
certificate under this article, in order to protect the public health, safety
and welfare. Such background check shall be conducted by the police department
in conformity with state law. The result of the background check can determine
the suitability of the applicant.
   (b)    If the city council finds that further taxicab service in the city is
required by the public convenience and necessity and the applicant is fit,
willing and able to perform such public transportation and to conform to the
provisions of this chapter and the rules promulgated by the city council, that
the applicant has filed proof of financial responsibility as required by state
law, and that the background check shows that the applicant will not threaten
the public health, safety or welfare, the city council shall direct the city
clerk to issue a certificate stating the name and address of the applicant, the
number of vehicles authorized under such certificate, and the date of issuance.
Otherwise, the applicant shall be denied.
   (c)    In making the above findings, the city council shall take into
consideration the number of taxicabs already in operation, whether existing
transportation is adequate to meet the public needs, the probable effect of
increased service on local traffic conditions, the character, experience and
responsibility of the applicant, and the results of the criminal background
check.
   The city clerk shall not issue a permit required by this article to any
person who, as a result of the investigation and background check:
   (1)   Appears to be of unsatisfactory character or a threat to the public
health, safety or welfare; or
   (2)   As a result of the criminal background check, is deemed by the city
council to be unfit to conduct the activities for which the license is applied.
(Code 1982, § 6-1005; Ord. of 11-22-88; Ord. No. O-03-02-18-3, § 2, 2-18-03)
Sec. 17-45. License fee.
   No certificate shall be issued or continued in effect unless the holder
thereof has paid an annual license fee of ten dollars ($10.00) each year for
each vehicle authorized under a certificate of public convenience and
necessity. Such license fees shall be for the calendar year ending December 31
and shall be in addition to any other license fee or charges established by
proper authority and applicable to such holder or to vehicles under the
operation and control of the holder.
(Code 1982, § 6-1016; Ord. of 11-22-88)
Sec. 17-46. Transfer.
   No certificate of public convenience and necessity may be sold, assigned,
mortgaged, or otherwise transferred without the consent of the city council.
(Code 1982, § 6-1010; Ord. of 11-22-88)
Sec. 17-47. Suspension and revocation.
   (a)    A certificate issued under the provisions of this division may be
revoked or suspended by the governing body if the holder thereof has:
   (1)   Violated any of the provisions of this article;
   (2)   Discontinued operation for more than ninety (90) days; or
   (3)   Violated any ordinances of the city or the laws of the United States
or of the state which reflect unfavorably on the fitness of the holder to offer
public transportation.
   (b)    Prior to suspension or revocation, the holder shall be given notice
of the proposed action to be taken and shall have an opportunity to be heard.
(Code 1982, § 6-1014; Ord. of 11-22-88)
Secs. 17-48--17-60. Reserved.
ARTICLE III.
DRIVER'S PERMIT*
__________
*   Cross References: permits and business regulations,
Ch. 10.
   State Law References: authority to regulate taxicab operators, G.S. § 20-37.
__________
Sec. 17-61. Required.
   No person shall drive any taxicab carrying passengers for hire from place to
place within the city unless that person shall have first applied to and
secured from the chief of police a driver's permit to drive a taxicab. No
person who owns or controls a taxicab shall permit it to be driven at any time
for hire unless the driver of such taxicab shall first obtain and shall have
then in force a taxicab driver's license issued under the provisions of this
article.
(Code 1982, § 6-1027; Ord. of 11-22-88)
Sec. 17-62. Application; fee.
   (a)    An application for a taxicab driver's permit shall be filed with the
chief of police on forms provided by the city, and such application shall be
verified under oath and contain the following information:
   (1)   The name, address, physical condition, and state license number of the
applicant;
   (2)   The experience of the applicant in the transportation of passengers;
   (3)   The educational background of the applicant;
   (4)   The concise history of his employment, reaching back for a period of
not less than five (5) years; and
   (5)   The names and addresses of four (4) residents of the city who have
known the applicant for a period of not less than five (5) years and who will
vouch for the sobriety, honesty and general good character of the applicant.
Each application shall be accompanied by a certificate from a reputable
physician of the city or county certifying that in his opinion the applicant is
not inflicted with any disease or deformity which might make him an unsafe or
unsatisfactory driver.
   (b)    At the time the application is filed, the applicant shall pay the
city the sum in an amount to be determined from time to time by city council
and listed in the schedule of fees and charges maintained by the city clerk.
(Code 1982, § 6-1028; Ord. of 11-22-88)
Sec. 17-63. Personal appearance before city council.
   If the application is rejected, the applicant may request a personal
appearance before the city council to offer evidence as to why the application
should be reconsidered.
(Ord. of 11-22-88)
Sec. 17-63.5. Review of application.
   (a)    Under the authority of G.S. section 160A-304, a criminal records
background check is required for all applicants for a permit to operate or
drive a taxicab under this article, in order to protect the public health,
safety and welfare. Such criminal records background check shall include
fingerprinting of the applicant and state and national checks to be conducted
by the police department in conformity with state law. The result of the
background check can determine the suitability of the applicant.
   (b)    If, as a result of this background check, the character and
responsibility of the applicant appear to be satisfactory, the police chief
shall issue a permit.
   (c)    The police chief shall not issue a permit required by this article to
any person who, as a result of the investigation and background check:
   (1)   Appears to be of unsatisfactory character; or
   (2)   As a result of the criminal background check, is deemed by the police
chief to be unfit to drive a taxicab for hire within the city; or
   (3)   Has been convicted of unlawfully selling intoxicating liquors or
narcotic drugs; or
   (4)   Is an excessive user of intoxicating liquor or narcotic drugs; or
   (5)   Has been convicted of driving while impaired; or
   (6)   Has a driving record which would endanger the public; or
   (7)   As a result of the criminal background check, is deemed by the police
chief council to be unfit to conduct a business for which the license is
applied.
   (d)    Prior to denial or termination of a permit under this article based
upon criminal history records information received from the police department,
the City of Marion shall verify the existence of a record by either obtaining a
certified public record or by submitting a fingerprint card of the individual
to the criminal information and identification section of the North Carolina
State Bureau of Investigation for verification that the criminal history
records information belongs to the individual.
(Ord. No. O-03-02-18-4, § 2, 2-18-03; Ord. No. O-06-04-04-3, § 2, 4-4-06)
Sec. 17-64. Issuance; duration; annual fee.
   (a)    Upon approval of an application for taxicab driver's permit, the city
shall issue a permit to the applicant which shall bear the name, address, age,
signature and photograph of the applicant. Such permit shall be in effect for
the remainder of the calendar year. A permit for every calendar year thereafter
shall be issued upon the payment of a fee in an amount to be determined from
time to time by the city council and listed in the schedule of fees and charges
maintained by the city clerk, unless the permit for the preceding year has been
revoked. Permits expired for more than thirty (30) days will not be renewed.
   (b)    Not withstanding other processes, each permittee must provide the
city with an updated application, including a physician's certificate of
health, every five (5) years.
   (c)    The permittee shall be responsible for maintaining all application
information in a current status. Failure to notify the city of any changes
within two (2) weeks of the change shall result in revocation or suspension for
two (2) weeks.
(Ord. of 11-22-88)
Sec. 17-65. Display.
   Every driver authorized under this article shall post his driver's permit in
such a place as to be in full view of all passengers while such driver is
operating a taxicab.
(Code 1982, § 6-1041; Ord. of 11-22-88)
Sec. 17-66. Suspension and revocation.
   At any time after the issuance of a driver's permit under this article, the
city council may suspend such permit for a driver's failure or refusal to
comply with the provisions of this article. The board may also revoke any
driver's permit for failure to comply with the provisions of this article.
However, no permit will be revoked until the driver has received notice and has
had opportunity to present evidence in his behalf.
(Code 1982, § 6-1030; Ord. of 11-22-88)
Chapter 17.5
RESERVED
*Editor’s Note: For regulations regarding subdivisions, see Part IV of the
Marion Code of Ordinances.
Chapter 18
TRAFFIC*
__________
*   Cross References: Riding on fire truck prohibited,
7-15; unlawful to pass fire truck,
7-18; abandoned vehicles,
9-61 et seq.; littering from vehicle prohibited,
15-87; taxicabs,
Ch. 17.
__________
   Art. I. In General, 18-1--18-25
   Art. II. Traffic Control Devices, 18-26--18-55
   Art. III. Operation of Vehicles, 18-56--18-160
   Div. 1. Generally, 18-56--18-90
   Div. 2. Speed Regulations, 18-91--18-105
   Div. 3. Turning Movements, 18-106--18-125
   Div. 4. One-Way Streets and Alleys, 18-126--18-140
   Div. 5. Special Stops Required, 18-141--18-160
   Art. IV. Pedestrians' Rights and Duties, 18-161--18-185
   Art. V. Regulations for Bicycles and Skateboards, 18-186--18-215
   Art. VI. Stopping, Standing or Parking, 18-216--18-262
   Div. 1. Generally, 18-216--18-255
   Div. 2. Off-Street Parking, 18-256--18-262
   Art. VII. Tax on Motor Vehicles, 18-266
ARTICLE I
IN GENERAL
Sec. 18-1. Definitions.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   Alley means a thoroughfare through the middle of a block.
   Authorized emergency vehicle means a vehicle of the fire department, police
vehicle, and such ambulance and emergency vehicle of municipal departments or
public service corporations as are designated or authorized by the chief of
police.
   Bicycle means every device propelled by human power upon which any person
may ride, having two (2) tandem wheels either of which is over twenty (20)
inches in diameter.
   Block means a portion of any street located between any two (2)
intersections of any two (2) streets or public alleyways next adjacent to each
other.
   Commercial vehicle means every vehicle designed, maintained, or used
primarily for the transportation of property.
   Controlled-access highway means every highway, street, or roadway in respect
to which owners or occupants of abutting property or lands and other persons
have no legal right of access to or from the same, except at such points only
and in such manner as may be determined by the public authority having
jurisdiction over such highway, street, or roadway.
   Crosswalk means that portion of any street or roadway ordinarily included
within the prolongation or connection of the lateral lines of sidewalks at
intersections. Any portion of a roadway or street distinctly indicated for
pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface of such street or
roadway.
   Curb loading zone means a space adjacent to a curb reserved for the
exclusive use of vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers or
materials.
   Driver means every person who shall drive or who shall be in actual physical
control of the operation of any vehicle.
   Engine compression brakes means a device primarily on trucks for the
conversion of the engine from an internal combustion engine to an air
compressor for the purpose of braking without the use of wheel brakes (commonly
referred to as a "jake" brake, “jacob's” brake, engine brake or dynamic braking
device).
    Freight curb loading zone means a space adjacent to a curb for the
exclusive use of vehicles during the loading or unloading of freight or
passengers.
   Intersection means the area embraced within the prolongation or connection
of the lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of the two (2) highways which join one another at or approximately at
right angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different
highways joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
   Where a highway includes two (2) roadways thirty (30) feet or more apart,
then every crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by an intersecting
highway shall be regarded as a separate intersection. In the event such
intersecting highway also includes two (2) roadways thirty (30) feet or more
apart, then every crossing of two (2) roadways of such highways shall be
regarded as a separate intersection.
   Laned roadway means a roadway which is divided into two (2) or more clearly
marked lanes for vehicular traffic.
   Motorcycle means every motor vehicle having a saddle for the use of the
rider and designed to travel on not more than three (3) wheels in contact with
the ground, but excluding a tractor.
   Motor vehicle means every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle
designed to run upon the streets which is pulled by a self-propelled vehicle.
   Official time standard. Whenever certain hours are named in this chapter
they shall mean standard time or daylight saving time as may be in current use
in this city.
   Official traffic control device means any sign, signal, marking or device,
not inconsistent with this chapter, placed or erected by authority of the city
council for the purpose of regulating, warning, prohibiting or guiding traffic
upon the public streets and thoroughfares of the city.
   Official traffic signal means any device, whether manually, electrically or
mechanically operated, whereby traffic is alternately directed to stop and to
proceed, or to turn, or to proceed with caution.
   Park means the standing of any vehicle, whether occupied or unoccupied,
otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
loading or unloading passengers or cargo.
   Passenger curb loading zone means a place adjacent to a curb reserved for
the exclusive use of vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers.
   Pedestrian means person afoot.
   Police officer means every peace officer of the city, including every
employee of the city authorized and empowered to regulate traffic and to make
arrests for any violations of the provisions of this chapter.
   Private road or driveway means every way or place in private ownership and
used for vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied
permission from the owner, but not by other persons.
   Public conveyance means any vehicle other than a taxicab or railroad train
for transporting persons for a fare.
   Right-of-way means the privilege of the immediate use of the street or
roadway.
   Roadway means that portion of a street or highway improved, designed, or
ordinarily used for vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. In the
event a highway includes two (2) or more separate roadways, the term roadway as
used in this chapter shall refer to any such roadways separately but not to all
such roadways collectively.
   Safety zone means the area or space officially set apart within any roadway
for the exclusive use of pedestrians and which space shall be so protected or
marked or indicated by visible and adequate markers or signs as shall be
visible at all times while so set apart as a safety zone for pedestrians.
   Sidewalk means that portion of a street between the curb lines, or the
lateral lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines intended for the
use of pedestrians.
   Standing means any stopping of any vehicle, whether or not the vehicle is
occupied during such period of stopping.
   Stop. When required means the complete cessation of movement of any vehicle.
When prohibited, means any stopping of any vehicle, except when such stopping
means that it shall be necessary to stop such vehicle to avoid conflict with
other traffic or in compliance with direction of any police officer of the city
or by reason of any traffic control sign or signal or by reason of any
emergency.
   Street and highway means the entire width between property lines of every
way or place of whatever nature, when any part thereof is open to the use of
the public as a matter of right for the purposes of vehicular traffic.
   Through highway means every street or highway or portion thereof at the
entrances to which vehicular traffic from intersecting streets or highways is
required by law to stop before entering or crossing the same and when stop
signs are erected as provided in this chapter.
   Traffic means pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles of all kinds,
conveyances, tractors, bicycles, motorcycles and the like, either singly or
together, while using any street or alleyway for travel, including the
operation of, the loading or unloading of or the parking of any vehicle upon
any of the public streets of the city.
   Traffic bureau means the traffic division of the police department of this
city, or if a traffic division is not established, then such term whenever used
in this chapter shall be deemed to refer to the police department of this city.
   Traffic schedule means the official list or schedule of the regulations
compiled in accordance with general statutes section 160A-77, maintained in the
office of the town clerk:
   (1)   Designating the location of traffic control devices;
   (2)   Designating areas or zones where regulations are applied to parking,
loading, bus stops, or taxicab stands;
   (3)   Establishing speed limits;
   (4)   Restricting or regulating traffic at certain times on certain streets,
or to certain types, weights or sizes of vehicles;
   (5)   Designating the location of through streets, stop intersections,
yield-right-of-way intersections, waiting lanes, one-way streets, or truck
traffic routes; and
   (6)   Establishing regulations upon vehicle turns at designated locations.
   Vehicle means every device used in, upon, or by which any person or property
is or may be transported or drawn upon any street within the corporate limits,
and for the purposes of this chapter any bicycle shall be deemed a vehicle.
(Code 1982, § 7-1001; Ord. No. O-20-03-03-1, § 2, 3-3-20)
   Cross References: Definitions and rules of construction generally,
1-3.
Sec. 18-2. Application generally.
   Every person operating, riding, propelling or driving any pushcart, tractor,
trailer, bicycle, buggy, cart or other type of machine or conveyance or any
person riding or driving or leading an animal upon any of the public streets of
the city shall be subject to the provision of this chapter, except those
provisions of this chapter which by their very nature can have no application.
(Code 1982, 7-1021)
Sec. 18-3. Application to public employees.
   The provisions of this chapter applicable to the drivers of vehicles upon
streets shall apply to the driver of any vehicle owned by or used in the
service of the United States government, this state or any other state, or any
county or city. It shall be unlawful for any such driver to violate any such
provisions of this chapter, except as otherwise permitted in this chapter or by
state statute.
(Code 1982, 7-1022)
Sec. 18-4. Authority of police and fire department officers.
   (a)    It shall be the duty of the officers of the police department, or
such officers as are assigned by the chief of police, to enforce all street
traffic laws and all of the state vehicle laws applicable to street traffic.
   (b)    Officers of the police department or such officers as are assigned by
the chief of police are hereby authorized to direct all traffic by voice, hand,
or signal in conformance with traffic laws; provided, that in the event of a
fire or other emergency or to expedite traffic or to safeguard pedestrians,
officers of the police department may direct traffic as conditions may require
notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws.
   (c)    Officers of the fire department, when at the scene of a fire, may
direct or assist the police in directing traffic thereat or in the immediate
vicinity.
(Code 1982, 7-1023)
Sec. 18-5. Obedience to police and fire department officials.
   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of a police officer or fire department official.
(Code 1982, 7-1024)
Sec. 18-6. Use of coasters, roller skates, and similar devices restricted.
   No person upon roller skates, or riding in or by means of any coaster,
skateboard, toy vehicle, or similar device, shall go upon any roadway except
while crossing a street on a crosswalk and when so crossing such person shall
be granted all of the rights and shall be subject to all of the duties,
applicable to pedestrians. This section shall not apply upon any street while
set aside as a play street as authorized by ordinance.
(Code 1982, 7-1025)
Sec. 18-7. Provisions for authorized emergency vehicles.
   (a)    The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call or when in the pursuit of an actual suspected violator of the
law or when responding to but not upon returning from a fire alarm, may
exercise the privileges set forth in this section, but subject to the
conditions stated in this section.
   (b)    The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may:
   (1)   Park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of this chapter;
   (2)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after slowing
down as may be necessary for safe operation;
   (3)   Exceed the prima facie speed limits so long as he does not endanger
life or property;
   (4)   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning in
specified directions.
   (c)    The exemptions granted in this section to an authorized emergency
vehicle shall apply only when the driver of any such vehicle while in motion
sounds an audible signal by bell, siren, or exhaust whistle as may be
reasonably necessary, and when the vehicle is equipped with at least one (1)
lighted lamp displaying a light visible under normal atmospheric conditions
from a distance of five hundred (500) feet to the front of such vehicle, except
that an authorized emergency vehicle operated as a police vehicle need not be
equipped with or display a light visible from in front of the vehicle.
   (d)    The foregoing provisions shall not relieve the driver of an
authorized emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the
safety of all persons, nor shall such provisions protect the driver from the
consequences of his reckless disregard for the safety of others.
(Code 1982, 7-1026)
Secs. 18-8--18-25. Reserved.
ARTICLE II
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES*
__________
*   State Law References: Vehicle control signs and signals, G.S. 20-158.
__________
Sec. 18-26. Signs as prerequisite to enforcement.
   No provisions of this chapter for which signs are required shall be enforced
against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the alleged violation,
an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently legible to an
ordinarily observant person. Whenever any particular section in this chapter
does not state that signs are required, such section shall be effective without
signs being placed to give notice thereof.
(Code 1982, 7-1032)
Sec. 18-27. Specifications for traffic control devices.
   All traffic control signs, signals, and devices shall conform to state
regulations. All signs and signals required in this chapter for a particular
purpose shall so far as practicable be uniform as to type and location. All
traffic control devices so erected and not inconsistent with the provisions of
state law or this article shall be official traffic control devices.
(Code 1982, 7-1033)
Sec. 18-28. Obedience to signs required.
   Any person failing or refusing to comply with the directions indicated on
any sign, marker or device for the control or direction of traffic erected or
placed in accordance with the provisions of this chapter when so placed or
erected shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. This section shall not be construed
to apply when the driver of a vehicle is otherwise directed by a police officer
or when an exception is granted to the driver of an authorized emergency
vehicle under section
18-7.
(Code 1982, 7-1031)
Sec. 18-29. Traffic control signal legend.
   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic control signals exhibiting the
words, "Go", "Caution", or "Stop", or exhibiting different colored lights
successively one (1) at a time, or with arrows or lighted figures, the
following colors only shall be used and such terms and lights shall indicate
and apply to drivers of vehicles and pedestrians as follows:
   (1)   Green alone or Go.
   a.   Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed straight through or
turn right or left unless a sign at such place prohibits either such turn, but
vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left, shall yield the
right-of-way to other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the
intersection or an adjacent crosswalk at the time such signal is exhibited.
   b.   Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across the roadway within any
marked or unmarked crosswalk.
   (2)   Yellow alone or Caution when shown following the green or Go signal.
   a.   Vehicular traffic facing the signal is thereby warned that the red or
stop signal will be exhibited immediately thereafter and such vehicular traffic
shall not enter, remain in or be crossing the intersection when the red or Stop
signal is exhibited.
   b.   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway until the
green or Go is shown alone unless authorized so to do by a pedestrian Walk
signal.
   (3)   Red alone or Stop.
   a.   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if none, then before
entering the intersection and shall remain standing until green or Go is shown
alone; provided, however, that if a sign is not erected prohibiting turns on
red lights, the vehicles may turn right on red lights after coming to a
complete stop. Streets on which right turns on red are allowed are designated
in the traffic schedule, an official copy of which is maintained in the office
of the city clerk.
   b.   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway until the
green or Go is shown alone unless authorized so to do by a pedestrian Walk
signal.
   (4)   Red with green arrow.
   a.   Vehicular traffic facing such signal may cautiously enter the
intersection only to make the movement indicated by such arrow but shall yield
the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within a crosswalk and to other
traffic lawfully using the intersection.
   b.   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway until the
green or Go is shown alone unless authorized so to do by a pedestrian Walk
signal.
   (5)   If an official traffic control signal is erected and maintained at a
place other than an intersection, the provisions of this section shall be
applicable except as to those provisions which by their nature can have no
application. Any stop required shall be made at a sign or marking on the
pavement indicating where the stop shall be made, but in the absence of any
such sign or marking the stop shall be made at the signal.
(Code 1982, 7-1034)
Sec. 18-30. Pedestrian control signals.
   Whenever special pedestrian-control signals exhibiting the symbols Walk
(stick figure) or Don't Walk (flashing hand) are in place such signals shall
indicate as follows:
   (1)   Walk (Stick Figure). Pedestrians facing such signals may proceed
across the highway in the direction of the signal and shall be given the right-
of-way by the drivers of all vehicles.
   (2)   Don't Walk (Flashing Hand). No pedestrian shall start to cross the
highway in the direction of such symbol, but any pedestrian who has partially
completed his crossing on the Walk symbol shall proceed to a sidewalk or safety
island while the Don't Walk symbol is showing.
(Code 1982, 7-1035)
Sec. 18-31. Flashing signals.
   Whenever flashing red or yellow signals are used, they shall require
obedience by vehicular traffic as follows:
   (1)   Flashing red (stop signal). When a red lens is illuminated by rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall come to a complete stop before
entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at a limit line when
marked, and the right to proceed shall be subject to the rules applicable after
making a stop at a stop sign. In no event shall such vehicle be driven into
such crosswalk unless and until such entry can be made with safety to other
persons and property at such place.
   (2)   Flashing yellow (caution signal). When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers or operators of vehicles may proceed
through such intersection past such signal only with caution.
(Code 1982, 7-1036)
Sec. 18-32. Display of unauthorized signs, signals, or markings.
   (a)    No person shall place, maintain, or display upon or in view of any
highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device which purports to be
or is in imitation of or resembles an official traffic control device, sign or
signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic, or which hides
from view or interferes with the effectiveness of any official traffic control
device, sign or signal.
   (b)    No person shall place or maintain nor shall any public authority
permit upon any highway any traffic sign or signal bearing thereon any
commercial advertising.
   (c)    This section shall not be deemed to prohibit the erection upon
private property adjacent to highways of signs giving useful directional
information and of a type that cannot be mistaken for official signs.
   (d)    Every such prohibited sign, signal, or marking is hereby declared to
be a public nuisance and the authority having jurisdiction over the highway is
hereby empowered to remove the same or cause it to be removed without notice.
(Code 1982, 7-1037)
Sec. 18-33. Interference with official traffic control devices, signs or
signals.
   No person shall without lawful authority attempt to or in fact alter,
deface, injure, knock down, or remove any official traffic control device, sign
or signal or any inscription, shield, or insignia thereon, or any other part
thereof.
(Code 1982, 7-1038)
Sec. 18-34. Traffic restrictions on play streets.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating any street or part thereof
as a play street, no person shall drive a vehicle upon any such street or
portion thereof except drivers of vehicles having business or whose residences
are within such closed area, and then any said driver shall exercise the
greatest care in driving upon any such street or portion thereof.
(Code 1982, 7-1039)
Sec. 18-35. Traffic lanes.
   Where traffic lanes have been marked, it shall be unlawful for the operator
of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep such vehicle within the boundaries of
any such lane except when lawfully passing another vehicle or preparatory to
making a lawful turning movement.
(Code 1982, 7-1040)
Sec. 18-36. Zone of quiet.
   Whenever authorized signs are placed indicating a zone of quiet, the person
operating a motor vehicle within such zone shall not sound the horn or any
other warning device, except in an emergency.
(Code 1982, 7-1041)
   Cross References: Noise, 9-101.
Sec. 18-37. School zones.
   Whenever authorized signs are placed designating any street, or part
thereof, as a school zone, drivers of motor vehicles using such street shall
exercise the greatest care for the protection of children.
(Code 1982, 7-1042)
Sec. 18-38. Yield signs.
   Whenever yield right-of-way signs are used they shall require vehicular
traffic to yield the right-of-way to other intersecting traffic from any other
road or street. Yield right-of-way signs shall be located at the streets
designated in the traffic schedule, an official copy of which is maintained in
the office of the city clerk.
(Code 1982, 7-1043)
   State Law References: Erection of yield right-of-way signs, G.S. 20-158.1.
Sec. 18-39. Fire lanes.
   No person shall park a vehicle or permit it to stand, whether attended or
unattended, upon any public vehicular area, street, highway or roadway in any
area designated as a fire lane, provided that such areas are marked as fire
lanes and contain adequate signage as specified by the fire chief. This
subsection includes designated fire lanes in shopping center parking lots and
all other public vehicular areas, provided that authorization to enforce such
areas is provided by action of the city council upon a request from the
property owner. However, persons loading or unloading supplies or merchandise
may park temporarily in a fire lane located in a shopping center parking lot or
other public vehicular area as long as the vehicle is not left unattended. The
prima facie rule of evidence created by G.S. section 20-162.1 is applicable to
prosecutions for violation of this section. The owner of a vehicle parked in
violation of this subsection shall be deemed to have appointed any state,
county or municipal law enforcement officer as his agent for the purpose of
arranging for the transportation and safe storage of such vehicle. No law
enforcement officer removing such a vehicle shall be held criminally or civilly
liable in any way for any acts or omissions arising out of or caused by
carrying out or enforcing any provisions of this subsection, unless the conduct
of the officer amounts to wanton misconduct or intentional wrongdoing.
(Code 1982, 7-1044; Ord. of 3-22-83; Ord. No. O-03-09-02-1, 2, 9-2-03)
   Cross References: Fire prevention and protection,
Ch. 7.
Secs. 18-40--18-55. Reserved.
ARTICLE III
OPERATION OF VEHICLES
DIVISION 1.
GENERALLY
Sec. 18-56. Emerging from alley, driveway, or building.
   The driver of a vehicle within a business or residence district emerging
from an alley, driveway, or building shall stop such vehicle immediately prior
to driving onto a sidewalk or onto the sidewalk area extending across any
alleyway or driveway, yielding the right-of-way to any pedestrian as may be
necessary to avoid collision, and upon entering the roadway shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the roadway.
(Code 1982, 7-1086)
Sec. 18-57. Drivers to leave intersections clear.
   No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate the vehicle he is operating without obstructing the passage of
other vehicles or pedestrians notwithstanding any traffic control signal
indication to proceed.
(Code 1982, 7-1087)
Sec. 18-58. Clinging to vehicles.
   It shall be unlawful for any person riding upon a bicycle, motorcycle,
coaster, skateboard, sled, rollerskates or any toy vehicle, to attach such
bicycle, motorcycle, coaster, sled or toy vehicle or himself to any moving
vehicle upon any roadway.
(Code 1982, 7-1091)
Sec. 18-59. Driving through funeral procession.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any vehicle, except vehicles of
the fire department, police department, patrols and ambulances when such
vehicles are responding to emergency calls, through a funeral procession.
(Code 1982, 7-1092)
Sec. 18-60. Backing.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of a vehicle to back such vehicle into
any intersection or over a crosswalk and, in any event or at any place, to back
such vehicle unless such movement can be made in safety and unless such driver
shall have given ample warning, either by hand or horn or other signal, to
those who may be behind.
(Code 1982, 7-1093)
Sec. 18-61. Driving within sidewalk area or across curbs.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not drive within or across any sidewalk area
or across any curbs located on a public street within the city except at a
permanent or temporary driveway that has been permitted by the city and for
which a curb cut and approach has been constructed by the city, if a curb is
present next to the property. The term "vehicle" as used in this section shall
include, but not be limited to, bicycles, motorcycles, minibikes, automobiles,
other motor vehicles, and vehicles drawn by animals.
   Exceptions to this section shall apply only in cases where a driver of a
vehicle is ordered to drive across a sidewalk or curb by a police officer or
traffic control device, or in situations where emergency or maintenance work is
undertaken by the city or authorized by the city through the issuance of a
permit by the public works director.
(Code 1982, 7-1094; Ord. No. O-07-02-06-2, 2, 2-6-07; Ord. No. O-07-07-17-1, 2,
7-17-07)
   Cross References: Sidewalks,
15-131 et seq.
Sec. 18-62. Drivers in a procession.
   Each driver in a funeral or other procession shall drive as near to the
right-hand edge of the roadway as practical and shall follow the vehicle ahead
as close as is practical and safe.
(Code 1982, 7-1095)
   Cross References: Parades and demonstrations,
15-156 et seq.
Sec. 18-63. Funeral processions to be identified.
   A funeral composed of a procession of vehicles shall be identified as such
by the headlights of each vehicle being lighted.
(Code 1982, 7-1096; Ord. of 9-2-86, 1)
Sec. 18-64. Riding on motorcycles.
   A person operating a motorcycle shall ride only upon the permanent and
regular seat attached thereto, and such operator shall not carry any other
person nor shall any other person ride on a motorcycle unless such motorcycle
is designed to carry more than one (1) person, in which event a passenger may
ride upon the permanent and regular seat if designed for two (2) persons, or
upon another seat firmly attached to the rear or side of the operator.
(Code 1982, 7-1097)
Sec. 18-65. Controlled access.
   No person shall drive a vehicle onto or from any controlled-access roadway
except at such entrances and exits as are established by public authority.
(Code 1982, 7-1098)
Sec. 18-66. Operating with improper muffler or cut-out open unlawful.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any automobile or truck with
the cut-out open or without the same being properly muffled so as to prevent
unnecessary noise.
(Code 1982, 7-1099)
Sec. 18-67. Spinning of wheels.
   It shall be unlawful to operate a motor vehicle in the city limits in such a
manner to cause the wheels thereof to lose traction with the surface on which
they are driven, or so as to cause the tires to squeal.
(Code 1982, 7-1100)
Sec. 18-68. Boarding or alighting from public conveyance or other vehicles.
   No person shall board, or alight from any public conveyance or other vehicle
while such conveyance or vehicle is in motion.
(Code 1982, 7-1101)
Sec. 18-69. Unlawful riding.
   No person shall ride on any public conveyance or vehicle not designated or
intended for the use of passengers. This provision shall not apply to an
employee engaged in the necessary discharge of a duty nor to persons riding
within truck bodies in spaces intended for merchandise.
(Code 1982, 7-1102)
Sec. 18-70. Entering, jumping on, or riding vehicles without permission.
   No person shall enter, jump on or ride any automobile or other vehicle,
without the consent of the owner or driver.
(Code 1982, 7-1103)
Sec. 18-71. Persons riding must stay inside.
   No person shall allow any part of his body to protrude beyond the limits of
the vehicle in which he is riding, except to give such signals as are by law
required, and no person shall hang on to any vehicle whatsoever.
(Code 1982, 7-1104)
Sec. 18-72. Number of persons in front seat.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver or the person in charge of any motor
vehicle to permit more than three (3) persons, including driver, to ride in the
front or driver's seat.
(Code 1982, 7-1105)
Sec. 18-73. Summons by police card.
   In cases of violation of any sections of this chapter by drivers or
occupants of vehicles, who have left the vehicle unattended, police cards,
designating the section violated, attached to the vehicle shall constitute
legal summons to appear at court and shall in all respects be as effective as a
personal summons.
(Code 1982, 7-1106)
Sec. 18-74. Railroad train blocking street.
   No railroad employee shall block any of the street crossings of the city by
stopping his train, cars, or engine across any street, for more than five (5)
consecutive minutes.
(Code 1982, 7-1107)
Sec. 18-75. Truck routes; weight restrictions.
   (a)    There exist two (2) highways of the primary state highway system
which are approximately the same distance between two (2) or more points. It is
in the public interest and for the promotion of safety to designate one (1) of
such highways as the truck route between such points, and to prohibit the use
of the other highway by heavy trucks, or other vehicles of a gross vehicle
weight or axle load limit in excess of a maximum. Based upon an engineering and
traffic investigation pursuant to authority granted by general statutes section
20-116(h), the highways set forth in article VII of this chapter are designated
as the truck route.
   (b)    The sections of highways set forth in article VII of this chapter
shall be designated as the other highways, and that use of such other highways
by all heavy trucks and other vehicles of a axle-load limits in excess thirteen
thousand (13,000) pounds shall be prohibited.
   (c)    When signs are placed giving notice thereof, it shall be unlawful for
any truck exceeding three (3) tons in gross weight to use any street designated
in the traffic schedule, an official copy of which is maintained in the office
of the city clerk, unless such vehicle is making pickups and deliveries to
residences on such street.
(Code 1982, 7-1108)
Sec. 18-76. Use of motorcycles, trailbikes and other off-the-road vehicles
limited; muffler required; penalty.
   (a)    The following limitations on the use of motorcycles, trailbikes and
other off-the-road vehicles shall apply to the owners and operators of such
vehicles in the city:
   (1)   Use of motorcycles, trailbikes and other off-the-road vehicles shall
be limited to on the road as allowed by state law and only if legally licensed
and inspected.
   (2)   Use of such vehicles off the road is specifically prohibited in the
city except:
   a.   On property owned, or controlled by the operator, or as permitted in
writing by the owner to the operator; and
   b.   Only at a distance greater than five hundred (500) yards from the
nearest dwelling or business.
   (b)    Any vehicle used as permitted by this section must be equipped with a
functioning factory installed muffler, or its equivalent before it may be
operated in any fashion within the city.
   (c)    Violation of this section shall be a misdemeanor and punishable in
accordance with the provisions of section
1-10.
(Ord. of 1-17-89)
Sec. 18-77. Engine compression brakes prohibited.
   No person shall use a motor vehicle within the corporate limits of the City
of Marion where the engine compression brake (jake brake) is in any way engaged
or activated on such motor vehicle or any unit a part thereof, except for
emergency situations for the purpose of avoiding a collision with another
object, person or vehicle. Engine compression brakes are defined in Section
18-1.
   The provisions of this ordinance shall be enforceable by any legal means,
including specifically the enforcement provisions set out in
Chapter 1, General Provisions, of the Marion City Code.
(Ord. No. O-20-03-03-1, §3, 3-3-20)
Secs. 18-78--18-90. Reserved.
DIVISION 2.
SPEED REGULATIONS
Sec. 18-91. Speed limit in city limits.
   Except as otherwise provided in this article, it shall be unlawful to
operate a vehicle in excess of twenty-five (25) miles per hour inside the
municipal corporate limits.
(Code 1982, 7-1051; Ord. No. O-03-08-19-2, 2, 8-19-03)
   State Law References: Speed restriction, G.S. 20-141.
Sec. 18-92. Exceptions.
   (a)    It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle in excess of the speeds
listed below upon the streets or portions of streets of the state highway
system as designated in the traffic schedule, an official copy of which is
maintained in the office of the city clerk.
   (1)   Fifteen (15) miles per hour.
   (2)   Twenty (20) miles per hour.
   (3)   Twenty-five (25) miles per hour.
   (4)   Thirty (30) miles per hour.
   (5)   Forty (40) miles per hour.
   (6)   Forty-five (45) miles per hour.
   (7)   Fifty (50) miles per hour.
   (8)   Fifty-five (55) miles per hour.
   (b)    It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle in excess of the speeds
listed below upon the streets or portions of streets, not a part of the state
highway system, designated in the traffic schedule, an official copy of which
is maintained in the office of the city clerk.
   (1)   Fifteen (15) miles per hour.
   (2)   Twenty (20) miles per hour.
   (3)   Twenty-five (25) miles per hour.
   (4)   Thirty (30) miles per hour.
   (5)   Forty (40) miles per hour.
   (6)   Forty-five (45) miles per hour.
   (7)   Fifty (50) miles per hour.
   (8)   Fifty-five (55) miles per hour.
(Code 1982, 7-1052)
Secs. 18-93--18-105. Reserved.
DIVISION 3.
TURNING MOVEMENTS
Sec. 18-106. Required position and method of turning at intersections.
   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do so as
follows:
   (1)   Right turns. Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall
be made as close as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
   (2)   Left turns on two-way roadways. At any intersection where traffic is
permitted to move in both directions on each roadway entering the intersection,
an approach for a left turn shall be made in that portion of the right half of
the roadway nearest the centerline thereof and by passing to the right of such
center line where it enters the intersection and after entering the
intersection the left turn shall be made so as to leave the intersection to the
right of the centerline of the roadway being entered. Whenever practicable the
left turn shall be made in that portion of the intersection to the left of the
center of the intersection.
   (3)   Left turns on other than two-way roadways. At any intersection where
traffic is restricted to one (1) direction on one (1) or more of the roadways,
the driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at any such intersection shall
approach the intersection in the extreme left-hand lane lawfully available to
traffic moving in such direction upon the roadway being entered.
(Code 1982, 7-1061)
   State Law References: Turning at intersections, G.S. 20-153.
Sec. 18-107. Turning markers.
   When authorized markers, buttons, or other indicators are placed within an
intersection indicating the course to be traveled by vehicles turning thereat,
no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of such indicators.
(Code 1982, 7-1062)
Sec. 18-108. Authority to place restricted turn signs.
   The council shall determine those intersections at which drivers of vehicles
shall not make a right, left, or U-turn and shall place proper signs at such
intersections. The making of such turns may be prohibited between certain hours
of any day and permitted at other hours, in which event the same shall be
plainly indicated on the signs or they may be removed when such turns are
permitted. Restrictions on turning movements shall be as specified in the
traffic schedule, an official copy of which is maintained in the office of the
city clerk.
(Code 1982, 7-1063)
Sec. 18-109. Obedience to no-turn signs.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left or U-
turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of any
such sign.
(Code 1982, 7-1064)
Sec. 18-110. Limitations on turning around.
   The driver of any vehicle shall not turn such vehicle so as to proceed in
the opposite direction upon any street in a business district and shall not
upon any other street so turn a vehicle unless such movement can be made in
safety and without interfering with other traffic.
(Code 1982, 7-1065)
Secs. 18-111--18-125. Reserved.
DIVISION 4.
ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS
Sec. 18-126. Signs required for one-way streets.
   Whenever any ordinance designates any one-way street or alley there shall be
signs giving notice thereof, and no such regulation shall be effective unless
such signs are in place. Signs indicating the direction of lawful traffic
movement shall be placed at every intersection where movement of traffic in the
opposite direction is prohibited.
(Code 1982, 7-1071)
   State Law References: One-way traffic, G.S. 20-165.1.
Sec. 18-127. One-way streets and alleys.
   Upon those streets and parts of streets and in those alleys designated in
the traffic schedule, an official copy of which is maintained in the office of
the city clerk, vehicular traffic shall move only in the indicated direction
when signs indicating the direction of traffic are erected and maintained at
every intersection where movement in the opposite direction is prohibited.
(Code 1982, 7-1072)
Sec. 18-128. Through streets designated.
   Those streets and parts of streets designated in the traffic schedule, an
official copy of which is maintained in the office of the city clerk, are
declared to be through streets for the purpose of this article.
(Code 1982, 7-1081)
Secs. 18-129--18-140. Reserved.
DIVISION 5.
SPECIAL STOPS REQUIRED
Sec. 18-141. Location of stop signs at through street intersections.
   Whenever any ordinance designates and describes a through street, there
shall be a stop sign on each and every street intersecting such through street
or intersecting portion thereof described and designated as such by any
ordinance unless traffic at any such intersection is controlled at all times by
traffic control signals; provided, however, that at the intersection of two (2)
such through streets or at the intersection of a through street and a heavy
traffic street not so designated, stop signs shall be erected at the approaches
of either of said streets.
(Code 1982, 7-1082)
Sec. 18-142. Location of stop signs at nonthrough street intersections.
   The council may determine and designate intersections where particular
hazards exist upon other than through streets and may determine whether
vehicles shall stop at one (1) or more entrances to any such stop intersection,
and shall erect a stop sign at every such place where a stop is required. Such
places are designated in the traffic schedule, an official copy of which is
maintained in the office of the city clerk.
(Code 1982, 7-1083)
Sec. 18-143. Signs to bear the word Stop.
   Every sign erected pursuant to this article shall bear the word Stop in
letters not less than eight (8) inches in height and such signs shall at
nighttime be rendered luminous by steady or flashing internal illumination, or
by a fixed floodlight projected on the face of the sign, or by efficient
reflecting elements on the face of the sign. Every stop sign shall be located
as near as practicable at the nearest line of the crosswalk on the near side of
the intersection or, if none, at the nearest line of the roadway.
(Code 1982, 7-1084)
Sec. 18-144. Vehicles to stop at stop signs.
   When stop signs are erected as authorized in this article at or near the
entrance to any intersection, every driver of a vehicle shall stop before
entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or if there is no
crosswalk shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none, then at the
point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of
approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway before entering the
intersection except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic
control signal.
(Code 1982, 7-1085)
Secs. 18-145--18-160. Reserved.
ARTICLE IV
PEDESTRIANS' RIGHTS AND DUTIES
Sec. 18-161. Pedestrians subject to traffic control signals.
   Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic control signals as declared in
sections
18-29 and 18-30, but at all other places pedestrians shall be granted those
rights and be subject to the restrictions stated in this article.
(Code 1982, 7-1111)
   State Law References: Pedestrians subject to traffic control signals, G.S.
20-172.
Sec. 18-162. Pedestrians' right-of-way in crosswalk.
   (a)    When traffic control signals are not in place or not in operation the
driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping if
need be to so yield, to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk
when the pedestrian is upon the half of the roadway upon which the vehicle is
traveling, or when the pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite
half of the roadway as to be in danger, but no pedestrian shall suddenly leave
a curb or other place of safety and walk or run into the path of a vehicle,
which is so close that it is impossible for the driver to yield. A pedestrian's
right-of-way in a crosswalk is modified under the condition and as stated in
section
18-165(b).
   (b)    Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass such stopped vehicle.
(Code 1982, 7-1112)
   State Law References: Pedestrians' right-of-way at crosswalks, G.S. 20-173.
Sec. 18-163. Pedestrians to use right half of crosswalk.
   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of
crosswalks.
(Code 1982, 7-1113)
Sec. 18-164. Crossing at right angles.
   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway at any place other than by a route at
right angles to the curb or by the shortest route to the opposite curb except
in a crosswalk.
(Code 1982, 7-1114)
Sec. 18-165. When pedestrian shall yield.
   (a)    Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (b)    Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian
tunnel or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right-
of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
(Code 1982, 7-1115)
   State Law References: Crossing at other than crosswalks, G.S. 20-174.
Sec. 18-166. Pedestrians walking along roadways.
   (a)    Where sidewalks are provided it shall be unlawful for any pedestrian
to walk along and upon an adjacent roadway.
   (b)    Where sidewalks are not provided any pedestrian walking along and
upon a highway shall when practicable walk only on the left side of the roadway
or its shoulder facing traffic which may approach from the opposite direction.
(Code 1982, 7-1116)
Sec. 18-167. Pedestrians soliciting rides or business.
   (a)    No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a
ride, employment, or business from the occupant of any vehicle.
   (b)    No person shall stand on or in proximity to a street or highway for
the purpose of soliciting the watching or guarding of any vehicle while parked
or about to be parked on a street or highway.
(Code 1982, 7-1117)
Sec. 18-168. Drivers to exercise due care.
   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this article every driver of a
vehicle shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any
roadway, shall give warning by sounding the horn when necessary, and shall
exercise proper precaution upon observing any child or any confused or
incapacitated person upon a roadway.
(Code 1982, 7-1118)
Sec. 18-169. Obstruction of traffic by sitting or lying upon street or sidewalk
prohibited.
   No person in the city shall stand, sit or lie on any street, road, sidewalk,
alleyway or building entrance adjacent to any street, road, sidewalk or
alleyway if by standing, sitting or lying such person interferes with free and
unobstructed pedestrian movement or motor vehicle traffic.
(Ord. of 9-2-86, 1)
   State Law References: Standing, sitting or lying upon highways or streets
prohibited, G.S. 20-174.1.
Secs. 18-170--18-185. Reserved.
ARTICLE V
REGULATIONS FOR BICYCLES AND SKATEBOARDS*
__________
*   State Law References: North Carolina Bicycle and Bikeway Act of 1974, G.S.
136-71.6 et seq.
__________
Sec. 18-186. Effect of regulations.
   (a)    The parent of any child and the guardian of any ward shall not
authorize or knowingly permit any such child or ward to violate any of the
provisions of this article.
   (b)    These regulations applicable to bicycles shall apply whenever a
bicycle is operated upon any street or upon any public path set aside for the
exclusive use of bicycles, subject to those exceptions stated in this article.
(Code 1982, 7-1121)
Sec. 18-187. Traffic laws apply to persons riding bicycles.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the
rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle by the laws of this state declaring rules of the road applicable to
vehicles or by this chapter applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except as to
special regulations in this article and except as to those provisions of laws
and ordinances which by their nature can have no application.
(Code 1982, 7-1122)
Sec. 18-188. Obedience to traffic control devices.
   (a)    Any person operating a bicycle shall obey the instructions of
official traffic control signals, signs, and other control devices applicable
to vehicles, unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   (b)    Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or
left or U-turn is permitted, no person operating a bicycle shall disobey the
direction of any such sign, except where such person dismounts from the bicycle
to make any such turn, in which event such person shall then obey the
regulations applicable to pedestrians.
(Code 1982, 7-1123)
Sec. 18-189. Riding on bicycles.
   (a)    A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than astride a
permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
   (b)    No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one (1) time than
the number for which it is designed and equipped.
(Code 1982, 7-1124)
Sec. 18-190. Riding on roadways and bicycle paths.
   (a)    Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall ride as near to
the right-hand side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when
passing a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
   (b)    Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than two
(2) abreast except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive
use of bicycles.
   (c)    Whenever a usable path for bicycles has been provided adjacent to a
roadway, bicycle riders shall use such path and shall not use the roadway.
(Code 1982, 7-1125)
Sec. 18-191. Speed.
   No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is reasonable and
prudent under the conditions then existing.
(Code 1982, 7-1126)
Sec. 18-192. Emerging from alley or driveway.
   The operator of a bicycle emerging from an alley, driveway or building
shall, upon approaching a sidewalk or the sidewalk area extending across any
alleyway, yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians approaching on such
sidewalk or sidewalk area, and upon entering the roadway shall yield the right-
of-way to all vehicles approaching on said roadway.
(Code 1982, 7-1127)
Sec. 18-193. Carrying articles.
   No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle, or article
which prevents the rider from keeping at least one (1) hand upon the
handlebars.
(Code 1982, 7-1128)
Sec. 18-194. Parking.
   No person shall park a bicycle upon a street other than upon the roadway,
against the curb, upon the sidewalk in a rack to support the bicycle, against a
building or at the curb, in such a manner as to obstruct pedestrian traffic.
(Code 1982, 7-1129)
Sec. 18-195. Riding on sidewalks.
   (a)    No person shall ride a bicycle upon a sidewalk within a business
district.
   (b)    The chief of police is authorized to erect signs on any roadway
prohibiting the riding of bicycles thereon by any person and when such signs
are in place no person shall disobey them.
   (c)    Whenever any person is riding a bicycle upon a sidewalk, such person
shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian and shall give audible signal
before overtaking and passing such pedestrian.
(Code 1982, 7-1130)
   Cross References: Sidewalks generally,
15-131 et seq.
Sec. 18-196. Lamps and other equipment on bicycles.
   (a)    Every bicycle when in use at nighttime shall be equipped with a lamp
on the front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least
five hundred (500) feet to the front and with a red reflector on the rear of a
type which shall be visible from all distances from fifty (50) feet to three
hundred (300) feet to the rear when directly in front of lawful upper beams of
headlamps on a motor vehicle. A lamp emitting a red light visible from a
distance of five hundred (500) feet to the rear may be used in addition to the
red reflector.
   (b)    No person shall operate a bicycle unless it is equipped with a bell
or other device capable of giving a signal audible for a distance of at least
one hundred (100) feet, except that a bicycle shall not be equipped with nor
shall any person use upon a bicycle any siren or whistle.
   (c)    Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will enable the
operator to make the brake wheel skid on dry, level, clean pavement.
(Code 1982, 7-1131)
Sec. 18-197. Skateboards, roller skates and roller blades restricted to play
streets.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride any skateboard, roller skates or
roller blades on any public street within the city unless such street shall be
set aside as a play street for specific lengths of time by the city council.
(Ord. of 10-6-77, 1; Ord. No. O-05-06-21-5, 2, 6-21-05)
Sec. 18-198. Riding skateboards, roller skates or roller blades on certain
sidewalks prohibited.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride a skateboard, roller skates or
roller blades on any sidewalk or portion of sidewalk described below:
   (1)   Rutherford Road
   (2)   Main Street
   (3)   East Court Street
   (4)   West Court Street
   (5)   Old and New West Henderson Streets
   (6)   Burgin Street
   (7)   Railroad Street
   (8)   Madison Street
   (9)   Blue Ridge Street
   (10)   Logan Street
   (11)   Academy Street
   (12)   Depot Street
(Ord. of 10-6-77, 2; Ord. No. O-05-06-21-5, 2, 6-21-05)
Sec. 18-199. Riding skateboards, roller skates or roller blades in downtown
area prohibited.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride a skateboard, roller skate or
roller blades on any sidewalk or portion of sidewalk in the downtown area. The
downtown area shall be described as follows: bounded on the south by the
intersection of South Main and Morgan Streets; on the north by the intersection
of North Main and Logan Streets; on the east by Garden Street; and on the west
by Logan Street and Morgan Street.
(Ord. of 10-6-77, 3; Ord. No. O-05-06-21-5, 2, 6-21-05)
Sec. 18-199.1. Riding skateboards, roller skates or roller blades in public
vehicular areas prohibited.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride a skateboard, roller skates or
roller blades in any public vehicular area owned or maintained by a
governmental unit, with the exception of play streets designated under section
18-197 above. It shall be unlawful for any person to ride a skateboard in any
public vehicular area or on any property owned by a private property owner,
where signs are posted stating that the riding of skateboards, roller skates or
roller blades on said property is prohibited.
(Ord. No. O-05-06-21-5, 2, 6-21-05)
Sec. 18-199.2. Possessing or riding skateboard, roller skates or roller blades
on certain city properties prohibited.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess or ride a skateboard, roller
skates or roller blades on any portion of the following city properties:
   (1)   City Hall
   (2)   Community Building and Community Building Park, to include the
playground area, basketball court, tennis court, upper and lower parking lots,
all picnic shelter areas and all other portions of the property
   (3)   Gazebo Parking Lot at North Main Street and Brown Drive
   (4)   Depot
   (5)   West Henderson Street Parking Lot
   (6)   South Main Street Parking Lot
   (7)   Logan Street Parking Lot
   (8)   Brown Drive Parking Lot
   (9)   South Garden Street Parking Lot
   (10)   Gazebo Park at South Main and Morgan Streets
   (11)   Fire Department
   (12)   Police Department
(Ord. No. O-05-06-21-5, 2, 6-21-05)
Sec. 18-200. Reserved.
   Editors Note: Section 1, amendment 3 of Ord. No. O-08-01-15-3, adopted Jan.
15, 2008, deleted 18-200, which pertained to penalties and derived from an
ordinance adopted Oct. 6, 1977; and Ord. No. O-05-06-21-5, adopted June 21,
2005.
Secs. 18-201--18-215. Reserved.
ARTICLE VI
STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING*
__________
*   State Law References: Stopping and parking, G.S. 20-161 et seq.
__________
DIVISION 1.
GENERALLY
Sec. 18-216. Standing or parking close to curb.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle in a roadway other than parallel
with the edge of the roadway headed in the same direction as lawful traffic
movement and with the right-hand wheels of the vehicle within eighteen (18)
inches of the curb or edge of the roadway except as otherwise provided in this
article.
(Code 1982, 7-1141)
Sec. 18-217. Signs or markings indicating angle parking.
   (a)    The council shall determine upon what streets angle parking shall be
permitted and shall mark or sign such streets, which are designated in the
traffic schedule, an official copy of which is maintained in the office of the
city clerk.
   (b)    Angle parking shall not be indicated or permitted at any place where
passing traffic would thereby be caused or required to drive upon the left side
of the street.
(Code 1982, 7-1142)
Sec. 18-218. Obedience to angle parking signs or markings.
   Upon those streets which have been signed or marked for angle parking, no
person shall park or stand a vehicle other than at the angle to the curb or
edge of the roadway indicated by such signs or markings.
(Code 1982, 7-1143)
Sec. 18-219. Lights on parked vehicles.
   (a)    Whenever a vehicle is lawfully parked at nighttime upon any street
within a business or residence district no lights need be displayed upon such
parked vehicle.
   (b)    Whenever a vehicle is parked upon a street or highway outside of a
business or residence district during the hours between one-half hour after
sunset and one-half hour before sunrise, such vehicle shall be equipped with
one (1) or more lamps which shall exhibit a white light on the roadway side
visible from a distance of five hundred (500) feet to the front of the vehicle
and a red light visible from a distance of five hundred (500) feet to the rear.
   (c)    Any lighted headlamps upon a parked vehicle shall be depressed or
dimmed.
(Code 1982, 7-1144)
   State Law References: Lights on parked vehicles, G.S. 20-134.
Sec. 18-220. Vehicles backed up to curb.
   In no case shall a vehicle remain backed up to the curb, except when
actually loading or unloading.
(Code 1982, 7-1145)
Sec. 18-221. Unattended vehicles.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave the engine or motor of any
motor vehicle running while the same is standing parked upon the streets.
(Code 1982, 7-1146)
Sec. 18-222. Moving cars from parked positions.
   Parked cars shall move out in the direction headed, or if they are parked at
an angle with the curb, they shall back out at that angle until they have
cleared the other cars and shall then proceed in the direction they are most
nearly headed in.
(Code 1982, 7-1147)
Sec. 18-223. Stopping, standing, or parking prohibited in designated places.
   (a)    No person operating a vehicle shall stop, stand, or park, except in
compliance with law or the directions of a police officer or traffic control
device, in any of the following places:
   (1)   On a sidewalk;
   (2)   In front of a public or private driveway;
   (3)   Within an intersection;
   (4)   Within fifteen (15) feet of a fire hydrant;
   (5)   On a crosswalk;
   (6)   Within twenty (20) feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
   (7)   Within thirty (30) feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop
sign, or traffic control signal located at the side of a roadway;
   (8)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within thirty (30) feet
of points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless
signs or markings indicate a different length;
   (9)   Within fifty (50) feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
   (10)   Within twenty (20) feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station
and on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within
seventy-five (75) feet of such entrance, when properly signposted;
   (11)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic;
   (12)   On a roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street;
   (13)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or within
a highway tunnel;
   (14)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping;
   (15)   In the area between the curb/street edge and a public sidewalk.
   (b)    No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his control into
any such prohibited area or away from a curb such distance as is unlawful.
   (c)    Exceptions to this section shall apply only in cases where a driver
of a vehicle is ordered to drive across a sidewalk or curb by a police officer
or traffic control device, or in situations where emergency or maintenance work
is undertaken by the city or authorized by the city through the issuance of a
permit by the public works director or where marked parking spaces are placed
on public streets by the city or the North Carolina Department of
Transportation.
(Code 1982, 7-1151; Ord. of 2-4-97, 1; Ord. No. O-07-02-06-1, 2, 2-6-07; Ord.
No. O-07-07-17-2, 2, 7-17-07; Ord. No. O-11-09-20-1, 2, 9-20-11)
   State Law References: Parking in front of a private driveway, fire hydrant,
fire station, intersections of curblines or fire lane, G.S. 20-162.
Sec. 18-224. Parking not to obstruct traffic.
   No person shall park any vehicle upon a street, other than an alley, in such
a manner or under such conditions as to leave available less than ten (10) feet
of the width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular traffic.
(Code 1982, 7-1152)
Sec. 18-225. Parking in alleys.
   No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in such a manner or under
such conditions as to leave available less than ten (10) feet of the width of
the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic, and no person shall
stop, stand, or park a vehicle within an alley, in such position as to block
the driveway entrance to any abutting property.
(Code 1982, 7-1153)
Sec. 18-226. Standing or parking for certain purposes prohibited.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stand or park a vehicle upon any
street of the city for the principal purposes of:
   (1)   Displaying for sale;
   (2)   Washing, greasing or repairing such vehicle, except repairs made
necessary by a bona fide emergency;
   (3)   Storing by garages, dealers or other persons when such storing is not
incident to the bona fide use and operation of such automobile or other
vehicle; and
   (4)   Storing of any detached trailer or van when the towing unit has been
disconnected or for the purpose of transferring merchandise or freight from one
(1) vehicle to another.
(Code 1982, 7-1154)
Sec. 18-227. Parking adjacent to schools.
   When official signs are erected indicating no parking upon either side of a
street adjacent to any school property as authorized in this chapter, no person
shall park a vehicle in any such designated place.
(Code 1982, 7-1155)
Sec. 18-228. Standing or parking on one-way roadways.
   If a highway includes two (2) or more separate roadways and traffic
restricted to one (1) direction upon any such roadway, no person shall stand or
park a vehicle upon the left-hand side of such one-way roadway unless signs are
erected to permit such standing or parking.
(Code 1982, 7-1156)
Sec. 18-229. No stopping, standing, or parking near hazardous or congested
places.
   When official signs are erected at hazardous or congested places no person
shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle in any such designated place.
(Code 1982, 7-1157)
Sec. 18-230. Stopping, standing, or parking for primary purpose of advertising
prohibited.
   No person shall stand or park on any street any vehicle for the primary
purpose of advertising.
(Code 1982, 7-1158)
Sec. 18-230.1. Obedience to designated parking spaces on streets.
   No single vehicle or combination of hitched vehicles shall park in such a
manner as to occupy more than one (1) designated parking space at a time nor
extend beyond the painted lines of the designated space, except that travel
trailers and/or recreational vehicles may park in marked spaces not to exceed
two (2) hours as long as such vehicles do not impede the flow of traffic on the
street.
(Ord. No. O-07-02-20-2, 2, 2-20-07)
Sec. 18-231. Loading and unloading zones.
   Whenever vehicle loading and unloading zones are designated and described by
this article and when signs are in place, erected or installed, giving notice
thereof, it shall be unlawful for any person to stop, stand or park any vehicle
for any purpose or period of time except in accordance with the requirements of
this article.
(Code 1982, 7-1171)
Sec. 18-232. Passenger loading zones.
   The streets, or parts thereof, described in the traffic schedule, an
official copy of which is maintained in the office of the city clerk, and
designated as passenger loading and unloading zones shall be streets where no
person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle therein during the hours of 8:00
a.m. to 6:00 p.m. for any purpose other than the expeditious loading or
unloading of passengers, and then only for a period not to exceed ten (10)
minutes.
(Code 1982, 7-1172)
Sec. 18-233. Commercial loading zones.
   The streets, or parts thereof, described in the traffic schedule, an
official copy of which is maintained in the office of the city clerk, and
designated as commercial loading and unloading zones shall be streets where no
person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle therein during the hours of 8:00
a.m. to 6:00 p.m. for any purpose other than the expeditious unloading and
delivery, or pickup and loading of materials and goods, and then only for a
period not to exceed thirty (30) minutes.
(Code 1982, 7-1173)
Sec. 18-234. Public carrier stops and stands.
   Bus stands, taxicab stands and stands for other passenger common-carrier
motor vehicles, designated by appropriate signs, shall be those places
specified as public carrier stops and stands in the traffic schedule, an
official copy of which is maintained in the office of the city clerk.
(Code 1982, 7-1174)
Sec. 18-235. Stopping, standing, and parking of busses and taxicabs regulated.
   (a)    The operator of a bus shall not stand or park such vehicle upon any
street at any place other than at a bus stand so designated as provided in this
chapter.
   (b)    The operator of a bus shall not stop such vehicle upon any street at
any place for the purpose of loading or unloading passengers or their baggage
other than at a bus stop, bus stand, or passenger loading zone so designated as
provided in this chapter, except in case of an emergency.
   (c)    The operator of a bus shall enter a bus stop, bus stand, or passenger
loading zone on a public street in such a manner that the bus, when stopped to
load or unload passengers or baggage, shall be in a position with the right
front wheel of such vehicle not farther than eighteen (18) inches from the
curb, and the bus approximately parallel to the curb, so as not to unduly
impede the movement of other vehicular traffic.
   (d)    The operator of a taxicab shall not stand or park such vehicle upon
any street at any place other than a taxicab stand so designated as provided in
this chapter. This provision shall not prevent the operator of a taxicab from
temporarily stopping in accordance with other stopping or parking regulations
at any place for the purpose of and while actually engaged in the expeditious
loading or unloading of passengers.
(Code 1982, 7-1175)
   Cross References: Taxicabs,
Ch. 17.
Sec. 18-236. Restricted use of bus and taxicab stands.
   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle other than a bus in a bus
stop, or other than a taxicab in a taxicab stand when any such stop has been
officially designated and appropriately signed, except that the driver of a
passenger vehicle may temporarily stop therein for the purpose of and while
actually engaged in loading or unloading passengers when such stopping does not
interfere with any bus or taxicab waiting to enter or about to enter such zone.
(Code 1982, 7-1176)
   Cross References: Taxicabs,
Ch. 17.
Sec. 18-237. Application.
   The provisions of this article prohibiting the standing or parking of a
vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times specified in this article or
as indicated on official signs except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or official traffic control device.
(Code 1982, 7-1181)
   State Law References: Authority of city to regulate parking of vehicles on
public streets, G.S. 160A-301(a).
Sec. 18-238. Regulations not exclusive.
   The provisions of this article imposing a time limit on parking shall not
relieve any person from the duty to observe other and more restrictive
provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping, standing, or parking of
vehicles in specified places or at specified times.
(Code 1982, 7-1182)
Sec. 18-239. Parking prohibited at all times on certain streets.
   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle
at any time upon any of the streets designated in the traffic schedule, an
official copy of which is maintained in the office of the city clerk.
(Code 1982, 7-1183)
Sec. 18-240. Parking time limited in particular city block.
   When signs are erected in each block giving notice thereof, no person shall
park a vehicle for longer than the total period of time specified, or within
the hours specified within the same city block upon any of the streets
designated in the traffic schedule, an official copy of which is maintained in
the office of the city clerk. It shall be unlawful for any person to park a
vehicle either at the same place or at two (2) or more places or parking spaces
within the same city block for a combined total parked period in the same city
block, during the regulated hours, in excess of the permitted period prescribed
in this regulation. The phrase "city block" as used in this section shall mean
the portion of a street lying between the nearest crossing intersectional
streets and shall not include other streets running parallel, at right angles,
or otherwise, to the street upon which such vehicle may be parked.
(Ord. of 5-5-98(2), 1)
   Editors Note: Section 1 of an ordinance adopted May 5, 1998, repealed the
former 18-240 and enacted a new
18-240 as set out herein. The former 18-240 pertained to parking time limited
on certain streets, and derived from Code 1982, 7-1184.
Sec. 18-241. Parking signs required.
   Whenever by this or any other article any parking time limit is imposed or
parking is prohibited on designated streets there shall be appropriate signs
giving notice thereof and no such regulations shall be effective unless said
signs are erected and in place at the time of any alleged offense.
(Code 1982, 7-1185)
Sec. 18-242. Vehicles not to stop in streets, exceptions.
   No vehicle shall stop in any street, except for the purpose of parking as
prescribed in this chapter, unless such stop is made necessary by the approach
of fire apparatus, by the approach of a funeral or other procession which is
given right-of-way, by the stopping of a public conveyance, by the lowering of
railway gates by being given countermanding traffic signals, by the passing of
some other vehicle or a pedestrian, or by some emergency. In all cases covered
by these exceptions such vehicles shall stop so as not to obstruct any footway,
pedestrian aisle, safety zone, crossing, or street intersection if it can be
avoided.
(Code 1982, 7-1186)
Sec. 18-243. Chief of police to allow parking in no parking zones for short
periods of time.
   (a)    The chief of police is authorized to allow parking in "No Parking
Zones" for short periods of time for funerals, weddings, receptions and other
events where special circumstances make parking in such areas desirable for
short periods of time.
   (b)    The chief of police shall issue such parking permits in writing and
in advance of the event or special circumstances for which the parking permit
is issued.
(Ord. of 4-22-97, 1, 2)
   Editors Note: An ordinance of Apr. 22, 1997, did not specifically amend the
Code; hence, inclusion of 1 and 2 of such ordinance as 18-243 was at the
discretion of the editor.
Sec. 18-244. Reserved.
   Editors Note: Section 1, amendment 3 of Ord. No. O-08-01-15-3, adopted Jan.
15, 2008, deleted 18-244, which pertained to civil penalties for parking
violations and derived an ordinance adopted Oct. 7, 1997; and Ord. No. O-06-12-
12-3, adopted Dec. 12, 2006.
Secs. 18-245--18-255. Reserved.
DIVISION 2.
OFF-STREET PARKING*
__________
*   Cross References: Off-street parking requirements for lots, App. A, 702.
__________
Sec. 18-256. Designated off-street parking lots.
   In order to facilitate the parking of motor vehicles in the city, the
following areas are hereby designated as off-street parking lots in the city
where properly licensed motor vehicles may be parked in designated marked-off
spaces subject to the provisions of this section, and any amendments thereto:
   (1)   Lot #1, North Main Street--Beginning at a point on the west side of
North Main Street, said point located forty (40) feet west of the center of
North Main Street and ten (10) feet north from the center of Brown Drive;
thence north running parallel with North Main Street one hundred twenty-six
(126) feet; thence west running parallel with Brown Drive seventy (70) feet;
thence south running parallel with North Main Street one hundred eighteen (118)
feet; thence east running parallel with Brown Drive seventy (70) feet to the
point of beginning.
   (2)   Lot #2, Brown Drive--Beginning at a point on the west side of North
Main Street, said point located one hundred ten (110) feet west of the center
of North Main Street and ten (10) feet north from the center of Brown Drive;
thence north running parallel with North Main Street one hundred eighteen (118)
feet; thence west running parallel with Brown Drive seventy (70) feet; thence
south running parallel with North Main Street one hundred twenty-nine (129)
feet; thence east running parallel with Brown Drive eighty-three (83) feet to
the point of beginning.
   (3)   Lot #3, Henderson Street--Beginning at a point on the south side of
West Henderson Street, said point located two hundred sixty-seven (267) feet
west of the center of South Main Street and thirty-one (31) feet south of the
center of West Henderson Street; thence west two hundred eleven (211) feet
running parallel with West Henderson Street; thence south one hundred forty-
four (144) feet running parallel with South Main Street; thence east two
hundred six (206) feet running parallel with West Henderson Street; thence
north one hundred twenty-four (124) feet running parallel with South Main
Street to the point of beginning.
   (4)   Lot #4, South Main Street--Beginning at a point on the east side of
South Main Street, said point located thirty (30) feet east of the center of
South Main Street and one hundred twenty-seven (127) feet south from the center
of State Street; thence east one hundred forty (140) feet running parallel with
State Street; thence south fifty-six (56) feet running parallel with South Main
Street; thence west one hundred forty (140) feet running parallel with State
Street; thence north fifty-six (56) feet running parallel with South Main
Street to the point of beginning.
   (5)   Lot #5, Railroad Street--Beginning at a point on the south side of
Railroad Street, said point located three hundred fifty-seven (357) feet west
of the center of South Main Street and eighteen (18) feet south from the center
of Railroad Street; thence west one hundred thirty-six (136) feet running
parallel with Railroad Street; thence south one hundred nine (109) feet running
parallel with South Main Street; thence east one hundred six (106) feet running
parallel with Railroad Street; thence north one hundred sixteen (116) feet
running parallel with South Main Street to the point of beginning.
   (6)   Lot #6, South Logan Street--Beginning at a point on the east side of
South Logan Street, said point located at the intersection of the rights-of-way
of South Logan and West Henderson Streets; thence north one hundred thirty-
three (133) feet running parallel with South Logan Street; thence east one
hundred twenty (120) feet running parallel with West Henderson Street; thence
south one hundred thirty-three (133) feet running parallel with South Logan
Street; thence west one hundred twenty (120) feet running parallel with West
Henderson Street to the point of beginning; and including a perpetual,
nonexclusive right-of-way and easement over a roadway which is in existence and
in use, and which is approximately fifteen (15) feet in width, located
immediately north of said property on South Logan Street.
   (7)   Lot #7, South Garden Street--Beginning at a point on the east side of
South Garden Street, said point located two hundred sixty-four (264) feet south
of the southeast corner of East Court and South Garden Streets; thence east one
hundred sixty-five (165) feet; thence south eighty (80) feet; thence west one
hundred seventy-three (173) feet; thence north running parallel with South
Garden Street one hundred thirty (130) feet to the point of beginning.
(Code 1982, 7-1190; Ord. of 9-2-97, 1; Ord. No. O-01-10-02-2, 2, 10-2-01; Ord.
No. O-06-03-07-3, 2, 3-7-06; Ord. No. O-06-05-02-2, 2, 5-2-06)
Sec. 18-257. Two-hour parking lots.
   The parking lot described in subsection
18-256(1) is hereby designated as a two-hour parking lot. No person shall park
any motor vehicle and leave such vehicle parked in the above described two-hour
parking lot for a continuous period of time in excess of two (2) hours.
(Code 1982, 7-1191; Ord. of 9-2-97, 1)
Sec. 18-258. All-day parking lots.
   (a)    The parking lots described in subsections (2) through (6) of section
18-256 are hereby designated as all-day parking lots. No person shall park any
motor vehicle and leave such vehicle parked in any of the above described all-
day parking lots between the hours of 3:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. local time,
except for persons residing within two blocks of a particular parking lot, who
may park their personal vehicles in the all-day parking lot closest to their
residence at any time the lot does not carry restrictions of use in accordance
with posted signs if a parking tag or sticker issued by the city is displayed.
   (b)    The parking lot described in subsection (7) of section
18-256 is hereby designated as an all-day parking lot with restrictions of use
at certain times in accordance with posted signs. No person shall park any
motor vehicle and leave such vehicle parked in the above described all-day
parking lot between the hours of 3:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. local time, except for
employees of the McDowell County Emergency Medical Services, who may park their
personal vehicles in this parking lot while on duty at any time the lot does
not carry restrictions of use in accordance with posted signs.
(Code 1982, 7-1192; Ord. of 9-2-97, 1; Ord. No. O-01-10-02-2, 3, 10-2-01; Ord.
No. O-06-03-07-3, 3, 3-7-06; Ord. No. O-06-05-02-2, 3, 5-2-06; Ord. No. O-10-
04-20-3, 2, 4-20-10)
Sec. 18-259. Reserved parking spaces.
   From time to time one (1) or more parking spaces in the lots described in
section
18-256 may be reserved and designated for the use of one (1) particular person
by the city council.
(Code 1982, 7-1193; Ord. of 9-2-97, 1)
Sec. 18-260. Handicapped parking spaces.
   Certain parking spaces may be designated for use by handicapped persons
only. No person shall park a motor vehicle, which does not have displayed in
the appropriate location on said motor vehicle, a decal, sticker, tag, etc.
issued by the state, signifying that one (1) or more persons in the motor
vehicle are handicapped, in any parking space designated as handicapped
parking.
(Code 1982, 7-1194; Ord. of 9-2-97, 1)
Sec. 18-261. Reserved.
   Editors Note: Section 1, amendment 3 of Ord. No. O-08-01-15-3, adopted Jan.
15, 2008, deleted 18-261, which pertained to charges and fees and derived from
7-1195 of the 1982 Code; an ordinance adopted Sept. 2, 1997; and Ord. No. O-04-
03-02-2, adopted Mar. 2, 2004.
Sec. 18-262. Reserved.
   Editors Note: Section 1 of an ordinance adopted Sept. 2, 1997, repealed 18-
262 which pertained to parking area at West Henderson and Logan Streets
regulated, and derived from 1--4 of an ordinance adopted Aug. 5, 1986.
ARTICLE VII.
TAX ON MOTOR VEHICLES
Sec. 18-266. Privilege tax.
   (a)   Imposed; scope. Each self propelled motor vehicle licensed by the
state which is resident within the city on January first of each year shall be
subject to an annual privilege tax of $5.00. The tax shall be imposed for the
fiscal year beginning on July first following the January first date on which
the motor vehicle becomes resident in the city. For purposes of determining
whether the vehicle is "resident" within the city, the provisions of the
Machinery Act (G.S. 105-304 and ch. 105, art. 22A) shall be applicable, and any
such motor vehicle which, under the Machinery Act, would be taxable for ad
valorem property taxes shall be subject to the tax imposed in this section.
   (b)   Administration; enforcement. The county tax collector is authorized to
issue the tax bills for the tax imposed herein and shall collect the tax
imposed herein. The county tax assessor shall have the powers of listing,
assessing, discovery, collection, levy, attachment, garnishment, release and
rebate authorized under the Machinery Act, to the same extent as such powers
and authorities are available for the listing, assessing and collection of ad
valorem taxes under the Machinery Act.
   (c)   Effective date. The privilege tax imposed by this section shall be
effective for the ensuing 2010-2011 fiscal year and for all fiscal years
thereafter.
(Ord. No. O-10-06-15-4, 6-15-10)
Chapter 19
TREES*
__________
*   Editors Note: No. O-09-09-15-7, adopted Sept. 15, 2009, amended ch. 19 in
its entirety to read as herein set out. Former ch. 19, consisted of §§ 19-1--
19-5, 19-26--19-32; 19-51--19-53, pertained to the same subject matter and
derived from an ordinance adopted Jan. 6, 1987; Ord. No. O-08-01-15-3, adopted
Jan. 15, 2008; and Ord. No. O-09-09-15-7, § 2, 8-18-09.
   Cross References: from commercial tree trimmers, §
9-31; planning and protection of trees, §
15-69.
   State Law References: setting on fire of timber, G.S. § 1-539.1(b); injury
to trees, wood, etc., of another; permit required to plant, trim or remove any
tree or shrub on any state road, G.S. § 136-93.
__________
   Art. I. In General, §§ 19-1--19-25
   Art. II. Tree Board, §§ 19-26--19-39
   Art. III. City Arborist, §§ 19-40--19-50
   Art. IV. Management, §§ 19-51--19-54
ARTICLE I.
IN GENERAL
Sec. 19-1. Purpose.
   (a)    The purpose of this chapter is to regulate the planting, maintenance
and removal of trees on municipally owned public property and rights-of-way
within the city and on municipally owned property wherever located. In order to
protect and conserve trees on public property and rights-of-way, this chapter
provides for the pruning, treatment and removal of trees and shrubs as is
deemed necessary by the city council. This chapter is also intended to provide
for the trimming or removal of trees on public land when they obscure street
lights, interfere with utility lines, or constitute a hazard to pedestrian or
vehicular traffic, or otherwise endanger the public health, safety or welfare.
   (b)    Another purpose of this chapter is to encourage the protection of
trees and express the city's intent to use trees to create a more natural and
amenable human environment. This chapter is not intended to be punitive nor to
cause hardship to any person who uses the utmost care and diligence to protect
trees within the city or on city property.
   (c)    This chapter shall further provide for the establishment of an
advisory committee known as the tree board which shall be responsible for
promoting trees and tree care throughout the city and for developing a city
tree plan.
(Ord. No. O-09-09-15-7, § 1, 9-15-09)
Sec. 19-2. Definitions.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   City arborist means a citizen, consultant, or staff person skilled and
trained in forestry that assists the city with maintaining a healthy urban
forest.
   Large tree means a large tree growing to over forty (40) feet in height at
maturity, usually deciduous that is planted to provide a canopy cover for
shade.
   Master tree plan means a written document that guides the work of the urban
forestry program.
   Medium tree means a tree growing thirty (30) feet to forty (40) feet in
height at maturity.
   Public tree means trees, shrubs, and bushes now or hereafter growing on any
public street right-of-way or public land within Marion corporate limits.
   Small tree means a small to medium tree, growing fifteen (15) feet to thirty
(30) feet in height at maturity that is planted for aesthetic purposes such as
colorful flowers, interesting bark, or fall foliage.
   Street tree means any tree, shrub, and bush on land lying within rights-of-
way on either side of all streets, avenues, or ways within the city.
   Urban forest means the collection of shrubs, trees, vegetation, and
associated natural features that make up the city tree canopy and the area
required for its sustainable growth.
   Urban forestry means the planning, establishment, protection, and management
of trees, vegetation, and associated natural features, individually, in small
groups, or under forest conditions within the city.
(Ord. No. O-09-09-15-7, § 1, 9-15-09)
Sec. 19-3. Permit.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to prune, treat, or remove any street
tree or park tree within the city without first filing an application and
procuring a permit from the city manager. The city maintains the right to
review the application and the tree in question in determining whether or not
to issue a permit.
(Ord. No. O-09-09-15-7, § 1, 9-15-09)
Sec. 19-4. License and bond.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business or occupation
of pruning, treating, or removing street or park trees within the city without
first applying for and procuring a license. The license shall be required of
any public service company or city employee doing such work in the pursuit of
his public service endeavors. No license shall be issued to any person until
such person shall have filed with the city manager an insurance policy in the
minimum amounts of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00)/three hundred
thousand dollars ($300,000.00) for bodily injury and fifty thousand dollars
($50,000.00) property damage indemnifying the city or any person injured or
damaged resulting from the pursuit of such endeavors as described in this
chapter.
(Ord. No. O-09-09-15-7, § 1, 9-15-09)
Sec. 19-5. Penalty.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be, upon conviction
or plea of guilty, punished in accordance with the provisions of section
1-10.
(Ord. No. O-09-09-15-7, § 1, 9-15-09)
Secs. 19-6--19-25. Reserved.
ARTICLE II.
TREE BOARD
Sec. 19-26. Creation and establishment.
   There is hereby created and established a tree board for the city, which
shall consist of eight (8) members who shall be citizens and residents of this
city. Such members shall be appointed by the mayor with the approval of the
city council. Ex officio members may be appointed as necessary.
(Ord. No. O-22-6-21-8, § 1, 6-21-22)
Sec. 19-27. Terms of members.
   The term of the eight (8) persons to be appointed by the city council shall
be three (3) years. If a vacancy shall occur during the term of any members,
his or her successor shall be appointed for the unexpired portion for the term.
(Ord. No. O-22-6-21-8, § 1, 6-21-22)
Sec. 19-28. Compensation.
   Members of the tree board shall serve without compensation.
(Ord. No. O-09-09-15-7, § 1, 9-15-09)
Sec. 19-29. Duties and responsibilities.
   (a)    It shall be the responsibility of the tree board to study,
investigate, counsel, develop, update annually, and administer a written master
tree plan for the care, preservation, pruning, planting, replanting, removal or
disposition of trees and shrubs in parks, along streets and in other public
areas. Such plan will be presented annually to the city council and upon its
acceptance and approval shall constitute the official comprehensive city tree
plan for the city.
   (b)    The tree board, when requested by the city council, shall consider,
investigate, make findings, report and recommend upon any special matter or
question coming within the scope of its work.
   (c)    The tree board shall, in addition, serve as an advisory board to the
city council with the following duties and responsibilities:
   (1)   Facilitate the planting, growth and protection of trees within the
city;
   (2)   Foster the communication among the citizens of the city that would
provide the needed protection of trees and to coordinate active measures to
support their health and growth within the city;
   (3)   Conduct a tree inventory of existing trees along streets and on public
property within the city;
   (4)   Investigate available grants, loans or contributions from other
governmental agencies, public or private corporations, or individuals, and
recommend the expenditures of any proceeds toward the accomplishment of the
board's purpose; and
   (5)   Conduct continuing research, planning, and feasibility studies
required to support the purpose stated herein.
   (d)    The tree board shall also be responsible for developing an official
street tree species list comprised of three (3) groups of trees: small trees,
medium trees, and large trees. No other trees other than those included in the
list may be planted as street trees without permission of the tree board.
   (e)    The tree board will be responsible for establishing guidelines for
the spacing of city trees in accordance with the tree species size classes in
the official street tree species list. These guidelines will cover spacing
between street trees, the distance street trees may be planted to overhead and
underground waterlines, sewer lines, transmission lines, or other utilities,
and any other areas involving the spacing of street trees, park trees, or city-
owned trees.
   (f)    The tree board shall submit an annual report of its activities and
recommendations to the city council and shall submit copies of its minutes and
the proceedings of its regular and special meetings.
(Ord. No. O-09-09-15-7, § 1, 9-15-09)
Sec. 19-30. Operation.
   The tree board shall adopt rules for the transaction of its business and
shall keep a record of its members' attendance and of its resolutions,
discussions, findings, and recommendations, which record shall be a public
record. The tree board shall set a regular schedule for meetings, and the
chairman may call a special meeting upon request of a majority of members of
the tree board. A majority of the members shall be a quorum for the transaction
of business.
(Ord. No. O-09-09-15-7, § 1, 9-15-09)
Sec. 19-31. Interference.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay or interfere with the
tree board while engaging in and about the planting, cultivation, mulching,
pruning, spraying, or removal of any street trees, park trees, or trees on
public grounds as authorized in this chapter.
(Ord. No. O-09-09-15-7, § 1, 9-15-09)
Sec. 19-32. Review of acts and decisions by city council.
   The city council shall have the right to review the conduct, acts and
decisions of the tree board. Any person may appeal from any ruling or order of
the tree board to the city council who may hear the matter and make a final
decision.
(Ord. No. O-09-09-15-7, § 1, 9-15-09)
Secs. 19-33--19-39. Reserved.
ARTICLE III.
CITY ARBORIST
Sec. 19-40. Qualifications of a city arborist.
   A city arborist is a person who, where possible, has over three (3) years
experience in forestry management, is a certified arborist by the International
Society of Arboriculture, municipal specialist, and/or utility specialist.
(Ord. No. O-09-09-15-7, § 1, 9-15-09)
Sec. 19-41. Duties of the city arborist.
   The city arborist shall have the following duties:
   (1)   Shall serve as a member or ex officio to provide technical assistance
to the tree board.
   (2)   Assist the city staff and/or paid contractors with proper pruning
practices.
   (3)   Assist the city with maintaining an inventory of public trees.
   (4)   Assist with tree selection and planting to add new trees and/or
replace dead or diseased trees.
   (5)   Provide advice on public trees as part of capital improvement projects
for the city.
(Ord. No. O-09-09-15-7, § 1, 9-15-09)
Secs. 19-42--19-50. Reserved.
ARTICLE IV.
MANAGEMENT
Sec. 19-51. Public trees.
   (a)    The city shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain and remove
trees, plants and shrubs within the public right-of-way of all streets, alleys,
avenues, lanes, squares and public grounds as may be necessary to ensure public
safety or to preserve or enhance the symmetry and beauty of such public
grounds.
   (b)    The city may remove or cause or order to be removed, any publicly
owned tree or part thereof which is in an unsafe condition or which by reason
of its nature is injurious to sewers, electrical power lines, gas lines, water
lines, or other public improvements, or is affected with any injurious fungus,
insect or other pest. This section does not prohibit the planting of street
trees by adjacent property owners providing that the selection and location of
such trees is in accordance with the guidelines for planting and spacing
developed by the tree board. The tree board may reserve the right to approve
any plantings that take place in right-of-way areas.
(Ord. No. O-09-09-15-7, § 1, 9-15-09)
Sec. 19-52. Tree topping.
   It shall be unlawful as normal practice except as provided in this section
for any person to top any street tree, park tree, or other tree on public
property. Topping is defined as the severe cutting back of limbs to stubs
larger than three (3) inches in diameter within the tree's crown to such a
degree so as to remove the normal canopy and disfigure the tree.
(Ord. No. O-09-09-15-7, § 1, 9-15-09)
Sec. 19-53. Removal of stumps.
   All stumps of street trees and park trees shall be removed below the surface
of the ground so that the top of the stump will not project above the surface
of the ground.
(Ord. No. O-09-09-15-7, § 1, 9-15-09)
Sec 19-54. Enforcement.
   Unless otherwise specified, any person, firm, corporation in violation of
compliance with any provisions of this chapter shall be subject to the
procedures, penalties, and remedies described in section
1-10, code enforcement of the Marion City Code.
(Ord. No. O-09-09-15-7, § 1, 9-15-09)
Chapter 20
WATER AND SEWERAGE*
__________
*   Editors Note: ordinance of February 5, 1991, which was not specifically
amendatory of the Code, has been treated of the Code, has been treated as
amending
Ch. 20. Designations are indicated in the history notes to the affected
sections. Provisions relating to water and sewer line extensions, including
application procedure, extension requirements, specifications and financing are
based on policies established by the city council.
   State Law References: Carolina Drinking Water Act, G.S. § 130A-311 et seq.;
water and air resources, G.S. § 143-211 et seq.; municipal water systems, G.S.
§ 160A-311 et seq.
   Cross References: waste, §
9-26 et seq.; installation of utilities in streets, §
15-64.
__________
   Art. I. In General, §§ 20-1--20-20
   Art. II. Water Distribution, §§ 20-21--20-47
   Art. II.1. Water Conservation, §§ 20-48--20-54
   Art. II.2. Backflow Prevention/Cross Connection Control §§ 20-55—20-60.11
   Art. III. Sewer System, §§ 20-61--20-80
   Art. IV. Sewerage and Waste Discharge Standards, §§ 20-81--20-120.3
   Div. 1. General Provisions, §§ 20-81, 20-82
   Div. 2. General Sewer Use Requirements, §§ 20-83--20-91
   Div. 3. Fees, §§ 20-92--20-95
   Div. 4. Wastewater Discharge Permit Application and Issuance, §§ 20-96, 20-
97
   Div. 5. Reporting Requirements, §§ 20-98--20-111
   Div. 6. Compliance Monitoring, §§ 20-112--20-114
   Div. 7. Confidential Information, § 20-114.1
   Div. 8. General Provisions, §§ 20-115--20-118
   Div. 9. Annual Publication of Significant Noncompliance, § 20-118.1
   Div. 10. Affirmative Defenses to Discharge Violations, § 20-119--20-120.1
   Div. 11. Severability, § 20-120.2
   Div. 12. Conflict, § 20-120.3
   Art. V. Enforcement, §§ 20-121--20-127
ARTICLE I.
IN GENERAL
Sec. 20-1. Right to enter premises; availability of information.
   (a)    Whenever it becomes necessary to enter any premises, stores or
dwelling, for the purpose of inspecting water pipes, fixtures, meters, etc.,
the public works director or his agent may do so within reasonable hours.
Should the public works director or his agent be refused admittance, the supply
of water shall be cut off until such examination is made and the required
information is obtained, or until repairs and alterations are made.
   (b)    Information and data on a user obtained from reports, questionnaires,
permit applications, permits and monitoring programs and from inspections shall
be available to the public or other governmental agency without restriction
unless the user specifically requests and is able to demonstrate to the
satisfaction of the city that the release of such information would divulge
information, processes or methods of production entitled to protection as trade
secrets of the user. Wastewater constituents and characteristics will not be
recognized as confidential information.
(Code 1982, § 5-2007; Ord. of 2-21-84, § 3; Ord. of 2-5-91, Art. III, § 7)
   Cross References: and sampling, §
20-96; confidential information, §
20-98.
Sec. 20-2. Water and sewer extensions; application; approval.
   (a)    Application for and approval of extensions required.
   (1)   Any property owner, or owners, desiring water or sanitary sewer
service shall apply in writing to the council requesting the extension of water
or sanitary sewer service or both. No request for the extension of services
shall be considered unless submitted in writing.
   (2)   The applicant must submit as part of the written application such
information plans or other data as required.
   (3)   When application is made for a water or sewer extension or both to
serve an area or development that is planned as part of a larger development
project or subdivision, all of which is not to be developed at the time
application is made, the owner or owners shall submit plans in sufficient
detail in order to determine the size and type facilities which will be
necessary to serve the entire development or subdivision when completed.
   (4)   No extension to the water or sanitary sewer system of the city shall
be made and no application shall be approved except in accordance with the
policies established by the city council.
   (b)    Council to establish policies. The council shall establish such
policies and conditions for the extension of water and/or sewer lines as they
deem necessary.
of 2-5-91, Art. IV, §§ 1, 2)
Sec. 20-3. Grease tank required where food is prepared.
   (a)    All restaurants and all other places where food is prepared,
excluding residential units, served by the city sewer system, shall be required
to have a grease tank of not less than one thousand (1,000) gallons' capacity,
which shall be pumped out not less than once every two (2) months or a twenty-
five (25) gallon/fifty (50) pound grease separator.
   (b)    The owner and/or occupant shall be required to keep accurate records
on the dates the grease tank is pumped out or the grease separator is serviced.
   (c)    The public works director or his designee shall have the right during
regular working hours (8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., Monday through Friday) to
inspect facilities for compliance with this section.
   (d)    The city council shall have the authority to waive the requirement
for a grease tank or grease separator for bakeries or other similar
establishments with carry out food only and discharging small amounts of grease
to the city sewer system.
of 9-8-92, §§ 1--3; Ord. of 3-17-98, § 1)
Secs. 20-4--20-20. Reserved.
ARTICLE II.
WATER DISTRIBUTION
Sec. 20-21. Service contracts to conform with pertinent provisions.
   All pertinent provisions of this chapter shall govern the terms and
conditions of the contracts under which the city furnishes water service to any
person, or whereby the city makes any water connections or performs any work of
any kind in connection with the furnishing of water service.
(Code 1982, § 5-1001; Ord. of 2-5-91, Art. I, § 1)
Sec. 20-22. Supervision of water works; enforcement of regulations.
   The water works owned by the city shall be under the supervision of the
mayor and council. The duty of enforcing full compliance with all rules and
regulations governing all connections with the mains, shall be vested in the
council.
(Code 1982, § 5-1002)
Sec. 20-23. System to be controlled by city; fees.
   (a)    The city shall tap the water main for any and all connections and
will extend all service pipes to the curbing where a stop box will be placed
over a stop cock, all of which shall be under the exclusive control of the
city. No person shall be allowed to turn the water on or off at this stop cock,
except authorized city personnel.
   (b)    For this extension of water service pipe and the tapping of main, the
city will charge such fees as are determined by the council and filed in the
clerk's office.
(Code 1982, § 5-1003)
Sec. 20-24. Connection with water main required; time limit.
   Within thirty (30) days after the water main in any street is completed and
ready for use, the owner of every abutting lot whereon water is needed for
human use, shall cause such lot to be connected with such water main; provided,
however, that the owner of the premises shall be notified in writing by the
city of the installation of such water main, and they shall be allowed thirty
(30) days within which to make the required connection or connections.
(Code 1982, § 5-1004; Ord. of 2-5-91, Art. I, § 2)
   State Law References: to require connections, G.S. § 160A-317.
Sec. 20-25. Connections to be made by city or under supervision of city.
   The construction of laterals for the connection of the water pipes on any
lot with water pipes in any street, as well as the necessary excavation
therefor, shall be done by the city, or if done by a licensed plumber, shall be
done under the supervision of the city.
(Code 1982, § 5-1005; Ord. of 2-5-91, Art. I, § 3)
Sec. 20-26. Applications for connections.
   Every application for a water connection shall state the name of the owner
of the lot, the purpose for which the water is to be used, an estimated amount
of water to be used daily, the name of the street on which the lot is situated,
the number of the house, if there is one on the lot, or, if not, a description
of the location of the lot, the number and kind of connections desired and the
character of surface of the abutting street. Every application shall be signed
by the applicant, shall be accompanied by the proper fee for making connections
and shall be filed with the city water department.
(Code 1982, § 5-1006; Ord. of 2-5-91, Art. I, § 4)
Sec. 20-27. Location of service pipe extensions specified.
   No service pipe shall be allowed to run across lots, that is, from one lot
to another, but it must be taken from the main in front of the premises or from
some point adjacent thereto, unless specific permission is obtained from the
public works director. The public works director shall have the power to extend
a service pipe to a house not located on a main line. All additional expenses
for such extensions shall be paid by the owner of the property.
(Code 1982, § 5-1007; Ord. of 2-5-91, Art. I, § 5)
Sec. 20-28. Right to enter premises.
   Whenever it becomes necessary to enter any premises, stores or dwellings,
for the purpose of inspecting water pipes, fixtures, meters, etc., the public
works director or his agent may do so within reasonable hours. Should the
public works director or his agent be refused admittance, the supply of water
shall be cut off until such examination is made and the required information is
obtained, or until repairs and alterations are made.
(Code 1982, § 5-1008; Ord. of 2-5-91, Art. I, § 6)
Sec. 20-29. Separate connections required.
   Every separate habitable building, house, mobile home, apartment, dwelling
unit, separate business, or office (having separate restroom facilities), shall
be separately and independently metered except as authorized in section
20-29.5. When two (2) or more buildings, apartments, mobile homes, houses,
businesses or other units are connected with the same lateral, a separate water
meter shall be provided for each such building, apartment, mobile home, house,
business or other unit, except as authorized in sec. 20-29.5. Hotels, motels,
boarding houses, offices (within the same building having shared restroom
facilities), commercial and industrial businesses and storage buildings (under
single name, ownership and operation and on the same lot) may be served by a
single water meter. If any buildings are separated by a public street and/or
public alleyway, a separate water meter will be required for each side of the
street or alleyway. A monthly water and/or sewer service charge will be charged
for each water meter serving an individual customer as defined in this section.
All water meters will be installed at the street right-of-way line. The city
will not be liable or responsible for any water and/or sewer lines located on
private property.
(Code 1982, § 5-1009; Ord. of 2-5-91, Art. I, § 7; Ord. of 9-21-99, § 1)
Sec. 20-29.5. Exception to requirement for separate water meters.
   (a)    Effective November 1, 1999, master water meters will be allowed for
all shopping centers, mobile home parks, apartments and other multi-use
buildings on single or adjoining lots, under single ownership and/or management
(includes companies, corporations and entities). Townhouse and condominium
developments under the management of a homeowners' association, where the
homeowners' association is responsible for the water and sewer bill, are also
eligible for a master meter. Each separate business, mobile home, apartment,
townhouse, condominium or other unit (having separate restroom facilities),
shall be considered as a separate unit for water and/or sewer service charges,
whether said unit is occupied or not. A monthly service charge for water for
each unit served by the master meter shall be set in the ordinance adopted by
city council setting water and sewer rates, connection fees, cost recovery
charges and other miscellaneous charges. A monthly service charge for sewer for
each unit served by the master meter shall be set in the ordinance adopted by
city council setting water and sewer rates, connection fees, cost recovery
charges and other miscellaneous charges.
   (b)    The owner and/or manager of any facility having a master water meter
shall be responsible for payment of the water and/or sewer bill, including the
monthly water and/or sewer service charges, for all units served by the master
meter.
   (c)    Water service to the master water meter shall be turned off in the
event the water and/or sewer charges, including service charges, is not paid by
the time and date specified by city policy.
   (d)    All meters will be installed at the street right-of-way line.
   (e)    The city will not be liable or responsible for any water and/or sewer
lines located on private property.
of 6-16-92, §§ 1--5; Ord. of 9-21-99, § 1; Ord. No. O-02-10-08-2, § 2, 10-8-02;
Ord. No. O-07-01-02-1, § 2, 1-2-07)
Sec. 20-30. Water meters.
   The water meters furnished by the city or connected to the city water system
shall remain property of the city and will be serviced by the water department
of the city.
(Code 1982, § 5-1010; Ord. of 2-5-91, Art. I, § 8)
Sec. 20-31. Water furnished at metered rates.
   Water shall be furnished to consumers at metered rates only.
(Code 1982, § 5-1021; Ord. of 2-5-91, Art. II, § 1)
Sec. 20-32. Meters.
   (a)    Every regular consumer of water shall be supplied with a meter by the
city, which meter shall be under the exclusive control of the public works
director, for which the consumer shall deposit an amount as determined by the
council and filed in the clerk's office. This amount shall be refunded by the
city in the event that such consumer discontinues the use of city water, less
all charges which may stand against such consumer.
   (b)    Water meters shall be located at the property line adjacent to a
street or alleyway or at such other location as determined by the public works
director. The person in whose name the service is rendered shall be responsible
for water rents.
(Code 1982, § 5-1022; Ord. of 2-5-91, Art. II, § 2)
Sec. 20-33. Schedule of water rates.
   The schedule of water rates as set from time to time by the council shall be
kept current and maintained in the office of the clerk.
of 5-17-89; Ord. of 2-5-91, Art. II, § 3)
Sec. 20-33.1. Billing for sewer service.
   (a)    All persons, firms, and corporations receiving sewer services
provided by the City of Marion shall be billed for such services based on the
number of gallons of water purchased from the city water system as required by
the water meter serving such premises.
   (b)    Premises service by the city sewerage system but not by the city
water system may be billed for sewer service by metering the volume of water
produced by a private well for said premises or such premises may be billed at
a flat rate set by the city council for sewer service for such premises.
   (c)    A sewer-measuring device may be used for sewer billing purposes upon
approval of the public works director and the city manager. The persons, firms
or corporations requesting the use of a sewer-measuring device will be required
to pay all costs associated with the installation and maintenance of the
equipment. Should the equipment fail for any reason, the city will base the
sewer charges on the number of gallons of water purchased from the city water
system as measured by the water meter serving such premises.
of 2-5-91, §§ 1--3; Ord. of 5-19-98(2), § 1)
Sec. 20-34. Service charge.
   There is hereby established a monthly water service charge and a monthly
sewer service charge. Said charges will be added to each water and/or sewer
bill to cover a portion of the cost for labor, equipment and materials for
maintenance of the city-owned water and sewer systems, and for meter reading,
billing and collection. The amount of such service charges shall be as set from
time to time by the council and shall be listed in the schedule of fees and
charges maintained in the office of the water department.
of 8-18-87; Ord. of 9-21-99, § 1)
Sec. 20-35. Adjustment of excessive water or sewer bills.
   (a)    When it is discovered by a city employee that an unusually large
amount of water has passed through a customer’s water meter, the customer shall
be notified either in person, by telephone or by letter. If the excessive usage
is the result of a leak or faulty commode, the water bill will be adjusted for
the month such leak or faulty commode was discovered and/or reported and the
following month. Water wasted after that will be the sole responsibility of the
customer. No more than two (2) bills will be adjusted in any year. For example:
If a leak or faulty commode is discovered and/or reported during a billing for
the month of June, that bill for June and the bill for July may be adjusted. No
further adjustments may be made on that account until August of the following
year. No adjustments will be made to accounts where the dollar value of the
increase is twenty percent (20%) or less of the average monthly amount of the
account. The method of adjustment will be as follows: The customer will be
required to pay the equivalent of his/her average bill plus one-half (1/2) of
the difference between the excessive bill and his/her average bill. Customers
served by the city sewerage system will only be required to pay a sewer service
charge on the average amount of the adjusted bill if the high bill is the
result of a leak where water is not discharged to the city sewer system. In
such cases a statement from a plumber will be required or the sewer service
charge will be adjusted in the same manner as the water charge. Under no
circumstances will a customer be required to pay a water and/or sewer charge
more than double their average water and/or sewer bill when adjusted in
accordance with the procedures listed above. 
   (b)    If a water customer has an excessive bill and thinks it is caused by
a faulty meter, he may, by making a deposit with the city, request that the
meter be removed and checked. Said deposit to be set by the city council. If
the meter is found to be in error, the deposit will be refunded and the bill
adjusted based on the percentage of error in the meter. If the meter is not in
error and not defective, the city will keep the deposit to cover expenses
incurred in the investigation.
(Code 1982, § 5-1024; Ord. of 2-5-91, Art. II, § 4; Ord. of 2-21-95, § 1)
Sec. 20-36. Water billing procedure.
   (a)    Each water meter shall generally be read once every month.
   (b)    Statements based upon such reading shall be rendered and all accounts
shall be due and payable the first day of the month in which the bill is
received. To avoid any confusion, the due date shall be printed on the bill.
   (c)    Customers who fail to pay the amount charged for either water or
sewerage services by 5:00 p.m. local time, the fifteenth day of the month in
which the statement is received shall be charged a late penalty in the amount
stated in the current ordinance establishing water/sewer rates, connection
fees, cost recovery charges and other miscellaneous charges. Customers who fail
to pay the amount charged for either water or sewerage services by 5:00 p.m.
local time the twenty-fifth day of the month in which the statement is received
shall be charged an additional late penalty in the amount stated in the current
ordinance establishing water/sewer rates, connection fees, cost recovery
charges and other miscellaneous charges and water service to the premises shall
be turned off.
   (d)    Delinquent accounts where the water has been turned off shall not
have such services restored until such delinquent account, including all
penalties, has been paid in full.
   (e)   If the city is under an emergency declaration, the city manager shall
have the authority to approve temporary adjustments to the water billing and
collection procedures listed in this section, with a report given on the
temporary adjustments at the next city council meeting.
(Code 1982, § 5-1025; Ord. of 5-3-88, § 1; Ord. of 2-5-91, Art. II, § 5; Ord.
No. O-09-07-21-2, § 2, 7-21-09; Ord. No. O-20-03-17-2, §2, 3-17-20)
Sec. 20-37. Deposit required.
   (a)    Each user of water supplied by the Marion water system shall deposit
with city water department an amount determined by the council as a water
deposit. This amount shall remain on deposit in the city treasury as a
guarantee for water and/or sewer rents. In the event that such customer fails
to pay the water and/or sewer rents, then the city shall apply such deposit
towards liquidation of amount due by said customer, and the water supply to his
premises shall be disconnected and shall be resumed only after all water and/or
sewer rents, including all penalties are paid in full.
   (b)    The deposit shall be made in the name of the owner or tenant of the
premises to be supplied with water and/or sewer service. The owner or tenant
must provide two (2) means of identification when requesting service. The
monthly statement for water and/or sewer service shall be mailed to the person
making the deposit and that person shall be responsible for payment of all
water and/or sewer statements.
   (c)    The city will not accept a deposit or provide water and/or sewer
service to any person, firm or corporation having a past due, unpaid water and/
or sewer bill. In addition, the city will not provide water and/or sewer
service in the name of a different family member, relative or associate, when
it is believed this procedure is being used to avoid paying a past due water
and/or sewer bill.
(Code 1982, § 5-1026; Ord. of 2-5-91, Art. II, § 6)
Sec. 20-38. Cutting on water after discontinuance.
   (a)    It shall be unlawful for any person to turn the water service on at
any premises, when such service has been turned off by the city for unpaid
water and/or sewer rents.
   (b)    Each customer, from whose premises the supply of water has been
discontinued, shall pay any and all water rents and penalties due, in
accordance with section
20-36(d).
(Code 1982, § 5-1027; Ord. of 2-5-91, Art. II, § 7)
Sec. 20-39. Requirement for buildings to connect with system before occupancy.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to occupy any building of any kind
unless such building is connected with the water and sewerage system of the
city, provided connection is possible within a distance of three hundred (300)
feet.
(Code 1982, § 5-1028; Ord. of 2-5-91, Art. II, § 8)
Sec. 20-40. Unlawful to tamper with meter or any parts thereof.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove, tamper with, or in any way
meddle with any water meter box, rim cover thereto, or any part of such water
meter box.
(Code 1982, § 5-1029; Ord. of 2-5-91, Art. II, § 9)
   State Law References: to water supply misdemeanor, G.S. § 143-152.
Sec. 20-41. Placement of items on top of water meter boxes.
   (a)    It shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle or place any
item on top of any water meter box.
   (b)    Upon verbal or written notice to the owner and/or occupant of any
premises, any vehicle parked over or any item placed on top of a city water
meter box must be removed within twenty-four (24) hours from the time of
notification.
   (c)    Any person who violates or fails to comply with this ordinance,
shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not
exceeding fifty dollars ($50.00) or imprisoned not exceeding thirty (30) days.
Each day that a violation continues to exist shall be considered to be a
separate offense.
of 2-6-90, §§ 1--3)
   Editors Note: ordinance of February 6, 1990, §§ 1--3, did not specifically
amend the Code; therefore, inclusion as § 20-41 was at the discretion of the
editor.
Sec. 20-42. Connections from outside of city.
   The city council shall adopt a policy regarding connection of any water line
or system outside the city, and establish such terms, conditions and rates as
it deems necessary in providing water service outside the city.
(Code 1982, § 5-1011; Ord. of 2-5-91, Art. I, § 9)
Sec. 20-43. Water for consumers outside of city.
   Water may be furnished to consumers outside the city at such metered rates
and upon such terms and conditions as may be approved by the council. All
connections as well as all meters, meter boxes and other equipment necessary
for such connections, shall be installed by the city and shall be kept in
repair by the city.
(Code 1982, § 5-1030; Ord. of 2-5-91, Art. II, § 10)
Sec. 20-44. City reserves the right to cut off water.
   The city reserves the right to shut off the water in case of accident, or
for the purpose of making connections, alterations or repairs, and it shall be
the duty of the public works director to give notice to all consumers within
the affected district at least one (1) hour previous to the shutting off,
except in case of emergency.
(Code 1982, § 5-1031; Ord. of 2-5-91, Art. II, § 11)
Sec. 20-45. Prevention of further water use.
   In cases where the water is turned off for nonpayment of water rent or other
causes, or when, in the opinion of the public works director, the turning off
at the stopcock is not sufficient protection against further use of water, he
may cause the water meter to be withdrawn.
(Code 1982, § 5-1031; Ord. of 2-5-91, Art. II, § 11)
Sec. 20-46. Only authorized persons to use water from public hydrants.
   No person, except the public works director, or the chief of the fire
department or other authorized persons, shall take water from any public
hydrant, plug, street washer, drain cock, hose pipe or fountain, nor shall
anyone in any way take water for private use, unless such person pays for the
privilege and holds the usual permit from the city.
(Code 1982, § 5-1032; Ord. of 2-5-91, Art. II, § 12)
Sec. 20-47. Special use of water.
   (a)    Applicants desiring attachments of larger diameter than prescribed by
these rules and regulations for the purpose of controlling a large quantity of
water in a short space of time, shall be required to pay, on demand, all extra
cost of such attachment over that of ordinary service. They shall be required
to pay meter rates.
   (b)    If proprietors of lumber yards, manufacturers, halls, stores, hotels,
or public buildings are regular consumers of water to be used in case of fire,
they shall be permitted to connect with the street main at their expense and
will be allowed the use of water, for fire purposes only.
   (c)    In sprinkling streets in front of stores, each water taker must
confine himself to the front of his premises.
   (d)    All sprinkler systems installed for fire protection and other
purposes must be metered.
   (e)    A contractor or builder desiring the use of water shall be required
to make application to the public works director and to secure a permit from
him specifying the manner in which water shall be supplied.
   (f)    Any person desiring tanks to be filled from fire hydrants shall pay a
fee set by the council. Only qualified firemen shall fill said tanks; provided,
that no fee will be charged fire departments authorized to fill fire trucks
from hydrants for fire fighting and training purposes. The Marion Fire
Department shall be notified prior to water being used from any fire hydrant by
firemen. A record shall be kept on the volume of water used by each fire
department. Said record to be maintained by the Marion Fire Department and
turned in to the water department at the end of each month.
(Code 1982, § 5-1033; Ord. of 2-5-91, Art. II, § 13)
ARTICLE II.1
WATER CONSERVATION
Sec. 20-48. Purpose.
   The purpose of this article is to provide for the declaration of the
official phases of water supply shortage situations and the implementation of
voluntary and mandatory water conservation measures throughout the service area
of the City of Marion in the event a shortage is declared.
of 9-18-07, § 2)
   Editors Note: 2 of an ordinance adopted Sept. 18, 2007, deleted § 20-48 in
its entirety and replaced it with the provisions to read as herein set out.
Former § 20-48 pertained to emergency restrictions on use of water and derived
from § 5-1034 of the 1982 Code; and an ordinance adopted Feb. 5, 1991.
Sec. 20-49. Definitions.
   (a)    Water shortage advisory, as the term is used in this article, shall
means that conditions exist which indicate the potential for water supply
shortages.
   (b)    Alert, as the term is used in this article, shall mean:
   (1)   That the raw water supply (stream flow) is consistently below seasonal
averages. If the raw water supply continues to decline, the supply may not
adequately meet normal needs; or
   (2)   That due to mechanical failure or limitations of water treatment plant
capacity, adequate water supplies cannot be maintained and their conditions may
be sufficient to cause a water shortage.
   (c)    Crisis, as the term is used in this article, shall mean:
   (1)   That the raw water level is below the level necessary to meet normal
needs; or
   (2)   That due to mechanical failure or limitations of water treatment plant
capacity, a water shortage is subject to occur.
   (d)    Customer, as the term is used in this article, shall mean any person
using water for any purpose from the City of Marion's water distribution system
and for which either a regular charge is made or, in the case of bulk sales, a
cash charge is made at the site of delivery.
   (e)    Emergency, as the term is used in this article, shall mean:
   (1)   That the raw water level is below the level necessary to meet normal
needs, and serious shortages exist; or
   (2)   That due to mechanical failure or limitations of water treatment plant
capacity, a prolonged water shortage is subject to occur.
   (f)    Waste of water, as the term is used in this article, includes, but is
not limited to:
   (1)   Permitting water to escape down a gutter, ditch, or other surface
drain; or
   (2)   Failure to repair a controllable leak of water due to defective
plumbing.
   (g)    Water, as the term is used in this article, shall mean water
available to the City of Marion for treatment by virtue of its water rights or
withdrawal permit or any treated water introduced by the city into its water
distribution system, including water offered for sale.
   (h)    Water use classes, as the term is used in this article, shall be
established as follows:
   Class 1: Essential water uses
   Domestic use: Water necessary to sustain human life and the lives of
domestic pets, and to maintain minimum standards of hygiene and sanitation.
   Health care facilities: Patient care and rehabilitation, including swimming
pools used for patient care and rehabilitation.
   Public use:
   Firefighting.
   Certain testing and drills by the fire department if performed in the
interest of public safety and if approved by the city manager.
   Flushing of sewers and hydrants: As needed to ensure public health and
safety and if approved by the city manager.
   Class 2: Socially or economically important uses of water
   All domestic uses other than those included in Classes 1 and 3.
   Home water use including kitchen, bathroom and laundry use.
   Minimal watering of vegetable gardens.
   Watering of trees where necessary to preserve them.
   Commercial, agricultural, industrial and institutional uses.
   Outdoor commercial watering (public or private) using conservation measures
and to the extent that sources of water other than fresh water are not
available to use.
   Irrigation for commercial vegetable gardens and fruit orchards or the
maintenance of livestock.
   Watering by commercial nurseries at a minimum level necessary to maintain
stock.
   Water use by arboretums and public gardens of national, state, or regional
significance where necessary to preserve specimens.
   Use of fresh water at a minimum rate necessary to implement vegetation
following earth-moving, where such vegetation is required by law or regulation.
   Watering of golf course greens.
   Filling and operation of swimming pools and water parks:
   Residential pools which serve more than twenty-five (25) dwelling units.
   Pools used by health care facilities for patient care and rehabilitation.
   Pools or water parks operated by a governmental agency.
   Commercial car and truck washes.
   Commercial laundromats.
   Restaurants, clubs and eating places.
   Air conditioning:
   Refilling for startup at the beginning of the cooling season.
   Make-up of water during the cooling season.
   Refilling specifically approved by health officials and the city manager,
where the system has been drained for health protection or repair purposes.
   Schools, churches, motels/hotels and similar commercial establishments.
   Class 3: Nonessential uses of water
   Ornamental purposes: Fountains, reflecting pools, and artificial waterfalls.
   Outdoor noncommercial watering (public or private):
   Gardens, lawns, parks, golf courses (except greens), playing fields and
other recreational areas.
   Filling and operation of recreational swimming pools which serve fewer than
twenty-five (25) dwellings.
   Noncommercial washing of motor vehicles.
   Serving water in restaurants, clubs, or eating places except by specific
request.
   Air conditioning: refilling cooling towers after draining except as
specified in Class 1.
   Public use:
   Fire hydrants: any purpose, including use of sprinkler caps and testing fire
apparatus and for fire department drills, except as listed in Class 1.
   Flushing of sewers and hydrants except as listed in Class 1.
(Ord. of 9-18-07, § 2)
Sec. 20-50. Declaration of water shortage advisory.
   The city manager or his designee shall regularly monitor the water supply
and demands upon that supply. Whenever the city manager determines that a
potential shortage of water supply is indicated, such that adequate potable
water supplies cannot be maintained, whether the shortage is caused by drought,
mechanical failure or limitations of water treatment plant capacity, he or she
shall be empowered to declare a water shortage advisory and call upon all water
customers to employ voluntary water conservation measures (see Addendum) to
limit water use (especially Class 3 uses) and eliminate the waste of water.
(Ord. of 9-18-07, § 2)
Sec. 20-51. Declaration of water shortage alert.
   Whenever the City of Marion finds the raw water supply to be consistently
below seasonal averages, and if the supply continues to decline it may not be
adequate to meet normal needs, the city manager shall be empowered to declare a
water shortage alert.
   The city shall continue to encourage voluntary water conservation measures
defined under the voluntary conservation declaration, and further shall impose
a ban on all Class 3 water uses for the duration of the shortage until it is
declared to have ended by the city manager.
(Ord. of 9-18-07, § 2)
Sec. 20-52. Declaration of a water shortage emergency.
   Whenever the City of Marion finds that raw water supplies are below the
level necessary to meet normal needs and that serious shortages exist, the city
manager shall be empowered to declare a water shortage emergency. Class 1,
essential uses, shall be identified as targets for voluntary conservation
initiatives. Also, all Class 2, socially or economically important uses, shall
be banned in addition to the Class 3, nonessential uses. These restrictions
shall continue until the emergency is declared ended by the city manager.
(Ord. of 9-18-07, § 2)
Sec. 20-53. Shortage water rates.
   Upon the declaration of a water shortage advisory, water shortage alert or
water shortage emergency, the city council of the City of Marion shall have the
power to adopt shortage water rates by ordinance designed to conserve water
supplies. Such rates may provide for, but not be limited to:
   (a)   Higher charges per unit for increasing usage (increasing block rates);
   (b)   Uniform charges for water usage per unit of use (uniform unit rate);
   (c)   Extra charges for use in excess of a specified level (excess demand
surcharge); or
   (d)   Discounts for conserving water beyond specific levels.
(Ord. of 9-18-07, § 2)
Sec. 20-54. Enforcement.
   (a)    The direct or indirect use of water from the City of Marion
distribution system in violation of this article is prohibited. Any water
customer of the City of Marion distribution system that violates or permits the
violation of this article shall be subject to a penalty of five hundred dollars
($500.00). the $500.00 penalty described in this subsection may be assessed
before or after any notice required by subsection (d) has been issued.
   (b)    Each violation shall be added to the customer's water bill and paid
in the same manner as current payments to the City of Marion.
   (c)    Each day a violation occurs shall be considered a separate violation.
   (d)    If a violation is known to have occurred pursuant to this article, a
written notice shall be mailed to the customer of record and to any other
person known to the City of Marion who is responsible for the violation and its
correction, or affixed to the property. The written notice shall describe the
violation and order that it be corrected immediately or within such specified
time as the City of Marion determines is reasonable under the circumstances.
The $500.00 penalty described in subsection (a) above applies whether or not a
notice is issued under this subsection.
   (e)    If the notice is not complied with, the City of Marion may terminate
water service to the customer subject to the following procedure:
   (1)   The city shall give the customer notice by mail that, due to the
violation, water services will be discontinued within a specified time and that
the customer will have the opportunity to appeal the termination by requesting
in writing a hearing scheduled before the city council within seven (7) days of
receipt of the notice.
   (2)   If such a hearing is requested by the customer charged with the
violation, he or she shall be given a full opportunity to be heard before
termination is ordered.
   (3)   The city council shall make findings of fact and order whether water
service should be continued or terminated.
   (f)    A connection fee shall be paid for the reconnection of any water
service restricted or terminated. In the event of subsequent violations, the
reconnection fee shall be doubled for the second violation and tripled for each
additional violation.
(Ord. of 9-18-07, § 2)
ARTICLE II.2
BACKFLOW PREVENTION/CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL
Sec. 20-55. Introduction.
   (a)   This article shall apply to all users connected to the City of
Marion’s potable water distribution system, regardless of whether the user is
located within the city limits or outside of the city limits.
   (b)   This article shall comply with the Federal Safe Drinking Water Act (PL
93-523), the North Carolina Administrative Code (15A NCAC 18C), and the North
Carolina State Building Code (Volume II) as they pertain to cross connections
within the public water supply.
(Ord. No. O-13-01-15-2, § 2, 1-15-13)
Sec. 20-56. Purpose.
   (a)   The purpose of this article is to establish a Backflow/Cross
Connection Control Program that will:
   (1)   Protect the public potable water supply of the City of Marion against
actual or potential contamination by isolating, within the consumer’s water
system, contaminants or pollutants which could backflow or back-siphon into the
public water system through uncontrolled cross connections.
   (2)   Eliminate actual and/or potential cross connections and any other
sources of water, used for any purpose whatsoever, which may jeopardize the
City of Marion’s water supply.
   (3)   Provide a continuing inspection program, which will systematically and
effectively control all actual or potential cross connections that currently
exist or that may be installed in the future.
(Ord. No. O-13-01-15-2, § 2, 1-15-13)
Sec. 20-57. Definitions.
   The following words, terms, and phrases, shall have the meanings ascribed to
them in this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different
meaning:
   Air Gap (AG) – The unobstructed vertical distance through free atmosphere
between the lowest effective opening from any pipe or faucet conveying water or
waste to a tank, plumbing fixture, receptor, or other assembly and the flood
level rim of the receptacle. These vertical, physical separations must be at
least twice the effective opening (diameter) of the water supply outlet, but in
no case less than one (1) inch above the receiving vessel flood rim.
   Approved – Accepted by the authority having jurisdiction as meeting an
applicable standard, specification, requirement, or as suitable for the
proposed use.
   Backflow – The undesirable reversal of flow of a liquid, gas, or other
substance in a potable water distribution piping system as a result of a cross
connection.
   Backflow Prevention Assembly (BPA) – An assembly used to prevent backflow
into a public potable water system. The assembly is required to have certain
parts, such as test cocks and shutoff valves, which are used for field testing.
Assemblies must be able to be tested and repaired in-line. The type of assembly
used should be based on the degree of actual or potential hazard. The types
are:
   (1)   Double Check Valve Assembly (DCVA)
   (2)   Double Check Detector Assembly (DCDA)
   (3)   Pressure Vacuum Breaker (PVB)
   (4)   Reduced Pressure Principle Assembly (RP), which is also known as
Reduced Pressure Zone (RPZ).
   (5)   Reduced Pressure Principle Detector Assembly (RPDA)
   Backflow Prevention Device (BPD) – A device generally used to protect
internal plumbing. Backflow Prevention Devices are generally not manufactured
to the standards of Backflow Prevention Assemblies and, in many cases, are not
designed for field testing. Backflow Prevention Devices shall not be
substituted for applications that require Backflow Prevention Assemblies. The
types of Backflow Prevention Devices are:
   (1)   Atmospheric Vacuum Breaker (AVB)
   (2)   Dual Check (DC)
   (3)   Dual Check with Atmospheric Vent (DCV)
   Backpressure – A pressure, higher than the supply pressure, caused by a
pump, elevated tank, boiler, air/steam pressure, or any other means, which may
cause a reversal of flow in the public water system.
   Backsiphonage – A type of backflow where the upstream pressure to a piping
system is reduced to a sub-atmospheric pressure.
   Certified Backflow Prevention Assembly Tester - A person who has proven his/
her competency to test, repair, rebuild, and make reports on backflow
prevention assemblies, as evidenced by certification of successful completion
of the North Carolina Rural Water Association’s backflow prevention assembly
tester training program or an equivalent training program. Certified backflow
prevention assembly testers must be re-certified every two (2) years through an
approved training program.
   Consumer – Any person, firm, or corporation using or receiving water from
the public water system owned by the City of Marion.
   Consumer’s Water System – Any water system commencing at the point of
delivery and continuing throughout the consumer’s plumbing system, located on
the consumer’s premises, whether supplied by a public potable water supply or
an auxiliary water supply. The system or systems may be either a potable water
system or an industrial piping system.
   Containment – Preventing the impairment of the public potable water supply
by installing an approved backflow prevention assembly at the service
connection.
   Contamination – An impairment of the quality of the water which creates a
potential or actual hazard to the public health through the introduction of
hazardous or toxic substances or through the spread of disease.
   Cross Connection – A connection or potential connection between any part of
a potable water system and any other environment containing other substances in
a manner that, under any circumstances, would allow such substances to enter
the potable water system. Other substances may be gases, liquids, solids,
chemicals, water products, steam, water from other sources (potable or
nonpotable), or any matter that may change the color or add odor to the water.
Bypass arrangements, jumper connections, removable sections, swivel or
changeover assemblies, or any other temporary or permanent connecting
arrangement through which backflow may occur are considered to be cross-
connections.
   Hazard, Degree of – The term “degree of hazard” is derived from the
evaluation of conditions within a system which can be classified as either a
“severe” or “moderate” hazard.
   Hazard, Moderate – A degree of hazard that presents foreseeable and
significant potential for pollution, nuisance, aesthetically objectionable, or
other undesirable alterations of the drinking water supply, without causing the
consequence of serious illness or death to the users.
   Hazard, Severe – A degree of hazard that has an actual or potential threat
of contamination that presents an imminent danger to the public health with
consequence of serious illness or death.
   Industrial Piping System, Consumer’s – Any system used by the consumer for
transmission of or to confine or store any fluid, solid, or gaseous substance
other than an approved water supply. Such a system would include all pipes,
conduits, tanks, receptacles, fixtures, equipment, and appurtenances used to
produce, convey, or store substances which are or may be polluted or
contaminated.
   Industrial User – A consumer that is classified as a Manufacturing Industry
by the North American Industrial Classification Standard (NAICS), published by
the U.S. Government Census Bureau. More than 50% of the consumer’s utility
usage must be for its manufacturing purposes.
   Isolation – The act of confining a localized hazard within a consumer’s
water system by installing approved backflow prevention assemblies. Disclaimer:
The City of Marion Public Works Department may make recommendations, upon
facility inspection, as to the usages of isolation devices/assemblies, but does
not assume or have responsibility whatsoever for such installations.
   Point of Delivery – Generally, at the property line of the consumer,
adjacent to the public street where the City of Marion’s mains are located, or
at a point on the consumer’s property where the meter is located. Specifically,
the point where the consumer’s water service is connected to the City owned
water meter. The consumer shall be responsible for all water piping and control
devices located on the consumer’s side of the point of delivery.
   Potable Water – Water from any source which has been investigated by the
North Carolina Department of Environment and Natural Resources (NC DENR) and
which has been approved for human consumption.
   Public Potable Water System – Means any publicly or privately owned water
system, operated as a public utility, under a current permit issued by the NC
DENR, for the purpose of supplying water for public consumption and use. This
system includes all sources, facilities, and appurtenances between the source
and the point of delivery such as valves, pumps, pipes, conduits, tanks,
receptacles, fixtures, and equipment used to produce, convey, treat, or store
potable water for public consumption or use.
   Split Tap – A water line that is split prior to the point of delivery.
   Water Purveyor – The owner or operator of a public potable water system,
providing an approved water supply to the public.
   Water Supply, Approved – The term “approved water supply” means any public
potable water supply which has been approved by the NC DENR.
   Water Supply, Auxiliary – The term “auxiliary water supply” means any water
supply on or available to the premises other than the purveyor’s approved
public potable water supply. Auxiliary waters may include water from another
purveyor’s public potable water supply or any natural sources such as a well,
spring, river, stream, or lake; or reclaimed water, recycled waters, used
waters, or industrial fluids. These waters may be objectionable, contaminated,
or polluted and constitute an unacceptable water source, over which the water
purveyor does not have sanitary control.
   Water Supply, Unapproved – The term “unapproved water supply” means any
water supply which has not been approved for human consumption by the NC DENR.
   Water, Used – The term “used water” means any water that was originally
supplied by a water purveyor from a public water system to a consumer’s water
system, but that has passed through the point of delivery and is no longer
under the control of the water purveyor.
(Ord. No. O-13-01-15-2, § 2, 1-15-13)
Sec. 20-58. Elimination of cross connections; degree of hazard.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to connect
any well or auxiliary water supply to the City of Marion public water system.
When a cross connection is found to exist, the owner, his agent, occupant, or
tenant will be notified in writing to disconnect the cross connection within
the time limit established by the City of Marion. The degree of protection
required and maximum time allowed for compliance will be based upon the
potential degree of hazard to the public water system. The maximum time limits
are as follows:
   (1)   Cross connection with private wells or other auxiliary water supplies
– Immediate disconnection. If it is discovered that any well or auxiliary water
supply is connected to the City of Marion water system, the owner and/or
occupant of the premises shall be advised to immediately disconnect the well or
auxiliary water supply. If the owner or occupant refuses or fails to have the
well or auxiliary water supply disconnected, the Public Works Director shall
have the water meter removed and disconnect any city owned sewer service to the
premises. Prior to services being restored, the owner and/or occupant shall pay
the entire cost for removal and replacement of the water meter and
disconnection and reconnection of the sewer service.
   (2)   All facilities considered to pose a “Severe” Degree of Hazard must
install a Reduced Pressure Principle Backflow Prevention Assembly within sixty
(60) days of being notified in writing by the City of Marion.
   (3)   All facilities considered to pose a “Moderate” Degree of Hazard must
install a Double Check Valve Assembly within ninety (90) days of being notified
in writing by the City of Marion.
   (4)   If, in the opinion of the Public Works Director, an imminent health
hazard already exists due to a cross connection at a facility, the water
service at that facility shall be terminated immediately unless an air gap is
immediately provided by the consumer.
(Ord. No. O-13-01-15-2, § 2, 1-15-13)
Sec. 20-59. Responsibilities.
   (a)   Health Agency. The Health Agency is the North Carolina Department of
Environment and Natural Resources (NC DENR). The NC DENR has the responsibility
for promulgating and enforcing laws, rules, regulations, and policies to be
followed by potable water purveyors in carrying out effective cross connection
control programs. The NC DENR also has the primary responsibility of insuring
that the water purveyor operates the public potable water system free of actual
or potential sanitary hazards, including unprotected cross connections. The NC
DENR has the further responsibility of insuring that the water purveyor
provides an approved water supply at the service connection to the consumer’s
water system and further, that the purveyor requires the installation, testing,
and maintenance of an approved backflow prevention assembly on the service
connection when required.
   (b)   Water Purveyor. The Water Purveyor is the City of Marion. The City of
Marion is primarily responsible for the prevention of contamination and
pollution in the public water system. Such responsibility begins at the point
of origin of the public water supply and includes all of the public water
supply and all of the public water distribution system and ends at the service
connection to the consumer’s water system. In addition, the City of Marion
shall exercise reasonable vigilance to insure that the consumer has taken the
proper steps to protect the public potable water system. To insure that the
proper precautions are taken, the City of Marion Public Works Department is
required to implement an on-going inspection program that will cover all of the
following items for each consumer that has been classified, by the City of
Marion, as posing a “moderate” or “severe” degree of hazard to the public water
system: Determine the actual degree of hazard or potential hazard to the public
potable water system; determine, based on current regulations and standards,
the degree of protection required. When it is determined that a backflow
prevention assembly is required for the protection of the public potable water
system, the Public Works Department shall require the consumer, at the
consumer’s expense, to install an approved backflow prevention assembly on the
consumer’s service line and to properly maintain and test the assembly as
required by this article.
   (c)   Consumer. The Consumer has the primary responsibility of preventing
pollutants and contaminants from entering the Consumer’s water system and/or
the public potable water system. The Consumer’s responsibility starts at the
point of delivery from the public potable water system and includes all of the
Consumer’s water system. When required by this article, the Consumer shall, at
the Consumer’s expense, install, operate, test, and maintain approved backflow
prevention assemblies as directed by the Public Works Department in accordance
with this article. The Consumer shall maintain accurate records of tests and
repairs made to the assemblies, for a period of three (3) years.
(Ord. No. O-13-01-15-2, § 2, 1-15-13)
Sec. 20-60. Facilities requiring protection.
   (a)   An approved backflow prevention assembly shall be installed on the
service line to any premises that the City of Marion has identified as having a
moderate or severe degree of hazard rating.
   (b)   The following types of facilities or services have been identified, by
the NC DENR and the City of Marion Public Works Department, as facilities that
require the installation of a backflow preventer assembly. Therefore, an
approved backflow prevention assembly will be required on all such services
according to the degree of hazard present. Other types of facilities or
services not listed below may also be required to install approved backflow
prevention assemblies if determined necessary by the City of Marion.
FACILITY OR SERVICE DEGREE OF HAZARD TYPE OF BPA REQUIRED
                                                                            DEGREE   TYPE OF
FACILITY OR SERVICE                                                         OF       BPA
                                                                            HAZARD   REQUIRED
Fire sprinkler systems without a booster pump or chemical additives         Moderate DCDA
Connection to tanks, lines, and vessels that handle non-toxic substances    Moderate DCDA
Automotive Service Stations and vehicle dealerships                         Moderate DCVA
Restaurants and Bakeries                                                    Moderate DCVA
Hotels, Motels, B&B’s, Lodges                                             Moderate DCVA
Barber Shops, Hair Salons, and Spas                                         Moderate DCVA
Grocery Stores and Convenience Stores                                       Moderate DCVA
Hardware Stores and Farm & Garden Stores                                    Moderate DCVA
Superstores                                                                 Moderate DCVA
Beverage bottling plants with no back pressure                              Moderate DCVA
Lawn sprinkler systems                                                      Severe   RPZ
Wastewater Treatment Plants                                                 Severe   RPZ
Connection to tanks, pumps, lines, etc. that handle sewage, lethal          Severe   RPZ
substances, toxicants, or radioactive substances
Fire sprinkler systems with a booster pump or chemical additives            Severe   RPDA
Buildings with 5 or more stories above ground level                         Severe   RPZ
Hospitals, Doctor’s Offices, Dentists Offices, Clinics, and other medical Severe   RPZ
facilities
Funeral homes, morgues, mortuaries, and autopsy facilities                  Severe   RPZ
Beverage bottling plants subject to back pressure                           Severe   RPZ
Metal Plating Facilities                                                    Severe   RPZ
Canneries                                                                   Severe   RPZ
Battery Manufacturers                                                       Severe   RPZ
Exterminators and Lawn Care Companies                                       Severe   RPZ
Chemical Processing Plants                                                  Severe   RPZ
Dairies                                                                     Severe   RPZ
Film Laboratories                                                           Severe   RPZ
Car Wash Facilities                                                         Severe   RPZ
Dye Works                                                                   Severe   RPZ
Laundries                                                                   Severe   RPZ
Swimming Pools                                                              Severe   RPZ
Industrial Users (see definition)                                           Severe   RPZ
Veterinary Offices and Clinics                                              Severe   RPZ
 
(Ord. No. O-13-01-15-2, § 2, 1-15-13)
Sec. 20-60.1. Approved backflow prevention assemblies.
   (a)   Only backflow prevention assemblies that have been approved by the
City of Marion for use in its water system shall be used.
   (b)   The Public Works Department shall maintain a list of backflow
prevention assemblies that are approved for use in the City of Marion Water
System.
   (c)   The City of Marion reserves the right to remove any assembly from or
to add any assembly to the list of approved assemblies.
   (d)   All backflow prevention assemblies approved for use in the City of
Marion Water System must have prior approval by the University of Southern
California Foundation for Cross Connection Control and Hydraulic Research
(USCFCCC & HR).
   (e)   Backflow Prevention Assemblies two (2”) inches and smaller shall have
a one quarter (1/4) turn, full port, resilient seated, bronze, ball valve shut-
off.
   (f)   Backflow Prevention Assemblies two and one half (2 ½”) inches and
larger shall have resilient wedge shut-off valves; the backflow preventer and
resilient wedge shut-off valves must be fuse bonded and epoxy coated.
(Ord. No. O-13-01-15-2, § 2, 1-15-13)
Sec. 20-60.2. Ownership of backflow prevention assemblies.
   Ownership, installation, testing, and maintenance of the backflow prevention
assembly shall be the responsibility of the Consumer.
(Ord. No. O-13-01-15-2, § 2, 1-15-13)
Sec. 20-60.3. Installation of backflow prevention assemblies.
   (a)   All backflow prevention assemblies shall be installed in accordance
with the specifications provided by the City of Marion and shall meet the
requirements set forth by the University of Southern California Foundation for
Cross Connection Control and Hydraulic Research (USCFCCC & HR).
   (b)   Installations shall be on the consumer’s side of the water meter and
prior to any line branches. Installations in a ceiling, or other space that is
difficult to access will not be approved.
   (c)   Backflow prevention assemblies must be readily accessible for in-line
maintenance and testing.
   (d)   Backflow Prevention Assemblies must be installed in a horizontal
position, unless they have been specifically approved, by the manufacturer and
City of Marion, for vertical installation.
   (e)   Backflow Prevention Assemblies installed above grade shall have
adequate protection from freezing and vandalism. Above grade enclosures shall
conform to ASSE Standard #1060 (Performance Requirements for Outdoor Enclosures
for Backflow Prevention Assemblies). The manufacturer’s identification plate,
test cocks, air-inlet valve bonnet, or relief valve opening shall not be
obstructed with insulation or any other material.
   (f)   Only copper, bronze, PVC, or cement-lined ductile iron pipe is
acceptable for backflow prevention assemblies piping installation. Black iron/
steel pipe will not be accepted.
   (g)   Connections to any of the four (4) test cocks will not be permitted.
Connections include, but are not limited to: hose-bibs, pipe, wire, gauges, or
any other fitting. However, approved freeze protection devices with external
test cocks may be installed on test cock #4.
   (h)   All resilient wedge gate valves and quarter-turn ball valves must be
physically attached to the backflow prevention assembly for operation at the
assembly, not on an outside wall or appurtenance.
   (i)   By-Pass Piping. By-pass piping is not permitted unless it is equipped
with an approved backflow prevention assembly of the same type as the main line
assembly. In some instances it may be desirable or necessary to install two (2)
approved backflow preventers in order not to interrupt water service.
   (j)   Installation of Double Check Valve Assemblies two (2”) inches and
smaller.
   (1)   Installation may be above or below ground. The backflow preventer
shall be installed on the consumer’s private property prior to the first line
branch. Installation of backflow preventers within the utility right-of-way
will not be approved.
   (2)   Double Check Valve Assemblies installed below ground may be installed
in plastic boxes, provided they are not located in driveways, and/or sidewalks.
A traffic grade box with a traffic grade cover is required in any area subject
to potential vehicular traffic. The floor of the enclosure shall be gravel with
a minimum depth of six (6”) inches. The distance between the lowest point of
the backflow preventer to the surface of the gravel shall be no less than six
(6”) inches. Installations in wet areas will be subject to prior approval and
inspection by the City of Marion Public Works Director.
   (3)   Above ground installations shall conform to installation
specifications for Reduced Pressure Principle Assemblies.
   (k)   Installation of Double Check Valve Assemblies two and one half (2 ½”)
inches and larger: installation shall be above ground only. Installation shall
conform to the installation specifications for Reduced Pressure Principle
Assemblies.
   (l)   Installation of Reduced Pressure Principle Assemblies.
   (1)   Reduced Principle Assemblies shall be installed above ground only.
   (2)   The backflow preventer shall be installed on the consumer’s private
property prior to any line branch. Installation of backflow preventers within
the utility right of-way will not be approved.
   (3)   Reduced Pressure Principle Assemblies shall be installed in a location
in which no portion of the assembly can become submerged under any
circumstances.
   (4)   Reduced Pressure Principle Assemblies installed above ground inside a
building shall be installed a minimum distance of twelve (12”) inches above the
floor, and no higher than four (4’) feet above the floor, with adequate
clearance around the backflow preventer for testing, and/or repair of the
assembly.
   (5)   Whenever a Reduced Pressure Principle Assembly is installed inside a
building, an air-gap drain funnel shall be installed to drain off the discharge
of water from the pressure differential relief valve to the atmosphere or to a
floor drain.
   (6)   Reduced Pressure Principle Assemblies installed above ground outside
shall be installed in an enclosure that conforms to ASSE Standard #1060
(Performance Requirements for Outdoor Enclosures for Backflow Prevention
Assemblies).
   (7)   Assemblies installed in an above ground enclosure shall provide a
minimum of twelve (12”) inches of clearance between the relief valve and the
finished grade under the relief valve. The enclosure shall provide adequate
drainage.
   (8)   In order to prevent obstruction during the testing and/or repair of
the assembly, additional piping and/or valves shall not be located within the
above ground enclosure.
   (9)   Assemblies installed above ground must be supported to allow for the
weight of the backflow prevention assembly. Support construction can be cinder
block, brick, or steel. Supports must have a proper footing of concrete for
supports to rest upon. Assembly supports must not interfere with the valves,
test cocks, testing, and/or repair of the assembly.
(Ord. No. O-13-01-15-2, § 2, 1-15-13)
Sec. 20-60.4. Inspection of backflow prevention assembly installations
required.
   All backflow prevention assembly installations shall be inspected by the
City of Marion Public Works Department prior to initiation of water service.
Water service will not be initiated by the City of Marion until the
installation of the backflow prevention assembly has been approved.
(Ord. No. O-13-01-15-2, § 2, 1-15-13)
Sec. 20-60.5. Testing of backflow prevention assemblies required.
   (a)   Frequency: The consumer owning a backflow assembly shall arrange for
the testing of the backflow assembly and shall have the backflow assembly
tested at the following intervals. Testing shall be conducted at the consumer’s
expense.
   (1)   Immediately following installation, then annually thereafter.
Consumers with a backflow assembly that was installed prior to the adoption of
this article shall have their backflow assembly tested within thirty (30) days
of receiving written notification from the City of Marion Public Works
Department, then annually thereafter.
   (2)   Following any repair, overhaul, repiping, or relocation of an
assembly, the consumer shall have the assembly tested to insure that it is in
good operating condition and will prevent backflow.
   (b)   All testing shall be conducted by a Certified Backflow Prevention
Assembly Tester that has been approved by the City of Marion. A list of Testers
approved by the City of Marion will be maintained by the Public Works
Department.
   (c)   All test results shall be submitted to the City of Marion Public Works
Department, on forms approved by the Public Works Department, within thirty
(30) days following the date the assembly was tested.
   (d)   It shall be unlawful for any consumer to fail to submit, to the City
of Marion Public Works Department, any record which is required by this
article. If the City of Marion Public Works Department determines that a
consumer has failed to submit required test results within the timeframe
required by this article, the Public Works Department will send the consumer a
written notice requesting the submittal of the test results within thirty (30)
days of the written notification. If, after two (2) written notifications have
been sent by the Public Works Department and a minimum of sixty (60) days have
passed since the date of the initial written notification, the consumer has
still not submitted the required test results, the Public Works Director shall
discontinue water service to the consumer by removing the water meter and shall
disconnect any city owned sewer service to the premises. The services shall not
be resumed to the consumer until the required test results have been received
and all reconnection charges have been paid to the City of Marion.
   (e)   Personnel of the City of Marion’s Public Works Department will conduct
random followup testing of backflow prevention assemblies to insure proper
operation as    indicated by the certified testers.
(Ord. No. O-13-01-15-2, § 2, 1-15-13)
Sec. 20-60.6. Repair of backflow prevention assemblies.
   (a)   Any time that repairs to backflow prevention assemblies are deemed
necessary, whether through annual or required testing or routine inspection by
the owner or Public Works Department, these repairs must be completed, by the
Consumer, within a specified time in accordance with the degree of hazard. In
no case shall this time period exceed:
   (1)   Severe Hazard……………………… 60 days
   (2)   Moderate Hazard…………………… 90 days
   (b)   If a Consumer fails or refuses to complete the required repairs within
the specified time,    the Public Works Director shall discontinue water
service to the Consumer by removing the water meter and shall disconnect any
city owned sewer service to the premises. The services shall not be resumed to
the consumer until the required repairs have been made and all reconnection
charges have been paid to the City of Marion.
(Ord. No. O-13-01-15-2, § 2, 1-15-13)
Sec. 20-60.7. Existing backflow prevention devices or assemblies found to be in
non-compliance
   All backflow prevention devices or assemblies that were installed prior to
the adoption of this article and that do not meet the current type of backflow
prevention assembly required by Section 20-60 or Section 20-60.1 of this
article and/or the installation requirements of Section 20-60.3 of this
article, but were approved or accepted at the time of original installation and
have been properly maintained, shall be excluded from the requirements of
Section 20-60, Section 20-60.1, and Section 20-60.3 of this article so long as
the City of Marion is assured that the existing backflow preventer will
adequately protect its public water system. Whenever an existing device or
assembly malfunctions, or fails to pass the annual test, and it becomes
necessary to replace the device or assembly, it must be replaced and installed
in a manner consistent with all requirements of this article.
(Ord. No. O-13-01-15-2, § 2, 1-15-13)
Sec. 20-60.8. Right of entry.
   Authorized representatives of the City of Marion Public Works Department
shall have the right to enter, upon presentation of proper credentials and
identification, any building, structure, or premises during normal business
hours to perform any duty imposed upon them by this article.
(Ord. No. O-13-01-15-2, § 2, 1-15-13)
Sec. 20-60.9. Backflow preventer assembly required for filling covered ground
reservoir or covered elevated storage tank.
   If a covered ground reservoir or covered elevated storage tank is used, an
approved reduced pressure backflow preventer or an approved double check valve
assembly must be used. The backflow prevention assembly shall be installed in
such a manner as to afford adequate protection, shall be easily accessible, and
shall include all necessary pressure gauges and drains for testing. Gate valves
shall be installed in the line at both ends of the backflow prevention
assembly. All materials and equipment must be approved by the City of Marion in
advance of installation.
(Ord. No. O-13-01-15-2, § 2, 1-15-13)
Sec. 20-60.10. Air gap required for filling uncovered ground reservoir or
uncovered elevated storage tank.
   If an uncovered ground reservoir or uncovered elevated storage tank is used,
a complete air gap shall be provided between the City of Marion water supply
and the reservoir or elevated tank. The physical break between the inlet pipe
and the top or overflow rim of the reservoir shall be at least twice the
diameter of the inlet pipe.
(Ord. No. O-13-01-15-2, § 2, 1-15-13)
Sec. 20-60.11. Failure to comply.
   Failure of a consumer to comply with the regulations imposed by this article
may result in the water meter being removed and water service and sewer service
being discontinued.
(Ord. No. O-13-01-15-2, § 2, 1-15-13)
ARTICLE III.
SEWER SYSTEM
Sec. 20-61. Service contracts to conform with provisions.
   All pertinent provisions of this article shall govern the terms and
conditions of the contracts under which the city furnishes sewer service to any
person, or whereby the city makes any sewer connections or performs any work of
any kind in connection with the furnishing of sewer service.
(Code 1982, § 5-2001; Ord. of 2-5-91, Art. III, § 1)
Sec. 20-62. Connections outside city limits.
   No sewer connections shall be provided to properties outside the city limits
except by written agreement approved by council.
   Editors Note: provisions of §
20-62 have been included herein at the request of the city.
Sec. 20-63. Connections to be made in compliance with article.
   No connection of any kind with the sewer system of the city shall be made by
any person after the date of adoption of the ordinance from which this section
derives, except in compliance with the provisions of this chapter and after the
payment of such charges or fees for such connections as shall from time to time
be required by the council.
(Code 1982, § 5-2033)
Sec. 20-64. Supervision.
   The sewerage system owned by the city shall be under the supervision of the
mayor and council. The duty of enforcing full compliance with all rules and
regulations governing all connections with the mains shall be vested in the
council or their duly authorized agent.
(Code 1982, § 5-2002; Ord. of 2-5-91, Art. III, § 2)
Sec. 20-65. Sewer connections--To be made within thirty days after mains are
ready for use.
   Within thirty (30) days after the sewer main in any street is completed and
ready for use, if a water main shall also have been installed in such street,
the owner of any abutting lot having thereon improvements for human occupancy,
shall cause a water closet and sink to be installed and to be connected with
such sewer main. All other sewer facilities within such improvements, if any,
are also to be connected with such sewer main; provided, however, that the
owners of the premises shall be notified in writing by the city of the
installation of such water main or the installation of such sanitary sewer, and
they shall be allowed thirty (30) days within which to make the required
connection or connections.
(Code 1982, § 5-2003; Ord. of 2-5-91, Art. III, § 3)
   State Law References: to require connections, G.S. § 160A-317.
Sec. 20-66. Same--To be made by city or under supervision of city.
   The construction of a lateral for the connection of the sewer on any lot
with the sewer in any street, as well as the necessary excavation therefor
shall be done by the city, or if done by a licensed plumber, it shall be done
under the supervision of the city.
(Code 1982, § 5-2004; Ord. of 2-5-91, Art. III, § 4)
Sec. 20-67. Application contents.
   Every application for a sewer connection shall state the name of the owner
of the lot, the name of the street on which the lot is situated, the number of
the house, if there is one on the lot, or if not, a description of the location
of the lot, the number and kind of connections desired and the character of
surface of the abutting street. Every application shall be accompanied by the
proper fee, for making the connections and shall be filed with the water
department.
(Code 1982, § 5-2005; Ord. of 2-5-91, Art. III, § 5)
Sec. 20-68. Service pipe extensions.
   No service pipe shall be allowed to run across lots, that is, from one lot
to another, but it must be taken from the main in front of the premises or from
some point adjacent thereto, unless specific permission is obtained from the
public works director. The public works director or his agent shall have the
power to extend service pipe to houses not located on main line. All additional
expenses for such extensions shall be paid by owner of property.
(Code 1982, § 5-2006; Ord. of 2-5-91, Art. III, § 6)
Sec. 20-69. Licensed plumber or city to make connections.
   Sewer connections shall be made only by licensed plumbers subject to
inspection by the public works director or his agent. If connection is made by
the city there will be a charge as determined by the council and filed in the
clerk's office.
(Code 1982, § 5-2008; Ord. of 2-5-91, Art. III, § 8)
Sec. 20-70. Location of connection on main.
   Every sewer connection made directly to a main shall be made at the Y
provided for the lot to be served, but if no such Y has been provided for such
lot, then such connection may be made directly to the main at any convenient
point.
(Code 1982, § 5-2009; Ord. of 2-5-91, Art. III, § 9)
Sec. 20-71. Separate connections required.
   Every house or building abutting any sewer main shall be separately and
independently connected except in those cases where laterals from such main
have already been laid in macadam or improved streets, without provisions
having been made for such house or building, when the connection may be made to
an existing lateral. If such house or building is on a macadam or improved
street where laterals have not been laid, the connection may be made to any
convenient lateral.
(Code 1982, § 5-2010; Ord. of 2-5-91, Art. III, § 9)
Secs. 20-72--20-80. Reserved.
ARTICLE IV.
SEWERAGE AND WASTE DISCHARGE STANDARDS*
__________
*   Editors Note: 2 of Ord. No. O-08-07-15-1, adopted July 15, 2008, deleted
art. IV, which pertained to the same subject matter, consisted of §§ 20-81--20-
103, and derived from an ordinance adopted Apr. 3, 1990. Section 2 of said
ordinance also enacted new provisions to read as herein set out.
   State Law References: sewage systems, G.S. § 130A-333 et seq.
__________
DIVISION 1.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
Sec. 20-81. Purpose and policy.
   (a)    This article sets forth uniform requirements for direct and indirect
contributors into the wastewater collection and treatment system for the City
of Marion, hereafter referred to as the city, and enables the city to comply
with all applicable state and federal laws, including the Clean Water Act (33
United States Code § 1251 et seq.) and the General Pretreatment Regulations (40
CFR, Part 403).
   (b)    The objectives of this article are:
   (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipal
wastewater system which will interfere with the operation of the system or
contaminate the resulting sludge;
   (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipal
wastewater system which will pass through the system, inadequately treated,
into any waters of the State or otherwise be incompatible with the system;
   (3)   To promote reuse and recycling of industrial wastewater and sludges
from the municipal system;
   (4)   To protect both municipal personnel who may be affected by sewage,
sludge, and effluent in the course of their employment as well as protecting
the general public;
   (5)   To provide for equitable distribution of the cost of operation,
maintenance and improvement of the municipal wastewater system; and
   (6)   To ensure that the municipality complies with its NPDES or
nondischarge permit conditions, sludge use and disposal requirements and any
other federal or state laws to which the municipal wastewater system is
subject.
   This article provides for the regulation of direct and indirect contributors
to the municipal wastewater system, through the issuance of permits to certain
nondomestic users and through enforcement of general requirements for the other
users, authorizes monitoring and enforcement activities, requires user
reporting and provides for the setting of fees for the equitable distribution
of costs resulting from the program established herein.
   This article shall apply to all users of the municipal wastewater system, as
authorized by N.C.G.S. 160A-312 and/or 153A-275. The city shall designate an
administrator of the POTW and pretreatment program hereafter referred to as the
POTW director. Except as otherwise provided herein, the POTW director shall
administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this article. Any powers
granted to or imposed upon the POTW director may be delegated by the POTW
director to other city personnel. By discharging wastewater into the municipal
wastewater system, industrial users located outside the city limits agree to
comply with the terms and conditions established in this article, as well as
any permits, enforcement actions, or orders issued hereunder.
(Ord. No. O-08-07-15-1, § 2, 7-15-08)
Sec. 20-82. Definitions and abbreviations.
   (a)    Definitions. Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the
following terms and phrases, as used in this ordinance, shall have the meanings
hereinafter designated:
   Act or the Act. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the
Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. §1251, et seq.
   Approval authority. The director of the division of water quality of the
North Carolina Department of Environment and Natural Resources or his designee.
   Authorized representative of the industrial user.
   (1)   If the industrial user is a corporation, authorized representative
shall mean:
   (A)   The president, secretary, or a vice-president of the corporation in
charge of a principal business function, or any other person who performs
similar policy or decision-making functions for the corporation, or
   (B)   The manager of one (1) or more manufacturing, production, or operation
facilities employing more than two hundred fifty (250) persons or having gross
annual sales or expenditures exceeding twenty-five (25) million dollars
($25,000,000.00) (in second-quarter 1980 dollars), if authority to sign
documents has been assigned or delegated to the manager in accordance with
corporate procedures.
   (2)   If the industrial user is a partnership or sole proprietorship, an
authorized representative shall mean a general partner or the proprietor,
respectively.
   (3)   If the industrial user is a federal, state or local government
facility, an authorized representative shall mean a director or highest
official appointed or designated to oversee the operation and performance of
the activities of the government facility, or their designee.
   (4)   The individuals described in paragraphs (1) through (3) above may
designate another authorized representative if the authorization is in writing,
the authorization specifies the individual or position responsible for the
overall operation of the facility from which the discharge originates or having
overall responsibility for environmental matters for the company, and the
written authorization is submitted to the city.
   (5)   If the designation of an authorized representative is no longer
accurate because a different individual or position has responsibility for the
overall operation of the facility, or overall responsibility for environmental
matters for the company, a new authorization satisfying the requirements of
this section must be submitted to the POTW director prior to or together with
any reports to be signed by an authorized representative.
   Biochemical oxygen demand (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures
for five (5) days at 20º centigrade, usually expressed as a concentration (e.g.
mg/l).
   Building sewer. A sewer conveying wastewater from the premises of a user to
the POTW.
   Bypass. The intentional diversion of waste streams from any portion of a
user's treatment facility.
   Categorical standards. National Categorical Pretreatment Standards or
Pretreatment Standard.
   Director. The person designated by the city to supervise the operation of
the publicly owned treatment works and who is charged with certain duties and
responsibilities by this chapter, or his duly authorized representative.
   Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA. The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency, or where appropriate the term may also be used as a designation for the
administrator or other duly authorized official of said agency.
   Grab sample. A sample which is taken from a waste stream on a one-time basis
without regard to the flow in the waste stream and over a period of time not to
exceed fifteen (15) minutes.
   Holding tank waste. Any waste from holding tanks, including, but not limited
to, such holding tanks as vessels, chemical toilets, campers, trailers, septic
tanks, and vacuum-pump tank trucks.
   Indirect discharge or discharge. The discharge or the introduction from any
nondomestic source regulated under section 307(b), (c), or (d) of the Act, (33
U.S.C. 1317), into the POTW (including holding tank waste discharged into the
system).
   Industrial user or user. Any person which is a source of indirect discharge.
   Interference. The inhibition, or disruption of the POTW treatment processes,
operations, or its sludge process, use, or disposal, which causes or
contributes to a violation of any requirement of the POTW's NPDES or
nondischarge permit or prevents sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance
with specified applicable state and federal statutes, regulations, or permits.
The term includes prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal by the POTW in
accordance with section 405 of the Act, (33 U.S.C. 1345) or any criteria,
guidelines, or regulations developed pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act
(SWDA)(42 U.S.C. §6901, et seq.), the Clean Air Act, the Toxic Substances
Control Act, the Marine Protection Research and Sanctuary Act (MPRSA) or more
stringent state criteria (including those contained in any State sludge
management plan prepared pursuant to Title IV of SWDA) applicable to the method
of disposal or use employed by the POTW.
   Medical waste. Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and blood
products, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated bedding,
surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory wastes, and dialysis
wastes.
   National Categorical Pretreatment Standard or Categorical Standard. Any
regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by EPA in
accordance with sections 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. §1317) which
applies to a specific category of industrial users, and which appears in 40 CFR
Chapter 1, Subchapter N, Parts 405--471.
   National prohibitive discharge standard or prohibitive discharge standard.
Absolute prohibitions against the discharge of certain substances; these
prohibitions appear in section
20-83 of this article and are developed under the authority of 307(b) of the
Act and 40 CFR, section 403.5.
   New source.
   (1)   Any building, structure, facility, or installation from which there
may be a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced after the
publication of proposed categorical pretreatment standards under section 307(c)
of the Act which will be applicable to such source if such standards are
thereafter promulgated in accordance with section 307(c), provided that:
   (A)   The building, structure, facility, or installation is constructed at a
site at which no other source is located; or
   (B)   The building, structure, facility, or installation totally replaces
the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of pollutants at
an existing source; or
   (C)   The production or wastewater generating processes of the building,
structure, facility, or installation are substantially independent of an
existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are
substantially independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility
is integrated with the existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility
is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source, should
be considered.
   (2)   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located results
in a modification rather than a new source if the construction does not create
a new building, structure, facility, or installation meeting the criteria of
subsection (1)(B) or (C) above but otherwise alters, replaces, or adds to
existing process or production equipment.
   (3)   For purposes of this definition, construction of a new source has
commenced if the owner or operator has:
   (A)   Begun, or caused to begin, as part of a continuous on-site
construction program:
   1.   Any placement, assembly, or installation of facilities or equipment; or
   2.   Significant site preparation work including clearing, excavation, or
removal of existing buildings, structures or facilities which is necessary for
the placement, assembly, or installation of new source facilities or equipment;
or
   (B)   Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase of
facilities or equipment which are intended to be used in its operation within a
reasonable time. Options to purchase or contracts which can be terminated or
modified without substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility, engineering,
and design studies do not constitute a contractual obligation under this
definition.
   Noncontact cooling water. Water used for cooling which does not come into
direct contact with any raw material, intermediate product, waste product, or
finished product.
   National Pollution Discharge Elimination System Permit, or NPDES permit. A
permit issued pursuant to section 402 of the Act (33 U.S.C. §1342), or pursuant
to N.C.G.S. 143-215.1 by the state under delegation from EPA.
   Nondischarge permit. A disposal system permit issued by the state pursuant
to N.C.G.S. 143-215.1.
   Pass through. A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the state in
quantities or concentrations which, alone or with discharges from other
sources, causes a violation, including an increase in the magnitude or duration
of a violation, of the POTW's NPDES or nondischarge permit, or a downstream
water quality standard.
   Person. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental
entity or any other legal entity, or their legal representatives, agents or
assigns. This definition includes all federal, state, and local government
entities.
pH. A measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a substance, expressed as
standard units, and calculated as the logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of
the concentration of hydrogen ions expressed in grams per liter of solution.
   Pollutant. Any "waste" as defined in N.C.G.S. 143-213(18) and dredged spoil,
solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions,
medical wastes, chemical wastes, biological materials, radioactive materials,
heat, wrecked or discarded equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt and industrial,
municipal, and agricultural waste and certain characteristics of wastewater
(e.g., pH, temperature, TSS, turbidity, color, BOD, COD, toxicity, or odor).
   POTW director. The city official designated by the city manager with the
responsibility for the pretreatment program and enforcement of this sewer use
ordinance.
   POTW treatment plant. That portion of the POTW designed to provide treatment
to wastewater.
   Pretreatment or treatment. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the
elimination of pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant
properties in wastewater prior to or in lieu of discharging or otherwise
introducing such pollution into a POTW. The reduction or alteration can be
obtained by physical, chemical or biological processes, or process changes or
other means, except by diluting the concentration of the pollutants unless
allowed by an applicable pretreatment standard.
   Pretreatment program. The program for the control of pollutants introduced
into the POTW from nondomestic sources which was developed by the city in
compliance with 40 CFR 403.8 and approved by the approval authority as
authorized by N.C.G.S. 143-215.3(a)(14) in accordance with 40 CFR 403.11.
   Pretreatment requirements. Any substantive or procedural requirement related
to pretreatment, other than a pretreatment standard.
   Pretreatment standards. Prohibited discharge standards, categorical
standards, and local limits.
   Publicly owned treatment works (POTW) or municipal wastewater system. A
treatment works as defined by section 212 of the Act, (33 U.S.C. §1292) which
is owned in this instance by the city. This definition includes any devices or
systems used in the collection, storage, treatment, recycling, and reclamation
of municipal sewage or industrial wastes of a liquid nature. It also includes
sewers, pipes, and other conveyances only if they convey wastewater to the POTW
treatment plant. For the purposes of this article, "POTW" shall also include
any sewers that convey wastewaters to the POTW from persons outside the city
who are, by contract or agreement with the City, or in any other way, users of
the POTW of the city.
   Severe property damage. Substantial physical damage to property, damage to
the user's treatment facilities which causes them to become inoperable, or
substantial and permanent loss of natural resources which can reasonably be
expected to occur in the absence of a bypass. Severe property damage does not
mean economic loss caused by delays in production.
   Significant industrial user. Any industrial user of the wastewater disposal
system who:
   (1)   Has an average daily process wastewater flow of twenty-five thousand
(25,000) gallons or more, or
   (2)   Contributes more than five (5) percent of any design or treatment
capacity (i.e., allowable pollutant load) of the wastewater treatment plant
receiving the indirect discharge, or
   (3)   Is required to meet a national categorical pretreatment standard, or
   (4)   Is found by the city, the division of water quality or the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to have the potential for impact, either
singly or in combination with other contributing industrial users, on the
wastewater treatment system, the quality of sludge, the system's effluent
quality, or compliance with any pretreatment standards or requirements.
   Significant noncompliance or reportable noncompliance. A status of
noncompliance defined as follows:
   (1)   Violations of wastewater discharge limits.
   (A)   Chronic violations. Sixty-six (66) percent or more of the measurements
exceed (by any magnitude) the same daily maximum limit or the same average
limit in a six-month period.
   (B)   Technical review criteria (TRC) violations. Thirty-three (33) percent
or more of the measurements equal or exceed the TRC times the limit (maximum or
average) in a six-month period. There are two (2) groups of TRCs:
   For the conventional pollutants: BOD, TSS, fats, oil and grease TRC = 1.4
   For all other pollutants TRC = 1.2
   (C)   Any other violation(s) of an effluent limit (average or daily maximum)
that the control authority believes has caused, alone or in combination with
other discharges, interference or pass-through; or endangered the health of the
sewage treatment plant personnel or the public.
   (D)   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent endangerment to
human health/welfare or to the environment or has resulted in the POTW's
exercise of its emergency authority to halt or prevent such a discharge.
   (2)   Violations of compliance schedule milestones, contained in a
pretreatment permit or enforcement order, for starting construction, completing
construction, and attaining final compliance by ninety (90) days or more after
the schedule date.
   (3)   Failure to provide reports for compliance schedule, self-monitoring
data, baseline monitoring reports, ninety-day compliance reports, and periodic
compliance reports within thirty (30) days from the due date.
   (4)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance.
   (5)   Any other violation or group of violations that the control authority
considers to be significant.
   Slug load or discharge. Any discharge at a flow rate or concentration which
has a reasonable potential to cause interference or pass-through, or in any
other way violates the POTW's regulations, local limits, or industrial user
permit conditions. This can include, but is not limited to, spills and other
accidental discharges; discharges of a nonroutine, episodic nature; a
noncustomary batch discharge; or any other discharges that can cause a
violation of the prohibited discharge standards in section
20-83 of this article.
   Standard industrial classification (SIC). A classification pursuant to the
Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued by the Executive Office of the
President, Office of Management and Budget, 1987.
   Stormwater. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation and resulting therefrom.
   Suspended solids. The total suspended matter that floats on the surface of,
or is suspended in, water, wastewater or other liquids, and which is removable
by laboratory filtering.
   Upset. An exceptional incident in which there is unintentional and temporary
noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards because of factors beyond
the reasonable control of the user. An upset does not include noncompliance to
the extent caused by operational error, improperly designed treatment
facilities, inadequate treatment facilities, lack of preventive maintenance, or
careless or improper operation.
   Wastewater. The liquid and water-carried industrial or domestic wastes from
dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities, mobile sources,
treatment facilities and institutions, together with any groundwater, surface
water, and stormwater that may be present, whether treated or untreated, which
are contributed into or permitted to enter the POTW.
   Wastewater permit. As set forth in section
20-97 of this article.
   Waters of the state. All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, watercourses,
waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation systems, drainage
systems and all other bodies or accumulations of water, surface or underground,
natural or artificial, public or private, which are contained within, flow
through, or border upon the state or any portion thereof.
   (b)    [Gender neutral.] This article is gender neutral and the masculine
gender shall include the feminine and vice-versa.
   (c)    [Shall; may.] Shall is mandatory; may is permissive or discretionary.
   (d)    [Singular; plural.] The use of the singular shall be construed to
include the plural and the plural shall include the singular as indicated by
the context of its use.
   (e)    [Abbreviations.] The following abbreviations when used in this
article, shall have the designated meanings:
   (1)   BOD = Biochemical oxygen demand
   (2)   CFR = Code of Federal Regulations
   (3)   COD = Chemical oxygen demand
   (4)   EPA = Environmental Protection Agency
   (5)   gpd = Gallons per day
   (6)   l = Liter
   (7)   mg = Milligrams
   (8)   mg/l = Milligrams per liter
   (9)   N.C.G.S. = North Carolina General Statutes
   (10)   NPDES = National Pollution Discharge Elimination System
   (11)   O and M = Operation and Maintenance
   (12)   POTW = Publicly owned treatment works
   (13)   RCRA = Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
   (14)   SIC = Standard industrial classification
   (15)   SWDA = Solid Waste Disposal Act
   (16)   TSS = Total suspended solids
   (17)   TKN = Total kjeldahl nitrogen
   (18)   U.S.C = United States Code
(Ord. No. O-08-07-15-1, § 2, 7-15-08)
DIVISION 2.
GENERAL SEWER USE REQUIREMENTS
Sec. 20-83. Prohibited discharge standards.
   (a)   General prohibitions. No user shall contribute or cause to be
contributed into the POTW, directly or indirectly, any pollutant or wastewater
which causes interference or pass through. These general prohibitions apply to
all users of a POTW whether or not the user is a significant industrial user or
subject to any National, State, or local pretreatment standards or
requirements.
   (b)   Specific prohibitions. No user shall contribute or cause to be
contributed into the POTW the following pollutants, substances, or wastewater:
   (1)   Pollutants which create a fire or explosive hazard in the POTW,
including, but not limited to, waste streams with a closed cup flashpoint of
less than 140°F (60°C) using the test methods specified in 40 CFR 261.21.
   (2)   Solid or viscous substances in amounts which will cause obstruction of
the flow in the POTW resulting in interference but in no case solids greater
than one half inch (1/2") in any dimension.
   (3)   Petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oil, or products of mineral
oil origin, in amounts that will cause interference or pass through.
   (4)   Any wastewater having a pH less than 5.0 or wastewater having any
other corrosive property capable of causing damage to the POTW or equipment.
   (5)   Any wastewater containing pollutants, including oxygen-demanding
pollutants, (BOD, etc.) in sufficient quantity, (flow or concentration) either
singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to cause interference with the
POTW.
   (6)   Any wastewater having a temperature greater than 150° F (66° C), or
which will inhibit biological activity in the POTW treatment plant resulting in
Interference, but in no case wastewater which causes the temperature at the
introduction into the treatment plant to exceed 104°F (40° C).
   (7)   Any pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors or
fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems.
   (8)   Any trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points
designated by the POTW Director in accordance with Section
20-91 of this article.
   (9)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, or solids or other
wastewater which, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, are
sufficient to create a public nuisance or hazard to life or are sufficient to
prevent entry into the sewers for maintenance and repair.
   (10)   Any substance which may cause the POTW's effluent or any other
product of the POTW such as residues, sludges, or scums, to be unsuitable for
reclamation and reuse or to interfere with the reclamation process. In no case,
shall a substance discharged to the POTW cause the POTW to be in noncompliance
with sludge use or disposal regulations or permits issued under section 405 of
the Act; the Solid Waste Disposal Act, the Clean Air Act, the Toxic Substances
Control Act, or State criteria applicable to the sludge management method being
used.
   (11)   Any wastewater which imparts color which cannot be removed by the
treatment process, including, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions, which consequently imparts sufficient color to the treatment
plant's effluent to render the waters injurious to public health or secondary
recreation or to aquatic life and wildlife or to adversely affect the
palatability of fish or aesthetic quality or impair the receiving waters for
any designated uses.
   (12)   Any wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes except
as specifically approved by the POTW Director in compliance with applicable
State or Federal regulations.
   (13)   Storm water, surface water, ground water, artesian well water, roof
runoff, subsurface drainage, floor drains, swimming pool drainage, condensate,
deionized water, noncontact cooling water and unpolluted industrial wastewater,
unless specifically authorized by the POTW Director.
   (14)   Fats, oils, or greases of animal or vegetable origin in
concentrations greater than one hundred (100) mg/1.
   (15)   Any sludges, screenings or other residues from the pretreatment of
industrial wastes.
   (16)   Any medical wastes, except as specifically authorized by the POTW
Director in a wastewater discharge permit.
   (17)   Any material containing ammonia, ammonia salts, or other chelating
agents which will produce metallic complexes that interfere with the municipal
wastewater system.
   (18)   Any material that would be identified as hazardous waste according to
40 CFR Part 261 if not disposed of in a sewer except as may be specifically
authorized by the POTW Director.
   (19)   Any wastewater causing the treatment plant effluent to violate State
Water Quality Standards for toxic substances as described in 15A NCAC 2B .0200.
   (20)   Wastewater causing, alone or in conjunction with other sources, the
treatment plant's effluent to fail a toxicity test.
   (21)   Recognizable portions of the human or animal anatomy.
   (22)   Any wastes containing detergents, surface active agents, or other
substances which may cause excessive foaming in the municipal wastewater
system.
   (23)   At no time, shall two successive readings on an explosion hazard
meter, at the point of discharge into the system (or at any point in the
system) be more than five percent (5%) nor any single reading over ten percent
(10%) of the lower explosive limit (LEL) of the meter.
   Pollutants, substances, wastewater, or other wastes prohibited by this
section shall not be processed or stored in such a manner that they could be
discharged to the municipal wastewater system. All floor drains located in
process or materials storage areas must discharge to the industrial user's
pretreatment facility before connecting with the system.
   When the POTW Director determines that a user(s) is contributing to the
POTW, any of the above enumerated substances in such amounts which may cause or
contribute to interference of POTW operation or pass through, the POTW Director
shall:
   1)   Advise the user(s) of the potential impact of the contribution on the
POTW in accordance with Section 20-115; and
   2)   Take appropriate actions in accordance with Division 4 of this article
for such user to protect the POTW from interference or pass through.
(Ord. No. O-17-09-05-2, § 2, 9-5-17)
Sec. 20-84. National categorical pretreatment standards.
   Users subject to categorical pretreatment standards are required to comply
with applicable standards as set out in 40 CFR Chapter 1, Subchapter N, Parts
405--471 and incorporated herein.
   (a)   Where a categorical pretreatment standard is expressed only in terms
of either the mass or the concentration of a pollutant in wastewater, the POTW
director may impose equivalent concentration or mass limits in accordance with
40 CFR 403.6(c).
   (b)   When wastewater subject to a categorical pretreatment standard is
mixed with wastewater not regulated by the same standard, the POTW director
shall impose an alternate limit using the combined wastestream formula in 40
CFR 403.6(e).
   (c)   A user may obtain a variance from a categorical pretreatment standard
if the user can prove, pursuant to the procedural and substantive provisions in
40 CFR 403.13, that factors relating to its discharge are fundamentally
different from the factors considered by EPA when developing the categorical
pretreatment standard.
   (d)   A user may obtain a net gross adjustment to a categorical standard in
accordance with 40 CFR 403.15.
(Ord. No. O-08-07-15-1, § 2, 7-15-08)
Sec. 20-85. Local limits.
   An industrial waste survey is required prior to a user discharging
wastewater containing in excess of the following average discharge limits.
   BOD: 250 mg/l
   TSS: 250 mg/l
   NH3: 25 mg/l
   Arsenic: 0.003 mg/l
   Cadmium: 0.003 mg/l
   Chromium: 0.05 mg/l (total chromium)
   Copper: 0.061 mg/l
   Cyanide: 0.015 mg/l
   Lead: 0.049 mg/l
   Mercury: 0.0003 mg/l
   Nickel: 0.021 mg/l
   Silver: 0.005 mg/l
   Zinc: 0.175 mg/l
   Industrial waste survey information will be used to develop user-specific
local limits when necessary to ensure that the POTW's maximum allowable
headworks loading are not exceeded for particular pollutants of concern. User-
specific local limits for appropriate pollutants of concern shall be included
in wastewater permits. The POTW director may impose mass based limits in
addition to, or in place of concentration based limits.
(Ord. No. O-08-07-15-1, § 2, 7-15-08)
Sec. 20-86. State requirements.
   State requirements and limitations on discharges shall apply in any case
where they are more stringent than federal requirements and limitations or
those in this article.
(Ord. No. O-08-07-15-1, § 2, 7-15-08)
Sec. 20-87. Right of revision.
   The city reserves the right to establish limitations and requirements which
are more stringent than those required by either state or federal regulation if
deemed necessary to comply with the objectives presented in section
20-81 of this article or the general and specific prohibitions in section
20-83 of this article, as is allowed by 40 CFR 403.4.
(Ord. No. O-08-07-15-1, § 2, 7-15-08)
Sec. 20-88. Dilution.
   No user shall ever increase the use of process water or, in any way, attempt
to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in the National
Categorical Pretreatment Standards, unless expressly authorized by an
applicable pretreatment standard, or in any other pollutant-specific limitation
developed by the city or state.
(Ord. No. O-08-07-15-1, § 2, 7-15-08)
Sec. 20-89. Pretreatment of wastewater.
   (a)    Pretreatment facilities. Users shall provide wastewater treatment as
necessary to comply with this article and wastewater permits issued under
section
20-97 of this article and shall achieve compliance with all National
Categorical Pretreatment Standards, local limits, and the prohibitions set out
in section
20-83 of this article within the time limitations as specified by EPA, the
state, or the POTW director, whichever is more stringent. Any facilities
necessary for compliance shall be provided, operated, and maintained at the
user's expense. Detailed plans showing the pretreatment facilities and
operating procedures shall be submitted to the city for review, and shall be
approved by the POTW director before construction of the facility. The review
of such plans and operating procedures shall in no way relieve the user from
the responsibility of modifying the facility as necessary to produce an
effluent acceptable to the city under the provisions of this article. Any
subsequent changes in the pretreatment facilities or method of operation shall
be reported to and be approved by the POTW director prior to the user's
initiation of the changes.
   (b)    Additional pretreatment measures.
   (1)   Whenever deemed necessary, the POTW director may require users to
restrict their discharge during peak flow periods, designate that certain
wastewater be discharged only into specific sewers, relocate and/or consolidate
points of discharge, separate sewage wastestreams from industrial wastestreams,
and such other conditions as may be necessary to protect the POTW and determine
the user's compliance with the requirements of this article.
   (2)   The POTW director may require any person discharging into the POTW to
install and maintain, on their property and at their expense, a suitable
storage and flow-control facility to ensure equalization of flow. A wastewater
discharge permit may be issued solely for flow equalization.
   (3)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the POTW director, they are necessary for the proper handling of
wastewater containing excessive amounts of grease and oil, or sand; except that
such interceptors shall not be required for residential users. All interception
units shall be of type and capacity approved by the POTW director and shall be
so located to be easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. Such
interceptors shall be inspected, cleaned, and repaired regularly, as needed, by
the user at their expense.
   (4)   Users with the potential to discharge flammable substances may be
required to install and maintain an approved combustible gas detection meter.
(Ord. No. O-08-07-15-1, § 2, 7-15-08)
Sec. 20-90. Accidental discharge/slug control plans.
   (a)    At least once every two (2) years, the POTW director shall evaluate
whether each significant industrial user needs a plan to control and prevent
slug discharges and accidental discharges as defined in section
20-82. All SIUs must be evaluated within one (1) year of being designated an
SIU. The POTW director may require any user to develop, submit for approval,
and implement such a plan. Alternatively, the POTW director may develop such a
plan for any user.
   (b)    All SIUs are required to notify the POTW immediately of any changes
at its facility affecting the potential for spills and other accidental
discharge, discharge of a nonroutine, episodic nature, a noncustomary batch
discharge, or a slug load. Also see sections
20-102 and
20-103.
   (c)    An accidental discharge/slug control plan shall address, at a
minimum, the following:
   (1)   Description of discharge practices, including nonroutine batch
discharges;
   (2)   Description of stored chemicals;
   (3)   Procedures for immediately notifying the POTW director of any
accidental or slug discharge, as required by section
20-103 of this article; and
   (4)   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or slug
discharge. Such procedures include, but are not limited to, inspection and
maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading and
unloading operations, control of plant site runoff, worker training, building
of containment structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic organic
pollutants, including solvents, and/or measures and equipment for emergency
response.
(Ord. No. O-08-07-15-1, § 2, 7-15-08)
Sec. 20-91. Hauled wastewater.
   (a)    Septic tank waste may be introduced into the POTW only at locations
designated by the POTW director, and at such times as are established by the
POTW director. Such waste shall not violate division 2 of this article or any
other requirements established by the city. The POTW director may require
septic tank waste haulers to obtain wastewater discharge permits.
   (b)    The POTW director shall require haulers of industrial waste to obtain
wastewater discharge permits. The POTW director may require generators of
hauled industrial waste to obtain wastewater discharge permits. The POTW
director also may prohibit the disposal of hauled industrial waste. The
discharge of hauled industrial waste is subject to all other requirements of
this article.
   (c)    Industrial waste haulers may discharge loads only at locations
designated by the POTW director. No load may be discharged without prior
consent of the POTW director. The POTW director may collect samples of each
hauled load to ensure compliance with applicable standards. The POTW director
may require the industrial waste hauler to provide a waste analysis of any load
prior to discharge.
   (d)    Industrial waste haulers must provide a waste-tracking form for every
load. This form shall include, at a minimum, the name and address of the
industrial waste hauler, permit number, truck identification, names and
addresses of sources of waste, and volume and characteristics of waste. The
form shall identify the type of industry, known or suspected waste
constituents, and whether any wastes are RCRA hazardous wastes.
(Ord. No. O-08-07-15-1, § 2, 7-15-08)
DIVISION 3.
FEES
Sec. 20-92. Purpose.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to provide for the recovery of costs from
users of the wastewater disposal system of the city for the implementation of
the program established herein. The applicable charges or fees shall be set
forth in a schedule of sewer use charges and fees by the POTW director and
approved by the city board. A copy of these charges and fees will be made
available from the POTW director.
(Ord. No. O-08-07-15-1, § 2, 7-15-08)
Sec. 20-93. User charges.
   A user charge shall be levied on all users including, but not limited to,
persons, firms, corporations or governmental entities that discharge, cause or
permit the discharge of sewage into the POTW.
   (a)   The user charge shall reflect, at least, the cost of debt service,
operation and maintenance (including replacement) of the POTW.
   (b)   Each user shall pay its proportionate cost based on volume of flow.
   (c)   The city manager shall review annually the sewage contributions of
users, the total costs of debt service, operation and maintenance of the POTW
and will make recommendations to the city council for adjustments in the
schedule of charges and fees as necessary.
   (d)   Charges for flow to the POTW not directly attributable to the users
shall be distributed among all users of the POTW based upon the volume of flow
of the users.
(Ord. No. O-08-07-15-1, § 2, 7-15-08)
Sec. 20-94. Surcharges.
   The amount of the surcharges will be based upon the volume of flow and the
character and concentration of the constituents of the wastewater:
   (a)   The volume of flow used in determining the total discharge of
wastewater for payment of user charges and surcharges shall be based on the
following:
   (1)   Metered water consumption as shown in the records of meter readings
maintained by the city; or
   (2)   If required by the city or at the individual dischargers option, other
flow monitoring devices which measure the actual volume of wastewater
discharged to the sewer. Such devices shall be accessible and safely located,
and the measuring system shall be installed in accordance with plans approved
by the city. The metering system shall be installed and maintained at the
user's expense according to arrangements that may be made with the city.
   (3)   Where any user procures all or part of his water supply from sources
other than the city, the user shall install and maintain at his own expense a
flow measuring device of a type approved by the city.
   (b)   The character and concentration of the constituents of the wastewater
used in determining surcharges shall be determined by samples collected and
analyzed by the city. Samples shall be collected in such a manner as to be
representative of the actual discharge and shall be analyzed using procedures
set forth in 40 CFR Part 136.
   (c)   The determination of the character and concentration of the
constituents of the wastewater discharge by the POTW director or his duly
appointed representatives shall be binding as a basis for charges.
(Ord. No. O-08-07-15-1, § 2, 7-15-08)
Sec. 20-95. Pretreatment program administration charges.
   The schedule of charges and fees adopted by the city may include charges and
fees for:
   (a)   Reimbursement of costs of setting up and operating the pretreatment
program;
   (b)   Monitoring, inspections and surveillance procedures;
   (c)   Reviewing slug control plans, including accidental and/or slug load
discharge procedures and construction plans and specifications;
   (d)   Permitting;
   (e)   Other fees as the city may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements of the pretreatment program.
(Ord. No. O-08-07-15-1, § 2, 7-15-08)
DIVISION 4.
WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT APPLICATION AND ISSUANCE
Sec. 20-96. Wastewater dischargers.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to connect or discharge to the POTW
without first obtaining the permission of the city. When requested by the POTW
director, a user must submit information on the nature and characteristics of
its wastewater within thirty (30) days of the request. The POTW director is
authorized to prepare a form for this purpose and may periodically require
users to update this information.
(Ord. No. O-08-07-15-1, § 2, 7-15-08)
Sec. 20-97. Wastewater permits.
   All significant industrial users shall obtain a significant industrial user
permit prior to the commencement of discharge to the POTW. Existing industrial
users who are determined by the POTW director to be significant industrial
users shall obtain a significant industrial user permit within one hundred
eighty (180) days of receiving notification of the POTW director's
determination. Industrial users who do not fit the significant industrial user
criteria may at the discretion of the POTW director be required to obtain a
wastewater discharge permit for nonsignificant industrial users.
   (a)   Significant industrial user determination. All persons proposing to
discharge nondomestic wastewater, or proposing to change the volume or
characteristics of an existing discharge of nondomestic wastewater shall
request from the POTW director a significant industrial user determination. If
the POTW director determines or suspects that the proposed discharge fits the
significant industrial user criteria he will require that a significant
industrial user permit application be filed.
   (b)   Significant industrial user permit application. Users required to
obtain a significant industrial user permit shall complete and file with the
city, an application in the form prescribed by the POTW director, and
accompanied by an application fee in the amount prescribed in the schedule of
charges and fees. Significant industrial users shall apply for a significant
industrial user permit within ninety (90) days after notification of the POTW
director's determination in subsection
20-97(a), above. In support of the application, the user shall submit, in units
and terms appropriate for evaluation, the following information:
   (1)   Name, address, and location, (if different from the address);
   (2)   Standard industrial classification (SIC) codes for pretreatment, the
industry as a whole, and any processes for which categorical pretreatment
standards have been promulgated;
   (3)   Analytical data on wastewater constituents and characteristics
including, but not limited to, those mentioned in division 2 of this article,
any of the priority pollutants (section 307(a) of the Act) which the applicant
knows or suspects are present in the discharge as determined by a reliable
analytical laboratory, and any other pollutant of concern to the POTW; sampling
and analysis shall be performed in accordance with procedures established by
the EPA pursuant to section 304(g) of the Act and contained in 40 CFR, Part
136, as amended and as required in Section 5.10 and 5.11;
   (4)   Time and duration of the indirect discharge;
   (5)   Average daily and thirty-minute peak wastewater flow rates, including
daily, monthly and seasonal variations if any;
   (6)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans and details to
show all sewers, floor drains, sewer connections, direction of flow and
appurtenances by the size, location and elevation;
   (7)   Description of activities, facilities and plant processes on the
premises including all materials which are or could be accidentally or
intentionally discharged;
   (8)   Where known, the nature and concentration of any pollutants in the
discharge which are limited by any city, state, or federal pretreatment
standards, and a statement regarding whether or not the pretreatment standards
are being met on a consistent basis and if not, whether additional operation
and maintenance (O and M) and/or additional pretreatment is required for the
user to meet applicable pretreatment standards;
   (9)   If additional pretreatment and/or O and M will be required to meet the
pretreatment standards; the shortest schedule by which the user will provide
such additional pretreatment. The completion date in this schedule shall not be
longer than the compliance date established for the applicable pretreatment
standard. The following conditions apply to this schedule:
   (A)   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of dates
for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction
and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to meet the
applicable pretreatment standards. No increment in the schedule shall exceed
nine (9) months.
   (B)   No later than fourteen (14) days following each date in the schedule
and the final date for compliance, the user shall submit a progress report to
the POTW director including, at a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress, the reason for any delay, and if appropriate, the steps
being taken by the user to return to the established schedule. In no event
shall more than nine (9) months elapse between such progress reports to the
POTW director.
   (10)   Each product produced by type, amount, process or processes and rate
of production;
   (11)   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum per
day);
   (12)   Number and type of employees, and hours of operation of plant and
proposed or actual hours of operation of pretreatment system;
   (13)   If subject to a categorical standard, a baseline monitoring report in
accordance with 40 CFR 403.12(b) and 15A NCAC 2H .0908(a), as outlined in
section
20-98 of this article.
   (14)   Any other information as may be deemed by the POTW Director to be
necessary to evaluate the permit application.
   (c)   Application signatories and certification. All wastewater discharge
permit applications and user reports must be signed by the current authorized
representative of the user on file with the control authority and/or
municipality as defined in section
20-82 of this article and contain the following certification statement:
"I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments were
prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system designed
to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the information
submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage the system,
or those persons directly responsible for gathering the information, the
information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true,
accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for
submitting false information, including the possibility of fine and
imprisonment for knowing violations."
   (d)   Application review and evaluation. The POTW director will evaluate the
data furnished by the user and may require additional information.
   (1)   The POTW director is authorized to accept applications for the city
and shall refer all applications to the POTW staff for review and evaluation.
   (2)   Within thirty (30) days of receipt the POTW director shall acknowledge
and accept the complete application; or if not complete, shall return the
application to the applicant with a statement of what additional information is
required.
   (e)   Tentative determination and draft permit.
   (1)   The POTW staff shall conduct a review of the application and an on-
site inspection of the significant industrial user, including any pretreatment
facilities, and shall prepare a written evaluation and tentative determination
to issue or deny the significant industrial user permit.
   (2)   If the staff's tentative determination in paragraph (1) above is to
issue the permit, the following additional determinations shall be made in
writing:
   (A)   Proposed discharge limitations for those pollutants proposed to be
limited;
   (B)   A proposed schedule of compliance, including interim dates and
requirements, for meeting the proposed limitations; and
   (C)   A brief description of any other proposed special conditions which
will have significant impact upon the discharge described in the application.
   (3)   The staff shall organize the determinations made pursuant to
paragraphs (1) and (2) above and the general permit conditions of the city into
a significant industrial user permit.
   (f)   Permit synopsis. A fact sheet providing a brief synopsis of the
application shall be prepared by the POTW staff for submission to the applicant
and the approval authority and shall be made available to the public upon
request. The contents of such fact sheets shall include at least the following
information:
   (1)   A sketch and detailed description of the industrial facilities and
pretreatment facilities including the location of all points of discharge to
the POTW and all established compliance monitoring points.
   (2)   A quantitative description of the discharge described in the
application which includes at least the following:
   (A)   The rate or frequency of the proposed discharge; if the discharge is
continuous, the average daily flow;
   (B)   The actual average daily discharge in pounds per day of any limited
pollutant and any pollutant identified in the application as known or suspected
present; and
   (C)   The basis for the pretreatment limitations including the documentation
of any calculations in applying categorical pretreatment standards.
   (g)   Final action on significant industrial user permit applications.
   (1)   The POTW director shall take final action on all applications not
later than ninety (90) days following receipt of a complete application.
   (2)   The POTW director is authorized to:
   (A)   Issue a significant industrial user permit containing such conditions
as are necessary to effectuate the purposes of this ordinance and N.C.G.S. 143-
215.1;
   (B)   Issue a significant industrial user permit containing time schedules
for achieving compliance with applicable pretreatment standards and
requirements;
   (C)   Modify any permit upon not less than sixty (60) days' notice and
pursuant to section
20-97 of this article;
   (D)   Revoke any permit pursuant to section
20-115 of this article;
   (E)   Suspend a permit pursuant to section
20-115 of this article;
   (F)   Deny a permit application when in the opinion of the POTW director
such discharge may cause or contribute to pass-through or interference of the
wastewater treatment plant or where necessary to effectuate the purposes of
G.S. 143-215.1.
   (h)   Hearings. The local government may conduct hearings in accordance with
its regular hearing procedure.
   (1)   Initial adjudicatory hearing. An applicant whose permit is denied, or
is granted subject to conditions he deems unacceptable, a permittee/user
assessed a civil penalty under section
20-116, or one issued an administrative order under section
20-115 shall have the right to an adjudicatory hearing before a hearing officer
designated by the POTW director upon making written demand, identifying the
specific issues to be contested, to the POTW director within thirty (30) days
following receipt of the significant industrial user permit, civil penalty
assessment, or administrative order. Unless such written demand is made within
the time specified herein, the action shall be final and binding. The hearing
officer shall make a final decision on the contested permit, penalty, or order
within forty-five (45) days of the receipt of the written demand for a hearing.
The POTW director shall transmit a copy of the hearing officer's decision by
registered or certified mail.
   (A)   New permits. Upon appeal, including judicial review in the General
Courts of Justice, of the terms or conditions of a newly issued permit, the
terms and conditions of the entire permit are stayed and the permit is not in
effect until either the conclusion of judicial review or until the parties
reach a mutual resolution.
   (B)   Renewed permits. Upon appeal, including judicial review in the General
Courts of Justice, of the terms or conditions of a renewed permit, the terms
and conditions of the existing permit remain in effect until either the
conclusion of judicial review or until the parties reach a mutual resolution.
   (2)   Final appeal hearing. Any decision of a hearing officer made as a
result of an adjudicatory hearing held under subsection
20-97(h)(1) above may be appealed, to the city council upon filing a written
demand with the city manager within ten (10) days of receipt of notice of the
decision. Hearings held under this subdivision shall be conducted in accordance
with city hearing procedures. Failure to make written demand within the time
specified herein shall bar further appeal. The city council shall make a final
decision on the appeal within ninety (90) days of the date the appeal was filed
and shall transmit a written copy of its decision by registered or certified
mail.
   (3)   Official record. When a final decision is issued under subsection
20-97(h)(2) above, the city council shall prepare an official record of the
case that includes:
   (A)   All notices, motions, and other like pleadings;
   (B)   A copy of all documentary evidence introduced;
   (C)   A certified transcript of all testimony taken, if testimony is
transcribed. If testimony is taken and not transcribed, then a narrative
summary of any testimony taken.
   (D)   A copy of the final decision of the city council.
   (4)   Judicial review. Any person against whom a final order or decision of
the city council is entered, pursuant to the hearing conducted under subsection
20-97(h)(2) above, may seek judicial review of the order or decision by filing
a written petition within thirty (30) days after receipt of notice by
registered or certified mail of the order or decision, but not thereafter, with
the Superior Court of McDowell County along with a copy to the city. Within
thirty (30) days after receipt of the copy of the petition of judicial review,
the city council shall transmit to the reviewing court the original or a
certified copy of the official record.
   (i)   Permit modification.
   (1)   Modifications of permits shall be subject to the same procedural
requirements as the issuance of permits except as listed below. Any changes or
new conditions in the permit shall include a reasonable time schedule for
compliance:
   (A)   Changes in the ownership of the discharge when no other change in the
permit is indicated,
   (B)   A single modification of any compliance schedule not in excess of four
(4) months,
   (C)   Modification of compliance schedules (construction schedules) in
permits for new sources where the new source will not begin to discharge until
control facilities are operational.
   (2)   Within nine (9) months of the promulgation of a National Categorical
Pretreatment Standard, the wastewater discharge permit of users subject to such
standards shall be revised to require compliance with such standard within the
time frame prescribed by such standard. Where a user, subject to a National
Categorical Pretreatment Standard, has not previously submitted an application
for a wastewater discharge permit as required by subsection
20-97(b), the user shall apply for a wastewater discharge permit within one
hundred eighty (180) days after the promulgation of the applicable National
Categorical Pretreatment Standard.
   (3)   A request for a modification by the permittee shall constitute a
waiver of the sixty-day notice required by N.C.G.S. 143-215.1(b) for
modifications.
   (j)   Permit conditions.
   (1)   The POTW director shall have the authority to grant a permit with such
conditions attached as he believes necessary to achieve the purpose of this
ordinance and N.C.G.S. 143-215.1. Wastewater permits shall contain, but are not
limited to, the following:
   (A)   A statement of duration (in no case more than five (5) years);
   (B)   A statement of nontransferability;
   (C)   Applicable effluent limits based on categorical standards or local
limits or both;
   (D)   Applicable monitoring, sampling, reporting, notification, and record-
keeping requirements. These requirements shall include an identification of
pollutants to be monitored, sampling location, sampling frequency, and sample
type based on federal, state and local law;
   (E)   Requirements for notifying the POTW in the event of an accidental
discharge or slug load as defined in section
20-82;
   (F)   Requirements to implement a plan or other controls for prevention of
accidental discharges and/or slug loads as defined in section
20-82, if determined by the POTW director to be necessary for the user;
   (G)   Requirements for immediately notifying the POTW of any changes at its
facility affecting the potential for spills and other accidental discharges, or
slug load as defined in section
20-82. Also see sections
20-102 and 20-103; and
   (H)   A statement of applicable civil and criminal penalties for violation
of pretreatment standards and requirements and any applicable compliance
schedule.
   (2)   In addition, permits may contain, but are not limited to, the
following:
   (A)   Limits on the average and/or maximum rate of discharge, and/or
requirements for flow regulation and equalization.
   (B)   Limits on the instantaneous, daily and monthly average and/or maximum
concentration, mass, or other measure of identified wastewater pollutants or
properties.
   (C)   Requirements for the installation of pretreatment technology or
construction of appropriate containment devices, etc., designed to reduce,
eliminate, or prevent the introduction of pollutants into the treatment works.
   (D)   Development and implementation of waste minimization plans to reduce
the amount of pollutants discharged to the municipal wastewater system.
   (E)   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
management of the wastewater discharged to the system.
   (F)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities and equipment.
   (G)   Specifications for monitoring programs which may include sampling
locations, frequency of sampling, number, types, and standards for tests, and
reporting schedules.
   (H)   Requirements for immediate reporting of any instance of noncompliance
and for automatic resampling and reporting within thirty (30) days where self-
monitoring indicates a violation(s).
   (I)   Compliance schedules for meeting pretreatment standards and
requirements.
   (J)   Requirements for submission of periodic self-monitoring or special
notification reports.
   (K)   Requirements for maintaining and retaining plans and records relating
to wastewater discharges as specified in section
20-110 and affording the POTW director, or his representatives, access thereto.
   (L)   Requirements for prior notification and approval by the POTW director
of any new introduction of wastewater pollutants or of any significant change
in the volume or character of the wastewater prior to introduction in the
system.
   (M)   Requirements for the prior notification and approval by the POTW
director of any change in the manufacturing and/or pretreatment process used by
the permittee.
   (N)   A statement that compliance with the permit does not relieve the
permittee of responsibility for compliance with all applicable federal and
state pretreatment standards, including those which become effective during the
terms of the permit.
   (O)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the POTW director to ensure
compliance with this article, and state and federal laws, rules, and
regulations.
   (k)   Permit duration. Permits shall be issued for a specified time period,
not to exceed five (5) years. A permit may be issued for a period less than a
year or may be stated to expire on a specific date.
   (l)   Permit transfer. Wastewater permits are issued to a specific user for
a specific operation. A wastewater discharge permit shall not be reassigned or
transferred or sold to a new owner, new user, different premises, or a new or
changed operation.
   (m)   Permit reissuance. A significant industrial user shall apply for
permit reissuance by submitting a complete permit application in accordance
with section
20-97, a minimum of one hundred eighty (180) days prior to the expiration of
the existing permit.
(Ord. No. O-08-07-15-1, § 2, 7-15-08)
DIVISION 5.
REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
Sec. 20-98. Baseline monitoring reports.
   (a)    Within either one hundred eighty (180) days after the effective date
of a categorical pretreatment standard, or the final administrative decision on
a category determination under 40 CFR 403.6(a)(4), whichever is later, existing
categorical users currently discharging to or scheduled to discharge to the
POTW shall submit to the POTW director a report which contains the information
listed in subsection (b) below. At least ninety (90) days prior to commencement
of their discharge, new sources, and sources that become categorical users
subsequent to the promulgation of an applicable categorical standard, shall
submit to the POTW director a report which contains the information listed in
subsection (b) below. A new source shall report the method of pretreatment it
intends to use to meet applicable categorical standards. A new source also
shall give estimates of its anticipated flow and quantity of pollutants to be
discharged.
   (b)    Users described above shall submit the information set forth below.
   (1)   Identifying information. The name and address of the facility,
including the name of the operator and owner.
   (2)   Environmental permits. A list of any environmental control permits
held by or for the facility.
   (3)   Description of operations. A brief description of the nature, average
rate of production, and standard industrial classifications of the operation(s)
carried out by such user. This description should include a schematic process
diagram which indicates points of discharge to the POTW from the regulated
processes.
   (4)   Flow measurement. Information showing the measured average daily and
maximum daily flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW from regulated process
streams and other streams, as necessary, to allow use of the combined waste
stream formula set out in 40 CFR 403.6(e).
   (5)   Measurement of pollutants.
   (A)   The categorical pretreatment standards applicable to each regulated
process.
   (B)   The results of sampling and analysis identifying the nature and
concentration, and/or mass, where required by the standard or by the POTW
director, of regulated pollutants in the discharge from each regulated process.
Instantaneous, daily maximum, and long-term average concentrations, or mass,
where required, shall be reported. The sample shall be representative of daily
operations and shall be analyzed in accordance with procedures set out in
section
20-107 of this article.
   (C)   Sampling must be performed in accordance with procedures set out in
section
20-108 of this article and 40 CFR 403.12(b) and (g), including 40 CFR 403.12(g)
(4).
   (6)   Certification. A statement, reviewed by the user's current authorized
representative as defined in section
20-82 and certified by a qualified professional, indicating whether
pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis, and, if not,
whether additional operation and maintenance (O and M) and/or additional
pretreatment is required to meet the pretreatment standards and requirements.
   (7)   Compliance schedule. If additional pretreatment and/or O and M will be
required to meet the pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the
user will provide such additional pretreatment and/or O and M. The completion
date in this schedule shall not be later than the compliance date established
for the applicable pretreatment standard. A compliance schedule pursuant to
this section must meet the requirements set out in section
20-99 of this article.
   (8)   Signature and certification. All baseline monitoring reports must be
signed and certified in accordance with subsection
20-97(c) of this article.
(Ord. No. O-08-07-15-1, § 2, 7-15-08)
Sec. 20-99. Compliance schedule progress reports.
   The following conditions shall apply to the compliance schedule required by
subsection
20-98(b)(7) of this article:
   (a)   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of dates
for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction
and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to meet the
applicable pretreatment standards (such events include, but are not limited to,
hiring an engineer, completing preliminary and final plans, executing contracts
for major components, commencing and completing construction, and beginning and
conducting routine operation);
   (b)   No increment referred to above shall exceed nine (9) months;
   (c)   The user shall submit a progress report to the POTW director no later
than fourteen (14) days following each date in the schedule and the final date
of compliance including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress, the reason for any delay, and, if appropriate, the steps
being taken by the user to return to the established schedule; and
   (d)   In no event shall more than nine (9) months elapse between such
progress reports to the POTW director.
(Ord. No. O-08-07-15-1, § 2, 7-15-08)
Sec. 20-100. Reports on compliance with categorical pretreatment standard;
deadline.
   Within ninety (90) days following the date for final compliance with
applicable categorical pretreatment standards, or in the case of a new source
following commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any
user subject to such pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to
the POTW director a report containing the information described in section
20-98 of this article. For users subject to equivalent mass or concentration
limits established in accordance with the procedures in 40 CFR 403.6(c), this
report shall contain a reasonable measure of the user's long-term production
rate. For all other users subject to categorical pretreatment standards
expressed in terms of allowable pollutant discharge per unit of production (or
other measure of operation), this report shall include the user's actual
production during the appropriate sampling period. All compliance reports must
be signed and certified in accordance with subsection
20-97(c) of this article.
(Ord. No. O-08-07-15-1, § 2, 7-15-08)
Sec. 20-101. Periodic compliance reports.
   Municipalities may sample and analyze user discharges in lieu of requiring
the users to conduct sampling and analysis.
   (a)   All significant industrial users shall, at a frequency determined by
the POTW director but in no case less than once every six (6) months, submit a
report indicating the nature and concentration of pollutants in the discharge
which are limited by pretreatment standards and the applicable flows for the
reporting period. Sampling and analysis must be performed in accordance with
procedures set out in sections
20-107 and
20-108 of this article. All periodic compliance reports must be signed and
certified in accordance with section
20-97 of this article.
   (b)   If a user subject to the reporting requirement in this section
monitors any pollutant more frequently than required by the POTW director,
using the procedures prescribed in section
20-107 and 20-108 of this article, the results of this monitoring shall be
included in the report.
Sec. 20-102. Reports of changed conditions.
   Each user must notify the POTW director of any planned significant changes
to the user's operations or system which might alter the nature, quality, or
volume of its wastewater at least thirty (30) days before the change. See
subsection
20-103(d) for other reporting requirements.
   (a)   The POTW director may require the user to submit such information as
may be deemed necessary to evaluate the changed condition, including the
submission of a wastewater discharge permit application under section
20-97 of this article.
   (b)   The POTW director may issue a wastewater discharge permit under
section
20-97 of this article or modify an existing wastewater discharge permit under
section
20-97 of this article in response to changed conditions or anticipated changed
conditions.
   (c)   For purposes of this requirement, significant changes include, but are
not limited to, flow increases of twenty (20) percent or greater, and the
discharge of any previously unreported pollutants.
(Ord. No. O-08-07-15-1, § 2, 7-15-08)
Sec. 20-103. Reports of potential problems.
   (a)    In the case of any discharge, including, but not limited to,
accidental discharges, discharges of a nonroutine, episodic nature, a non-
customary batch discharge, or a slug load as defined in section
20-82, that may cause potential problems for the POTW, the user shall
immediately telephone and notify the POTW director of the incident. This
notification shall include the location of the discharge, type of waste,
concentration and volume, if known, and corrective actions taken by the user.
   (b)    Within five (5) days following such discharge, the user shall, unless
waived by the POTW director, submit a detailed written report describing the
cause(s) of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the user to prevent
similar future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve the user of any
expense, loss, damage, or other liability which may be incurred as a result of
damage to the POTW, natural resources, or any other damage to person or
property; nor shall such notification relieve the user of any fines, penalties,
or other liability which may be imposed pursuant to this article.
   (c)    A notice shall be permanently posted on the user's bulletin board or
other prominent place advising employees whom to call in the event of a
discharge described in paragraph (a), above. Employers shall ensure that all
employees, who may cause such a discharge to occur, are advised of the
emergency notification procedure.
   (d)    All SIUs are required to notify the POTW immediately of any changes
at its facility affecting the potential for spills and other accidental
discharge, discharge of a nonroutine, episodic nature, a noncustomary batch
discharge, or a slug load as defined in section
20-82.
(Ord. No. O-08-07-15-1, § 2, 7-15-08)
Sec. 20-104. Reports from unpermitted users.
   All users not required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit shall provide
appropriate reports to the POTW director as the POTW director may require.
(Ord. No. O-08-07-15-1, § 2, 7-15-08)
Sec. 20-105. Notice of violation/repeat sampling and reporting.
   (a)    If sampling performed by a user indicates a violation, the user must
notify the POTW director within twenty-four (24) hours of becoming aware of the
violation. The user shall also repeat the sampling and analysis and submit the
results of the repeat analysis to the POTW director within thirty (30) days
after becoming aware of the violation. If allowed by the POTW director, the
user is not required to resample:
   (1)   If the POTW director monitors at the user's facility at least once a
month; or
   (2)   If the POTW director samples between the user's initial sampling and
when the user receives the results of this sampling.
   (b)    If the POTW director does not require the user to perform any self-
monitoring and the POTW sampling of the user indicates a violation, the POTW
director shall repeat the sampling and obtain the results of the repeat
analysis within thirty (30) days after becoming aware of the violations, unless
one (1) of the following occurs:
   (1)   The POTW director monitors at the user's facility at least once a
month; or
   (2)   The POTW director samples the user between their initial sampling and
when the POTW receives the results of this initial sampling; or
   (3)   The POTW director requires the user to perform sampling and submit the
results to the POTW director within the thirty-day deadline of the POTW
becoming aware of the violation.
(Ord. No. O-08-07-15-1, § 2, 7-15-08)
Sec. 20-106. Notification of the discharge of hazardous waste.
   The city prohibits the discharge of any hazardous wastes without
notification and approval of the POTW director.
   (a)   Any user who commences the discharge of hazardous waste shall notify
the POTW, the EPA Regional Waste Management Division Director, and State
hazardous waste authorities, in writing, of any discharge into the POTW of a
substance which, if otherwise disposed of, would be a hazardous waste under 40
CFR Part 261. Such notification must include the name of the hazardous waste as
set forth in 40 CFR Part 261, the EPA hazardous waste number, and the type of
discharge (continuous, batch, or other). If the user discharges more than one
hundred (100) kilograms of such waste per calendar month to the POTW, the
notification also shall contain the following information to the extent such
information is known and readily available to the user: an identification of
the hazardous constituents contained in the wastes, an estimation of the mass
and concentration of such constituents in the wastestream discharge during the
calendar month, and an estimation of the mass of constituents in the
wastestream expected to be discharged during the following twelve (12) months.
All notifications must take place no later than one hundred and eighty (180)
days after the discharge commences. Any notification under this paragraph need
be submitted only once for each hazardous waste discharge. However,
notifications of changed conditions must be submitted under section
20-102 of this article. The notification requirement in this section does not
apply to pollutants already reported by users subject to categorical
pretreatment standards under the self-monitoring requirements of sections
20-98,
20-100 and
20-101 of this article.
   (b)   Dischargers are exempt from the requirements of paragraph (a), above,
during a calendar month in which they discharge no more than fifteen (15)
kilograms of hazardous wastes, unless the wastes are acute hazardous wastes as
specific in 40 CFR 261.30(d) and 261.33(e). Discharge of more than fifteen (15)
kilograms of nonacute hazardous wastes in a calendar month, or of any quantity
of acute hazardous wastes as specified in 40 CFR 261.30(d) and 261.33(e),
requires a one-time notification. Subsequent months during which the user
discharges more than such quantities of any hazardous waste do not require
additional notification.
   (c)   In the case of any new regulation under section 3001 of RCRA
identifying additional characteristics of hazardous waste or listing any
additional substance as a hazardous waste, the user must notify the POTW
director, the EPA Regional Waste Management Waste Division Director, and state
hazardous waste authorities of the discharge of such substance within ninety
(90) days of the effective date of such regulations.
   (d)   In the case of any notification made under this section, the user
shall certify that it has a program in place to reduce the volume and toxicity
of hazardous wastes generated to the degree it has determined to be
economically practical.
   (e)   This provision does not create a right to discharge any substance not
otherwise permitted to be discharged by this article, a permit issued
thereunder, or any applicable federal or state law.
(Ord. No. O-08-07-15-1, § 2, 7-15-08)
Sec. 20-107. Analytical requirements.
   All pollutant analyses, including sampling techniques, to be submitted as
part of a wastewater discharge permit application or report shall be performed
in accordance with the techniques prescribed in 40 CFR Part 136, unless
otherwise specified in an applicable categorical pretreatment standard. If 40
CFR Part 136 does not contain sampling or analytical techniques for the
pollutant in question, sampling and analyses must be performed in accordance
with procedures approved by EPA.
(Ord. No. O-08-07-15-1, § 2, 7-15-08)
Sec. 20-108. Grab and composite sample collection.
   (a)    All wastewater samples must be representative of the user's
discharge. Wastewater monitoring and flow measurement facilities shall be
properly operated, kept clean, and maintained in good working order at all
times. The failure of a user to keep its monitoring facility in good working
order shall not be grounds for the user to claim that sample results are
unrepresentative of its discharge.
   (b)    Grab samples must be used for pH, cyanide, total phenols, oil and
grease, sulfide, volatile organic compounds, and any other pollutants as
required by 40 CFR 136. The POTW shall determine the number of grabs necessary
to be representative of the user's discharge. See 40 CFR 403.12(g)(5) for
additional grab sample number requirements for BMR and ninety-day compliance
reports. Additionally, the POTW director may allow collection of multiple grabs
during a twenty-four-hour period which are composited prior to analysis as
allowed under 40 CFR 136.
   (c)    Composite samples: All wastewater composite samples shall be
collected with a minimum of hourly aliquots or grabs for each hour that there
is a discharge. All wastewater composite samples shall be collected using flow
proportional composite collection techniques, unless time-proportional
composite sampling or grab sampling is authorized by the POTW director. When
authorizing time-proportional composites or grabs, the samples must be
representative and the decision to allow the alternative sampling must be
documented.
(Ord. No. O-08-07-15-1, § 2, 7-15-08)
Sec. 20-109. Timing.
   Written reports will be deemed to have been submitted on the date
postmarked. For reports which are not mailed, postage prepaid, into a mail
facility serviced by the United States Postal Service, the date of receipt of
the report shall govern.
(Ord. No. O-08-07-15-1, § 2, 7-15-08)
Sec. 20-110. Record keeping.
   Users subject to the reporting requirements of this article shall retain,
and make available for inspection and copying, all records of information
obtained pursuant to any monitoring activities required by this article and any
additional records of information obtained pursuant to monitoring activities
undertaken by the user independent of such requirements. Records shall include
the date, exact place, method, and time of sampling, and the name of the person
(s) taking the samples; the dates analyses were performed; who performed the
analyses; the analytical techniques or methods used; and the results of such
analyses. These records shall remain available for a period of at least three
(3) years. This period shall be automatically extended for the duration of any
litigation concerning the user or the city, or where the user has been
specifically notified of a longer retention period by the POTW director.
(Ord. No. O-08-07-15-1, § 2, 7-15-08)
Sec. 20-111. Electronic reporting.
   The POTW director may develop procedures for receipt of electronic reports
for any reporting requirements of this article. Such procedures shall comply
with 40 CFR Part 3. These procedures shall be enforceable under division 8 of
this article.
(Ord. No. O-08-07-15-1, § 2, 7-15-08)
DIVISION 6.
COMPLIANCE MONITORING
Sec. 20-112. Monitoring facilities.
   The city requires the user to provide and operate at the user's own expense,
monitoring facilities to allow inspection, sampling, and flow measurement of
the building sewer and/or internal drainage systems. The monitoring facility
should normally be situated on the user's premises, but the city may, when such
a location would be impractical or cause undue hardship on the user, allow the
facility to be constructed in the public street or sidewalk area and located so
that it will not be obstructed by landscaping or parked vehicles.
   There shall be ample room in or near such sampling manhole or facility to
allow accurate sampling and preparation of samples for analysis. The facility,
sampling, and measuring equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe
and proper operating condition at the expense of the user.
   Whether constructed on public or private property, the sampling and
monitoring facilities shall be provided in accordance with the requirements of
the city and all applicable local construction standards and specifications.
Construction shall be completed within ninety (90) days following written
notification by the city.
(Ord. No. O-08-07-15-1, § 2, 7-15-08)
Sec. 20-113. Inspection and sampling.
   The city will inspect the facilities of any user to ascertain whether the
purpose of this article is being met and all requirements are being complied
with. Persons or occupants of premises where wastewater is created or
discharged shall allow the city, approval authority and EPA or their
representative ready access at all reasonable times to all parts of the
premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, records examination and
copying or in the performance of any of their duties. The city, approval
authority and EPA shall have the right to set up on the user's property such
devices as are necessary to conduct sampling, inspection, compliance monitoring
and/or metering operations. Where a user has security measures in force which
would require proper identification and clearance before entry into their
premises, the user shall make necessary arrangements with their security guards
so that upon presentation of suitable identification, personnel from the city,
approval authority and EPA will be permitted to enter, without delay, for the
purposes of performing their specific responsibilities. Denial of the POTW
director's approval authority's or EPA's access to the user's premises shall be
a violation of this article. Unreasonable delays may constitute denial of
access.
(Ord. No. O-08-07-15-1, § 2, 7-15-08)
Sec. 20-114. Search warrants.
   If the POTW director, approval authority, or EPA has been refused access to
a building, structure, or property, or any part thereof, and is able to
demonstrate probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of this
article, or that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine
inspection and sampling program of the city designed to verify compliance with
this article or any permit or order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall
public health, safety and welfare of the community, then the POTW director,
approval authority, or EPA may seek issuance of a search warrant from the court
having jurisdiction within the city.
(Ord. No. O-08-07-15-1, § 2, 7-15-08)
DIVISION 7.
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION
Sec. 20-114.1. [Generally.]
   Information and data on a user obtained from reports, questionnaires, permit
applications, permits and monitoring programs and from inspections shall be
available to the public or other governmental agency without restriction unless
the user specifically requests and is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction
of the POTW director that the release of such information would divulge
information, processes or methods of production entitled to protection as trade
secrets of the user. Any such request must be asserted at the time of
submission of the information or data.
   When requested by the person furnishing a report, the portions of a report
which might disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made
available for inspection by the public, but shall be made available upon
written request to governmental agencies for uses related to this article, the
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit, nondischarge
permit and/or the pretreatment programs; provided, however, that such portions
of a report shall be available for use by the state or any state agency in
judicial review or enforcement proceedings involving the person furnishing the
report. Wastewater constituents and characteristics will not be recognized as
confidential information.
   All records relating to compliance with pretreatment standards shall be made
available to officials of the approval authority and EPA upon request.
(Ord. No. O-08-07-15-1, § 2, 7-15-08)
DIVISION 8.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
Sec. 20-115. Administrative remedies.
   (a)    Notification of violation. Whenever the POTW director finds that any
industrial user has violated or is violating this article, wastewater permit,
or any prohibition, limitation or requirements contained therein or any other
pretreatment requirement the POTW director may serve upon such a person a
written notice stating the nature of the violation. Within thirty (30) days
from the date of this notice, an explanation for the violation and a plan for
the satisfactory correction thereof shall be submitted to the city by the user.
Submission of this plan does not relieve the discharger of liability for any
violations occurring before or after receipt of the notice of violation.
   (b)    Consent orders. The POTW director is hereby empowered to enter into
consent orders, assurances of voluntary compliance, or other similar documents
establishing an agreement with the person responsible for the noncompliance.
Such orders will include specific action to be taken by the discharger to
correct the noncompliance within a time period also specified by the order.
Consent orders shall have the same force and effect as an administrative order
issued pursuant to subsection
20-115(d), below.
   (c)    Show cause hearing. The POTW director may order any industrial user
who causes or is responsible for an unauthorized discharge, has violated this
article or is in noncompliance with a wastewater discharge permit to show cause
why a proposed enforcement action should not be taken. In the event the POTW
director determines that a show cause order should be issued, a notice shall be
served on the user specifying the time and place for the hearing, the proposed
enforcement action, the reasons for such action, and a request that the user
show cause why this proposed enforcement action should not be taken. The notice
of the hearing shall be served personally or by registered or certified mail
(return receipt requested) at least ten (10) days before the hearing. Service
may be made on any agent or officer of a corporation.
   The POTW director shall review the evidence presented at the hearing and
determine whether the proposed enforcement action is appropriate.
   A show cause hearing under this section is not a prerequisite to the
assessment of a civil penalty under section
20-116 nor is any action or inaction taken by the POTW director under this
section subject to an administrative appeal under subsection
20-97(h).
   (d)    Administrative orders. When the POTW director finds that an
industrial user has violated or continues to violate this article, permits or
orders issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment requirement the POTW
director may issue an order to cease and desist all such violations and direct
those persons in noncompliance to do any of the following:
   (1)   Immediately comply with all requirements;
   (2)   Comply in accordance with a compliance time schedule set forth in the
order;
   (3)   Take appropriate remedial or preventive action in the event of a
continuing or threatened violation;
   (4)   Disconnect unless adequate treatment facilities, devices or other
related appurtenances are installed and properly operated within a specified
time period.
   (e)    Emergency suspensions. The POTW director may suspend the wastewater
treatment service and/or wastewater permit when such suspension is necessary in
order to stop an actual or threatened discharge which presents or may present
an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons or
the environment, interferes with the POTW or causes the POTW to violate any
condition of its NPDES or nondischarge permit.
   Any user notified of a suspension of the wastewater treatment service and/or
the wastewater permit shall immediately stop or eliminate the contribution. A
hearing will be held within fifteen (15) days of the notice of suspension to
determine whether the suspension may be lifted or the user's waste discharge
permit terminated. In the event of a failure to comply voluntarily with the
suspension order, the POTW director shall take such steps as deemed necessary
including immediate severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize
damage to the POTW system or endangerment to any individuals. The POTW director
shall reinstate the wastewater permit and the wastewater treatment service upon
proof of the elimination of the noncompliant discharge. The industrial user
shall submit a detailed written statement describing the causes of the harmful
contribution and the measures taken to prevent any future occurrence to the
POTW director prior to the date of the above-described hearing.
   (f)    Termination of permit or permission to discharge. The POTW director
may revoke a wastewater discharge permit or permission to discharge for good
cause, including, but not limited to, the following reasons:
   (1)   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of his discharge;
   (2)   Failure to report significant changes in operations, or wastewater
constituents and characteristics;
   (3)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user's premises for the purpose of
inspection or monitoring; or
   (4)   Violation of conditions of the permit or permission to discharge,
conditions of this article, or any applicable state and federal regulations.
   Noncompliant industrial users will be notified of the proposed termination
of their wastewater permit and will be offered an opportunity to show cause
under section
20-115 of this article why the proposed action should not be taken.
(Ord. No. O-08-07-15-1, § 2, 7-15-08)
Sec. 20-116. Civil penalties.
   (a)    Any user who is found to have failed to comply with any provision of
this article, or the orders, rules, regulations and permits issued hereunder,
may be fined up to twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000.00) per day per
violation.
   (1)   Penalties between ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) and twenty-five
thousand dollars ($25,000.00) per day per violation may be assessed against a
violator only if:
   (A)   For any class of violation, only if a civil penalty has been imposed
against the violator within the five (5) years preceding the violation, or
   (B)   In the case of failure to file, submit, or make available, as the case
may be, any documents, data, or reports required by this article, or the
orders, rules, regulations and permits issued hereunder, only if the POTW
director determines that the violation was intentional and a civil penalty has
been imposed against the violator within the five (5) years preceding the
violation.
   (b)    In determining the amount of the civil penalty, the POTW director
shall consider the following:
   (1)   The degree and extent of the harm to the natural resources, to the
public health, or to public or private property resulting from the violation;
   (2)   The duration and gravity of the violation;
   (3)   The effect on ground or surface water quantity or quality or on air
quality;
   (4)   The cost of rectifying the damage;
   (5)   The amount of money saved by noncompliance;
   (6)   Whether the violation was committed willfully or intentionally;
   (7)   The prior record of the violator in complying or failing to comply
with the pretreatment program;
   (8)   The costs of enforcement to the city.
   (c)    Appeals of civil penalties assessed in accordance with this section
shall be as provided in subsection
20-97(h).
(Ord. No. O-08-07-15-1, § 2, 7-15-08)
Sec. 20-117. Other available remedies.
   Remedies, in addition to those previously mentioned in this article, are
available to the POTW director who may use any single one (1) or combination
against a noncompliant user. Additional available remedies include, but are not
limited to:
   (a)   Criminal violations. The district attorney for the applicable judicial
district may, at the request of the city, prosecute noncompliant users who
violate the provisions of N.C.G.S. 143-215.6B. [Note: Under North Carolina law,
it is a crime to negligently violate any term, condition, or requirement of a
pretreatment permit, or negligently fail to apply for a pretreatment permit,
issued by local governments (G.S. 143-215.6B(f)), to knowingly and willfully
violate any term, condition, or requirement of a pretreatment permit, or
knowingly and willfully fail to apply for a pretreatment permit, issued by
local governments (G.S. 143-215.6B(g)), to knowingly violate any term,
condition, or requirement of a pretreatment permit issued by local governments,
or knowingly fail to apply for a pretreatment permit, knowing at the time that
a person is placed in imminent danger of death or serious bodily injury, (G.S.
143-215.6B(h)), and to falsify information required under Article 21 of Chapter
143 of the General Statutes (G.S. 143-215.6B(i)).
   (b)   Injunctive relief. Whenever a user is in violation of the provisions
of this article or an order or permit issued hereunder, the POTW director,
through the city attorney, may petition the superior court of justice for the
issuance of a restraining order or a preliminary and permanent injunction which
restrains or compels the activities in question.
   (c)   Water supply severance. Whenever an industrial user is in violation of
the provisions of this article or an order or permit issued hereunder, water
service to the industrial user may be severed and service will only recommence,
at the user's expense, after it has satisfactorily demonstrated ability to
comply.
   (d)   Public nuisances. Any violation of the prohibitions or effluent
limitations of this article or of a permit or order issued hereunder, is hereby
declared a public nuisance and shall be corrected or abated as directed by the
POTW director. Any person(s) creating a public nuisance shall be subject to the
provisions of the appropriate ordinances of the city governing such nuisances,
including reimbursing the POTW for any costs incurred in removing, abating or
remedying said nuisance.
(Ord. No. O-08-07-15-1, § 2, 7-15-08)
Sec. 20-118. Remedies nonexclusive.
   The remedies provided for in this ordinance are not exclusive. The POTW
director may take any, all, or any combination of these actions against a
noncompliant user. Enforcement of pretreatment violations will generally be in
accordance with the city's enforcement response plan. However, the POTW
director may take other action against any user when the circumstances warrant.
Further, the POTW director is empowered to take more than one (1) enforcement
action against any noncompliant user.
(Ord. No. O-08-07-15-1, § 2, 7-15-08)
DIVISION 9.
ANNUAL PUBLICATION OF SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE
Sec. 20-118.1. [Annual publication of significant noncompliance.]
   At least annually, the POTW director shall publish in the largest daily
newspaper circulated in the service area, a list of those industrial users
which were found to be in significant noncompliance, also referred to as
reportable noncompliance in 15A NCAC 2H .0903(b)(10), with applicable
pretreatment standards and requirements, during the previous twelve (12)
months.
(Ord. No. O-08-07-15-1, § 2, 7-15-08)
DIVISION 10.
AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES TO DISCHARGE VIOLATIONS
Sec. 20-119. Upset.
   (a)    An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense to an action brought
for noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards if the requirements
of paragraph (b), below, are met.
   (b)    A user who wishes to establish the affirmative defense of upset shall
demonstrate, through properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs, or other
relevant evidence that:
   (1)   An upset occurred and the user can identify the cause(s) of the upset;
   (2)   The facility was at the time being operated in a prudent and workman-
like manner and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance
procedures; and
   (3)   The user has submitted the following information to the POTW director
within twenty-four (24) hours of becoming aware of the upset [if this
information is provided orally, a written submission must be provided within
five (5) days]:
   (A)   A description of the indirect discharge and cause of noncompliance;
   (B)   The period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times or, if
not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is expected to continue;
and
   (C)   Steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate, and prevent
recurrence of the noncompliance.
   (c)    In any enforcement proceeding, the user seeking to establish the
occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof.
   (d)    Users will have the opportunity for a judicial determination on any
claim of upset only in an enforcement action brought for noncompliance with
categorical pretreatment standards.
   (e)    Users shall control production of all discharges to the extent
necessary to maintain compliance with categorical pretreatment standards upon
reduction, loss, or failure of its treatment facility until the facility is
restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement
applies in the situation where, among other things, the primary source of power
of the treatment facility is reduced, lost, or fails.
(Ord. No. O-08-07-15-1, § 2, 7-15-08)
Sec. 20-120. Prohibited discharge standards defense.
   A user shall have an affirmative defense to an enforcement action brought
against it for noncompliance with the general prohibitions in section
20-83 of this article or the specific prohibitions in subsections
20-83(b)(2), (3) and (5) through (7) of this article if it can prove that it
did not know, or have reason to know, that its discharge, alone or in
conjunction with discharges from other sources, would cause pass through or
interference and that either:
   (a)   A local limit exists for each pollutant discharged and the user was in
compliance with each limit directly prior to, and during, the pass through or
interference; or
   (b)   No local limit exists, but the discharge did not change substantially
in nature or constituents from the user's prior discharge when [the city] was
regularly in compliance with its NPDES permit, and in the case of interference,
was in compliance with applicable sludge use or disposal requirements.
(Ord. No. O-08-07-15-1, § 2, 7-15-08)
Sec. 20-120.1. Bypass.
   (a)    A user may allow any bypass to occur which does not cause
pretreatment standards or requirements to be violated, but only if it also is
for essential maintenance to assure efficient operation. These bypasses are not
subject to the provision of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
   (b)   (1)   If a user knows in advance of the need for a bypass, it shall
submit prior notice to the POTW director, at least ten (10) days before the
date of the bypass, if possible.
   (2)   A user shall submit oral notice to the POTW director of an
unanticipated bypass that exceeds applicable pretreatment standards within
twenty-four (24) hours from the time it becomes aware of the bypass. A written
submission shall also be provided within five (5) days of this time the user
becomes aware of the bypass. The written submission shall contain a description
of the bypass and its cause; the duration of the bypass, including exact dates
and times, and, if the bypass has not been corrected, the anticipated time it
is expected to continue; and steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate, and
prevent reoccurrence of the bypass. The POTW director may waive the written
report on a case-by-case basis if the oral report has been received within
twenty-four (24) hours.
   (c)   (1)   Bypass is prohibited, and the POTW director may take an
enforcement action against a user for a bypass, unless:
   (A)   Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury, or
severe property damage;
   (B)   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the use of
auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes, or maintenance
during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not satisfied if
adequate back-up equipment should have been installed in the exercise of
reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred during
normal periods of equipment downtime or preventive maintenance; and
   (C)   The user submitted notices as required under paragraph (b) of this
section.
   (2)   The POTW director may approve an anticipated bypass, after considering
its adverse effects, if the POTW director determines that it will meet the
three (3) conditions listed in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(Ord. No. O-08-07-15-1, § 2, 7-15-08)
DIVISION 11.
SEVERABILITY
Sec. 20-120.2. [Severability.]
   If any provision, paragraph, word, section or article of this article is
invalidated by any court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining provisions,
paragraphs, words, sections, and chapters shall not be affected and shall
continue in full force and effect.
(Ord. No. O-08-07-15-1, § 2, 7-15-08)
DIVISION 12.
CONFLICT
Sec. 20-120.3. [Conflict.]
   All other ordinances and parts of other ordinances inconsistent or
conflicting with any part of this article are hereby repealed to the extent of
such inconsistency or conflict.
(Ord. No. O-08-07-15-1, § 2, 7-15-08)
ARTICLE V.
ENFORCEMENT*
__________
*   Editors Note: ordinance of November 5, 1990, §§ 1--7, did not specifically
amend the Code; therefore, inclusion as Art. V, §§
20-121--
20-127, was at the discretion of the editor.
__________
Sec. 20-121. Definitions.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except when the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   AO. Administrative compliance order.
   Compliance meeting. Informal meeting with the SIU to discuss the resolution
of reoccurring noncompliance.
   NPDES permit. Natural pollutant discharge elimination system permit.
   POTW. Publicly owned treatment works.
   RNC. Reportable noncompliance.
   Show cause meeting. Formal meeting requiring the SIU to appear and
demonstrate why the control authority should not take a proposed enforcement
action against it.
   SIU. Significant industrial user.
(Ord. of 11-6-90, § 1)
Sec. 20-122. Purpose.
   This enforcement response plan outlines procedures the City of Marion will
use in order to identify, document, and respond to violations of pretreatment
regulations by significant industrial users (SIU's). This plan describes how
the city will investigate violations, and describes the types of enforcement to
be taken, identifies the officials responsible for each type of response, and
reflects the City of Marion's responsibility to enforce all pretreatment
requirements and standards.
   The City of Marion's enforcement response plan is to ensure compliance with
federal and state regulations, and to ensure that all industries are given fair
and equal treatment if enforcement of pretreatment standards and regulations
are necessary.
(Ord. of 11-6-90, § 2)
Sec. 20-123. Enforcement authorities available.
   Section
20-99 of the City of Marion's sewerage and waste discharge standards gives the
POTW the authority to take a wide variety of enforcement actions. Each of these
actions can be viewed as having a certain degree of punitiveness. The city's
enforcement response plan will utilize all of the enforcement tools available
to the POTW in a system which outlines escalating enforcement actions dependent
on the nature of the violations and the cooperativeness or recalcitrance of the
violator. Listed below are remedies authorized by the SUO and Code citation.
The list is presented in order of punitiveness, least punitive first and most
punitive last.
   (1)   Notice of violation (section
20-99(a)).
   (2)   Consent order (section
20-99(d)).
   (3)   Show cause order/hearing (section
20-99(c)).
   (4)   Administrative order (section
20-99(d)).
   (5)   Emergency suspensions (section
20-99(e)).
   (6)   Termination of permit (section
20-99(f)).
   (7)   Criminal penalties (Section 20-101 (1) and (2)).
   In addition to this, section
20-100 of the SUO authorizes the director to assess civil penalties of up to
two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) per day violation. Civil
penalties are normally used along with one of the other seven (7) activities
listed above and the punitiveness of the penalty depends on the dollar amount.
(Ord. of 11-6-90, § 3)
Sec. 20-124. Noncompliance determination.
   (a)    The City of Marion will investigate SIU compliance by:
   (1)   Inspections of the SIU.
   (2)   Reviewing SIU self-monitoring data.
   (3)   Reviewing compliance data collected by the POTW.
   (b)    The sewer use ordinance and guidance provided by the EPA and the
division of environmental management has been used by the city to identify
these categories of noncompliance:
   (1)   Unpermitted discharges: Unpermitted discharges can result from several
activities. The SIU might fail to obtain a permit prior to discharging to the
wastewater treatment plant. The SIU might discharge to a point in the
collection system which is not identified in the SIU's permit. The SIU might
begin to discharge a pollutant which was previously identified as absent by the
industry. Also, the SIU might continue to discharge when its permit has
expired.
   Unpermitted discharges will normally be discovered during the inspection of
an industry. The inspector will be responsible for determining the severity of
the violation during his inspection. The severity will depend on whether the
unpermitted discharge poses an immediate threat to the POTW or the environment
and whether the industry was unaware of the requirements or seeking to avoid
the regulations.
   (2)   Permit noncompliance. The four (4) areas permit noncompliance falls
into are discussed below:
   a.   Permit limit noncompliance permit: Permit limit violations are fairly
straightforward and the severity depends on whether the violation is considered
reportable noncompliance (RNC). RNC is defined in North Carolina's general
pretreatment regulations. It is the pretreatment coordinator's responsibility
to evaluate compliance with pretreatment limitations each time data is received
and at the end of each semiannual reporting period.
   b.   Self-monitoring noncompliance: Noncompliance with monitoring occurs
when the SIU fails to conduct all of the self-monitoring required by its
pretreatment permit. The severity of the violations depends on how much self-
monitoring was actually completed. If the SIU conducted less than eighty (80)
percent of the sampling and analyses required in a six-month period, the
violation is considered significant or RNC. Each time a self-monitoring report
is received from the SIU it is the responsibility of the pretreatment
coordinator to compare the report to the permit requirements and evaluate
compliance with monitoring requirements.
   c.   Reporting violations: Reporting violations occur when the SIU fails to
provide information which is required by the permit within the time period
stated in the permit or when the information is incomplete or false. Reports
required by the permit can include self-monitoring reports, spill prevention
plans, baseline monitoring reports, ninety-day compliance reports and sludge
handling plans. In the case of late or incomplete reports the severity of the
violation depends on the length of time the report is late. If a complete
report is not submitted within thirty (30) days of the due date, the violation
is considered RNC. Knowingly submitting false information is always considered
a significant violation.
   It is the pretreatment coordinator's responsibility to track the report due
dates included in the pretreatment permits and to evaluate compliance in terms
of the tardiness and completeness of the submission.
   d.   Violations of other permit conditions: The pretreatment permits issued
by the city contain about twenty (20) conditions which do not fall into the
category of limits, monitoring or reporting requirements. For example, the
pretreatment permit prohibits slug loads and requires the SIU to properly
operate its pretreatment facility. Violations of these conditions would
normally be discovered as part of an inspection or in conjunction with another
enforcement action. The pretreatment coordinator is responsible for evaluating
compliance with these requirements and the severity of the violation is
determined by the director.
(Ord. of 11-6-90, § 4)
Sec. 20-125. Violations of enforcement orders.
   Violations of enforcement are actually very similar to pretreatment permit
noncompliance in that they can be broken down into limits violations (interim
limits), monitoring violations (increased monitoring required by order) and
reporting violations. In addition, violations of enforcement orders would
include missing milestone dates and noncompliance with final limits once the
order has expired. However, all violations of enforcement orders, with the
exception of interim limits violations, are considered RNC. Interim limit
violations would not be considered significant if they did not meet the
criteria listed in the pretreatment regulations of North Carolina and if the
SIU paid the stipulated penalty assessed.
   Once the SIU has been put on an enforcement order, the city's initial
response to violations becomes simply a matter of notifying the SIU of the
violation and collecting the stipulated penalty outlined in the order. It is
the pretreatment coordinator's responsibility to track compliance with the
order and notify the director when penalties should be assessed. Once the
director is informed of noncompliance with an order, he will determine whether
the violations are so severe as to warrant elevated enforcement. For example,
an escalated enforcement action would be needed if its were clear that the SIU
could no longer meet the remaining milestone dates in the existing order.
(Ord. of 11-6-90, § 5)
Sec. 20-126. Response to noncompliance.
   In order to ensure that the city is taking timely and effective enforcement
actions, two (2) tools will be employed: An enforcement response guide and an
enforcement flowchart. The purpose of the enforcement response guide (ERG) is
to identify initial responses and time frames for each of the types of
violations discussed under "Noncompliance Determination." Once the enforcement
action is taken, the flow chart can be used to identify the more punitive
action which will be taken if the SIU failed to return to compliance as a
result of the previous or initial action.
   Attached to and made a part of this article by reference, is the ERG and the
flowchart. These tools will help make enforcement of violations of pretreatment
regulations much easier to identify, document, and respond to.
(Ord. of 11-6-90, § 6)
Sec. 20-127. Penalties.
   The city shall charge the SIU, in addition to the amounts established in
Table I of the Enforcement Response Guide, any amounts assessed the City of
Marion by the federal and/or state governments for any violations caused by the
SIU.
(Ord. of 11-6-90, § 7)
Chapter 21
RESERVED*
*Editor’s Note: For regulations regarding zoning, see Part IV of the Marion
Code of Ordinances.
PART IV
UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT CODE
Chapter 1
PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY
    Art. I. Introductory Provisions, §§ 1-1.1--1-1.16
    Art. II. Nonconformities, §§ 1-2.1--1-2.11
ARTICLE I.
INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS
Sec. 1-1.1. Title and references.
   This document is Part IV of the Municipal Code of the City of Marion. It
shall be officially known and cited as the "Unified Development Ordinance" and
referred to internally in this document as the "UDO". The official map
designating zoning districts and regulatory boundaries shall be titled and
known as the "Official Zoning Map of the City of Marion".
(Ord. No. O-22-01-04-1, § 3, 1-4-22)
Sec. 1-1.2. Effective date.
   The UDO was adopted and became effective on July 1, 2021 by Ordinance No. O-
21-06-15-5.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 1-1.3. Authority, applicability, and jurisdiction.
   A.   Authority. The UDO is adopted pursuant to the authority granted by the
City of Marion Municipal Charter and North Carolina General Statutes G.S. §160-
D Local Planning and Development Regulations, as amended. The UDO also uses
powers granted in other sections of the N.C.G.S. relating to particular types
of development or particular development standards.
   Except as provided for in G.S. § 160D-913, these regulations apply to the
development and use of all land and structures within the corporate limits of
the City of Marion, North Carolina and within the extraterritorial jurisdiction
exercised by ordinance and denoted on the zoning map as is digitally maintained
and on file at the City of Marion planning and development department pursuant
to G.S. 160D-105. This map and its boundaries are incorporated into and made
part of the UDO.
   B.   General Applicability and Jurisdiction. Except as provided for in G.S.
§ 160D-913, the UDO shall apply to all development and use of land and
structures located within the corporate boundaries of the City of Marion, North
Carolina, and extraterritorial jurisdiction, as denoted on the official
boundary map maintained in the office of the City Clerk, and as may be amended
from time to time, as provided by law. This map and its boundaries are
incorporated into and made part of the UDO.
   C.   Split Jurisdiction. If a parcel of land lies within the planning and
development regulation jurisdiction of more than one local jurisdiction, for
the purposes of the UDO and G.S. Chapter 160D, the local governments may, by
mutual agreement pursuant to Article 20 of G.S. Chapter 160A and with the
written consent of the landowner, assign exclusive planning and development
regulation jurisdiction under this chapter and G.S. Chapter 160D for the entire
parcel to any one of those local governments. Such a mutual agreement shall
only be applicable to development regulations and shall not affect taxation or
other non-regulatory matters. The mutual agreement shall be evidenced by a
resolution formally adopted by each governing board and recorded in the
McDowell County register of deeds within 14 days of the adoption of the last
required resolution.
   D.   Pending Jurisdiction. When changes to the city's jurisdiction are
formally proposed, the city may receive and process proposals to adopt
development regulations and any application for development approvals that
would be required in the city if the jurisdiction is changed. No final
decisions shall be made on any development approval prior to the actual
transfer of jurisdiction. Acceptance of jurisdiction, adoption of development
regulations, and decisions on development approvals may be made concurrently
and may have a common effective date.
   E.   Compliance Required.
      1.   No building, structure, or land shall be used for any purpose or in
any manner other than as provided for in the regulations for the zoning
district in which it is located, and no permit, certificate, or approval of any
use that is subject to the UDO shall be issued or granted by any department,
agency, City official, or City employee without a finding of substantial
compliance with the UDO having been issued by the appropriate review authority.
      2.   Unless otherwise stated in the UDO, no building or structure shall
be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed, or altered without a
determination of substantial compliance with the UDO.
      3.   No lot of record that did not exist on the effective date of the UDO
shall be created by subdivision or otherwise unless it complies with the UDO.
      4.   All buildings or structures and connected appurtenances which are
constructed, reconstructed, erected, altered, extended, enlarged, repaired,
altered, occupied, used, demolished, or moved shall conform to the
requirements, minimum standards, and other provisions of either the North
Carolina Building Code, or the North Carolina Residential Code, whichever is
applicable, or both if applicable. Where the provisions of this Chapter
conflict with any of the technical codes listed above, the more restrictive
provisions shall apply.
      5.   Every building or structure intended for human habitation,
occupancy, or use shall have plumbing, plumbing systems, or plumbing fixtures
installed, constructed, altered, extended, repaired, or reconstructed in
accordance with the minimum standards, requirements, and other provisions of
the North Carolina Plumbing Code.
      6.   All mechanical systems consisting of heating, ventilating, air
conditioning or refrigeration systems, fuel-burning equipment, incinerators,
and other energy-related systems, their fittings, appliances, fixtures, and
appurtenances shall be installed, erected, altered, replaced, repaired, used,
and maintained in accordance with the minimum standards, requirements, and
other provisions of the North Carolina State Mechanical Code.
      7.   All electrical wiring, installations and appurtenances shall be
erected, altered, repaired, used, and maintained in accordance with the minimum
standards, requirements, and other provisions of the North Carolina Electrical
Code.
      8.   All construction, alterations, repairs, replacement, equipment,
appliances, fixtures, fittings, and appurtenances made or installed to any
building or structure, other than one and two-family dwellings and townhouses,
shall conform to the provisions of the North Carolina Accessibility Code.
      9.   The installation of gas piping systems extending from the point of
delivery to the inlet connections of equipment served, and the installation and
operation of residential and commercial gas appliances and related accessories
shall conform to the provisions of the North Carolina Fuel Gas Code.
      10.   All manufactured housing shall be constructed, repaired, altered,
installed, erected, replaced, or moved to another site in conformance with the
provisions of the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety
Standards Act and the State of North Carolina procedural and reference codes
for mobile homes, modular dwelling units, and other factory building
structures, and all regulations adopted pursuant thereto.
      11.   All construction, alterations, repairs, replacement, equipment, and
maintenance hereinafter made or installed to any building or structure, other
than one- and two-family dwelling and townhouses, shall conform to the
provisions of the North Carolina Fire Prevention Code.
      12.   The thermal envelope of the building and installation of energy
systems, including alterations, repairs, replacement, equipment, appliances,
fixtures, fittings, and appurtenances, ventilation, cooling, air conditioning
and refrigeration systems, incinerators, and other energy-related systems shall
conform to the provisions of the North Carolina Energy Code.
      13.   All alterations, repairs, replacement, rehabilitation or change of
occupancy of any existing building shall conform.to applicable provisions of
the North Carolina Building Code Volume IX - Existing Buildings or other
applicable technical codes.
   F.   Municipal Code and Municipal Charter.
      1.   Whenever any provision of the UDO conflict with any other provisions
of the Marion city code, the stricter provision, as determined by the city
attorney, shall govern.
      2.   If any provisions of the UDO conflict with the municipal charter,
the charter shall govern.
   G.   Emergency Powers. The City Council may authorize any deviation from the
UDO during a local emergency. Local emergencies shall be declared by resolution
of the City Council. Any deviations from the UDO during such emergency shall be
authorized by resolution of the City Council without a requirement for notice
or public hearing, and shall be temporary and of set duration.
   H.   Public Agencies. To the extent allowed by law, the UDO shall apply to
all land, buildings, structures, and uses owned and/or controlled by any
municipal, county, state, or federal government agency in the City of Marion.
Where the provisions of the UDO do not legally control such land, buildings,
structures, and uses, such agencies are encouraged to meet the provisions of
the UDO.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 1-1.4. Purpose and intent.
   A.   Purpose. The general purpose of the UDO is to preserve, protect, and
promote the public health, safety, and general welfare and to implement the
goals, policies, and programs adopted by the City of Marion, including those
set forth in the City of Marion Comprehensive Plan and all technical documents
adopted by reference as set forth in this chapter.
   B.   Intent. The UDO is specifically intended to achieve the following
objectives:
      1.   Promoting orderly, efficient, and integrated development within the
city;
      2.   Providing for a variety of housing and neighborhood types and
densities at a range of housing costs, including affordable workforce housing;
      3.   Providing and protecting land, air, water, environmental, and
cultural resources;
      4.   Regulating the development and use of land based upon the impact of
such development or use on surrounding areas or the city;
      5.   Providing minimum standards for the design and improvement of land,
subdivision, and development to ensure that each building site is capable of
accommodating a structure devoted to the intended use of the land;
      6.   Guarding against loss from natural hazards such as flooding,
landslides, fires, and unstable soils;
      7.   Ensuring equitable processing of development proposals by providing
uniform procedures and standards;
      8.   Facilitating the adequate provision of multi-modes of
transportation, water, sewage, parks, and other public requirements;
      9.   Supporting appropriately located commercial and industrial activity
to sustain a healthy local economy; and
      10.   Encouraging development patterns that support greater health
benefits.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 1-1.5. Scope of codes.
   The provisions of this chapter, technical codes and of the regulatory codes
adopted herein shall apply to the following:
   A.   The location, design, materials, equipment, construction,
reconstruction, alteration, repair, maintenance, moving, demolition, removal,
use, and occupancy of every building or structure or any appurtenances
connected, attached, or used in connection with any such building or structure;
   B.   The installation, erection, alteration, repair, use and maintenance of
plumbing systems consisting of building sewers, building drains, waste and vent
systems, hot and cold-water supply systems, and all fixtures and appurtenances;
   C.   The installation, erection, alteration, repair, use and maintenance of
mechanical systems consisting of heating, ventilating, air conditioning or
refrigeration systems, fuel burning equipment, and appurtenances; and
   D.   The installation, erection, alteration, repair, use and maintenance of
electrical systems and appurtenances.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 1-1.6. Comprehensive plan and technical documents.
   A. Comprehensive plan. The City of Marion Comprehensive Plan shall serve as
the basic policy guide for the administration of the UDO. The City Council
shall adopt and reasonably maintain the Comprehensive Plan in accordance with
N.C.G.S. § 160D-5-1. The goals, policies, and strategic actions of the
Comprehensive Land Use Plan may be amended from time to time to meet changing
requirements of the City in accordance with the standards and procedures in
Sec. 3-6.1. The map designating areas of future land use activity shall be
titled the "Future Land Use Map (FLUM) of the City of Marion".
   Except as provided for in N.C.G.S. 160D-913, the UDO shall apply to all
development and use of land and structures located within the corporate
boundaries of the City of Marion, North Carolina, and extraterritorial
jurisdiction, as denoted on the official boundary map maintained in the office
of the City Clerk, and as may be amended from time to time, as provided by law.
This map and its boundaries are incorporated into and made part of the UDO.
   B.   Technical documents. The City Council may adopt guidelines, handbooks,
manuals, or other technical documents referenced in the UDO that provide
technical guidance, standards, and specifications for typical development
improvements. All development shall comply with the standards contained therein
or with City approved alternatives prior to issuance of certificate of
compliance, certificate of occupancy or release of performance or warranty
bonds. The City may amend these technical documents as required to maintain
them in conformance with industry best practices.
   C.   Building code regulations.
      1.   All buildings or structures and connected appurtenances which are
constructed, reconstructed, erected, altered, extended, enlarged, repaired,
altered, occupied, used, demolished, or moved shall conform to the
requirements, minimum standards, and other provisions of either the North
Carolina Building Code, or the North Carolina Residential Code, whichever is
applicable, or both if applicable. Where the provisions of this Chapter
conflict with any of the technical codes listed above, the more restrictive
provisions shall apply.
      2.   Every building or structure intended for human habitation,
occupancy, or use shall have plumbing, plumbing systems, or plumbing fixtures
installed, constructed, altered, extended, repaired, or reconstructed in
accordance with the minimum standards, requirements, and other provisions of
the North Carolina Plumbing Code.
      3.   All mechanical systems consisting of heating, ventilating, air
conditioning or refrigeration systems, fuel-burning equipment, incinerators,
and other energy-related systems, their fittings, appliances, fixtures, and
appurtenances shall be installed, erected, altered, replaced, repaired, used,
and maintained in accordance with the minimum standards, requirements, and
other provisions of the North Carolina State Mechanical Code.
      4.   All electrical wiring, installations and appurtenances shall be
erected, altered, repaired, used, and maintained in accordance with the minimum
standards, requirements, and other provisions of the North Carolina Electrical
Code.
      5.   All construction, alterations, repairs, replacement, equipment,
appliances, fixtures, fittings, and appurtenances made or installed to any
building or structure, other than one and two-family dwellings and townhouses,
shall conform to the provisions of the North Carolina Accessibility Code.
      6.   The installation of gas piping systems extending from the point of
delivery to the inlet connections of equipment served, and the installation and
operation of residential and commercial gas appliances and related accessories
shall conform to the provisions of the North Carolina Fuel Gas Code.
      7.   All manufactured housing shall be constructed, repaired, altered,
installed, erected, replaced, or moved to another site in conformance with the
provisions of the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety
Standards Act and the State of North Carolina procedural and reference codes
for mobile homes, modular dwelling units, and other factory building
structures, and all regulations adopted pursuant thereto.
      8.   All construction, alterations, repairs, replacement, equipment, and
maintenance hereinafter made or installed to any building or structure, other
than one- and two-family dwelling and townhouses, shall conform to the
provisions of the North Carolina Fire Prevention Code.
      9.   The thermal envelope of the building and installation of energy
systems, including alterations, repairs, replacement, equipment, appliances,
fixtures, fittings, and appurtenances, ventilation, cooling, air conditioning
and refrigeration systems, incinerators, and other energy-related systems shall
conform to the provisions of the North Carolina Energy Code.
      10.   All alterations, repairs, replacement, rehabilitation or change of
occupancy of any existing building shall conform to applicable provisions of
the North Carolina Building Code Volume IX - Existing Buildings or other
applicable technical codes.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 1-1.7. Official copy of codes, plans, and technical documents.
   An official copy of each regulatory code, technical code, plan, map, or
manual adopted in this chapter, and official copies of all amendments, shall be
kept on file with the City Clerk. Such copies shall be the official copies.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 1-1.8. Establishing the official zoning map.
   A.   The location and boundaries of zoning districts established by this UDO
are shown and maintained as part of the city's geographic information system
(GIS) under the direction of the Planning and Development Director. The
"Zoning" layer constitutes the City of Marion's official zoning map, and is as
incorporated as part of the UDO. All notations, references, and other
information shown shall have the same force and effect as if fully set forth or
described in the UDO.
      1.   The planning and development director must direct revisions to the
official zoning map to reflect its amendment as soon as possible after the
effective date of a zoning map amendment.
   B.   No unauthorized person may alter or modify the official zoning map.
   C.   The planning and development director may authorize printed copies of
the official zoning map to be produced, and must maintain digital or printed
copies of suspended versions of the official zoning map for historical
reference and for public inspection pursuant to G.S. 160D-105.
   D.   Development regulations adopted pursuant to the UDO may reference or
incorporate by reference flood insurance rate maps, watershed boundary maps, or
other maps officially adopted or promulgated by State and federal agencies. For
these maps a regulation text or zoning map may reference a specific officially
adopted map or may incorporate by reference the most recent officially adopted
version of such maps. When zoning district boundaries are based on these maps,
the regulation may provide that the zoning district boundaries are
automatically amended to remain consistent with changes in the officially
promulgated State or federal maps, provided a copy of the currently effective
version of any incorporated map shall be maintained for public inspection as
provided in subsection (D) of this section.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 1-1.9. District boundaries.
   Where the ordinance establishing a zoning boundary identifies the boundary
as following a particular feature, or reflects a clear intent that the boundary
follows the feature, the boundary will be construed as following that feature
as it actually exists.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 1-1.10. Boundary interpretations.
   A.   Where any uncertainty exists about a zoning boundary, the Planning
Director is authorized to interpret the boundary's location using the following
rules of interpretation:
      1.   A boundary shown on the zoning map as approximately following a lot
line or parcel boundary is construed as following the lot line or parcel
boundary as it actually existed at the time the zoning boundary was
established.
      2.   A boundary shown on the zoning map as approximately following a
river, stream, lake or other watercourse is construed as following the actual
centerline of the watercourse.
      3.   A boundary shown on the zoning map as approximately following a
street or alley is generally construed as following the right-of-way line of
the street or alley.
      4.   A boundary shown on the zoning map as approximately following a
railroad line is construed as following the centerline of the railroad.
      5.   A boundary shown on the zoning map as approximately following the
boundary of a municipality or of its extraterritorial jurisdiction is construed
as following that boundary.
      6.   A boundary shown on the zoning map as approximately parallel to, or
as an apparent extension of, a feature described above is construed as being
actually parallel to, or an extension of, the feature.
      7.   Past zoning maps may be consulted to aid in interpreting boundary
lines.
      8.   Appeals of administrative interpretations of zoning boundaries may
be taken to the Board of Adjustment in accordance with Sec.
3-7.5
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 1-1.11. Ordinance interpretation.
   A.   Interpretation by Zoning Administrator. The zoning administrator and/or
an officer charged with enforcing the UDO is authorized to make interpretations
concerning the provisions of the UDO.
   B.   Appeal. Appeals of official administrative interpretations of all other
portions of this chapter may be appealed to the review authority in accordance
with the appeal procedures of Sec.
3-7.5 .
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 1-1.12. Compliance.
   No structure, land, or use thereof, shall hereafter be established, located,
subdivided, extended, converted, altered, developed, or disturbed in any way
without full compliance with the terms of the UDO and other applicable
regulations.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 1-1.13. Minimum requirements.
   The standards of the UDO are minimum requirements. The issuance of any
permit, certificate or approval in accordance with the standards and
requirements of the UDO shall not relieve the recipient of the responsibility
for complying with all other applicable local, state, or federal requirements.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 1-1.14. Conflicting provisions.
   A.   Conflict with state or federal regulations. If the provisions of the
UDO are inconsistent with those of the state or federal government, the more
restrictive provisions will control, to the extent permitted by law.
   B.   Conflicts with other city regulations. If the provisions of the UDO are
inconsistent with one another or if they conflict with provisions found in
other adopted ordinances or regulations of the city, the more restrictive
provision will control, except that the provisions of an overlay district shall
govern regardless of whether they are more restrictive or less restrictive than
the conflicting provisions.
   C.   Conflict with private agreements and covenants. Where the provisions of
the UDO impose a greater restriction than imposed by a private agreement,
including but not limited to any easement, covenant, or deed restriction, the
provisions of the UDO will control.
      1.   Where the provisions of a private agreement impose greater
restriction than the UDO, the provisions of the private agreement may be
enforced between private parties notwithstanding the provisions of the Code.
      2.   The existence of a private agreement shall not excuse any failure to
comply with the UDO.
      3.   The City of Marion shall not be responsible for monitoring or
enforcing private agreements.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 1-1.15. Transitional provisions.
   A.   Violations continue. Any violation of any previous ordinance of the
City of Marion shall continue to be a violation under the UDO and shall be
subject to the penalties and enforcement set forth at the time of the
violation, unless the use, development, construction, or other development
activity or land modification is consistent with the express terms of the UDO,
except to the extent of collecting penalties for violations that occurred
before the effective date of the UDO.
   The adoption of the UDO shall not affect or prevent any pending or future
prosecution of, or action to abate, violations of the previous City of Marion
Zoning Ordinance or other city land development ordinances that occurred prior
to the effective date of the UDO.
   B.   Use, Building, Structures and Lot Rendered Conforming. A use, building,
structure, or lot not lawfully existing at the time of the adoption of the UDO
may be deemed lawful and conforming as the effective date of the UDO if it
conforms to all of the requirements of the UDO.
   C.   Use, Building, Structure, and Lot Rendered Nonconforming. Any legal
nonconformity under any previous ordinance of the City of Marion will also be a
legal nonconformity under the UDO, as long as the situation that resulted in
the nonconforming status under the previous regulation continues to exist. A
situation that did not constitute a lawful nonconforming situation under the
previously adopted zoning ordinance does not achieve lawful nonconforming
status under the UDO merely by repeal of the previous ordinance.
   D.   Applications Submitted Before the Effective Date of the UDO. Any
building, structure, subdivision of land, or other form of development for
which a complete application was submitted to the city before the effective
date of the UDO and pending approval on or after the effective date of the UDO
may, at the applicant's option, be reviewed under the terms of the city's
previous zoning, subdivision, or other applicable development regulations. If
approved, such projects may be carried out in accordance with the development
standards in effect at the time of application. Any re- application for an
expired permit shall meet the standards in effect at the time of re-
application.
   E.   Permits Issued Before the Effective Date of the UDO. Any building,
structure, subdivision of land, or other form of development for which a permit
was issued before the effective date of the UDO may be completed in conformance
with the issued permit and other applicable permits and conditions, even if
such building, structure, or development does not fully comply with provisions
of the UDO.
   If work on the building, structure, subdivision of land, or other form of
development does not begin within time requirements established by prior
ordinance or resolution or within any schedule included in the approval, the
decision- making body may, upon receipt of a written request and payment of the
required fee, grant a time extension for good cause shown.
   If the building, structure, subdivision of land, or other form of
development is not commenced or completed within the time allowed under the
original permit or any extension granted, then the building, structure,
subdivision of land, or other form of development may be constructed, completed
or occupied only in strict compliance with the requirements of the UDO.
   This section applies in addition to any established vested right a person
may have, but in no case may a person add time acquired pursuant to this
section to the time permitted by virtue of a vested right or vice versa.
   F.   Outstanding floodplain development permits. Nothing herein contained
shall require any change in the plans, construction, size, or designated use of
any development or any part thereof for which a floodplain development permit
has been granted by the floodplain administrator or his or her authorized
agents before the time of passage of this UDO; provided, however, that when
construction is not begun under such outstanding permit within a period of six
(6) months subsequent to the date of issuance of the outstanding permit,
construction or use shall be in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 1-1.16. Severability.
   A.   Unless expressly provided otherwise, if any portion of the UDO or the
application of the UDO is found to be invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, such invalidity shall not affect the remaining portions or
applications of the UDO that can be given effect without the invalid portion or
application.
   B.   If for any reason any specific condition or regulation of a conditional
district zoning district is found to be invalid, it is the intention of this
section that such invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications
of the conditional district zoning district ordinance. However, when any
property owner or their tenants or agents challenge any specific condition or
regulation of a conditional district zoning district ordinance, then the entire
zoning district ordinance shall return to its prior zoning classification upon
a finding of invalidity of any specific condition or regulation.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
ARTICLE II.
NONCONFORMITIES
Sec. 1-2.1. General scope.
   The regulations of this article govern lots, uses, buildings and structures,
signs and other aspects of development that came into existence lawfully but do
not conform to one or more requirements of the UDO. These are referred to as
"nonconformities," which should not be confused with "illegal" uses or
structures.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 1-2.2. Intent.
   The regulations of this article are intended to:
   A.   Recognize the interests of property owners in continuing to use their
property for lawful purposes;
   B.   Promote reuse and rehabilitation of existing buildings;
   C.   Place reasonable limits on the expansion and alteration of
nonconformities that have the potential to adversely affect surrounding
properties or the community as a whole; and
   D.   Nothing herein shall preclude the adoption of an amortization period in
which certain nonconforming uses or conditions are to be phased out.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 1-2.3. Determination of nonconforming status.
   A.   If the planning and development director cannot determine a property's
nonconforming status, then the burden of proving that a lawfully established
nonconformity exists, as opposed to an illegal one, rests with the landowner.
   B.   Where a copy of the approved plan for a project cannot be located, the
landowner may provide reasonable evidence of the existing improvements. Such
evidence may be offered by any reasonable means including but not limited to an
affidavit signed by the owner or other party. After submission of evidence of
the existing improvements, the planning and development director shall
reasonably determine their status using the ordinances in effect at the time of
the installation of the improvements.
   C.   Any building, lot, use, or structure deemed a nonconformity by state or
federal law shall be removed immediately upon the effective date of such law,
or at such time as designated by such law.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 1-2.4. Determination of value.
   The value of property shall be presumed to be the property's tax value
unless rebutted by competent evidence presented by the owner to the planning
and development director. Competent evidence shall include a certified
appraisal or comparable sales and purchase prices within 3 years of the damage.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 1-2.5. Damage, maintenance and repairs.
   A.   Incidental repairs and normal maintenance of nonconformities are
permitted unless the repairs are otherwise expressly prohibited by the UDO. For
the purpose of this provision, repair or replacement of non-load bearing walls,
fixtures, electrical or plumbing are considered incidental repairs if the total
value of the repairs in any 12-month period does not exceed 50% of the tax
value of the structure.
   B.   Nothing in this article is to be construed to prevent structures from
being structurally strengthened or restored to a safe condition, in accordance
with an official order of the chief building official or other duly authorized
city official.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 1-2.6. Change of tenancy or ownership.
   Nonconforming status "runs with the land" and is not affected by changes of
tenancy, ownership, or management.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 1-2.7. Nonconforming lot of record.
   A.   Nonconforming Lots Resulting from Public Acquisition. Lots of record
that are rendered nonconforming or more nonconforming as a result of
acquisition of a portion of the lot for public purposes by any public agency
have the status of nonconforming lots of record.
   B.   Use of Nonconforming Lots. Nonconforming lots of record may be used in
accordance with the UDO where the landowner does not own sufficient contiguous
land to enable conformity to the minimum lot size requirements of the UDO, such
lot may be used as a building site provided that:
      1.   Where the lot area and lot width are no more than twenty-five (25)
percent below the minimum specified in the UDO, and other dimensional
requirements are otherwise complied with, the planning and development
director, or their designee, is authorized to issue a building permit; or
      2.   Where the lot area and lot width are more than twenty-five (25)
percent below the minimum specified in the UDO, or other dimensional
requirements cannot be met, the board of adjustment is authorized to approve as
a variance such dimensions as shall conform as closely as possible to the
required dimensions.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 1-2.8. Nonconforming use.
   A.   Continuation. A nonconforming use may continue, subject to the
regulations of the UDO.
   B.   Expansion or Alteration of a Nonconforming Use.
      1.   The planning and development director may approve a minor
modification allowing alteration of a nonconforming use that does not increase
the degree of nonconformity, or have a greater adverse impact on the
surrounding area. To make a determination, the planning and development
director must consider all of the following criteria:
         a.   Parking requirements of each use;
         b.   Anticipated number of persons on the premises of each use at a
time of peak demand;
         c.   Off-site impacts of each use, such as lighting, noise, glare,
dust, odor, vibration, or smoke; and
      2.   A nonconforming use may not be relocated, in whole or in part, to
another portion of the subject lot or parcel.
      3.   A nonconforming use may not be expanded, enlarged, or extended to
occupy a greater area of land or floor area.
      4.   Expansion or alteration decisions may be appealed to the board of
adjustment in accordance with Sec.
3-7.5.
   C.   Damage or Destruction. A nonconforming use that is damaged by fire,
neglect, or natural causes may retain nonconforming status if the damage to the
structure does not exceed 50% of its pre-damage tax value, according to bona
fide repair estimates provided by the owner of property.
   D.   Change to a Conforming Use. The planning and development director may
allow a nonconforming use to be changed to any use allowed in the subject
zoning district provided compliance with all applicable UDO requirements is
achieved. Administrative change of use decisions may be appealed to the board
of adjustment in accordance with the procedures of Sec.
3-7.5 .
   E.   Change to Another Nonconforming Use. The board of adjustment may allow
a nonconforming use to be changed to another nonconforming use that is in the
same use category, pursuant to Sec.
4-3.2 or to another functionally similar use or less intensive use, if the
board of adjustment determines that the proposed use will have no greater
adverse impacts on the surrounding area. To make a determination, the board of
adjustment must consider specific land use criteria in Sec.
4-3.4 for the proposed use, if applicable.
   F.   New Signs with Nonconforming Use.
      1.   The planning and development director may approve a minor
modification allowing the replacement of a sign for a nonconforming use,
provided the replacement of the sign is no larger or taller and does not use
more intensive illumination or a different type of illumination than the sign
being replaced. This approval must be conditioned upon removal of any existing
nonconforming signs on the site.
      2.   An application for a new sign or a sign larger or taller than the
sign being replaced shall require approval of a special use permit by the board
of adjustment in accordance with Sec.
3-7.1.
   G.   Loss of Nonconforming Use Status.
      1.   A nonconforming use that ceases operations for any reason for a
continuous period of more than one year may not be reestablished. Any
subsequent use of such land must be a use permitted in the district.
      2.   The resumption of a nonconforming use is not permitted if the
nonconforming use is replaced by an allowed use for any period of time.
   H.   Accessory Uses and Structures. A use that is accessory to a principal
nonconforming use may not be continued after the principal use has been
abandoned, unless the use is also an accessory use to other principal uses
allowed in the general zoning district.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 1-2.9. Nonconforming structures.
   Nonconforming structures may remain, subject to the standards of this
section.
   A.   Alterations.
      1.   The planning and development director may approve a minor
modification allowing alterations to a nonconforming structure that does not
increase the degree of nonconformity.
      2.   Any enlargement of a nonconforming structure must conform to the
dimensional requirements of the zoning district unless the board of adjustment
grants a variance in accordance with the variance procedures set forth in Sec.
3-7.2.
      3.   Any relocation of a nonconforming structure must comply with the
dimensional requirements of the subject zoning district.
      4.   Any applicant proposing alterations to a nonconforming structure
located within locally designated historic district or historic landmark
located within the city of Marion must obtain a certificate of appropriateness
pursuant to Sec.
8-3.9 from the historic preservation commission, as appropriate, prior to
action by the planning and development director or board of adjustment as
established in paragraph 1) or paragraph 2) above, as applicable.
      5.   Proposed alterations to nonconforming structures located within a
National Register District or individually designated site must meet the
Secretary of the Interior Standards for Rehabilitation as determined by the
historic preservation commission, prior to action by the planning and
development director or board of adjustment as established in paragraph 1) or
paragraph 2) above, as applicable.
   B.   Damage or Destruction. A nonconforming structure, except as provided
for in Sec.
1-2.10, that has been damaged by accidental causes beyond the control of the
owner may be reconstructed if the damage to the structure is less than 50% of
its pre-damage tax value or 75% of pre-damage tax value for any locally
designated landmark or contributing structure in a national register historic
district, provided that provisions are met:
      1.   It is constructed in the same location and up to the same dimensions
as originally existed or it complies with dimensional requirements in effect at
the time of replacement; and
      2.   A permit for reconstruction is obtained within two (2) years of the
date of damage.
   C.   Nonconforming Manufactured Homes. A nonconforming manufactured home may
remain, subject to the standards of this section.
   D.   Manufactured Home Constructed on or After June 15, 1976.
      1.   Provided that no new dimensional nonconformities are created;
      2.   The manufactured home replacement conforms with specific standards
for a manufactured home in Sec.
4-3.4.
      3.   The manufactured home is replaced within three hundred sixty-five
(365) days of the last day of occupancy of the original manufactured home.
   E.   Manufactured Home Constructed Before June 15, 1976.
      1.   Any manufactured home not constructed in accordance with the
National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act that has
been vacant for three hundred sixty-five (365) consecutive days; where active
water, sewer, and power utilities have not been maintained at the home during
that time, and is deemed by the City to be a public nuisance in accordance with
Marion City Code,
Chapter 9 Health and Sanitation and/or unfit for human habitation in accordance
with
Chapter 7 of the UDO shall not be reoccupied, and the property owner shall be
required to remove the home within ninety (90) days of notice from the city of
Marion.
      2.   A request for extension to the Housing Appeals Board pursuant to
Sec.
3-7.5 is made in writing by the landowner providing a plan and date of removal
or repair of the structure.
      3.   Failure to remove the manufactured home shall be deemed a violation
of the Marion City Code and subject to civil action.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 1-2.10. Nonconforming signs.
   A.   Policy. It is the policy of the City of Marion to encourage that all
signs within the city be brought into compliance with the requirements of
Chapter 6, Article II of the UDO.
   B.   Applicability. Unless otherwise expressly stated, the nonconforming
sign regulations of this section apply to all signs, including outdoor
advertising signs.
   C.   Continuation of Nonconforming Signs. A nonconforming sign may remain in
place and be maintained indefinitely, except as provided for in Sec.
1-2.11 as a legal nonconforming sign subject to compliance with the following:
      1.   Normal maintenance of the nonconforming sign is allowed including
changing of copy, nonstructural repairs such as repainting or electrical
repairs, and incidental alterations that do not increase the degree or extent
of the nonconformity.
      2.   Nonconforming signs and sign structures may not be structurally
altered, enlarged or extended, or have additional lighting added.
      3.   Nonconforming signs and sign structures may not be relocated.
      4.   A nonconforming sign that has been damaged by any cause may be
repaired if the cost of the repair does not exceed 50% of the original value or
replacement value, whichever is greater.
      5.   If a nonconforming sign has been designated as a landmark sign by
the historic preservation commission, the sign shall be considered a conforming
sign.
   D.   Loss of Nonconforming Sign Status and Removal.
      1.   Discontinuance.
         a.   A nonconforming sign that is removed may only be replaced with a
conforming sign.
         b.   A nonconforming sign shall lose nonconforming status and must be
removed or brought into compliance if the business activity on the premises is
discontinued for a continuous period of 365 days or more. This provision does
not apply to outdoor advertising signs.
         c.   Sign removal shall include the entire sign and any or all
supports and appurtenances.
   E.   Damage or Destruction. A nonconforming sign that has been damaged by
any cause shall lose nonconforming status and must be removed or brought into
compliance if the damage to the structure exceeds 50% of its original value or
replacement value, whichever is less, except as provided for in Sec.
1-2.11.
   F.   Change of Conditions.
      1.   Except as outlined in subsection (2) below, all nonconforming signs,
except outdoor advertising signs, which are subject to Sec.
1-2.11, must be brought into compliance or removed if any or all of the
following occurs:
         a.   If the damage to the sign exceeds 50% of its original value or
replacement value, whichever is less;
         b.   If the business or activity on the premises is discontinued for a
continuous period of 365 days or more;
         c.   If additions, expansions, or alterations to the building or use
occur that are greater than 50% of the original size or value of the building
or use, whichever is greater;
         d.   If any change in the existing use of the property occurs; or
         e.   If an application for a sign permit is made to add new or
additional signs to a property containing a nonconforming sign.
      2.   For lots which contain a nonconforming outdoor advertising sign, new
attached signs in compliance with the standards of Chapter Six, Article Two of
the UDO shall be permitted.
   G.   Prohibited Signs and Signs Allowed without Permits. A sign that is
prohibited by the UDO and signs allowed without permits in accordance with Sec.
6-2.9 must be brought into compliance with the Chapter Six, Article Two Sign
Regulations by December 31, 2021.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 1-2.11. Nonconforming outdoor advertising signs.
   A.   Damage or Destruction. Outdoor advertising signs must be brought into
compliance or removed if the damage to the sign from any cause equals 50% or
more of its replacement value according to bona fide repair and replacement
cost estimates provided by the sign owner.
   B.   Replacement and Relocation Generally. Outdoor advertising signs may
only be replaced with signs that comply with the standards set forth in Chapter
Six, Article Two Sign Regulations.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Chapter 2
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
Sec. 2-1.1. General authority.
   Except as defined herein, the boards, commissions and committees authorized
with the authority to carry out the duties and responsibilities of the UDO as
authorized under N.C.G.S. 160D are defined in Chapter Two Administration of the
Marion City Code of Ordinances. These boards and commissions include, but are
not limited to, the following:
   1.   Planning Board
   2.   Board of Adjustment
   3.   Historic Preservation Commission
   4.   Housing Appeals Board
   5.   Watershed Review Board
   For the purpose of the UDO, the use of the term "board" is presumed to
include any board, commission, or committee assigned to carry out a specific
function or duty of the UDO.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 2-1.2. Functions and duties.
   A.   It shall be the function of the planning and development department to
administer and enforce all of the provisions of the UDO; regulatory and
technical codes adopted by reference in the UDO; and make all inspections
necessary to determine the compliance with the provisions and to exercise all
duties and powers imposed or given by applicable General Statutes or any other
applicable act of the General Assembly of the State of North Carolina.
   B.   It shall be the duty of the planning and development director, or their
designee, to serve as staff liaison to any board, commission or committee
authorized with power to administer and enforce the UDO.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 2-1.3. Open meeting requirements.
   Meetings of the city council and its boards and commissions are subject to
all applicable requirements of the North Carolina meetings law.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 2-1.4. Delegation of administrative authority and duties.
   A.   Planning and Development Director.
      1.   Administrative Authority.
         a.   The planning and development director shall serve as the
administrator of the UDO unless otherwise stated and has the authority to
supervise all activities and decisions of the planning and development
department.
         b.   The planning and development director may designate any staff
member as their designee in any function assigned by the UDO.
         c.   Any reference in the UDO to the planning and development
director, floodplain administrator, subdivision administrator, watershed
administrator or other administrative designation shall be presumed to be the
planning and development director or their designee.
      2.   Duties, including but not limited to:
         a.   Draft and implement plans and development regulations to be
adopted pursuant to G.S. Chapter 160D;
         b.   Determine whether applications for development approvals are
complete;
         c.   Process applications for development approvals; provide notice of
applications and hearings;
         d.   Make decisions and determinations regarding development
regulation implementation;
         e.   Determine whether applications for development approvals meet
applicable standards as established by law and local ordinance;
         f.   Conduct inspections;
         g.   Issue or deny certificates of compliance; enforcing development
regulations, including issuing notices of violation, and orders to correct
violations; and
         h.   Bring judicial action against actual or threatened violations;
keeping adequate records; and any other actions that may be required in order
to adequately enforce the UDO and laws of the city of Marion that are under the
city's planning and development jurisdiction.
   B.   Chief Building Official.
      1.   Administrative Authority.
         a.   The chief building official is responsible for the administration
and enforcement of the North Carolina State Building Code, North Carolina State
Residential Code for One and Two Family Dwellings and all other applicable
state codes adopted by the North Carolina Building Code Council as referenced
herein, and as may be amended from time to time.
         b.   The chief building official shall be responsible for the direct
supervision of building inspection staff.
      2.   Duties, including but not limited to:
         a.   Processing and reviewing applications and plans in accordance
with state building codes, including those for building, electrical,
mechanical, plumbing, and gas.
         b.   Conducting inspections of buildings and other structures.
         c.   The installation of plumbing systems, electrical systems, heating
systems, refrigeration systems, and air-conditioning systems.
         d.   The maintenance of buildings and other structures in a safe,
sanitary, and healthful condition.
         e.   Issuance or denial of development permits, certificates of
compliance, and certificates of occupancy; enforcing development regulations,
including issuing notices of violation, stop work orders, and orders to correct
violations.
         f.   Bringing judicial action against actual or threatened violations;
keeping adequate records; and any other actions that may be required in order
to adequately enforce the UDO and laws of the city of Marion that are under the
city's planning and development jurisdiction.
   C.   Technical Review Committee.
      1.   Purpose. The purpose of the Technical Review Committee (TRC) is to
coordinate the review of any development application that requires final action
by the governing board when a public street, right-of-way, or utility is
altered, extended, expanded, or modified.
      2.   Composition. The TRC shall be composed of administrative
representation from each of the following departments and the divisions within
them:
         a.   Planning and Development (Planning)
         b.   Planning and Development (Building);
         c.   Fire Department;
         d.   Public Works (Streets); and
         e.   Public Works (Utilities).
   The director of each department, or their designee, having the power and
authority to review and make recommendations on development applications shall
serve on the TRC.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 2-1.5. Floodplain administrator.
   The floodplain administrator shall perform, but not be limited to, the
following duties:
   A.   Review all floodplain development applications and issue permits for
all proposed development within special flood hazard areas to assure that the
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied.
   B.   Review all proposed development within special flood hazard areas to
assure that all necessary local, state and federal permits have been received.
   C.   Notify adjacent communities and the North Carolina Department of Crime
Control and Public Safety, Division of Emergency Management, State Coordinator
for the National Flood Insurance Program prior to any alteration or relocation
of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification to the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA).
   D.   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is maintained.
   E.   Prevent encroachments into floodways and nonencroachment areas unless
the certification and flood hazard reduction provisions of Sec.
8-1.19 are met.
   F.   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the
reference level (including basement) and all attendant utilities of all new and
substantially improved structures, in accordance with the provisions of Sec.
8-1.16.
   G.   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which all
new and substantially improved structures and utilities have been flood-
proofed, in accordance with the provisions of Sec.
8-1.16.
   H.   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of all public
utilities in accordance with the provisions of Sec.
8-1.16.
   I.   When flood-proofing is utilized for a particular structure, obtain
certifications from a registered professional engineer or architect in
accordance with the provisions of Sec.
8-1.16 and Sec.
8-1.19.B.2.
   J.   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of boundaries
of the special flood hazard areas, lloodways, or nonencroachment areas (for
example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and
actual field conditions), make the necessary interpretation. The person
contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity
to appeal the interpretation as provided in this article.
   K.   When base flood elevation (BFE) data have not been provided in
accordance with the provisions of Sec.
8-1.19.B.2, obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any BFE data, along with
floodway data or nonencroachment area data available from a federal, state, or
other source, including data developed pursuant to Sec.
8-1.19.C.3 in order to administer the provisions of the UDO.
   L.   When base flood elevation (BFE) data are provided but no floodway or
nonencroachment area data have been provided in accordance with the provisions
of Sec.
8-1.7, obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any floodway data or
nonencroachment area data available from a federal, state, or other source in
order to administer the provisions of this chapter.
   M.   When the lowest floor and the lowest adjacent grade of a structure or
the lowest ground elevation of a parcel in a special flood hazard area are
above the base flood elevation (BFE), advise the property owner of the option
to apply for a letter of map amendment (LOMA) from FEMA. Maintain a copy of the
LOMA issued by FEMA in the floodplain development permit file.
   N.   Permanently maintain all records that pertain to the administration of
this chapter and make these records available for public inspection,
recognizing that such information may be subject to the Privacy Act of 1974, as
amended.
   O.   Make on-site inspections of work in progress. As the work pursuant to a
floodplain development permit progresses, the floodplain administrator shall
make as many inspections of the work as may be necessary to ensure that the
work is being done according to the provisions of the local ordinance and the
terms of the permit. In exercising this power, the floodplain administrator has
a right, upon presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises
within the jurisdiction of the community at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action.
   P.   Issue stop-work orders as required. Whenever a building or part thereof
is being constructed, reconstructed, altered, or repaired in violation of this
chapter, the floodplain administrator may order the work to be immediately
stopped. The stop-work order shall be in writing and directed to the person
doing or in charge of the work. The stop-work order shall state the specific
work to be stopped, the specific reason(s) for the stoppage, and the condition
(s) under which the work may be resumed. Violation of a stop-work order
constitutes a misdemeanor.
   Q.   Revoke floodplain development permits as required. The floodplain
administrator may revoke and require the return of the floodplain development
permit by notifying the permit holder in writing stating the reason(s) for the
revocation. Permits shall be revoked for any substantial departure from the
approved application, plans, and specifications; for refusal or failure to
comply with the requirements of state or local laws; or for false statements or
misrepresentations made in securing the permit. Any floodplain development
permit mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable state or local law may
also be revoked.
   R.   Make periodic inspections throughout the special flood hazard areas
within the jurisdiction of the community. The floodplain administrator and each
member of his or her inspections department shall have a right, upon
presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises within the
territorial jurisdiction of the department at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action.
   S.   Follow through with corrective procedures of Sec.
8-1.17.
   T.   Review, provide input, and make recommendations for variance requests.
   U.   Maintain a current map repository to include, but not be limited to,
the FIS Report, FIRM and other official flood maps and studies adopted in
accordance with the provisions of Sec.
8-1.17 of the UDO, including any revisions thereto including letters of map
change, issued by FEMA. Notify state and FEMA of mapping needs.
   V.   Coordinate revisions to FIS reports and FIRMs, including letters of map
revision based on fill (LOMR- Fs) and letters of map revision (LOMRs).
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 2-1.6. Watershed administrator.
   The City of Marion shall appoint a Watershed Administrator, who shall be
duly sworn in. It shall be the duty of the Watershed Administrator to
administer and enforce the provisions for watershed management as follows:
   A.   The Watershed Administrator shall issue Watershed Protection Permits
and Watershed Protection Occupancy Permits as prescribed herein. A record of
all permits shall be kept on file and shall be available for public inspection
during regular office hours of the Administrator.
   B.   The Watershed Administrator shall serve as clerk to the Watershed
Review Board.
   C.   The Watershed Administrator shall keep records of all amendments to the
local Water Supply Watershed Protection Ordinance and shall provide copies of
all amendments upon adoption to the Water Quality Section of the Division of
Water Quality.
   D.   The Watershed Administrator shall keep records of the jurisdiction's
use of the provision that a maximum of ten percent (10%) of the non-critical
area of WS-II and WS-III watersheds and, for local governments that do not
choose to incorporate the high density option, ten percent (10%) of the
protected area of WS-IV watersheds may be developed with new development at a
maximum of seventy percent (70%) built-upon surface area. Records for each
watershed shall include the total acres of non-critical watershed area, total
acres eligible to be developed under this option, total acres approved for this
development option, and individual records for each project with the following
information: location, number of developed acres, type of land use and
stormwater management plan (if applicable).
   E.   The Watershed Administrator is granted the authority to administer and
enforce the provisions of this Ordinance, exercising in the fulfillment of his
responsibility the full police power of the City of Marion. The Watershed
Administrator, or his duly authorized representative, may enter any building,
structure, or premises, as provided by law, to perform any duty imposed upon
him by this Ordinance.
   F.   The Watershed Administrator shall keep a record of variances to the
local Water Supply Watershed Protection Ordinance. This record shall be
submitted for each calendar year to the Water Quality Section of the Division
of Environmental Management on or before January 1st of the following year and
shall provide a description of each project receiving a variance and the
reasons for granting the variance.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 2-1.7. Conflicts of interest.
   Pursuant to N.C.G.S. 160D-1-9, no city staff member shall make a final
decision on an administrative decision required by the UDO if the outcome of
that decision would have a direct, substantial, and readily identifiable
financial impact on the staff member with whom the staff member has a close
familial, business, or other associational relationship. If a staff member has
a conflict of interest under this section, the decision shall be assigned to
the supervisor of the staff person or such other staff person as may be
assigned.
   No staff member shall be financially interested or employed by a business
that is financially interested in a development subject to regulation under the
UDO unless the staff member is the owner of the land or building involved.
   A member of a board exercising a duty or function under the UDO shall comply
with regulations for conflict of interest pursuant to
Chapter Two of the Marion City Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 2-1.8. Ordinance interpretation.
   A.   Interpretation by Planning and Development Director. The planning and
development director and/or an officer charged with enforcing the UDO is
authorized to make interpretations concerning the provisions of the UDO.
   B.   Appeal. Appeals of administrative official interpretations of all other
portions of the UDO may be appealed to the board of adjustment in accordance
with the appeal procedures of Sec.
3-7.5.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 2-1.9. Inspections.
   The building inspector and other code enforcement official shall have the
right to enter public or private property at such reasonable times as may be
necessary for the performance of their duties. Should the owner or occupant of
any property refuse to permit such reasonable access, such inspector or officer
shall proceed to obtain an administrative inspection warrant pursuant to G.S. §
15-27.2. No person shall obstruct, hamper or interfere with any such
representative while in the process of carrying out his or her lawful duties.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 2-1.10. Changes to prior development approval.
   A.   Major Amendments. Except as allowed under minor modifications below,
all changes to approved special use permits, subdivision plats, and/or other
development approvals are major amendments and shall follow the same process
applicable for the original approval.
   B.   Changes to Individual Parcels with Special Use Permit. For special use
permit applicable to multiple parcels, the owners of individual parcels may
apply for minor modification or major amendment so long as the change would not
result in other properties failing to meet the terms of the conditions. Any
approved change shall only be applicable to those properties whose owners
petitioned for the change.
   C.   Minor Modifications. The subdivision administrator is authorized to
review and approve administratively a minor modification to an approved
subdivision plat, and the planning and development director is authorized to
review and approve administratively a minor modification to an approved special
use permit or any other development approval. All minor modifications are
subject to the following limitations:
      1.   General Modification.
         a.   Does not involve a change in uses permitted or the density of
overall development permitted;
         b.   Does not increase the impacts generated by the development on
traffic, stormwater runoff, or similar impacts beyond what was projected for
the original development approval; and
         c.   Meets all other ordinance requirements.
      2.   Site Design. Site design minor modifications are limited to
adjustments to the terms or design of an approved development plan or plat,
including a site plan attached as a condition to a special use permit. In
addition to the general limitations for minor modifications, a site design
minor modification must:
         a.   Comply with underlying zoning standards and other applicable
conditions of approval;
         b.   Be limited to a minor change such as, without limitation, a minor
adjustment to road configuration or internal circulation, a minor adjustment to
building locations, or a minor adjustment to utility alignment.
      3.   Dimensional Standards. Dimensional standard minor modifications are
adjustments to the dimensional standards of the zoning ordinance. Dimensional
standards may only be modified upon a finding by the administrator, based on
evidence from the permit holder, that the modification is needed to address a
site characteristic or technical design consideration not known at the time of
initial approval. In addition to the general limitations for minor
modifications, dimensional standard minor modifications are limited to:
         a.   An adjustment to parking requirements up to the greater ten (10)
percent;
         b.   An adjustment to setback requirements up to the greater than ten
(10) percent of the standards setback;
         c.   An adjustment to landscape standards up to twenty (20) percent of
required landscaping.
      4.   Appeals and Variances. A decision on minor modifications is an
administrative decision and may be appealed to the board of adjustment. An
application for a minor modification does not preclude an applicant from
seeking a variance from the board of adjustment.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 2-1.11. Enforcement.
   A.   Notices of Violation. When staff determines work or activity has been
undertaken in violation of a development regulation adopted pursuant to G.S.
Chapter 160D or other local development regulation, including specifically the
UDO, or any State law delegated to the local government for enforcement
purposes in lieu of the State or in violation of the terms of the development
approval, a written notice of violation may be issued pursuant to G.S. 160D-
404.
      1.   The notice of violation shall be delivered to the holder of the
development approval and to the landowner of the property involved, if the
landowner is not the holder of the development approval, by personal delivery,
electronic delivery, or first-class mail, and may be provided by similar means
to the occupant of the property or the person undertaking the work or activity.
      2.   The notice of violation may be posted on the property.
      3.   The person providing the notice of violation shall certify to the
local government that the notice was provided and the certificate shall be
deemed conclusive in the absence of fraud.
      4.   Except as provided by G.S. 160D-1123, 160D-1206, or otherwise
provided by law, a notice of violation may be appealed to the board of
adjustment pursuant to G.S. 160D-405.
   B.   Stop Work Order. Whenever any work or activity subject to regulation
pursuant to G.S. 160D or other applicable local development regulation or any
State law delegated to the local government for enforcement purposes in lieu of
the State is undertaken in substantial violation of any State or local law, or
in a manner that endangers life or property, staff may order the specific part
of work or activity that is in violation or presents such a hazard to be
immediately stopped.
      1.   The order shall be in writing, directed to the person doing the work
or activity, and shall state the specific work or activity to be stopped, the
reasons therefor, and the conditions under which the work or activity may be
resumed.
      2.   A copy of the order shall be delivered to the holder of the
development approval and to the owner of the property involved (if that person
is not the holder of the development approval) by personal delivery, electronic
delivery, or first-class mail.
      3.   The person or persons delivering the stop work order shall certify
to the local government that the notice was provided, and the certificate shall
be deemed conclusive in the absence of fraud.
      4.   Except as provided by G.S. 160D-1112, 160D-1208, or otherwise
provided by law, a notice of violation may be appealed to the board of
adjustment pursuant to G.S. 160D-405.
      5.   No further work or activity shall take place in violation of a stop
work order pending a ruling on the appeal.
      6.   Violation of a stop work order shall constitute a Class 1
misdemeanor.
   C.   Remedies. In addition to revocation of development as provided for in
G.S. 160D-403(f), all development regulation adopted pursuant to authority
conferred by G.S. Chapter 160D, including specifically the UDO, may be enforced
by any remedy provided in G.S. 160A-175.
   If a building or structure is erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered,
repaired, converted, or maintained, or any building, structure, or land is used
or developed in violation of G.S. Chapter 160D or any development regulation or
other regulation adopted by the City under authority of G.S. Chapter 160D, the
City, in addition to other remedies, may institute any appropriate action or
proceedings to prevent the unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction,
alteration, repair, conversion, maintenance, use, or development; to restrain,
correct, or abate the violation; to prevent occupancy of the building,
structure, or land; or to prevent any illegal act, conduct, business, or use in
or about the premises.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Chapter 3
REVIEW PROCEDURES
   Art. I. Common Review Procedures, §§ 3-1.1--3-1.9
   Art. II. Subdivision Review Procedures, §§ 3-2.1--3-2.24
   Art. III. Subdivision within Watershed Protection Area Review Procedures, §§
3-3.1--3-3.2
   Art. IV. Plot Plans and Site Plan Review Procedures, §§ 3-4.1--3-4.11
   Art. V. Administrative Review Procedures, §§ 3-5.1--3-5.4
   Art. VI. Legislative Review Procedures, §§ 3-6.1--3-6.3
   Art. VII. Quasi-judicial Review Procedures, §§ 3-7.1--3-7.5
ARTICLE I.
COMMON REVIEW PROCEDURES
Sec. 3-1.1. Applicability.
   This section sets forth the review procedures for the UDO and apply to all
applications submitted for review and approval. Additional procedures may be
required under a specific application process defined elsewhere in the UDO.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 3-1.2. Permit required.
   A.   A permit shall be required prior to:
      1.   The use or occupancy of any land, building, or structure.
      2.   The commencement of any construction, installation, expansion,
enlargement, alteration, repair, removal, or demolition of any building or
other structure, or any part thereof.
      3.   The subdivision of any land, building, or structure without first
securing obtaining development approval from the applicable review authority.
      4.   The excavation or filling of any land located within any federally
designated Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA) or within the Lake James Watershed.
   B.   A permit shall not be issued until development plans and associated
information required in Sec.
3-1.3 demonstrates full compliance with the UDO.
   C.   A land development permit shall be required, in conformance with the
provisions of the UDO, prior to the commencement of any construction,
reconstruction, alteration, repair, removal, or demolition of any building or
other structure, or any part thereof, or the subdivision, or use of land,
building, or structure without first securing obtaining the applicable
development permit.
   D.   A building permit for alteration, repair, or construction of any
building or structure shall not be issued until a zoning permit has first been
issued.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 3-1.3. Application requirements.
   The following requirements are common to many of the review procedures
contained in the UDO and apply to applications submitted under this Chapter.
Additional procedures may be required under a specific application process
defined in the UDO.
   A.   Initial Application Submittal. All applications for development
approval shall be submitted in accordance with the requirements of the UDO and
shall be filed with the City planning and development department.
   B.   Forms. Applications required under the UDO must be submitted, fully
completed, on forms and in such numbers as required by the City planning and
development department.
   C.   Fees Schedule.
      1.   The City of Marion Fee Schedule is maintained by the Finance
Department and is updated annually, with fees to be effective the first day of
the fiscal year, July 1. Except as otherwise provided within the City of Marion
Fee Schedule.
      2.   Before review of an application, including applications for re-
hearings, all filing fees must be paid in full. No refund of the fee or any
part of the fee shall be made unless the application is withdrawn in writing
prior to public notice being made for the public hearing.
      3.   A fee shall not be required if the application is made by the City
or any agency created and appointed by the City Council to perform governmental
functions.
   D.   Application Deadline. Complete applications shall be submitted in
accordance with the City's filing calendar. A calendar indicating submittal
dates shall be developed by the City planning and development department and
updated annually.
   E.   Zoning Compliance. A building permit application that alters or expands
the physical area or footprint of any building or structure or changes the use
of any building or structure shall not be issued until after an application for
zoning compliance and plan review pursuant to Sec.
3-4.1 have been submitted and approved by the appropriate review authority.
   F.   Applications Previously Denied. Unless as otherwise directed by City
Council, any application requiring legislative or quasi-judicial approval that
has been previously denied shall not be reconsidered for a period of one
calendar year from the date of the written denial unless such application is
substantially different than the original application made or when regulatory
changes under the UDO have occurred that would result in the request being
generally compatible with the provisions of the UDO.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 3-1.4. Permit process.
Table 3-1.4. Permit Process
Permit Process  Section Permit/        Reviewing Public       Approving Appeal   Permit Permit
Type                    Process Type   Agency    Notification Agency    Process  Period Extension
Certificate of
Zoning          3-5.1   Administrative Admin     None         Admin     BOA      1 year 6 months
Compliance
                                                                                 See
Temporary Use   4-                                                               3-
Permit          4.1.E.  Administrative Admin     None         Admin     BOA      5.1C.3 n/a
                                                                                 and
                                                                                 4-4.1C
Certificate of  3-5.2   Administrative Admin     None         Admin     BOA      n/a    n/a
Occupancy
Floodplain
Development     3-5.3   Administrative Admin     None         Admin     BOA      1 year Re-submit
Permit
Site Plan/
Design Review   3-4.5   Administrative Admin     None         Admin     BOA      1 year 1 year
(Minor)
                                                                                 30
Subdivision                                                                      days
(Minor)         3-2.5   Administrative Admin     None         Admin     BOA      to     Re-submit
                                                                                 file
                                                                                 plat
Subdivision                            TRC/                                      1 year
(Major)-        3-2.6   Administrative Planning  None         City      Superior to     6 months
Preliminary                            Board                  Council   Court    Final
Plat                                                                             Plat
                                                                                 30
Subdivision                                                                      days
(Major)- Final  3-2.7   Administrative Admin     None         Admin     BOA      to     Re-submit
Plat                                                                             file
                                                                                 Plat
Special Use     3-2.1   Quasi-         BOA       Yes          BOA       Superior 1 Year 1 Year
Permit                  Judicial                                        Court
Designation of
Historic        8-3.5   Legislative    HPC       Yes          City      Superior n/a    n/a
Landmarks/                                                    Council   Court
Districts
Certificate of
Appropriateness 8-3.15  Administrative Admin     None         Admin     HPC      1 year Re-submit
(Minor)
Certificate of          Quasi-
Appropriateness 8-3.9   Judicial       Admin     Yes          HPC       BOA      1 year Re-submit
(Major)
Appeal of                                                                        30
Administrative  3-7.5   Quasi-         BOA       Yes          BOA       Superior days   n/a
Decision                Judicial                                        Court    to
                                                                                 Appeal
                                                                                 30
Variance        3-7.2   Quasi-         BOA       Yes          BOA       Superior days   n/a
                        Judicial                                        Court    to
                                                                                 Appeal
Text Amendment  3-6.3   Legislative    Planning  Yes          City      Superior n/a    n/a
                                       Board                  Council   Court
Map Amendment   2-6.2   Legislative    Planning  Yes          City      Superior n/a    n/a
(Rezoning)                             Board                  Council   Court
                                       Planning               City               2-     Up to 5
Vested Right    9-1.1   Legislative    Board                  Council   None     5      years
                                                                                 years  total
Watershed                                                     Watershed
Development     3-4.10  Administrative Admin                  Review    Superior 2      Re-submit
Plan                                                          Board     Court    years
                                                              (BOA)
Notes:
Admin - Administrative Review Authority
BOA - Board of Adjustment
HPS - Historic Preservation Commission
 
(Ord. No. O-23-07-18-4, § 2, 7-18-23)
Sec. 3-1.5. Time limitations.
   A.   Permit limitation. Unless otherwise stated, all permits issued under
the UDO shall expire one calendar year after the date of issuance if the work
authorized by the permit has not been commenced. If after commencement the work
is discontinued for a period of that noted in subsection above, the permit
therefor shall immediately expire unless an extension is granted by the
reviewing authority. No work authorized by any permit which has expired or has
been closed out shall thereafter be performed until a new permit has been
secured.
   B.   Building permit time limitation. Unless otherwise stated, a building
permit issued under the UDO shall expire six (6) months after the date of
issuance if the work authorized by the permit has not been commenced. If after
commencement the work is discontinued for a period of twelve (12) months, the
permit therefor shall immediately expire. No work authorized by any permit
which has expired shall thereafter be performed until a new permit has been
secured.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 3-1.6. Public hearing requirements.
   A public hearing is required for applications as shown in the table below:
Table 3-1.6 Hearing Requirements
Procedure Board of Adjustment Historic Pres. Planning Board City Council
                              Preservation
Table 3-1.6 Hearing Requirements
Procedure          Board of   Historic Pres. Planning Board City Council
                   Adjustment Preservation
Comprehensive Plan                           X              X
Amendment
Chapter Text                                 X              X
Amendment
Zoning Map                                   X              X
Amendment
Special Use Permit X          X(1)
Local Historic
District of                   X              X              X
Landmark
Designation
Designation of                X
Landmark Sign
Certificate of                X
Appropriateness
Demolition by                 X(1)                          X
Neglect
Variance           X          X(1)
Street, Alley and             X(1)                          X
Walkway Closing
Appeal of Zoning
Administrative     X
Decision
Vested Right                  X(1)           X              X
Notes:
(1) Where Historic Preservation Commission is involved
 
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 3-1.7. Public notice requirements.
   For public notice, meeting and hearing requirements applicable to each
procedure, see Sec.
3-1.6 above.
Any defective notification of a required City procedure, not otherwise required
by State or Federal law, does not invalidate the proceedings if the defect is
determined to be clerical error by the City.
   A.   Mailed Notice.
      1.   Mailed notice shall be provided to all property owners as listed in
the McDowell County tax records that own property at the time of submittal.
Additionally, all property owners in the area of request shall receive mailed
notice.
      2.   Mailed notices shall be sent to the addressees at least 10 calendar
days prior and not more than 25 calendar days prior to the date of any public
meeting.
      3.   Except as otherwise directed by the City Council, the City Board
reviewing the matter shall not require additional notification.
      4.   For zoning map amendments that directly affect more than 50
properties owned by a total of at least 50 different property owners, the City
may elect to forego mailed notice and instead give notice of the public hearing
by publication provided that the newspaper advertisement is not less than ½ of
a newspaper page in size. Property owners who reside outside of the newspaper
circulation area, according to the addresses listed in the most recent property
tax listing for the affected properties, shall be notified by first class mail.
      5.   Except for a City-initiated zoning map amendment, when an
application is filed to request a zoning map amendment and that application is
not made by the owner of the parcel of land to which the amendment would apply,
the applicant shall certify to the City Council that the owner of the parcel of
land, as shown on the county tax listing, has received actual notice of the
proposed amendment and a copy of the notice of public hearing. The applicant
shall certify to the City Council that proper notice has been provided in fact
and such certification shall be deemed conclusive in the absence of fraud.
Actual notice shall be achieved as follows:
         a.   Actual notice of the proposed amendment and a copy of the notice
of public hearing shall be by any manner permitted under N.C. Gen. Stat. § 1A-
1, Rule 4(j).
         b.   If notice with due diligence cannot be achieved by personal
delivery, registered or certified mail or by a designated delivery service,
notice may be given by publication consistent with N.C. Gen. Stat. § 1A- 1,
Rule 4(j1). (See N.C. Gen. Stat. § 160D-602).
      6.   For quasi-judicial hearings, mailed notice shall be provided to all
other persons with an ownership interest in the subject property as set forth
in all applicable State and local laws.
   B.   Published Notice.
      1.   When published notice is required, notice of the public hearing
shall be published by the City at least once in a newspaper having general
circulation in the City not more than 25 or less than 10 calendar days prior to
the date of the public hearing.
      2.   In the case of any ordinance adopting, amending or repealing any
provision of the UDO, including a zoning map amendment, notice of a public
hearing shall be published once a week in a newspaper having general
circulation within the City for 2 successive calendar weeks.
      3.   In determining the time period, the day of publication is not to be
included but the day of the hearing shall be included.
   C.   Posted Notice.
      1.   When posted notice of any public meeting is required, signage shall
be posted by the City on the property at a point visible from the nearest
public street or streets if the property fronts on multiple streets.
      2.   In the case of multiple parcels, a posting on each individual parcel
is not required, but sufficient signage shall be posted to provide reasonable
notice to interested persons.
      3.   The sign shall not measure less than 18 inches x 24 inches. Signage
shall be posted at least 10 calendar days prior to the date of the public
meeting.
      4.   Posted notice shall not be required for Planning Board meetings for
zoning map amendments that directly affect more than 50 properties owned by a
total of at least 50 different property owners if the City elects to give
notice of the public hearing by publication provided that the newspaper
advertisement is not less than ½ of a newspaper page in size.
   D.   Content of Notice.
      1.   Published and Mailed Notice. The content of required published and
mailed notice shall be as follows:
         a.   The parcel identification number of the subject property (if
available). Zoning map amendments that directly affect more than 50 properties
owned by a total of at least 50 different property owners are exempted from
this specific content requirement.
         b.   The general location or address of the land that is the subject
of the application, which may include a location map;
         c.   A description of the action requested and nature of the questions
involved;
         d.   The time, date and location of the public hearing and public
meeting if applicable and the name of the reviewing body;
         e.   A phone number and e-mail address to contact the City; and
         f.   A statement that more specific information is available at the
City.
      2.   Posted Notice. Required posted notice of a public meeting or public
hearing shall provide at least the following:
         a.   The general location, parcel identification number, or address of
the land that is the subject of the application;
         b.   A description of the action requested;
         c.   The time, date and location of the public hearing and public
meeting if applicable and the name of the reviewing body; and
         d.   A phone number and e-mail address to contact the City.
   E.   Notice of Decision.
      1.   Except when notice is provided by permit issuance, notice of
decision shall provide at least the following:
         a.   The address of the subject property (if available);
         b.   The general location of the land or parcel identification number
that was the subject of the application;
         c.   A description of the application;
         d.   The date the application was decided;
         e.   A description of whether the application was approved, approved
with conditions or denied; and
         f.   A phone number and e-mail address to contact the City.
      2.   Unless otherwise stated by general law, the UDO or by the rules of
procedure adopted by the applicable reviewing body, within 10 business days
following the effective date of a decision, a copy of the decision shall be
sent by either electronic notification or first class mailing to the applicant
and the property owner (if the property owner is not the applicant) and filed
with the City, where it shall be made available for public inspection during
regular office hours. In the case of permit issuance, receipt of the permit by
the applicant, contractor, property owner or their representative shall
constitute written notice of the decision.
      3.   In the case of a quasi-judicial decision, notice of the decision
shall also be given to the applicant, the property owner (if the property owner
is not the applicant) and each person who has filed a written request for
notice with the presiding officer or secretary of the reviewing body (if any)
at the time of the hearing of the case, with such notice to be delivered to the
requesting party by either personal service or by registered mail or certified
mail, return receipt requested.
   F.   Summary of Specific Public Notice Requirements.
      1.   Legislative Hearings. Notice is required for City Council hearings
as shown in the following table:
Table 3-1.7(a) Legislative Notice Requirements
Procedure Published Mailed Posted
Table 3-1.7(a) Legislative Notice Requirements
Procedure                                       Published Mailed Posted
Comprehensive Plan Amendment                    X(1)      X(2)
Zoning Map Amendment                            X         X      X
Chapter Text Amendment                          X
Local Historic District or Landmark Designation X         X
Street, Alley and Walkway Closing               X         X
Development Agreements                          X
Vested Right                                    X         X      X
Note:
(1) Published notice required when in association with a Zoning Map
Amendment.
(2) Mailed notice required only for Future Land Use Map.
 
      2.   Quasi-Judicial Notice Requirements. Notice is required for quasi-
judicial hearings as shown in the following table:
 
Table 3-1.7(b) Quasi-Judicial Notice Requirements
Procedure                      Published Mailed Posted
Special Use Permit             X         X      X
Variance                       X         X      X
Certificate of Appropriateness           X      X
Site Specific Development Plan           X
Administrative Appeal          X         X      X
 
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 3-1.8. Changes in work.
   After a permit has been issued or approval obtained from the review
authority, no changes or deviations from the terms of the application, permit,
or approval, or changes or deviations from the plans or specifications
involving any work shall be made until specific written approval of such
changes or deviations has been obtained from the appropriate review authority
for which the original approval was obtained.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 3-1.9. Revocation.
   The review authority responsible for approving a development permit may
revoke and require the return of any permit by notifying the permit holder in
writing stating the reason for such revocation. Permits shall be revoked for:
   A.   Any material departure from the approved application, plans, or
specifications;
   B.   Refusal or failure to comply with proper orders of the approval or
permit;
   C.   Refusal or failure to comply with requirements of the UDO or other
applicable local, state and federal requirements; or
   D.   False statements or misrepresentations made in securing such approval
or permit.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
ARTICLE II.
SUBDIVISION REVIEW PROCEDURES
Sec. 3-2.1. Applicability.
   Except as expressly exempted in Sec.
3-2.2., subdivision approval is required in accordance with the procedures of
this article, for all divisions of a tract or parcel of land into two (2) or
more lots, building sites, or other divisions for the purpose of sale or
building development, whether immediate or future, and includes all divisions
of land involving the dedication of a new street or a change in existing
streets.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 3-2.2. Actions exempt from subdivision requirements.
   A.   The following are not included within the definition of "subdivision"
and are exempt from the subdivision procedures of this section:
      1.   The combination or recombination of portions of previously
subdivided and recorded lots where the total number of lots is not increased
and resultant lots are equal to or exceed the standards of the UDO;
      2.   The division of land into parcels greater than 10 acres where no
street right-of-way dedication is involved,
      3.   The public acquisition by purchase of strips of land for the
widening or opening of streets, or for public transportation system corridors;
      4.   The division of a tract in single ownership into no more than 3 lots
where the entire area is no greater than 2 acres, where no street right-of-way
dedication is involved, and where the resultant lots are equal to or exceed the
standards of the UDO.
   B.   No approval is required for exempt land divisions; however, subdivision
administrator certification of exempt status is required. Exempt plats, if
prepared, must be certified noting their exemption and signed by the
subdivision administrator so that they can be recorded by the McDowell County
Office of the Register of Deeds. Exempt subdivision status does not constitute
an exemption from the Water Protection requirements.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 3-2.3. Application.
   Every person proposing the subdivision of land within the City of Marion
planning and development jurisdiction shall submit a plat to the subdivision
administrator with the required information necessary to evaluate compliance
with the UDO, adopted plans, or other approved design standards and
specifications within the Marion Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 3-2.4. Sketch plan review.
   A.   A sketch plan is a plan prepared in advance of formal submittal for
purposes of receiving informal staff comments, and serves as a pre-application
procedure. Although there are no minimum requirements for the content of a
sketch plan, applicants are encouraged to provide as much detail as possible.
Staff will review the sketch plan and return comments to the applicant in a
timely manner to prepare an application and plat for review.
   B.   A sketch plan submittal is required for any action defined as a major
subdivision and encouraged for all other subdivisions.
   C.   A sketch plan is recommended for all proposed minor subdivisions prior
to formal submission. The subdivision administrator shall review the sketch
plan and will notify the applicant in writing of any deficiencies found during
the review that must be addressed to be in conformance with the standards
established within the UDO prior to formal submittal of a subdivision plat. No
fees are required with submittal of a sketch plan. The sketch plan shall
contain the following information:
      1.   The boundaries of the tract to be subdivided. The subdivision
administrator may require the submittal of evidence including a tax map or
survey as proof that the subdivision includes all contiguous land owned by the
applicant;
      2.   The proposed street and lot layout;
      3.   The name, address, and telephone number of the applicant;
      4.   The location of existing public water and sewer utilities to serve
the subdivision;
      5.   The location of all proposed or existing rights-of-way, easements,
drainage, open space;
      6.   Total acreage including gross and net usable acreage;
      7.   Location of water courses, flood hazard boundaries, and/or lands
within a protected watershed including the delineation of critical areas and
watershed buffer areas.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 3-2.5. Minor subdivision review and approval procedures.
   The minor subdivision review process is required for those divisions of land
into fewer than five (5) lots which do not require the dedication of public
streets, public utilities, or any other easement or conveyance of land to the
City of Marion; and do not require modification or variance to any city
development regulations.
   A.   The applicant for minor subdivision plat approval shall submit to the
subdivision administrator a plat prepared in accordance with N.C.G.S. 47-30
that will be acceptable to the Office of McDowell County Register of Deeds for
recording purposes. When more than one sheet is required to include the entire
subdivision, all sheets shall be made of the same size and shall show
appropriate match lines on each sheet and appropriate references to other
sheets of the subdivision. The scale of the plat shall be at one inch equals
not more than fifty feet (1 inch = 50 feet). The applicant shall submit a
digital plat or three (3) prints of the proposed subdivision plat and the
required application form and fee for minor subdivision plat review at the time
of submission in conformance with Chapter One, Article One Common Review
Procedures.
   B.   The minor subdivision plat shall be prepared by a registered land
surveyor licensed to practice in the State of North Carolina and shall contain
the following information:
      1.   All of the additional information required by N.C.G.S. 47-30;
      2.   The name of the subdivision, which shall not duplicate the name of
any existing subdivision as recorded in the McDowell County Registry;
      3.   The name of the subdivision owner or owners;
      4.   The township, county and state where the subdivision is located;
      5.   The name of the surveyor and their registration number and the date
of survey;
      6.   The scale according to which the plat is drawn in feet per inch or
scale ratio in words or figures and bar graph;
      7.   All of the applicable certificates required in Sec.
3-2.9;
      8.   Total acreage including gross and net usable acreage;
      9.   Lot lines, lot and block numbers, and dimensions;
      10.   Names of adjoining property owners or subdivisions;
      11.   Location of water courses, culverts, drainage pipes, flood hazard
boundaries, and/or lands within a public water-supply watershed including the
delineation of critical areas and watershed buffer areas.
      12.   The zoning classification of the tract to be subdivided and of
adjoining property;
      13.   The location, width, grade, and purpose of any proposed or existing
rights-of-way, utility or other easement;
      14.   The location, width, grade, and name of proposed or existing street
and alley, including those on adjoining property;
      15.   All information pertaining to floodplain boundaries in accordance
with Sec.
8-1.7 and watershed protection areas in accordance with Sec.
8-2.1.C.
   C.   The subdivision administrator shall review the application for minor
subdivision plat approval. A decision shall be rendered within ten (10) working
days after receipt of a complete application for the proposed minor subdivision
plat. lf no decision is rendered within the required ten-day period, the
applicant may appeal to the Board of Adjustment for review of the application
under the major subdivision approval procedures in Sec.
3-2.6. Either the subdivision administrator or the applicant may at any time
refer the application to major subdivision review.
   D.   If the subdivision contains errors or deficiencies, the subdivision
administrator shall furnish the applicant with a written statement of the
reasons for disapproval. If a minor subdivision plat is disapproved by the
subdivision administrator, the applicant may appeal the decision by requesting
that the plat be scheduled for review by the Board of Adjustment according to
the same review and approval procedures set forth in Sec.
3-7.5 for administrative appeals. Appeals shall be filed within thirty (30)
calendar days of the date of the decision that the subdivision administrator
disapproves the plat.
   E.   Approval of any plat is contingent upon the plat being recorded within
thirty (30) calendar days after the date the Certificate of Approval is signed
by the subdivision administrator or their designee. Failure to record the
approved plat within the specified 30-day period shall render the plat null and
void.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 3-2.6. Major subdivision review and approval procedures.
   A.   Preliminary plat submittal requirements.
      1.   A preliminary plat is required for all major subdivisions.
      2.   The preliminary plat must be prepared by a registered land surveyor
licensed to practice in the State of North Carolina in conformance with the
same provisions set forth in Section
3-2.5 above.
      3.   The applicant for preliminary subdivision plat approval shall submit
a digital plat or three (3) prints of the proposed subdivision plat and the
required application form and fee for major subdivision plat review at the time
of submission in conformance with Chapter Three, Art. One Common Review
Procedures.
      4.   When more than one sheet is required to include the entire
subdivision, all sheets shall be made of the same size and shall show
appropriate match lines on each sheet and appropriate references to other
sheets of the subdivision. The scale of the plat shall be at one-inch equals
not more than one hundred feet (1" = 100').
      5.   The applicant for preliminary subdivision plat approval shall also
submit the following documentation:
         a.   A letter of approval for proposed sanitary sewer and water
distribution indicating that plans for proposed public sewer and water systems
have been reviewed and approved by the city public works director or their
designee.
         b.   A Sedimentation Control Plan approved by the North Carolina Land
Quality Section shall be submitted with the preliminary plat where there are
plans for a land disturbing activity of one acre or more.
         c.   Street plans for major subdivision shall be reviewed and approved
by the city public works director or authorized agent prior to preliminary plat
approval. Where such streets connect to a state maintained road, a letter from
North Carolina Department of Transportation approving such connection shall be
submitted with the preliminary plat.
   B.   Administrative Preliminary Plat Review.
      1.   Upon receipt of a complete application for proposed preliminary
plat, the subdivision review administrator shall review the preliminary plat
for conformance with the city's land development standards and any other
reports or recommendations pertaining to the plat.
      2.   The subdivision administrator shall forward a copy of the plat
submittal to the Technical Review Committee to complete a review within thirty
(30) working days after submittal.
      3.   The subdivision administrator shall draft a report of the Technical
Review Committee findings recommending approval, approval with conditions, or
denial of the preliminary plat. If all applicable provisions of the UDO or
other applicable Marion Code of Ordinances are not met, the plat shall be
returned to the applicant with errors and deficiencies noted. Once amended, the
application shall be forwarded to the Planning Board and City Council for
review and approval.
      4.   If all applicable provisions of this chapter or other City land
development regulations are not met, the Applicant may request a variance from
the Marion City Council consistent with the procedures for an appeal set forth
in Sec.
3-7.5.
   C.   Planning Board Plat Review.
      1.   The Planning Board shall make a recommendation to the City Council
to approve, approve with conditions, or deny the preliminary plat within a
period of forty-five (45) days of the Technical Review Committee written
report. If conditional approval or if disapproval is given, the reasons for
such action shall be stated in writing and reference shall be made to the
specific reasons that the preliminary plat does not comply.
      2.   Should the Planning Board fail to act on the plat within the
prescribed 45-day period, a public hearing shall be scheduled before the city
council at the next regularly scheduled council meeting.
   D.   City Council Plat Decision.
      1.   The City Council shall approve, approve with conditions, or deny the
preliminary plat at the next regularly scheduled council meeting. If
conditional approval or if disapproval is given, the reasons for such action
shall be stated in writing and reference shall be made to the specific reasons
that the preliminary plat does not comply.
      2.   If the preliminary plat is granted conditional approval by the City
Council, the applicant shall revise and resubmit the plat to the subdivision
administrator unless such modification is expressly exempt in the conditional
approval. If all of the conditions for approval have been met and the plat is
otherwise unchanged, the subdivision administrator shall approve the plat.
   E.   Revisions to a preliminary plat. Changes that deviate in the total
number of lots, location of rights-of- way, easements, utilities, or other
improvements from an approved Preliminary Plat, as determined by the
subdivision administrator, must be resubmitted for review and approval as a new
submittal.
   F.   Duration of approval. Preliminary plat approval remains valid for one
(1) year and may be extended in accordance with the provisions of Sec.
3-2.7. If a final plat in accordance with Sec.
3-2.7 is not submitted within one-year of approval, the said approval of the
preliminary plat shall be void.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 3-2.7. Final major subdivision plat review and approval.
   A.   Final plat submittal requirements.
      1.   A Final Major Subdivision Plat is required for all major subdivision
requests. Following the approval of the Preliminary Plat by city council and
other required plans, a Final Major Subdivision Plat must be approved before
recording in the Office of McDowell County Register of Deeds.
      2.   No street shall be accepted and maintained by the City; water or
sewer be extended to or connected with any subdivision of land as defined
herein; and no permit shall be issued by any administrative agent or department
of the City for the construction of any building or other improvement requiring
a permit upon any land concerning which a plat is required to be approved
unless in conformance with subsection (6) below.
      3.   The final major subdivision plat must be prepared by a registered
land surveyor licensed to practice in the State of North Carolina.
      4.   The final plat must conform to the approved preliminary plat and may
cover only that portion of the preliminary plat proposed for recordation,
together with all improvements, rights-of-way, and easements needed to support
the lots shown.
      5.   The final major subdivision plat must have the required certificates
and statements entered on the face of the plat in conformance with provisions
listed in Sec.
3-2.8 and
3-2.9.
      6.   A final plat may not be approved until all required improvements
have been installed and accepted by the city or a performance guarantee has
been provided in accordance with Sec.
3-2.24 and a note referencing the guarantee is placed on the final major
subdivision plat to be recorded.
   B.   Final plat review and approval.
      1.   The subdivision review administrator shall review the final major
subdivision plat for conformance with the approved preliminary plat and all
other requirements. If the final major subdivision plat conforms substantially
to the approved preliminary plat and all applicable provisions of this and
other city codes are met, the subdivision administrator shall approve the final
major subdivision plat.
      2.   If the final major subdivision plat does not substantially conform
to the approved preliminary plat or all applicable provisions of this and other
City regulations are not met, the major subdivision plat shall be returned to
the applicant with errors and deficiencies noted, and the Applicant shall
resubmit a revised preliminary plat and follow the procedures for review and
approval in Sec.
3-2.6.
      3.   Once the major subdivision plat has been approved the applicant can
make a request to the city council for the dedication of right-of-way or the
conveyance of easement of public improvements.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 3-2.8. Required certificates and statements schedule.
Table 3-2.8: Certificates Required
Type of Certificate or Statement Minor Subdivision Major Subdivision
Type of Certificate or Statement         Minor Subdivision Major Subdivision
Certificate of Ownership                 X
Certificate of Ownership and Dedication                    X
Certificate of Minor Plat Approval       X
Certificate of Preliminary Plat Approval                   X
Certificate of Final Plat Approval       X                 X
Certificate of Approval of Required                        X
Improvements
Certificate of Survey and Accuracy       X                 X
NCDOT District Engineer Certificate                        X
Private Streets Disclosure Statement     X                 X
Protected Watershed Statement            X                 X
Certificate of Purpose of Plat           X                 X
Certificate of Exemption                 X                 X
 
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 3-2.9. Wording for plat certificates and statements.
   The following certificates shall be included on the final plat.
   A.   Certificate of ownership. (For use with minor subdivision plats only.)
I (We) hereby certify that I am (we are) the owner(s) of the property described
hereon, which property is within the subdivision regulation jurisdiction of the
City of Marion, and that I (we) freely adopt this plan of subdivision. I (We)
further certify that the residual tract on this plan cannot be further
subdivided using the minor subdivision plat approval process within two years
of the date of recordation.
 
_____ _____
Owner Date
_____ _____
Owner Date
 
   B.   Certificate of minor subdivision plat approval.
I hereby certify that the minor subdivision shown on this plat does not involve
the creation of new public streets or any change in existing public streets,
that the subdivision shown is in all respects in compliance with the Marion
Subdivision Ordinance, and that therefore this plat has been approved by the
Subdivision Administrator, subject to its being recorded in Office of the
McDowell County Register of Deeds within thirty (30) days of the date below.
 
_____                     _____
Subdivision Administrator Date
 
   C.   Certificate of ownership and dedication. (For use with major
subdivision plats only.)
I (We) hereby certify that I am (we are) the owner(s) of the property described
hereon, which property is located within the subdivision regulation
jurisdiction of the City of Marion, that I (We) hereby freely adopt this plan
of subdivision and dedicate to public use all areas shown on this plat as
streets, alleys, walks, parks, open space, and easements, except those
specifically indicated as private, and that I (we) will maintain all such areas
until the offer of dedication is accepted by the appropriate public authority.
All property shown on this plat as dedicated for a public use shall be deemed
to be dedicated for any other public use authorized by law when such other use
is approved by the Marion City Council in the public interest.
 
_____     _____
Owner     Date
_____     _____
Owner     Date
_____     _____
Notarized Date
 
   D.   Certificate of preliminary plat approval.
I hereby certify that the Marion City Council approved on the _____ day of
__________/
__________ / __________ the Preliminary Plat of subdivision as shown on this
plat. Preliminary Plat approval is valid for a period of 12 months from the
above date or as established under an approved development agreement, if
applicable.
 
_____                     _____
Subdivision Administrator Date
 
   E.   Certificate of final plat approval.
I hereby certify that the subdivision depicted hereon has been granted final
plat approval pursuant to the City of Marion Subdivision Ordinance subject to
its being recorded in the Office of McDowell County Register of Deeds within
thirty (30) days of the date below.
 
_____                     _____
Subdivision Administrator Date
 
F.   Certificate of approval of required improvements.
I hereby certify that streets, utilities and other improvements have been
installed in an acceptable manner and according to the City specifications in
the subdivision depicted hereon or that a performance bond or other sufficient
surety in the amount of $ __________ has been posted in the form of __________,
Reference Number __________ with the City of Marion to assure completion of
required improvements.
 
_____                 _____
Public Works Director Date
 
I hereby certify that a guarantee in-lieu of the installation of the required
improvements in an amount or manner satisfactory to the City of Marion has been
received.
 
_____      _____
City Clerk Date
 
   G.   Certificate of survey and accuracy.
I, __________ , certify that this plat was drawn under my supervision from an
actual survey made under my supervision (deed description recorded in Book
__________ , page __________ , etc.) (other); that the boundaries not surveyed
are clearly indicated as drawn from information found in Book __________ , page
_________ ; that the ratio of precision as calculated is 1:__________ ; that
this plat was prepared in accordance with NCGS 47-30 as amended. Witness my
original signature, registration number and seal this __________ day of
__________ , A.D., __________ .
Seal or Stamp of Surveyor
 
_____
Surveyor
_____
Registration Number
 
   H.   NCDOT District Engineer certificate.
I hereby certify that the streets as depicted hereon are/are not consistent
with the requirements of the North Carolina Department of Transportation.
 
_____                   _____
NCDOT District Engineer Date
 
   I.   Private streets disclosure statement.
The following statement shall be placed on all subdivision plats which include
private streets:
"The maintenance of streets designated on this plat as 'private' shall be the
responsibility of property owners within this development having access to such
streets. Private streets as shown hereon were not evaluated or constructed to
the minimum standards required to allow their inclusion, for maintenance
purposes, on the North Carolina roadway system nor for maintenance by the City
of Marion. Neither the City of Marion nor the North Carolina Department of
Transportation will maintain a private street."
   J.   Certificate of approval for recording and watershed protection
statement.
The following statement shall be placed on all subdivision plats which include
property located within a watershed protection overlay district:
"All or portions of the property contained in this subdivision are located
within a protected Watershed. Additional development restrictions regarding
such matters as residential density, maximum impervious surface area, and
stormwater control measures may apply to this property. Any engineered
stormwater controls shown on this plat are to be operated and maintained by the
property owners and/or a property owners' association pursuant to the Operation
and Maintenance Agreement filed with the Office of McDowell County Register of
Deeds in Book _____ , Page _____ .”
1 certify that the plat shown hereon complies with the Watershed Protection
Ordinance and is approved by the Watershed Review Board for recording in the
Office of McDowell County Register of Deeds.
 
_____                   _____
Watershed Administrator Date
 
NOTICE: This property is located within a protected Watershed. Development
restrictions may apply.
   K.   Certificate of purpose of plat. The final plat shall contain one of the
following statements, signed and sealed by the surveyor pursuant to G.S. 47-30,
as amended:
      1.   This survey creates a subdivision of land within the area of a
county or municipality that has an ordinance that regulates parcels of land;
      2.   This survey is located in a portion of a county or municipality that
is unregulated as to an ordinance that regulates parcels of land;
      3.   Any one of the following:
         a.   This survey is of an existing parcel or parcels of land and does
not create a new street or change an existing street;
         b.   This survey is of an existing building or other structure, or
natural feature, such as a water course; or
         c.   This survey is a control survey.
      4.   This survey is of another category, such as the recombination of
existing parcels, a court-ordered survey, or other exception to the definition
of subdivision; or
      5.   The information available to the surveyor is such that the surveyor
is unable to make a determination to the best of the surveyor's professional
ability as to provisions contained in (1) through (4) above.
 
_____               Seal
Surveyor
_____               _____
Registration Number Date
 
   L.   Certificate of exemption. Plats deemed to be an exception to the
provisions of this Ordinance shall contain the following statement prior to the
owner's recording of such plats:
I (We) hereby certify that I am (we are) the owner(s) of the property shown and
described hereon, which was conveyed to me (us) by deed recorded in Book _____
, Page _____ , and that said property qualifies as an exception to the
provisions of the City of Marion Subdivision Ordinance.
 
_____                     _____
Owner                     Date
_____                     _____
Owner                     Date
_____                     _____
Subdivision Administrator Date
 
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 3-2.10. Coordination with other procedures.
   To reduce the time required to attain all necessary approvals and to
facilitate the processing of applications, an applicant may elect, at their own
risk, to start the subdivision approval process simultaneously with
applications for other applications for approvals required for a particular
project. When a watershed development plan approval is required, all portions
of that plan must be approved prior to Preliminary Plat approval.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 3-2.11. Construction procedures.
   A.   No construction or installation of improvements shall commence in a
proposed subdivision until a subdivision plat has been approved.
   B.   No building or other permits shall be issued for erection of a
structure on any lot not of record at the time of adoption of this chapter
until all requirements of this chapter have been met. The applicant, prior to
commencing any work within the subdivision, shall make arrangements with the
Watershed Administrator to provide for adequate inspection.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 3-2.12. Dedication of right-of-way and easements.
   A.   The approval and recordation of a plat constitutes an offer of
dedication to the city of the right-of- way of each public street, alley,
utility easement, sight distance easement, sidewalk easement, joint/cross-
access easement and drainage easement shown on such plat.
   B.   The approval and recordation of a plat does not constitute acceptance
of maintenance responsibility within any right-of-way or easement. Improvements
within rights-of-way or easements, such as utility lines, street paving,
drainage facilities, or sidewalks, may be accepted for maintenance by the City
Council.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 3-2.13. Improvements required.
   A.   Original subdividers or developers and all subsequent subdividers and
developers are responsible for the construction, installation, and maintenance
of the following improvements in accordance with the standards in the UDO and
Marion Code of Ordinances:
      1.   All streets, sidewalks, and other transportation corridors within
the subdivision and improvements to existing streets required for safe and
adequate access to the subdivision as may be required by the UDO;
      2.   Traffic control devices;
      3.   Water, sewer and easements;
      4.   Drainage facilities and easements;
      5.   Erosion and sedimentation control devices; and
      6.   Any other on- or off-site improvements required by this article or
required at the time of preliminary plat approval.
   B.   If the subdivider files a final plat for only a portion of the
subdivision for which a preliminary plat was approved, the improvements
required to be constructed, installed, and maintained, and easements provided,
in accordance with that record plat must be those improvements that the Public
Works Director deems necessary to serve the lots shown on the final plat.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 3-2.14. Completion of improvements.
   A final plat may not be approved until:
   A.   All required improvements have been completed and installed; or
   B.   A performance guarantee has been provided in accordance with Sec.
3-2.24 and all departmental policies and procedures regarding performance
guarantees have been met.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 3-2.15. Approval of plat to precede recording.
   The subdivision administrator shall not certify, nor shall the clerk of
superior court of the county order the McDowell County Register of Deeds to
record a plat of a subdivision until approval has been given of the subdivision
plat in accordance with the procedures set forth in this chapter, where
required, and such approval has been duly evidenced in writing on the original
of the subdivision plat.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 3-2.16. Plat approval contingent upon recordation.
   After the subdivision administrator certifies the subdivision plat, it must
be recorded in the Office of McDowell County Register of Deeds within thirty
(30) calendar days of the date of the certification.
   A preliminary plat shall become void and must be resubmitted to the
Technical Review Committee if a final plat is not recorded within one (1) year
after preliminary plat approval or if there is a lapse of more than one (1)
year between the recordings of phases or sections of the preliminary plat.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 3-2.17. Approval of plat to precede sales.
   No person shall transfer or sell with reference to a plat any lot contained
within a subdivision lying within the corporate limits of the city, nor shall
the city issue a building or zoning permit, until such plat has been granted
final approval by the city council or the subdivision administrator in
accordance with the procedures set forth in the UDO, and such plat shall have
been duly recorded in the Office of McDowell County Register of Deeds.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 3-2.18. Penalties for transferring lots in unapproved subdivisions.
   A.   Any person who, being the owner or agent of the owner of any land
located within the City of Marion, thereafter subdivides his land in violation
of this chapter or transfers or sells land by reference to, exhibition of, or
any other use of a plat showing a subdivision of the land before the plat has
been properly approved under this chapter and recorded in the Office of
McDowell County Register of Deeds, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   B.   The description by metes and bounds in the instrument of transfer or
other document used in the process of selling or transferring land shall not
exempt the transaction from this penalty.
   C.   The City of Marion may bring an action for injunction of any illegal
subdivision, transfer, conveyance, or sale of land, and the court shall, upon
appropriate findings, issue an injunction and order requiring the offending
party to comply with this chapter.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 3-2.19. Permits and certificate of occupancy.
   Unless otherwise provided in this Chapter, upon recordation of the final
plat, the applicant shall be eligible to apply for building and any other
permits required by this Chapter. No certificates of occupancy shall be issued
until all improvements are complete and approved by the City.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 3-2.20. Owners' association.
   When a development contains common elements, no subdivision plat may be
recorded until owners' association documents prepared in accordance with
N.C.G.S. Chapter 47C have been recorded in the Office of McDowell County
Register of Deeds.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 3-2.21. Dedication of rights-of-way and easements.
   A.   Dedication. The approval and recordation of a final subdivision plat
constitutes an offer of dedication to the city of any public rights-of-way or
easement shown on such plat.
   B.   Acceptance. The approval and recordation of a plat does not constitute
acceptance of maintenance responsibility within any right-of-way or easement.
Improvements within rights-of-way, such as utility lines, streets, drainage
facilities, sidewalks, or open space may be accepted for maintenance by the
City Council. The acceptance of a right-of-way or easement shall not be
considered by city council until all improvements have been inspected by the
public works director or authorized agent, corrections have been made in the
field, final as-built construction drawings have been submitted to the City and
the warranty on improvements required in Sec. 5-2.7 is completed.
   C.   Conveyance.
      1.   The acceptance of a right-of-way shown on an approved plat shall be
dedicated in the form of fee simple marketable title (unencumbered financially
and environmentally). For the purpose of this section, greenways and trails
used primarily for recreational purposes may be conveyed either in fee simple
marketable title (unencumbered financially and environmentally) or as a
dedicated easement.
      2.   The acceptance of improvements or open space outside of rights-of-
way shown on an approved plat may be dedicated in the form of fee simple
marketable title (unencumbered financially and environmentally), or as a
dedicated easement to the city.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 3-2.22. Phased development.
   A.   The City may require or allow for the phasing of development where
public improvements are proposed in order to maintain satisfactory levels of
service for existing public services and facilities or for other reasons based
upon maintaining the health, safety, and general welfare of the public.
   B.   If an applicant proposes that a subdivision be constructed in phases,
the following procedure shall apply:
      1.   A master plan showing the entire proposed subdivision and all phases
of development, proposed density, proposed type and location of utilities, and
proposed development timetable shall be submitted to the planning and
development department for review along with the submission of a preliminary
plat for approval. This provision shall not prohibit additional subdivision of
subdivided areas where a master plan was not submitted. However, the master
plan submitted for each phase of development shall be subject to meeting all
development regulations and standards in place at the time of submission.
      2.   If required, a development agreement shall be entered into by the
developer and City to guarantee the completion of public improvements as set
forth in this chapter.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 3-2.23. Development agreement.
   A.   Authority.
      1.   The city may enter into development agreements as allowed by and
subject to the limitations and requirements of Article 10 of G.S. Chapter 160D.
      2.   Unless provided otherwise by law, all rights, privileges, benefits,
burdens, and obligations created by these regulations and development approvals
made pursuant to this chapter attach to and run with the land.
   B.   Purpose. A Development Agreement is intended to provide guarantees to
the City and developer addressing the provision of public improvements, the
phasing of development and other conditions of development when an applicant
chooses to record a plat prior to completing improvements or plat contiguous
land holdings in multiple phases.
   C.   Applicability. Where the minimum required public improvements for a
plat are not complete prior to recording the plat, a development agreement
shall be entered into by the developer and City to guarantee the completion of
such improvements within the time specified therein. A development agreement
shall be required for Planned Unit Developments or other multi-phase projects
that require the coordination between the timing of development and the
provision of public improvements. Such agreement shall be required prior to
recordation of the first plat for the affected property.
   D.   Covenants to Run with the Land. Development Agreements shall bind all
successors, heirs and assignees of the applicant, and be recorded with the
Office of McDowell County Register of Deeds.
   E.   Other Contents of the Development Agreement. The City Council may
include any of the following within a Development Agreement: performance
guarantee for public improvements, phasing plans, project specific development
standards or review procedures, or other matters that the City Council finds
are appropriate to ensure that the development proceeds in accordance with
approved plans.
   F.   Temporary Improvements. The applicant shall construct, pay for, and
maintain any temporary improvements required by the City, such as, but not
limited to, streets, turn-outs, or utilities to facilitate emergency services
and life safety operations.
   G.   Governmental Units. Governmental units to which these improvement and
security provisions apply may file, in lieu of a Development Agreement and
security, an ordinance or similar document, agreeing to be bound by the
provisions of these regulations.
   H.   Decision Maker. The City Council shall approve, approve with
conditions, or deny the Development Agreement. Guarantor: The guarantor of any
escrow or bond shall be reviewed by the City Attorney prior to approval by city
council.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 3-2.24. Performance guarantee.
   A.   Guarantee required. Whenever an applicant chooses to record before
completing required public improvements, the applicant shall be required to
provide a sufficient guarantee for completion of the required public
improvements. The guarantee shall be in the form of cash, letter of credit,
escrow or surety bond naming the City as the beneficiary pursuant to N.C.G.S.
160D-804, as amended.
   B.   Amount of guarantee. The guarantee shall be in an amount equal to one
hundred twenty-five percent (125%) of the estimated cost of improvements as
shown on the approved construction plan, shall be signed and sealed by an
engineer licensed to practice in North Carolina, and shall be sufficient to
cover all promises and conditions contained in the Development Agreement. The
City reserves the right to verify the estimated cost of improvements shown on
the approved construction plan with a third- party engineer licensed to
practice in North Carolina and any expense shall be assessed to the applicant
as a cost recovery fee.
   C.   Completion of public improvements. The City Council may defer the
completion of required improvements provided the applicant guarantees
completion of all required public improvements no later than two (2) years
following the date of Final Plat approval. The Council may grant one (1)
extension for up to two (2) years. Developers of multi-phase developments may
be required to complete and dedicate those improvements necessary for initial
development to occur in accordance with the terms of the development agreement.
   D.   Final plat recording. Once the development agreement is approved by
city council and the required financial guarantee is provided by the developer,
the final plat may be approved or the Certificate of Occupancy may be issued if
all other requirements of this chapter and other land development regulations
are met. The approved and executed Development Agreement shall be recorded in
the Office of Register of Deeds.
   E.   Duration of performance guarantees. The duration of a performance
guarantee must be of a reasonable period to allow for completion and acceptance
of improvements. In no case may the duration of the performance guarantee
exceed two (2) years, unless the guarantee is extended with the consent of city
council. The city may release a portion or all of any financial guarantee
posted as the improvements are completed and approved by the city council. All
infrastructure necessary to serve off-site development must be completed before
final release of the financial guarantee.
   F.   Default.
      1.   Public improvements. Developments with public improvements that are
not completed and accepted at least 30 calendar days before the expiration of
the performance guarantee will be considered to be in default. Upon default the
surety bonding company or the financial institution holding the escrow account
must, if requested by the city, pay to the city all or any portion of the bond
or escrow fund in an amount deemed necessary by the city to complete the
improvements.
      2.   Private improvements. With the exception of stormwater controls or
other improvements to remain privately owned, developments with private
improvements that are not completed and accepted at least 30 calendar days
before the expiration of the performance guarantee will be considered to be in
default. Upon default the surety bonding company or the financial institution
holding the escrow account must, if requested by the city, pay to the city all
or any portion of the bond or escrow fund in an amount deemed necessary by the
city to have the improvements completed. Upon payment, the city shall require
completion of all required improvements and shall use such funds or portion
thereof from the bond or escrow account to reimburse costs for all or any
portion of the required improvements. Default on a project does not release the
original applicant or developer and all subsequent applicants and developers
from liability and responsibility for completion of the required improvements.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
ARTICLE III.
SUBDIVISION WITHIN WATERSHED PROTECTION AREA
REVIEW PROCEDURES
Sec. 3-3.1. General provisions.
   A.   No subdivision plat of land within the Watershed protection shall be
filed or recorded in the Office of McDowell County Register of Deeds until it
has been approved in accordance with the provisions of this Article. Likewise,
the Clerk of Superior Court shall not order or direct the recording of a plat
if the recording of such plat would be in conflict with this Article.
   B.   The approval of a plat does not constitute or effect the acceptance by
the City of Marion or the public of the dedication of any street or other
ground, easement, right-of-way, public utility line, or other public facility
shown on the plat and shall not be construed to do so.
   C.   All subdivisions shall conform with the mapping requirements contained
in N.C.G.S. 47-30.
   D.   All subdivisions of land within the jurisdiction of the City of Marion
after the effective date of the UDO shall require a plat to be prepared,
approved, and recorded pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 3-3.2. Application and review procedures.
   A.   All proposed subdivisions shall be reviewed prior to recording in the
Office of McDowell County Register of Deeds by submitting a vicinity map to the
Watershed Administrator to determine whether or not the property is located
within the designated Watershed protection. Subdivisions that are not within
the designated watershed area shall not be subject to the provisions of this
article and may be recorded provided the Watershed Administrator initials the
vicinity map. In addition, subdivisions within a WS-IV watershed are subject to
the provisions of this article only when an erosion and sedimentation plan is
required under the provisions of State law, or approved local program.
Subdivisions within the designated watershed area shall comply with the
provisions of this article and all other state and local requirements that may
apply.
   B.   Subdivision applications shall be filed with the Watershed
Administrator. The application shall include a completed application form, a
digital copy of the proposed plat or two (2) print copies of the proposed plat
and supporting documentation deemed necessary by the Watershed Administrator or
the Watershed Review Board.
   C.   The Watershed Administrator shall review the completed application and
shall either approve, approve conditionally or disapprove each application. The
Watershed Administrator shall take final action within forty-five (45) days of
submission of the application. The Watershed Administrator or the Board may
provide public agencies an opportunity to review and make recommendations.
However, failure of the agencies to submit their comments and recommendations
shall not delay action within the prescribed time limit. Said public agencies
may include, but are not limited to, the following:
      1.   The district highway engineer with regard to proposed streets and
highways.
      2.   The director of the Health Department with regard to proposed
private water system or sewer systems normally approved by the Health
Department.
      3.   The state Division of Water Quality with regard to proposed sewer
systems normally approved by the Division, engineered storm water controls or
storm water management in general.
      4.   Any other agency or official designated by the Watershed
Administrator or Watershed Review Board.
      5.   If the Watershed Administrator approves the application, such
approval shall be indicated on both copies of the plat by applying the water
supply watershed protection certificate and having the plat signed by the
Watershed Administrator.
   D.   If the Watershed Administrator disapproves or approves conditionally
the application, the reasons for such action shall be stated in writing for the
applicant and entered in the minutes. The applicant may make changes and submit
a revised plan which shall constitute a separate request for the purpose of
review.
   E.   All subdivision plats shall comply with the requirements for recording
in the Office of McDowell County Register of Deeds.
   F.   The plat shall be recorded within thirty (30) days of approval. The
Applicant shall provide the Watershed Administrator with evidence the plat has
been recorded in the Office of McDowell County Register of Deeds within five
(5) working days.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
ARTICLE IV.
PLOT PLANS AND SITE PLAN REVIEW PROCEDURES
Sec. 3-4.1. Types of plans.
   A.   Sketch Plan.
      1.   A sketch plan is a plan prepared in advance of formal submittal for
purposes of receiving informal staff comments. Although there are no minimum
requirements for the content of a sketch plan, applicants are encouraged to
provide as much detail as possible. Staff will distribute such sketch plans
received and convey comments to the applicant in a timely manner.
      2.   A sketch plan is required for subdivisions of five (5) or more lots
and encouraged for all other development.
   B.   Plot Plans. If a site plan is not otherwise required, the following
development activities require submittal of a plot plan prepared in accordance
with the approved plot plan standards pursuant to Sec.
3-4.3.A.
      1.   Construction of or additions to single-family and two-family
dwellings, and accessory buildings;
      2.   Expansions of buildings, parking areas, or open areas of land where
the amount of the expansion area does not exceed 3,000 square feet;
      3.   Co-location on an existing wireless telecommunications facility that
meets the wireless telecommunications facilities standards of Chapter Six, Art.
Eight Telecommunications.
      4.   Installation of temporary sales or construction office in
association with a development project having an active building permit;
      5.   Paving a lawfully created existing gravel parking lot that has 15 or
fewer spaces.
      6.   Establishment of temporary uses and mobile food vendor.
   C.   Site Plans. For all other site developments a site plan shall be
prepared in accordance with Sec.
3-4.3.B.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 3-4.2. Approval required.
   A.   No site plan or plot plan will be approved prior to approval of the
underlying zoning district.
   B.   No permanent improvements may be installed and no building permit will
be issued for any development activity until a site plan or plot plan is
approved.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 3-4.3. General plan standards.
   A.   Plot Plan.
      1.   The location and dimensions of proposed and existing structures.
      2.   The location of existing and proposed driveway, sidewalks, streets
and rights-of-way.
   B.   Site Plan. No other zoning or building permit shall be issued on a lot
until a site plan has been approved submitted and reviewed for the development.
No new or amended site plan shall be required if an adequate site plan is
already on file, no increase in or rearrangement of parking is proposed or
required, and no increase in impervious surface is proposed or required.
   Site plans submitted for approval must be drawn to a scale of not less than
one (1) inch equals one hundred (100) feet by an engineer, land surveyor,
architect or other qualified professional and shall show the following
information on one (1) or more sheets:
      1.   Location and dimensions of all existing and proposed structures and
setbacks from right-of-way and property lines. If no right-of-way exists,
indicate distance from traveled way.
      2.   Location of all utilities (water and sewer lines, manholes, power
lines, streetlights, and drainage structures). Include diameter and materials
used on new water and sewer lines.
      3.   Location of internal and external streets, rights-of-way, sidewalks,
entrances and exits.
      4.   Parking lots indicating individual spaces, loading zones, and
handicap parking. Adequate information to determine parking requirements.
      5.   Landscape plan as required by Sec.
3-4.7.
      6.   Location of dumpsters and other refuse areas including screening/
buffering plan.
      7.   Location and picture of proposed and existing signage as well as
sign permits
      8.   Pervious to non-pervious calculations.
      9.   All water, sewer, drainage, erosion control and street facilities
plans (including driveway permit) shall be submitted to the appropriate
official or agency prior to the final approval of the site plan (if
applicable.)
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 3-4.4. Coordination with other procedures.
   A.   General. Site plan review may proceed concurrently with a building plan
review, an application for a certificate of appropriateness, or may follow
submittal of an application for other applications for approval required for
the particular development.
   B.   With Special Use Permit.
      1.   Compliance with Approved Permit. All other permits issued for any
development activity on a property subject to a special use permit pursuant to
Sec.
3-7.1 must comply with the approved special use permit.
      2.   Submission of Site Plans. Site plans for any development made
pursuant to any special use permit are submitted for review in the same manner
as other site plans required by the UDO.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 3-4.5. Site plan filing.
   A.   A site plan must be prepared in accordance with site plan review
standards in accordance with this Article and submitted to the planning and
development department in accordance with Article One of this chapter.
   B.   For plans requiring Technical Review Committee Review Sec. 2-4.1.C.
that meet the requirements of the UDO, the plan will be placed on the agenda
for the next scheduled Technical Review Committee meeting.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 3-4.6. Review and approval.
   A.   Site Plans and Plot Plans.
      1.   Site plans and plot plans satisfying the review standards in Sec.
3-4.3 must be approved, and the applicant may proceed with other requirements
necessary to obtain a building permit.
      2.   If the plan is granted conditional approval, the applicant has 30
days to revise and resubmit the plan to the planning and development
department. If all of the conditions for approval have been met and the plan is
otherwise unchanged, the Planning Director or their designee must approve the
plan. If the plan is not revised within 30 days to meet the approval
conditions, or the applicant notifies the planning and development department
that no more revisions to the site plan will be made, the plan must be deemed
denied.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 3-4.7. Landscape plan.
   A.   A landscape plan must be prepared in accordance with the requirements
of the standards in Chapter 6, Art. Three and approved before installation of
plant material.
      1.   Certificate of Occupancy. All required plant material must be
installed and approved prior to the issuance of a final Certificate of
Occupancy by the planning and development department.
      2.   Temporary Certificate of Occupancy.
         a.   The Chief Building Official may issue a Temporary Certificate of
Occupancy for a period of up to 90 days if, at the time of a request for a
Certificate of Occupancy, the required planting areas are not complete and it
can be determined that:
            i.   Plant materials are temporarily unavailable but will be
available within 90 days, or
            ii.   Completion of the planting areas would jeopardize the health
of the plant materials; or
            iii.   Weather conditions are not conducive to planting.
         b.   In order to receive a Temporary Certificate of Occupancy, the
landowner must submit a copy of a signed contract for installation of the
required planting areas and must post a surety equal to the amount of the
contract.
      3.   The Chief Building Official may not issue a final Certificate of
Occupancy until the planting areas have been completed and approved.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 3-4.8. Construction and utility plans and easements.
   A.   Plan Required. A construction and utility plan for all street, water,
and sanitary sewer facilities must be submitted to the city following
preliminary plat review but may not be reviewed until the street and utility
network on the preliminary plat has been found generally satisfactory by the
Technical Review Committee. For each subdivision section, the construction and
utility plans must include all improvements lying within or adjacent to that
section, as well as all water, and sanitary sewer lines lying outside that
section and being required to serve that section. No construction and utility
plan may be approved until the preliminary plat has been approved.
   B.   Decision-making Authority. The Public Works Director has final
decision-making authority for all construction and utility plans, except as
otherwise expressed elsewhere in the City of Marion Code of Ordinances.
   C.   Coordination with Other Plans. Where public or private street,
sidewalk, water, private drives or sanitary sewer is shown on a preliminary
subdivision plat, the street and utility construction plans must be submitted
following approval of the plat.
   D.   Subdivision, Including Group Development. Where public or private
street, sidewalk, water, or sanitary sewer facility construction is shown on a
subdivision preliminary plat, the construction and utility plans must be
submitted following approval of the preliminary plat.
   E.   No Construction without Plan Approval. None of the improvements listed
above may be constructed until the construction and utility plans for such
improvements have been reviewed and approved.
   F.   Duration of Plan Approval. If construction or development activity does
not begin within 2 years following plan approval, or is begun and then
discontinued for a period greater than 180 calendar days, approval expires and
a new application must be submitted in accordance with this section.
   The discontinuance of installation of streets or utilities longer than 180
days may be subject to performance guarantees pursuant to Sec.
3-2.24.
   G.   Inspections. Work performed pursuant to approved construction and
utility plans must be inspected and approved, and any required easements
recorded, prior to issuance of a final certificate of occupancy.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 3-4.9. Utility easements.
   Easements over public utility lines needed to serve the site, which are
located on-site or off-site, shall be provided in accordance with the
provisions of G.S. 160D-804.
(Ord. No. O-23-07-18-4, § 3, 7-18-23)
Sec. 3-4.10. Watershed development plan.
   A.   Plan Required. A watershed development plan is required in accordance
with the requirements of this section, must be submitted to the watershed
administrator and must include all applicable information listed in Chapter.
The watershed management plan may be combined with any required site
development plan.
   B.   Plan Approval.  The Technical Review Committee is authorized to approve
the watershed management plan if it is in conformance with the requirements of
the UDO for watershed protection. Timing of approval must be as follows:
      1.   Site Plans. The watershed management plan must have approval prior
to or concurrent with site plan approval.
      2.   Preliminary Subdivision Plats. The watershed management plan must
have approval prior to or concurrent with preliminary subdivision plat approval
except that when a watershed management improvement is proposed, the
construction plan details including proposed grading, dimensions, calculations,
etc. for the proposed improvement may be approved following preliminary
subdivision plat approval. The construction plan details and separate
maintenance plan must be approved prior to issuance of any permits as specified
in this section.
   C.   Approved Plan a Prerequisite. The watershed.administrator is not
authorized to issue any permits for development on any land unless and until a
watershed management plan, that is in compliance with the requirements of this
section, has been approved.
   D.   Review Criteria. Plans that meet the following criteria must be
approved:
      1.   It is in compliance with all applicable UDO requirements and other
related City policies;
      2.   It is in compliance with all previously approved applicable plans;
and
      3.   It takes into account topography and other significant natural
features.
   E.   Duration of Plan Approval. If construction or development activity does
not begin within 2 years following Plan approval, or is begun and then
discontinued for a period greater than 180 days, approval expires and a new
application must be submitted in accordance with this section.
   F.   Revisions to Approved Plans.
      1.   Limited revisions to the approved Plan, such as those resulting from
field conditions or which result in an equal or better performance, may be
approved by the Planning and Development Director.
      2.   Substantial changes to the approved Plan, as determined by the
Planning and Development Director in accordance with the criteria of Sec.
3-7.1.G, must be resubmitted for approval. A plan resubmitted for approval is
processed as if it were a new application.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 3-4.11. Appeal.
   A.   If a plan has been denied or granted conditional approval, the
applicant may appeal to the Board of Adjustment in accordance with Sec.
3-7.5.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
ARTICLE V.
ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW PROCEDURES
Sec. 3-5.1. Zoning compliance permit.
   A.   Purpose. A zoning permit shall be required for the construction or
development of any new use within the planning and regulation jurisdiction of
the City of Marion. In addition to new uses a zoning permit shall also be
required for expansions of existing uses, as well as for changes of use.
   B.   Pre-application procedure. No pre-application conference is required
prior to applying for a zoning compliance permit. Applicants are encouraged to
call or visit the planning and development department prior to requesting a
zoning permit to determine what information is required for the application.
   C.   Application submittal.
      1.   Filing of application. An application for a zoning compliance permit
may be filed by the owner of the property or by an agent, specifically
authorized by the owner to file such application. Where an agent files the
application, the agent shall provide documentation that the owner of the
property has authorized the filing of the application.
      2.   Information required. Each application for a zoning compliance
permit shall contain the information required on the application form,
including a site plan showing the dimensions of the proposed use and its
location on the property or site. Other information necessary to show that the
use or structure complies with the standards set forth in this chapter shall
also be provided.
      3.   Annual zoning permits. An annual zoning compliance permit is
required for certain land uses including mobile food vendors, off-premise
advertising signs, and other temporary uses and structures as defined within
the UDO. Annual zoning permits must be renewed each year before the expiration
date and in accordance with the terms of the UDO. Failure to timely renew the
annual zoning permit will result in an expiration of that permit, and can
result in a voluntary forfeiture of all legal rights and claims to continue
that use.
      4.   Staff review. The planning and development director or their
designee shall review the application and determine whether it is complete
within five working days of its submittal. If the application is found to be
incomplete, the planning and development director shall notify the applicant of
any deficiencies. No further steps shall be taken to process the application
until the applicant corrects the deficiencies. The planning and development
director shall issue a zoning compliance permit only upon finding that the
proposed use or structure satisfies the requirements set forth in the UDO.
      5.   Public notification. No public notification is required for zoning
compliance permit application.
      6.   Formal review. No formal review of zoning permit application is
required. Requests shall be reviewed by appropriate city staff to assure
compliance with all applicable regulations and requirements.
      7.   Variance. Requests for variances from the requirements requiring a
zoning compliance permit shall be heard by the board of adjustment under the
procedures established in Sec.
3-7.2.
      8.   Administrative Appeal. An appeal of a decision of the planning and
development director shall be heard by the board of adjustment under the
procedures established by Sec.
3-7.2.
      9.   Permit validity. Upon the approval of a zoning permit, the applicant
shall have one year to obtain the required building permit(s). Failure to
commence building permits within this time shall render the zoning permit void.
The planning and development director may grant a single extension of this time
period of up to six months upon submittal by the applicant of sufficient
justification for the extension. Upon issuance of a building permit(s), the
zoning permit shall remain valid as long as a valid building permit exists for
the project. Any unapproved change in the approved plans shall render the
zoning permit invalid.
      10.   Violations. Violations of the conditions of the zoning compliance
permit shall be considered a violation of the UDO and shall be subject to the
enforcement and penalty provisions set forth in Chapter One of the Marion Code
of Ordinances.
(Ord. No. O-23-07-18-4, § 4, 7-18-23)
Sec. 3-5.2. Building permit.
   A.   A building permit shall be required pursuant to this Chapter unless
expressly exempt pursuant to subsection B below.
   B.   Exceptions. A building permit shall not be required under the following
conditions:
      1.   The connection of a water heater in a one- or two-family dwelling
unit that is being replaced, provided that the work is performed by a person
licensed under G.S. § 87-21, who personally examines the work at completion and
ensures that a leak test has been performed on the gas piping, and provided the
energy use rate or thermal input is not greater than that of the water heater
which is being replaced, there is no change in fuel, energy source, location,
capacity, or routing or sizing of venting and piping, and the replacement is
installed in accordance with the current edition of the State Building Code.
      2.   The repair or replacement of electrical lighting fixtures or devices
in a one- or two-family dwelling unit, such as receptacles and lighting
switches, or for the connection of an existing branch circuit to an electric
water heater that is being replaced, provided that all of the following
requirements are met:
         a.   With respect to electric water heaters, the replacement water
heater is placed in the same location and is of the same or less capacity and
electrical rating as the original.
         b.   With respect to electrical lighting fixtures and devices, the
replacement is with a fixture or device having the same voltage and the same or
less amperage.
         c.   The work is performed by a person licensed under G.S. § 87-43.
         d.   The repair or replacement installation meets the current edition
of the State Building Code, including the State Electrical Code.
      3.   The installation, maintenance, or replacement of any load control
device or equipment by an electric power supplier, as defined in G.S. § 62-
133.8, or an electrical contractor contracted by the electric power supplier,
so long as the work is subject to supervision by an electrical contractor
licensed under Article 4 of Chapter 87 of the General Statutes. The electric
power supplier shall provide such installation, maintenance, or replacement in
accordance with:
         a.   An activity or program ordered, authorized, or approved by the
North Carolina Utilities Commission pursuant to G.S. § 62-133.8 or G.S. § 62-
133.9; or
         b.   A similar program undertaken by a municipal electric service
provider, whether the installation, modification, or replacement is made before
or after the point of delivery of electric service to the customer. The
exemption under this subdivision applies to all existing installations.
      4.   Pursuant to G.S. Chapter 143 Articles 9 and 9C, no permit shall be
required for any construction, installation, repair, replacement, or alteration
performed in accordance with the current edition of the North Carolina State
Building Code and costing fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000) or less in any
single family residence or farm building unless the work involves any of the
following:
         a.   The addition, repair or replacement of load bearing structures.
However, no permit is required for replacements of windows, doors, exterior
siding, or the pickets, railings, stair treads, and decking of porches and
exterior decks.
         b.   The addition or change in the design of plumbing. However, no
permit is required for replacements otherwise meeting the requirements of this
subsection that do not change size or capacity.
         c.   The addition, replacement or change in the design of heating, air
conditioning, or electrical wiring, devices, appliances, or equipment, other
than like-kind replacement of electrical devices and lighting fixtures.
         d.   The use of materials not permitted by the North Carolina
Residential Code for One and Two- Family Dwellings.
         e.   The addition, excluding replacement, of roofing.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 3-5.3. Establishment of floodplain development permit.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required in conformance with the
common review procedures of this chapter and the requirements of Chapter Eight,
Article One of the UDO prior to the commencement of any development activities
within special flood hazard areas.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 3-5.4. Pre-application consultation.
   A.   Before submitting an application for any development approval,
applicants are encouraged to schedule a pre-application consultation with the
planning and development department to discuss the procedures, standards and
regulations required for development approval in accordance with the UDO.
   B.   A pre-application consultation with the planning director or their
designee is mandatory prior to the following development reviews:
      1.   Zoning Map Amendment
      2.   Comprehensive Plan Amendment
      3.   Special Use
      4.   Historic Landmark or District Designation
      5.   Major Subdivision
   C.   The planning director may establish guidelines for conducting pre-
application consultations, which may include alternatives to face-to-face
meetings, such as telephone conversations and email correspondence.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
ARTICLE VI.
LEGISLATIVE REVIEW PROCEDURES
Sec. 3-6.1. Comprehensive plan amendment.
   A.   Applicability.
      1.   The City Council may consider an amendment to the Comprehensive Plan
not in association with a Zoning Map Amendment, as may be required from time to
time, with a recommendation from the Planning Board.
      2.   The City Council may also consider an amendment to the Comprehensive
Plan when a Zoning Map Amendment application is in direct conflict with the
Comprehensive Plan, as determined by the Planning and Development Director.
City Council may also establish policy guidelines as to what amendments
constitute a direct conflict and require an amendment.
   B.   Coordination with Zoning Map Amendment. When required, an application
for a plan amendment must be submitted and reviewed concurrently with a zoning
map amendment application.
   C.   Pre-application Consultation. In order to determine whether a plan
amendment is required, a pre- application consultation is required in
accordance with pre-application consultation requirements of Sec.
3-5.4 above.
   D.   Submittal Requirements.
      1.   An application for a plan amendment must be prepared in accordance
with the common review
procedures of this chapter and submitted to the planning and development
department.
      2.   Zoning Map Amendment applications must be submitted to the planning
and development department at least 45 days before the meeting of the Planning
Board at which the application is to be considered.
   E.   Planning Board Review.
      1.   Comprehensive Plan Amendment without Zoning Map Amendment.
         a.   Before making any recommendation on a plan amendment, the
Planning Board must consider any recommendations from the Planning and
Development Director and must conduct a public meeting.
         b.   Notice and public meeting requirements must be provided in
accordance with Sec.
3-1.7.
         c.   The applicant or an agent of the applicant is encouraged to
appear at the meetings to explain why the Comprehensive Plan should be changed.
         d.   Following the close of the public meeting, the Planning Board
shall make a recommendation on the amendment to the City Council.
         e.   If the Planning Board fails to make a recommendation within 45
days of an item being placed on a Board meeting agenda, City Council may
proceed to hear the application.
      2.   Comprehensive Plan Amendment with Zoning Map Amendment.
         a.   Before reviewing a plan amendment that is accompanied by a zoning
map amendment, the Planning Board must consider any recommendations from the
Planning and Development Director and comment on the proposed amendment.
         b.   The accompanying zoning map amendment with the Planning Board's
comments on the proposed plan amendment shall be forwarded to City Council for
their consideration and final decision.
   F.   Criteria for Planning Board Recommendations. The recommendations of the
Planning Board to the City Council must show that the Planning Board has
studied and considered the proposed change in relation to the following, where
applicable:
      1.   Whether the proposed change would be consistent with the intent,
goals, objectives, policies, guiding principles and programs of any adopted
plans;
      2.   Whether the proposed change would be compatible with the existing
land use pattern and designated future land uses; and
      3.   Whether the proposed change would meet the Comprehensive Plan
amendment criteria.
   G.   City Council Final Action. The City Council must hold a public hearing
on all applicable Comprehensive Plan amendments and take appropriate action
following the hearing.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 3-6.2. Zoning map amendment.
   A.   General. Zoning district boundaries as shown on the Official Zoning Map
may be amended, supplemented, changed, modified, or repealed in accordance with
the procedures of the UDO.
   B.   Authority to File.
      1.   General Districts and Overlay Districts. A proposal to amend the
official zoning map may be initiated by the City Council; any city board,
commission, or department; or any person who resides or owns real property in
the City of Marion.
      2.   Planned Unit Development Districts. Only the property owners of all
the property to be included in the district may apply for a zoning map
amendment.
   C.   Submittal Requirements.
      1.   Zoning Map Amendment applications must be prepared in accordance
with the common review procedures of this chapter and submitted to the planning
and development department.
      2.   Zoning Map Amendment applications must be submitted to the planning
and development department at least 45 days before the meeting of the Planning
Board at which the application is to be considered.
   D.   Planning Board Review and Recommendation.
      1.   The Planning Board must hold a public hearing on all zoning
amendment applications.
      2.   Published, mailed and posted notice of the Planning Board public
hearing must be provided in accordance with Sec.
3-1.7.
      3.   The Planning and Development Director must present the zoning map
amendment application to the Planning Board, together with staff’s
recommendations, at the first regularly scheduled meeting following proper
filing and notice of the application unless the case is continued pursuant to
subsection (H) below.
      4.   Following the close of public comment, the Planning Board shall take
action on the amendment. The Planning Board must advise and comment on whether
the proposed amendment is consistent with the Comprehensive Plan, and it must
adopt a written statement that addresses consistency between the proposed
amendment and the Comprehensive Plan and other matters as deemed relevant by
the Planning Board. A proposed amendment that is inconsistent with the
Comprehensive Plan does not preclude approval of the proposed amendment.
   E.   City Council-Final Action.
      1.   The City Council must hear only those zoning map amendment
applications that have been heard by the Planning Board. Upon receipt of
recommendations, the City Council must hold a public hearing on such
applications.
      2.   The City Council must adopt a written statement that addresses
consistency between the proposed amendment and the Comprehensive Plan and other
matters as deemed relevant by the City Council. A proposed amendment that is
inconsistent with the Comprehensive Plan does not preclude approval of the
proposed amendment.
   F.   Successive Applications.
      1.   No application for a zoning map amendment to the same district on a
given property or portion thereof may be filed within a one-year period from:
         a.   The date of final action by the City Council; or
         b.   The date of the public hearing or scheduled public hearing before
the City Council if such application is withdrawn less than 24 days prior to
such public hearing or scheduled public hearing.
      2.   No more than two (2) zoning map amendment applications may be filed
for a given property or portion thereof within any one-year period.
      3.   Any application for zoning map amendment that is initiated by the
City Council or Planning Board will not be considered in determining the number
of applications, their timing, filing, or any subsequent waiting periods for
other applications as set forth in paragraphs (1) and (2), above.
   G.   Application Withdrawal. A zoning map amendment application may be
withdrawn by the applicant by filing a written notice of withdrawal with the
planning and development department at least 24 days before the Planning Board
meeting at which the application is intended to be heard. Applications may be
withdrawn after the 24-day period only by action of the Planning Board or City
Council at the time of the scheduled public hearing on the subject application.
   H.   Continuance. The Planning Board or City Council may continue a zoning
map amendment for up to 2 months if the reason for the continuance is stated in
the motion to continue. Continuances may be granted for a longer period if they
are mutually agreed to by all affected parties. Upon failure of the Planning
Board to act upon an amendment following all proper continuances, the
petitioner may take the amendment to the City Council without a recommendation
from the Planning Board.
   I.   Establishment of Original Zoning. The procedure for establishment of
original zoning – applied at the time additional territory is brought under the
jurisdiction of the UDO by annexation or otherwise – is the same as required
under the Zoning Map Amendment procedures with regard to common review
procedures and continuance and follows the map amendment procedures of this
chapter with regard to voting by the Planning Board and action by the City
Council. When the City Council initiates the original zoning, it is not
necessary to provide a metes and bounds description, provided that local
government planning maps clearly delineate the area involved and the proposed
zoning classification.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 3-6.3. UDO text amendment.
   A.   General. The text of this chapter may be amended, supplemented,
changed, modified, or repealed in accordance with the procedures of this
section.
   B.   Authority to File. A proposal to amend the text of the UDO may be
initiated by the City Council; any city board, commission, or department; or
any person.
   C.   Filing. Proposals to amend the text of the UDO must be prepared in
accordance with the common review procedures pursuant to common review
procedures in this chapter and submitted to the planning and development
department.
   D.   Planning Board – Review and Recommendation.
      1.   The Planning Board must hold a public meeting on all proposed text
amendments.
      2.   Following the close of public comment, the Planning Board may vote
to recommend that the City Council approve, approve with revisions or deny the
proposed text amendment. The Planning Board is also authorized to forward the
proposed text amendment to the City Council with no recommendation.
   E.   City Council – Final Action.
      1.   The City Council must hold a public hearing on all text amendments.
      2.   Following the close of the public hearing, the City Council shall
vote to approve, approve with revisions or deny the text amendment.
   F.   Continuance. The Planning Board or City Council may continue a text
amendment for up to 2 months if the reason for the continuance is stated in the
motion to continue. Continuances may be granted for a longer period if they are
mutually agreed to by all affected parties. Upon failure of the Planning Board
to act upon a text amendment following all proper continuances, or if no action
is taken, the applicant may take the text amendment to the City Council without
a recommendation from the Planning Board.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
ARTICLE VII.
QUASI-JUDICIAL REVIEW PROCEDURES
Sec. 3-7.1. Special use.
   An application for a special use permit must be signed by the owner of the
subject property.
   A.   Filing. An application for special use must be prepared in accordance
with the common review procedures pursuant to common review procedures of this
chapter and submitted to the planning and development department at least 45
days prior to the meeting of the Board of Adjustment at which such an
application is to be considered.
   B.   Procedure. Applications for special use must be processed, considered,
and voted upon in accordance with Article 1 Common Review Procedures.
   C.   Evidence at Hearing. All evidence presented at public hearings on a
special use request must be under oath.
   D.   Required Findings.
      1.   The special use request must be granted by the Board of Adjustment
when all of the following findings have been made:
         a.   That the proposed use will not be detrimental to the health or
safety of persons residing or working in the vicinity or injurious to property
or improvements in the vicinity;
         b.   That the proposed use at the particular location provides a
service or facility that will contribute to the general well-being of the
neighborhood or the community; and
         c.   That the location and character of the proposed use will be in
harmony with the area in which it is to be located and in general conformity
with the Comprehensive Plan.
      2.   lf the Board of Adjustment does not make these findings, then the
special use request may not be granted.
      3.   Review Factors. The applicant must demonstrate that the review
factors listed below have been adequately addressed. If an application is
denied, the decision-making body must specify which of these review factors
were not adequately addressed.
         a.   Circulation. Number and location of access points to the property
and the proposed structures and uses are provided with particular reference to
automotive, bicycle, and pedestrian safety and convenience, traffic flow and
control, and access in case of fire or catastrophe.
         b.   Parking and Loading. Location of off-street parking and loading
areas are sufficiently provided.
         c.   Service Entrances and Areas. Locations of refuse and service
areas are provided with particular reference to ingress and egress of service
vehicles.
         d.   Lighting. Locations of exterior lighting are provided with
reference to glare, traffic safety, economic effect and compatibility with
other property in the area.
         e.   Signs. Appropriateness of signs considering location, height,
size, and design within the context of other property in the area.
         f.   Utilities. Location and availability of utilities is provided.
         g.   Open Spaces. Location of required yards and other open spaces and
preservation of existing trees and other natural features is provided.
         h.   Environmental Protection. Is in compliance with landscape,
floodplain, watershed, wetlands, steep slopes, open space and other natural
feature requirements.
         i.   Screening, Buffering and Landscaping. Installation of screening,
buffering, fencing and landscaping where necessary to protect adjacent property
is provided.
         j.   Effect on Adjacent Property. Effects of the proposed use on
nearby property, including, but not limited to, the effects of noise and odor
are mitigated.
         k.   Compatibility. The level of general compatibility with nearby
properties and the appropriateness of the use in relationship to other
properties are provided.
   E.   Greater Restrictions. In granting a special use request, the Board of
Adjustment may impose more restrictive requirements as deemed necessary to
advance the purposes and intent of the UDO, provided that such requirements are
directly related to the impacts of the proposed use, and agreed to in writing
by the applicant.
   F.   Permit Perpetually Binding. Unless expired or discontinued, approved
special use requests must be perpetually binding upon the property unless
subsequently changed or amended in accordance with this section or a use
otherwise permitted in the zoning district is established.
   G.   Substantial Changes, Amendments, and Modifications to a Special Use
Approval. 
      1.   The Planning and Development Director is authorized to determine
when a development proposal constitutes a substantial change to a condition of
approval imposed through a special use permit or other development approval
process, in accordance with the following regulations.
         a.   A change will be deemed substantial if it:
            i.   Decreases the number or extent of mixed-use features,
including combinations of different land uses, integrated site design, strong
pedestrian and vehicle connectivity, and strong orientation of buildings to
streets (sidewalks);
            ii.   Decreases use of compatible design features, including
architectural styles and materials, signage and lighting, and site layout,
among both internal development and with appropriate adjacent external
development;
            iii.   Decreases pedestrian features, including added sidewalks,
crosswalks, bus stops, pedestrian amenities, small block site layout or
internal and external pedestrian connections; or
            iv.   Changes the use category is the same per Sec.
4-3.2, within any portion of the development.
         b.   A change will not be deemed substantial if it reduces impacts on
surrounding properties in one or more of the following ways:
            i.   A greater than 10% decrease in the intensity of the land uses
proposed on the site (e.g., number of housing units or gross floor area);
            ii.   A greater than 10% increase in proposed setbacks by locating
the proposed buildings closer to internal property lines without increasing the
setbacks of proposed buildings from public streets;
            iii.   A significant increase in the visually obscuring buffers
along the perimeter of the site (not including toward streets) that includes
preserved vegetation, added landscaping, walls and fences, or the use of
topography;
            iv.   A decrease in the traffic impact due to a significant
decrease or shift in the number, location or configuration of access points to
or additional road improvements for the development; or
            v.   A greater than 10% increase in the amount of usable or passive
open space, tree preservation, greenways, or trails provided on the site.
   H.   Approval of Amendments and Modifications.
      1.   The Planning and Development Director may allow a non-substantial
change or amendment to a special use permit if the amendment or modification
meets the criteria of subsection (b) above.
      2.   The Board of Adjustment may allow a substantial change or amendment
to a special use permit by following the same procedure as that required for
the original approval of the special use.
   I.   Cancellation of Permit. If for any reason any restriction imposed
pursuant to these regulations is found to be illegal or invalid, such special
use approval immediately becomes null and void and of no effect.
   J.   Violation of Permit Restrictions. Any violation of a restriction in an
approved special use must be treated the same as any other violation of the
UDO, subject to the same remedies and penalties as any such violation. The
Board of Adjustment may, after a hearing, revoke such permit on all or part of
a development if it finds that the violation was intentional, was continued for
an unreasonable time, or was substantially inconsistent with the purpose and
intent of the permit.
   K.   Permit Duration.
      1.   Authorization of a special use permit is void after two (2) years or
such lesser time as the authorization may specify unless use of the property
has begun and/or a footing inspection has been passed.
      2.   If any special use is discontinued for a period exceeding 18 months
or replaced by a use otherwise permitted in the zoning district, it shall be
deemed abandoned and the special use permit shall be null and void and of no
effect. The owner must demonstrate that the special use has not been
discontinued for a period exceeding 18 months or has not been replaced by a use
otherwise permitted to maintain a valid special use permit.
   L.   Successive Applications. Successive applications for the same special
use permit on a given property may be made after one year has passed since the
date of the final action on the previous special use permit.
   M.   Appeal. Pursuant to Sec.
3-7.5 final decisions made by the Board of Adjustment may be appealed within 30
days to the McDowell County Superior Court who must hear the appeal on the
record.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 3-7.2. General variance review.
   A.   Variances general.
      1.   The Board of Adjustment may vary certain requirements of the UDO, in
harmony with the general purpose of these regulations, where special conditions
applicable to the property in question would make the strict enforcement of the
regulations impractical or result in a hardship in making reasonable use of the
property.
      2.   The Board of Adjustment may grant variances for reconstruction,
rehabilitation, or restoration of structures that are individually listed or
are contributing structures within an historic district overlay.
      3.   The Board of Adjustment serving as the Watershed Review Board may
grant a variance pursuant to Sec.
8-2.6.B.
      4.   No variance may be granted that would have the effect of allowing a
use not permitted in the subject district or a density exceeding the maximum
allowed in the subject district.
      5.   No variance may be granted where explicitly prohibited by the UDO.
   B.   Authority to file. An application for a variance must be signed by the
owner of the subject property.
   C.   Administrative variance. The Planning and Development Director may
provide an administrative variance to an applicant requesting a minor
modification to the dimensional requirements within the Unified Development
Ordinance; provided the request for variance is evaluated and based on
subsection F and G below, and the deviation is no greater than twenty (20)
percent from the standard dimensional requirements. All other requests must be
submitted to the Board of Adjustment pursuant to this section.
   D.   Filing. An application for a variance must be prepared in accordance
with the common review procedures of this chapter and submitted to the Planning
and Development Department at least 45 days before the Board of Adjustment
meeting where the application will be heard.
   E.   Board of Adjustment - decision.
      1.   The Board of Adjustment must hold a public hearing on all variance
applications. Notice of the hearing must be provided in accordance with Sec.
3-1.7.
      2.   Following the close of the public hearing, the Board of Adjustment
must take action on the application in consideration of the general variance
findings of fact required in subsection A above or other findings of fact
specific to watershed protection standards and conditions for certain approvals
for historic property. The Board may grant approval of a variance application
subject to certain conditions or restrictions in accordance with subsection F
below.
   F.   General variance findings of fact.
      1.   In order to grant a variance request, the Board of Adjustment must
make the following findings of fact:
         a.   Unnecessary hardship would result from the strict application of
the UDO. It shall not be necessary to demonstrate that, in the absence of the
variance, no reasonable use can be made of the property.
         b.   The hardship results from conditions that are peculiar to the
property, such as location, size, or topography. Hardships resulting from
personal circumstances, as well as hardships resulting from conditions that are
common to the neighborhood or the general public, may not be the basis for
granting a variance.
         c.   The hardship did not result from actions taken by that applicant
or the property owner. The act of purchasing property with knowledge that
circumstances exist that may justify the granting of a variance shall not be
regarded as a self-created hardship.
         d.   The requested variance is consistent with the spirit, purpose,
and intent of the UDO, such that public safety is secured, and substantial
justice is achieved.
      2.   Any variance granted by the Board of Adjustment must be the minimum
variance required for reasonable use of the land, building, or structure. The
fact that property may be utilized for greater profit, however, is not
considered adequate to justify the granting of a variance.
      3.   Neither the nonconforming use of lands, buildings, or structures in
the same zoning district; nor the permitted use of lands, buildings, or
structures in other zoning districts; nor personal circumstances may be
considered as grounds for the issuance of a variance. Furthermore, mere
financial hardship does not constitute grounds for the granting of a variance.
   G.   Conditions. In granting a variance, the Board of Adjustment may impose
conditions deemed necessary to advance the purposes and intent of the UDO,
provided that such conditions are directly related to the impacts of the
proposed use and are roughly proportional to those anticipated impacts.
      1.   A variance granted subject to a condition may continue only so long
as there is compliance with the condition.
      2.   Violation or invalidation of conditions required for approval, for
any reason, will be deemed a violation of the UDO.
      3.   In the event that any such condition is held invalid, for any
reason, such holding has the effect of invalidating the variance granted and
renders the variance null and void.
      4.   If a violation or invalidation of a condition of a variance occurs,
the Board of Adjustment may revoke the variance approval in the same manner in
which it was approved.
   H.   Duration of approval. The Board may specify a time duration within
which construction, operation, or installation must commence. Unless otherwise
specified, construction, operation, or installation must start within one year
of the date of issuance of a variance or it becomes void. If construction or
operation is started within the specified time period, the variance approval
continues in force so long as the affected building, operation, or installation
remains.
   I.   Successive applications. Successive applications for the same variance
permit on a given property may be made after one year has passed since the date
of the final action on the previous variance permit.
   J.   Appeal. Pursuant to Sec. 3-7.5, final decisions made by the Board of
Adjustment may be appealed within 30 days to the McDowell County Superior
Court, who must hear the appeal on the record.
(Ord. No. O-23-07-18-4, § 10, 7-18-23)
Sec. 3-7.3. Subdivision variance.
   Where, because of topographical or other conditions peculiar to the site,
strict adherence to the provisions of the subdivision regulations would cause
an unnecessary hardship, the city council may authorize a variance, following
notice and a quasi-judicial hearing procedures set forth in this chapter, if
such variance can be made without destroying the intent of the subdivision
regulations. Any variance thus authorized is required to be entered in writing
in the minutes of the city council and the reasoning on which the departure was
justified set forth.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 3-7.4. Flood damage prevention variance.
   A.    Authority. The Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide appeals and
requests for variances from the requirements of the flood damage prevention
provisions of the UDO.
   B.   Appeal and Variance Considerations. In passing upon such applications,
the Board of Adjustment shall consider all technical evaluations, all relevant
factors, all standards specified in other sections of the UDO, and:
      l.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      2.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      3.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      4.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      5.   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
      6.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      7.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      8.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      9.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment
transport of the flood waters, and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site;
      10.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and bridges; and
      11.   The effect that granting the appeal or variance would have on the
city's eligibility for federal flood insurance. In addition, if the request is
for a functionally dependent facility, the Board of Adjustment shall consider
the necessity to the facility of a waterfront location.
   C.   Written Report and Additional Conditions. A written report addressing
each of the above factors shall be submitted with the application for a
variance.
   D.   Granting of Variances.
      1.   Variances may be granted for:
         a.   The repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon the
determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the
structure's continued designation as a historic structure and the variance is
the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the
structure.
         b.   Functionally dependent facilities provided such facilities are
protected by methods that minimize flood damages.
         c.   Any other type of development provided it meets the requirements
stated in this section.
      2.   Variances shall not be granted when the variance will cause the
structure to be in violation of other federal, state, or local laws,
regulations, or ordinances.
      3.   Variances shall not be granted within any designated floodway or
non-encroachment area if any increase in flood levels during the base flood
discharge would result.
      4.   Variances shall only be granted upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      5.   Variances shall only be issued prior to development permit approval.
      6.   Variances shall only be granted upon:
         a.   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         b.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship; and
         c.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, creation of a nuisance, fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      7.   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all
appeal actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management
Agency and the State of North Carolina upon request.
      8.   A variance may be issued for solid waste disposal facilities,
hazardous waste management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage
facilities that are located in special flood hazard areas or future conditions
flood hazard areas provided that all of the following conditions are met:
         a.   The use serves a critical need in the community.
         b.   No feasible location exists for the use outside the special flood
hazard area or future conditions flood hazard area.
         c.   The reference level of any structure is elevated or flood-proofed
to at least the regulatory flood protection elevation.
         d.   The use complies with all other applicable federal, state and
local laws.
         e.   The city has notified the Secretary of the North Carolina
Department of Crime Control and Public Safety of its intention to grant a
variance at least 30 days prior to granting the variance.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 3-7.5. Administrative appeal.
   A.   Appeals. Except as provided in G.S. 160D-1403.1, appeals of
administrative decisions made by staff as allowed by G.S. 160D and the
development regulations adopted by the City under the authority of G.S. Chapter
160D, shall be made to the board of adjustment.
   B.   Standing. Any person who has standing under G.S. 160D-1402(d) or the
city may appeal an administrative decision to the board of adjustment. An
appeal is taken by filing a notice of appeal with the planning and development
department and the city clerk within thirty (30) days after the order,
decision, or determination pursuant to G.S. 160D-405(d).The notice of appeal
shall state the grounds for the appeal.
   C.   Time to Appeal. The owner or other party has 30 days from receipt of
the written notice of the determination within which to file an appeal. Any
other person with standing to appeal has 30 days from receipt from any source
of actual or constructive notice of the determination within which to file an
appeal.
   In the absence of evidence to the contrary, notice pursuant to G.S. 160D-403
(b) given by first-class mail is deemed received on the third business day
following deposit of the notice for mailing with the United States Postal
Service.
   D.   Record of Decision. The official who made the decision shall transmit
to the board of adjustment all documents and exhibits constituting the record
upon which the decision appealed from is taken. The official shall also provide
a copy of the record to the appellant and to the owner of the property that is
the subject of the appeal if the appellant is not the owner.
   E.   Stays. An appeal of a notice of violation or other enforcement order
stays enforcement of the action appealed from and accrual of any fines assessed
during the pendency of the appeal to the board of adjustment and any subsequent
appeal in accordance with G.S. 160D-1402 or during the pendency of any civil
proceeding authorized by law or appeals therefrom, unless the official who made
the decision certifies to the board of adjustment after the notice of appeal
has been filed that because of the facts stated in an affidavit:
      1.   A stay would cause imminent peril to life or property or because the
violation is transitory in nature, or
      2.   A stay would seriously interfere with enforcement of the development
regulation.
   In those cases, enforcement proceedings shall not be stayed except by a
restraining order, which may be granted by a court.
   If enforcement proceedings are not stayed, the appellant may file with the
official a request for an expedited hearing of the appeal, and the board of
adjustment shall meet to hear the appeal within 15 days after such a request is
filed.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, appeals of decisions
granting a development approval or otherwise affirming that a proposed use of
property is consistent with the development regulation does not stay the
further review of an application for development approvals to use the property;
in these situations the appellant or the city may request and the board of
adjustment may grant a stay of a final decision of development approval
applications, including building permits affected by the issue being appealed.
   F.   Alternative Dispute Resolution. The parties to an appeal that has been
made under this section may agree to mediation or other forms of alternative
dispute resolution.
   G.   No Estoppel. G.S. 160D-1403.2, limiting a local government's use of the
defense of estoppel, applies to proceedings under this section.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Chapter 4
GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Art. I. Zoning Districts and Overlay Districts, §§ 4-1.1--4-1.7
   Art. II. District Dimensional Standards, §§ 4-2.1--4-2.7
   Art. III. District Use Requirements, §§ 4-3.1--4-3.4
   Art. IV. Temporary Uses and Structures, §§ 4-4.1--4-4.3
ARTICLE I.
ZONING DISTRICTS AND OVERLAY DISTRICTS
Sec. 4-1.1. General zoning districts established.
   The general zoning districts are hereby established, and intended to
implement the City of Marion Comprehensive Plan. District titles are intended
to convey general land use, maximum density, or development intensity, but the
dimensional standards for each district determine the actual development
regulations applicable to a specific site.
Full Name Short Name/ Map Symbol
Full Name                              Short Name/ Map Symbol
Residential Zoning Districts
R-1 Single-Family Residential District R-1
R-2 Neighborhood Residential District  R-2
R-3 Mixed-Use Residential District     R-3
R-4 Multi-Family Residential District  R-4
Non-Residential Zoning Districts
B-1 Neighborhood Business District     B-1
C-1 Central Business District          C-1
C-2 General Business District          C-2
M-1 Industrial District                M-1
O-1 Office and Institutional District  O-1
P-R Parks, Recreation, and Open Space  P-R
 
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 4-1.2. General purposes.
   The general use zoning districts contained in this chapter are intended to:
   A.   Provide appropriately located areas for development that are consistent
with the city of Marion Comprehensive Plan and with standards of public health
and safety established by the UDO;
   B.   Protect sensitive environmental and cultural resources;
   C.   Protect existing neighborhoods, residential property values, and
community character;
   D.   Ensure adequate light, air, privacy, and open space for each
residential dwelling, and protect residents from the harmful effects of
excessive noise, traffic congestion, and other significant adverse
environmental effects;
   E.   Protect residential areas from fires, explosions, toxic fumes and
substances, and other public safety hazards;
   F.   Ensure the provision of public services and facilities needed to
accommodate planned population densities;
   G.   Provide sites for public, semi-public, and commercial land uses, such
as schools, parks, and churches, that are needed to complement residential
development or requiring a residential environment;
   H.   Provide appropriately located areas consistent with the Comprehensive
Plan for a full range of office, commercial, and industrial uses needed to
support economic development, and protect such uses from the adverse effects of
incompatible uses;
   I.   Strengthen the city's economic base and provide employment
opportunities for residents of the city and surrounding community; and
   J.   Minimize any negative impact of commercial and industrial development
on abutting residential districts.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 4-1.3. Relationship to zoning and overlay districts.
   Land within the city of Marion and its extraterritorial jurisdiction may be
classified into one (1) or more of the following:
   A.   A general use district set forth in Sec.
4-1.1; and
   B.   One (1) or more of the overlay districts set forth in Sec.
4-1.7.
   Where the property is classified in an overlay district as well as a general
use district, then the regulations governing development in the overlay
district shall apply in addition to the regulations governing development in
the underlying district. In the event of an express conflict between the
standards set forth in the general district and the standards set forth in an
overlay district, the standards set forth in the overlay shall control. In the
event of an express conflict between the standards set forth in an overlay and
the provisions set forth in a particular zoning district, then the more
restrictive provision of either shall control.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 4-1.4. Characteristics and intent of general zoning districts.
   A.   R-1 single-family residential district. The R-1 single-family
residential zoning district implements the "Rural Residential" and "Urban
Estate" policies of the 2012 City of Marion Comprehensive Land Use Plan. The R-
1 district is established as a district in which the principal use of land is
for low-density, single-family residential purposes. Characteristics of these
areas include:
      1.   Large lot subdivision single-family subdivisions,
      2.   Conservation subdivisions,
      3.   Larger homes and lots, and
      4.   Auto-dependent.
   B.   R-2 neighborhood residential district. The R-2 neighborhood residential
zoning district implements the "Suburban Residential", "Urban Residential", and
"Historic Neighborhood" policies of the 2012 Comprehensive Land Use Plan. The
R-2 district is established as a district in which the principal use of land is
for medium-density, single-family residential purposes, and under special
conditions allows nonresidential land-uses that by size, operation, and
location accessibility provide direct access to goods and services that benefit
residents living within the same district. Characteristics of these areas
include:
      1.   Small, urban lot, and single-family subdivisions,
      2.   Conservation, cottage, townhome and patio home subdivisions,
      3.   Larger homes on smaller lots, and
      4.   Increased transportation options (pedestrian, and bicycle), and
      5.   Increased access to non-residential goods, services, cultural and
civic areas.
   C.   R-3 mixed-use residential district. The R-3 mixed use residential
zoning district implements the "Mixed- Use Neighborhood" policies of the 2012
Comprehensive Land Use Plan. The R-3 district is established to provide
opportunities and flexibility in size, number and design of residential land
uses that can provide affordable and workforce housing options for residents of
the city, and allow for the emerging growth of non-residential uses that serve
residents living within the city. This district is intended to serve as a
transitional district that serves as a buffer between single- family
residential districts and commercial districts to lessen the impact between
residential and commercial land uses. Characteristics of these areas include:
      1.   Small, urban lots, and single-family subdivisions,
      2.   Conservation, cottage, townhome and patio home subdivisions,
      3.   Larger homes on smaller lots,
      4.   Increased access to pedestrian and bicycle transportation
facilities, and
      5.   Close access to goods, services, employment, cultural and civic
areas.
   D.   R-4 multi-family residential district. The R-4 multi-family residential
zoning district implements the "High-Density Residential" policies of the 2012
Comprehensive Land Use Plan. The R-4 district is established to provide high
density residential land use opportunities that require larger acreages for
multi-family attached housing developments and other residential housing
development that may include ancillary land uses for assisted or group living
accommodations. Such districts should be located in close proximity to non-
residential districts to provide convenient access to goods and services, as
well as access to employment, education, civic, cultural, and recreational
opportunities. This district is intended to serve as a transitional district
that serves as a buffer between lower density residential districts and
commercial districts to lessen the impact between residential and commercial
land uses. Characteristics of these areas include:
      1.   Large acreage lots for multi-family attached housing,
      2.   Conservation, cottage, townhome and patio home subdivisions,
      3.   Increased access to pedestrian and bicycle transportation
facilities, and
      4.   Close access to commercial goods, services, employment, cultural,
and civic areas.
   E.   B-1 neighborhood business district. The B-1 neighborhood business
zoning district implements the "Mixed-Use Neighborhood" policies of the 2012
Comprehensive Land Use Plan. The B-1 district is established to provide
commercial and other non-residential land use opportunities that are not auto-
dependent and provide access to goods and services that support daily
residential needs. The B-1 district is a commercial district that serves the
public located in residential districts within walking distance, and is
intended to serve as a transitional district to lessen the impact between
residential districts and auto-dependent commercial districts. Characteristics
of these areas include:
      1.   Smaller lots located along minor thoroughfares that border or bisect
larger residential districts, and at intersections of two or more
thoroughfares.
      2.   Commercial and non-residential land uses that serve the needs of the
surrounding residential neighborhoods by providing goods and services that
support residential day-to-day needs, generally classed by merchants as
convenience goods and services.
      3.   Commercial land uses located in a building or structure no greater
than two thousand (2,000) square feet except for any purpose other than
residential.
   F.   C-1 central business district. The C-1 central business zoning district
implements the "Historic Downtown" policies of the 2012 Comprehensive Land Use
Plan. The C-1 district is established to preserve and enhance downtown as the
economic, civic, and social center of the community. In recognition of Marion's
National Main Street status, two National Historic Districts, and number of
buildings listed on the National Register of Historic Places, the district
establishes guidelines for new development and redevelopment in a predictable
building pattern that is consistent with the district's historic character.
Characteristics of these areas include:
      1.   Mixed-use land uses including goods and services at street level
with office and residential on upper floors, along with government and cultural
single use buildings.
      2.   Grid style development pattern with two and three story circa 19th
century buildings.
      3.   Multi-modal access with on-street parking and public parking located
behind or adjacent to businesses on each block.
   G.   C-2 general business district. The C-2 general business zoning district
implements the "Community Commercial" and "Regional Commercial" policies of the
2012 Comprehensive Land Use Plan. The C-2 district is established to provide
for commercial activity along major thoroughfares that attract both local and
regional consumers of goods and services. Locations along Sugar Hill Road and
the North Main Street (Five-Lane) are designated C-2. Large commercial
development requires efficient traffic pattern design to preserve vehicular
carrying capacity on local streets. Strip commercial development is discouraged
to prevent corridors of underutilized and vacant properties.
Commercial development with multiple commercial land uses or buildings shall
establish onsite traffic management systems to improve access and public safety
both onsite and from the public right-of-way. Characteristics of these areas
include:
      1.   One acre and larger lots with one or more commercial buildings
greater than 2,000 square feet
in size.
      2.   Land use is predominately goods and services oriented serving a
regional population.
      3.   Auto-dependent access with growing connectivity to pedestrian and
bicycle facilities to provide access to goods, services, and employment.
   H.   M-1 industrial district. The M-1 industrial zoning district implements
the "Industrial" and "Regional Commercial" policies of the 2012 Comprehensive
Land Use Plan. The M-1 district is established to provide areas for the
development of land uses devoted to the assembly, manufacturing, processing,
servicing, warehousing, wholesale, and similar activities. These areas are
located to provide immediate access to major transportation corridors, minimize
environmental impact, and minimize impact on adjacent property. Such areas
Characteristics of these areas include:
      1.   Large acreage tracts and with large buildings.
      2.   Potential for generating significant amount of byproduct that
requires special licensing and monitoring.
      3.   Requires adequate and immediate access to major transportation
corridors and large utility capacity.
      4.   Bicycle and pedestrian connectivity to densely populated residential
areas can provide multi- modal transportation options to access employment.
   I.   O-1 office and institutional district. The O-1 office and institutional
zoning district implements the "Community Commercial" and "Regional Commercial"
policies of the 2012 Comprehensive Land Use Plan. The O-1 district is
established to provide areas for employment and community service activities.
Some facilities may also include a residential land use component. Large office
and institutional land uses require efficient onsite traffic pattern design to
preserve vehicular carrying capacity on local streets, and proximity to major
and minor thoroughfares that support higher traffic volumes. Characteristics of
these areas include:
      1.   Large acreage tracts and with large buildings in a multi-building
campus configuration.
      2.   Land uses health and medical, education, government, corporate
business, and similar uses.
      3.   Requires adequate and immediate access to major and minor
thoroughfares that can accommodate higher volumes of traffic.
      4.   Bicycle and pedestrian connectivity to densely populated residential
areas can provide multi- modal options to access services and employment.
   J.   PR parks and recreation zoning district. The P-R parks and recreation
zoning district implements the policies and objectives of the Parks and
Recreation section of the 2012 Comprehensive Land Use Plan and the 2016 Parks
and Recreation Master Plan. The intent of the PR district is to provide areas
for recreational facilities and services and help to connect all other land
uses together to support community-wide health and wellness initiatives.
Characteristics of these areas include:
      1.   Land uses that provide for both passive and active recreational
activity.
      2.   Designation that preserves environmentally sensitive lands vital to
public health and safety.
      3.   Land areas can vary from less than a half-acre in size to very large
tracts of land, and can include linear corridors such as greenways, trails, and
other paths that offer bicycle and pedestrian access to parks, recreation, and
open space.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 4-1.5. Overlay district intent.
   Overlay districts are applied in combination with existing general zoning
districts and contain standards applicable to certain areas in addition to the
general zoning district standards in order to help development fit better with
the site, surrounding properties, and conditions of the area. Where specified,
overlay district standards modify general district standards.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 4-1.6. Overlay districts.
   The overlay districts are hereby established.
 
Full Name                    Short Name/Map Symbol
DO Downtown Overlay District DO
 
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 4-1.7. DO downtown overlay district.
   The downtown overlay (DO) district is established to provide development and
design standards for the entire downtown and Main Street corridor, which are in
addition to underlying general use districts. Within the downtown overlay (DO)
district there exist multiple general use districts. Each parcel retains the
same requirements for its designated general use district in addition to the
standards set forth in this section. Where noted, the uses and standards of the
DO supersede those uses and standards of the underlying districts.
   A.   Purpose. The purpose for the downtown overlay (DO) is to enhance the
aesthetic, functional and economic qualities of and emphasize the importance of
the significant historic downtown area and to enhance and protect its
significant characteristics despite their varying general-use zoning districts
in:
      1.   Defining and protecting the historic downtown architectural,
environmental and visual character;
      2.   Providing for the safe and efficient movement of vehicles and
pedestrians; and
      3.   Contributing to the physical, social and economic well-being of
downtown Marion.
   B.   Design standards.
      1.   Façades.
         a.   With the exception of existing single-family residential
structures, no structure, addition, or façade improvement shall have metal or
wood siding. The façade shall consist of brick (full thickness or thin-set),
stone, stucco, cast or natural stone, or other traditional masonry materials.
         b.   Architectural trim on buildings located in the primary district
shall be constructed of approved noncombustible materials or fire-retardant
treated wood.
      2.   Awnings.
         a.   Awnings should have a clearing of at least nine (9) feet above
ground level and may project over the sidewalk if properly anchored.
         b.   Awnings should fit the store front opening and emphasize building
proportions.
         c.   Awnings should not obscure or damage important architectural
building details.
         d.   Awnings should align with others on the block.
         e.   Awning should be mounted to align with the top edge of transom or
fit framing between clerestory and display window.
         f.   Awnings should coordinate with the color scheme of entire
building and surrounding structures.
         g.   Awnings shall be constructed of a fixed support frame, and have a
flame-retardant textile fabric cover in accordance with the North Carolina
Building Code.
         h.   Awnings create a visual interest to the building, provide shade
and shelter and add variety to the streetscape.
         i.   Awnings shall be positioned to emphasize special shapes or
details of the façade, draw attention to an entry, or emphasize a display
window.
         j.   Awnings not meeting the design standards of this section shall
first be approved by the Planning and Development Director and the Marion
Business Association Façade Committee.
      3.   Windows. Boarding or bricking of windows is prohibited.
      4.   Decks and stairs. Wood decks less than 600 square feet and stairs
accessing street level service entries are permitted, provided the structure is
constructed of two (2)-inch nominal wood, pressure treated for exterior use and
access. Wood decks and stairs are only permitted on the rear and side of the
building, and in no case shall be affixed to the primary facing façade.
(Ord. No. O-22-03-15-3, § 3, 3-15-22)
ARTICLE II.
DISTRICT DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS
Sec. 4-2.1. Purpose.
   The district standards in the UDO establish lot sizes and certain
restrictions for all residential and nonresidential development. These
standards allow for variety in housing and building types while striving to
maintain and enhance the overall character of neighborhoods and commercial
areas within the city of Marion. Standards established in this chapter are
based on recommendations made in Marion's 2012 Comprehensive Land Use Plan, and
are specific to both the type of land use and the zoning district in which it
is established. Separate standards are established to regulate residential and
nonresidential development in each district. This approach to district
development standards implements the Comprehensive Plan and has several public
benefits:
   A.   It allows for development that is more sensitive to the environment and
allows for the preservation of open and natural areas.
   B.   It promotes quality site layout and energy-efficient development.
   C.   It promotes affordable and life-cycle housing.
   D.   It promotes development intensities that match existing and proposed
infrastructure investments.
   E.   It promotes infill development that is consistent in character and
scale with established neighborhoods.
   F.   It promotes compact land development that supports alternative
transportation, such as bicycling, walking, and public transit.
   G.   It promotes market-based development decisions while protecting shared
public interests.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 4-2.2. Dimensional standards general.
   A.   Maximum residential density.
      1.   All residential density and non-residential intensity shall meet the
standards as set forth below.
      2.   The North Carolina Department of Health is authorized to require a
larger minimum lot size when public water or wastewater service is not
available or utilized.
      3.   No individual accessory structure shall exceed two thousand (2,000)
square feet within the R-1 or R-2 single-family residential lot. All accessory
structures shall meet the primary structure setback unless otherwise indicated
in this chapter.
      4.   No building shall exceed fifty (50) feet in height unless written
approval is provided by the city of Marion fire chief in order to determine the
following:
         a.   If the height of the structure exceeds the fire-fighting capacity
of the fire department; and
         b.   To determine if the structure meets fire safety standards per the
North Carolina Building Code.
   B.   Street thoroughfare density bonus. An increase in the maximum
residential density may be granted for exceptional residential projects that
abut a major or minor street thoroughfare in an effort to encourage infill
development while preserving traditional single-family neighborhoods.
   An increase of 20% maximum residential density is permitted in all
residential zoning districts with the exception of the R-1 Single-Family
Residential District, if the following conditions are met:
      1.   The residential project is of exceptional design and quality that
enhances the aesthetic appearance of the roadway corridor;
      2.   It is located along a major or minor street thoroughfare with a
right-of-way greater than 50 feet in width;
      3.   The parcel maintains at least 80 feet of street frontage along the
said street thoroughfare;
      4.   There are no more than two centralized driveways per public roadway
frontage that are constructed in a manner that provides direct access to all
dwelling units within the development.
   C.   Steep slope dimensional standards. Where the average natural slope is
between fifteen percent (15%) and twenty-five percent (25%) dimensional
requirements are as follows:
 
Average Cross Slope  Between 15% and 25% Between 25.1% and 40% Greater than 40%
Average Minimum Lot  12,000              25,000                1 acre
Area (square feet)
Minimum Lot Size 80%
of Lots (square      12,700              28,000                48,000
feet)
Minimum Lot Size     9,000               14,000                25,000
(square feet)
Minimum Lot Street   70                  100                   140
Frontage (Feet)
Minimum Lot Frontage 45                  55                    70
Cul-de-sac
Minimum Average lot  70                  100                   130
Width
 
   D.   Flag lot.
      1.   In exceptional cases City Council may approve flag lots where it is
impractical to serve an isolated lot by a public street.
      2.   The street frontage of a flag lot shall have a minimum width of
twenty-five (25) feet providing an access strip between two (2) regular lots to
the isolated parcel.
      3.   The area of such strip shall be excluded in computing the lot area
and width, and the length of such strip shall not exceed three hundred (300)
feet.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 4-2.3. Dimensional standards by residential district.
   A.   R-1 Single Family Residential District. R-1 single family residential
dimensional standards. All residential development in R-1 shall meet the
standards in the table below, except that, any legally established lot of
record created prior to the effective date of the UDO may be developed with a
single-family residence provided all other provisions of the city code are met.
Residential Property Dimensional Standards R-1
Residential Property Dimensional Standards       R-1
Residential Density (units per acre)             6
Minimum Lot Size (square feet)                   10,000
Minimum Average Lot Width (feet)                 70
Minimum Public Street Frontage (feet)            35
Minimum Public Street Frontage Corner Lot (feet) 50
Front Yard Setback (feet)                        25
Rear Yard Setback (feet)                         10
Side Yard Setback (feet)                         10
Maximum Principal Building Height (feet)         35
Maximum Accessory Building Height (feet)         25
 
   B.   R-2 neighborhood residential dimensional standards. All residential
development in R-2 shall meet the standards in the tables below, except that,
any legally established lot of record created prior to the effective date of
the UDO may be developed with a single-family residence provided all other
provisions of the city code are met.
Residential Property Dimensional Standards R-2
Residential Property Dimensional Standards       R-2
Residential Density (units per acre)             6
Multifamily/PRD (units per acre)                 10
Minimum Lot Size (square feet)                   7,000
Minimum Average Lot Width (feet)                 50
Front Yard Building/Structure Setback (feet)     25
Rear Yard Building/Structure Setback (feet)      10
Side Yard Building/Structure Setback (feet)      10
Minimum Public Street Frontage (feet)            35
Minimum Public Street Frontage Corner Lot (feet) 50
Maximum Principal Building Height (feet)         35
Maximum Accessory Building Height (feet)         25
 
   In addition to the standards above, any property located within the R-
2 Neighborhood Residential District and identified as being located in a Mill
Village Overlay as defined in the 2012 Comprehensive Land Use Plan may have
reduced dimensional standards as identified in the table below.
 
Residential Property Dimensional Standards            R-2 (Mill Village)
Mill Village Overlay Minimum Lot Size (square feet)   5,000
Mill Village Overlay Minimum Average Lot Width (feet) 50
Front Yard Building/Structure Setback (feet)          20
Rear Yard Building/Structure Setback (feet)           15
Side Yard Building/Structure Setback (feet)           10
 
   C.   R-3 mixed-use residential dimensional standards. All residential
development in R-3 shall meet the standards in the table below, except that,
any legally established lot of record created prior to the effective date of
the UDO may be developed with a single-family residence provided all other
provisions of the city code are met.
Mixed-Use Residential Property Dimensional Standards R-3
Mixed-Use Residential Property Dimensional Standards R-3
Residential Density (units per acre)                 10
Multifamily/PRD (units per acre)                     16
Minimum Lot Size (square feet)                       5,000
Minimum Average Lot Width (feet)                     40
Minimum Public Street Frontage (feet)                35
Minimum Public Street Frontage Corner Lot (feet)     50
Front Yard Building/Structure Setback (feet)         15
Rear Yard Building/Structure Setback (feet)          15
Side Yard Building/Structure Setback (feet)          10
Maximum Principal Building Height (feet)             35
Maximum Accessory Building Height (feet)             25
 
   D.   R-4 multi-family residential dimensional standards. All residential
development in R-4 shall meet the standards in the table below, except that,
any legally established lot of record created prior to the effective date of
the UDO may be developed with a single-family residence provided all other
provisions of the city code are met.
Multi-Family Property Dimensional Standards R-4
Multi-Family Property Dimensional Standards      R-4
Residential Density (units per acre)             10
Multifamily/PRD (units per acre)                 20
Minimum Lot Size (acres)                         2
Minimum Average Lot Width (feet)                 100
Minimum Public Street Frontage (feet)            50
Minimum Public Street Frontage Corner Lot (feet) 80
Front Yard Building/Structure Setback (feet)     35
Rear Yard Building/Structure Setback (feet)      25
Side Yard Building/Structure Setback (feet)      20
Maximum Principal Building Height (feet)         45
Maximum Accessory Building Height (feet)         35
 
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 4-2.4. Dimensional standards for non-residential districts.
   A.   B-1 neighborhood business dimensional standards. All development in B-
1 neighborhood business district shall meet the standards in the table below,
except that, any legally established lot of record created prior to the
effective date of the UDO may be developed provided all other provisions of the
city code are met.
Neighborhood Business Property Dimensional Standards B-1
Neighborhood Business Property Dimensional Standards B-1
Minimum lot size (square feet)                       7,000
Minimum lot width (feet)                             80
Maximum building height (feet)                       35
Maximum gross floor area (square feet)               2,000
Front Yard Building/Structure Setback (feet)         25
Rear Yard Building/Structure Setback (feet)          10
Side Yard Building/Structure Setback (feet)          10
 
   B.   C-1 central business dimensional standards. All development in C-
1 central business district shall meet the standards in the table below, except
that, any legally established lot of record created prior to the effective date
of the UDO may be developed provided all other provisions of the city code are
met.
 
Central Business Property Dimensional Standards C-1
Minimum lot size                                N/A
Minimum yard requirements                       N/A
Maximum building height                         N/A
 
   C.   C-2 general business dimensional standards. All development in C-
2 general business district shall meet the standards in the table below, except
that, any legally established lot of record created prior to the effective date
of the UDO may be developed provided all other provisions of the city code are
met. The total combined impervious ground area covered by principal structure
and accessory structures shall not exceed fifty (50) percent of the total lot
area.
 
General Business Property Dimensional Standards C-2
Minimum lot size                                N/A
Minimum lot width                               N/A
Maximum building height (feet)                  35
Front Yard Building/Structure Setback (feet)    15
Rear Yard Building/Structure Setback (feet)     0
Side Yard Building/Structure Setback (feet)     0
 
   D.   M-1 industrial dimensional standards.
      1.   All development in M-1 industrial district shall meet the standards
in the table below, except that, any legally established lot of record created
prior to the effective date of the UDO may be developed provided all other
provisions of the city code are met.
 
Industrial Property Dimensional Standards    M-1
Minimum lot size (square feet)               10,000
Minimum lot width (feet)                     100
Maximum building height (feet)               50
Front Yard Building/Structure Setback (feet) 25
Rear Yard Building/Structure Setback (feet)  25
Side Yard Building/Structure Setback (feet)  15
 
      2.   If the industrial lot abuts a residential zoned lot the rear setback
will be twenty-five (25) feet; otherwise there will be no setback requirements.
      3.   No building shall exceed fifty (50) feet in height unless written
permission is first secured from the city fire chief in order to determine:
         a.   If the height of the structure exceeds the fire-fighting capacity
of the fire department;
         b.   If the structure meets fire safety standards (including fire
escapes, etc.); and
         c.   The depth of the front and total width of the side yards required
are increased by five (5) for each additional story.
   E.   O-1 office and institutional dimensional standards. All development in
O-1office and institutional district shall meet the standards in the table
below, except that, any legally established lot of record created prior to the
effective date of the UDO may be developed provided all other provisions of the
city code are met.
 
Office and Institutional Property Dimensional Standards O-1
Minimum lot size (square feet)                          10,000
Minimum lot width (feet)                                80
Maximum building height (feet)                          35
Front Yard Building/Structure Setback (feet)            25
Rear Yard Building/Structure Setback (feet)             15
Side Yard Building/Structure Setback (feet)             15
 
   F.   PR parks and recreation dimensional standards.
      1.   All development in PR parks and recreation district shall meet the
standards in the table below, except that, any legally established lot of
record created prior to the effective date of the UDO may be developed provided
all other provisions of the city code are met.
Parks and Recreation Property Dimensional Standards PR
Parks and Recreation Property Dimensional Standards PR
Minimum lot size (square feet)                      N/A
Minimum lot width (feet)                            N/A
Maximum building height (feet)                      35
Maximum gross floor area (feet)                     2,000
Front Yard Building/Structure Setback (feet)        25
Rear Yard Building/Structure Setback (feet)         15
Side Yard Building/Structure Setback (feet)         15
 
      2.   No building shall exceed two thousand (2,000) square feet of gross
floor space without special use approval by the board of adjustment.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 4-2.5. Front yard setbacks for dwellings.
   The front yard setback requirements of this chapter for residential
dwellings shall not apply on any lot where the average setback of existing
buildings, located either wholly or in part within one hundred (100) feet on
each side of such lot within the same block and zoning district and fronting on
the same side of the street, is less than the minimum required setback. In such
cases, the setback on such lot may be less than the required setback but not
less than the average of the setbacks of the aforementioned existing buildings.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 4-2.6. Side and rear yard setback.
   Where a side or rear yard abuts a street, the setback requirement for said
street yard shall be the same as the front yard setback requirements for
abutting property on the side street. Where a side or rear yard abuts an alley,
the setback requirement shall be the same as the side or rear yard setback
requirement set forth in this Article and shall be measured from the edge of
the alley right-of-way.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 4-2.7. Projections into required open space.
   Every part of a required setback shall be open from its lowest point to the
sky unobstructed, except as follows:
   A.   The ordinary projection of sills, belt courses, cornices, buttresses,
ornamental features and eaves; provided, however, that none of the above shall
project into a minimum side yard more than twenty-four (24) inches.
   B.   Open or enclosed fire escapes, fireproof outside stairways and
balconies projecting into a minimum yard not more than three and one-half (3)
feet, and the ordinary projections of chimneys and flues may be permitted by
the planning and development director where same are so placed as not to
obstruct the light and ventilation.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
ARTICLE III.
DISTRICT USE REQUIREMENTS
Sec. 4-3.1. Type of land use activity.
   A.   Land use activity.
      1.   Permitted uses (P). A "P" indicates that a use is permitted by right
in the respective zoning district, subject to compliance with all other
applicable requirements within the City Code.
      2.   Accessory uses (A). The abbreviation "A" indicates that a use is
permitted by right as an accessory use in the respective zoning district,
provided that the use meets any additional requirements pursuant to
4-3.4 Specific Land Use Standards set forth below.
      3.   Limited use (L). An "L" indicates that a use is permitted by right,
provided that the land use meets the additional requirements pursuant to
4-3.4 Specific Land Use Standards set forth below, and comply all other
applicable requirements of this chapter.
      4.   Special use (S). An "S" indicates that a use is allowed only if
reviewed and approved in accordance with the special use requirements of this
chapter. Special use are subject to all other applicable requirements in this
chapter, including
4-3.4 Specific Land Use Standards, except where expressly modified by the
governing authority as part of a special approval defined in Chapter One,
Article II.
      5.   Uses not allowed (blank cell). A blank cell (one that doesn't
contain a "P", "A", "L" or "S") indicates that the listed land use is not
allowed in the respective zoning district.
(Ord. No. O-23-07-18-4, § 5, 7-18-23)
Sec. 4-3.2. Land use table.
                                         R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4 C-1 C-2 M-1 O-1 B-1 PR
Residential Categories
Residential Household Living
Single-family Dwelling                   P   P   P   P   L   L           P
Accessory Unit                           P   P   P   P   P   P
Caretaker's Residence                                P           P
Two-Family (Duplex)                          P   P   P
Manufactured Home                            L   L   L
Manufactured Home Park                       S   S
Multi-Family Housing                     L   L       P   L   L
Patio, Cottage-Style, Townhome, and
other Attached and Detached Single-      L   L   L   L                   L
Family Home Development
Townhomes                                        P   P                   P
Upper Story Residential                                  P   P       P   P
Accessory Buildings and Customary
Incidental Home Occupation on            L   L   L   L
Residential Property
Group Living
Family Care Home                         L   L   L   L
Group Care Facility and Rooming and              L   L               P
Boarding Houses
Multi-family Dwellings (8 units or less)     P   P   P                   P
Multi-family Dwellings (20 units per                 P
acre or less)
Multi-family Dwellings (20 units per                 S
acre or more)
Senior Housing                               S   P   P
Shelter /Mission                                                     S
Planned Unit Development                     S           S   S   S   S
                                         R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4 C-1 C-2 M-1 O-1 B-1 PR
Commercial Categories
Animal Hospital/Veterinary Clinic                            P
Automobile Sales, Repairs, and Services                      P           S
Bed and Breakfast                        S   S                           P
Brewery, Winery, Meadery, Cidery,
distillery, tap room, tasting room or                    P   P
other beverage establishment permitted
under N.C.G.S.18B Alcoholic Beverages
Billiards, video game, coin-operated
game machines, and similar recreational                  P   P
games.
Campground/Recreational Vehicle Park                         S               S
Commercial Parking lot                                   L   L   L   L   L
Commercial Storage Facilities                            P   P           S
Dry cleaning and Laundry Facilities                      P   P       A   P
Electronic and Appliance Repair                          P   P           P
Fabricating Shops                                        P   P
Financial Institutions                                   P   P           P
Funeral Services                             S           P   P       P
Gasoline Service Stations                                L   P
Greenhouse/Horticulture Nurseries                            P
Gunsmith and Locksmiths                                  P   P
Hair and Nail Salon, Barber Shop                         P   P       P   P
Hotel                                                    P   P       P
Indoor firing or archery range                               S   P
Medical Retail                                                       P
Motel/inns and tourist courts                                P
Private club under NCGS 18B Alcoholic                    L   L
Beverages
Private/Public Gymnasiums and Health         A   A   A   P   P               P
Clubs
Pet Grooming                                 S   S       L   L
Professional and Business Offices            S   S       P   P       P
Septic Tank Sales and Manufacturing                                      P
Radio and Television Broadcast Stations      S   S       P   P   P
Restaurants and Cafes                        S   S       L   P           P
Retail Sales and Services (unless            S   S       P   P           P
otherwise listed)
Retail and Cafes specific to Hospital or                             P
Public School
Temporary Sales                                              P   P   P
Tobacco shop, vapor store                                A   P
Trade Lots and Flea Markets                                      S
Transit Stations/Stands                                  P   P
                                         R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4 C-1 C-2 M-1 O-1 B-1 PR
Industrial Categories
Commercial Recreation Outdoors                               S   S
Heavy Duty Truck Repair/ Tire Recapping                      S   P
Shop
Industrial Service                                           S   P
Junkyard and Recycling Facility                                  S
Manufacturing and Production                             S   S   P
Processing and Service Center                                S   P
Storage Yard                                                 S   P
Warehouse and Freight Movement                                   P
Wholesale Sales, Warehousing and                             S   P
Processing
Office/Institutional Categories
Armory Facility                                                  P   P
Assembly Hall                                                P       P       P
ATM Machine (stand alone)                                L   L       L
Cemetery                                     P   P   P   A   A       A   P   P
Civic or Fraternal Organization                          P   P       P
Child/Adult Day Care Facility                S   P   P   S   P   A   P   P
Columbarium                              A   A   A   A   A   A       A   A   A
Community Recreation Center              P   P   P   P   P   P       P       P
Church                                   P   P   P   P   P   P       P   P   P
Cultural Center                                          P   P       P
Education Facility (K-12)                L   L   P   P               P
Higher Education Facility                                P   P       P
Industrial and Vocational School                             P       P
Parks and Playgrounds                    L   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P   P
Public Facilities                        P   P   P   P   P   P       P       P
Public Safety/Emergency Facilities           S           P   P       S
Public Parking Lots/Structures                           P   P
Public Utility Building, Structure, or   L   L   L   P   P   P               S
Facility
Sports Complex                                               P
Medical Office                               S   P   P   P   P       P
Hospital                                             S       P       P
Religious Institution                    P   P   P   P   P   P       P   P
Other Categories
Adult Business                                               S
Fortune Telling                                              S
Heliport                                                             S
Domestic Animal Kennel                                       S   P
Tattoo Parlor and body piercing shop                         L   L
Off-Street Parking                       P   P   P   P   P   P       P   P
Open Storage, Accessory                                  L   L           L
Open Storage, Principal                                  P   P
                                         R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4 C-1 C-2 M-1 O-1 B-1 PR
 
(Ord. No. 22-01-18-3, § 3, 1-18-22; Ord. No. O-22-05-17-3, § 3, 5-17-22; Ord.
No. O-23-07-18-4, § 6, 7-18-23)
Sec. 4-3.3. Land use categories in general.
   A.   Approach to Categorizing Land Uses.
      1.   The land use categories listed in Sec.
4-3.2 Land Use Table above, are set forth in this section. Land uses may also
be more specifically defined in Sec.
10-1.1. Definitions or in other sections of the UDO. For the purpose of this
section the more restrictive provisions within the UDO shall apply.
      2.   Any use not specifically set forth in the land use category in this
section is expressly prohibited, unless the Planning Director, or his/her
designee, determines that the use is similar to a permitted use in accordance
with this section. Where such similar permitted use is subject to limited use
standards or special use approval, the proposed use shall also be subject to
such standards or approval.
      3.   Basis for classifications. Use categories classify land uses and
activities based on common functional, product, or physical characteristics.
Characteristics include the type and amount of activity, the type of customers
or residents, how goods or services are sold or delivered, likely impact on
surrounding properties, and site conditions. The use categories provide a
systematic basis for assigning land uses to appropriate zoning districts.
      4.   Principal uses not specifically listed. Determination of the
appropriate category for a proposed principal use shall be made by the Planning
Director, or designee, in accordance with the criteria below. The following use
information may be supplemented using NAICS codes as promulgated from time-to-
time by the U.S. Census Bureau. The criteria below shall be used to determine
both the appropriate category for a use not specifically listed in the use
table or the examples in the use category descriptions, and whether a use is
considered principal or accessory.
         a.   The description of the land use activity(ies) in relationship to
the characteristics of each zoning district;
         b.   The relative amount of site or floor space and equipment devoted
to the activity;
         c.   The relative amounts of sales from each activity;
         d.   The customer type for each activity;
         e.   The relative number of employees in each activity;
         f.   The hours and days of operation;
         g.   The building and site arrangement;
         h.   The number of vehicles used with the land use activity including
but not limited to employee parking, consumer parking, number of vehicles used
for the purpose of carrying out activity;
         i.   The relative number of vehicle trips generated by the activity;
         j.   How the use advertises itself;
         k.   Type and number of signs; and
         l.   Whether the activity would be likely to be found independent of
the other activities on the site.
      5.   Developments with multiple primary uses. When all of the primary
uses of a development fall within one land use category, then the development
is assigned to that use category. When the primary uses of a development fall
within different use categories, each primary use is classified in the
applicable category and is subject to the standards for that category.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 4-3.4. Specific requirements by land use.
Adult/child day care facility.
      1.   All outdoor activity areas are screened and/or are enclosed by six-
foot high fence.
      2.   Facility has a primary entrance separate from any industrial or
manufacturing land use activity located within the same building, and all
accessible points of ingress or egress of the adult/child day care facility are
equipped with security and safety features.
      3.   Located in a Traditional Redevelopment Overlay Area identified in
the Comprehensive Land Use Plan, as may be amended, or where such land use is
ancillary to and directly serves the employees of an approved use within the
zoning district.
Automobile related business.
      1.   Open storage of junked or inoperable motor vehicles, auto parts or
similar materials shall not be permitted. Tires may be temporarily stored for
no longer than thirty (30) days in the side or rear yard and shall be neatly
stacked at all times in an organized manner using the lacing techniques. Up to
sixty (60) tires may be stored in the front yard provided the tires are also
neatly stacked using the lacing technique. Tires in the front yard in excess of
sixty (60) shall be enclosed in approved screening.
      2.   Junked or inoperable motor vehicles, auto parts or similar materials
may be stored within an enclosed structure which visually conceals such objects
or stored on a site that is the subject of an approved screening plan, as
defined herein and approved by the planning and development director.
      3.   In order to maintain safety for pedestrian and vehicle traffic,
vehicles associated with automobile repair shops, automobile sales, tire sales
and services, towing and wrecking service businesses may not be parked,
displayed, stored or repaired within four (4) feet of the curb or the edge of
the road if no curb exists.
      4.   Junked or inoperable motor vehicles shall not be stored in the
customer or employee parking spaces required per the off-street parking
requirements set out in division (2).
      5.   All service, sales, storage or similar activities shall be conducted
entirely on the premises.
      6.   All major repair work, if any, shall be conducted within a building
capable of being completely closed.
      7.   Certain businesses claiming to be auto repair shops, automobile
sales, tire sales and services or towing and wrecking service businesses that
do not meet the definitions in
chapter 10 of the UDO may be deemed gasoline service or filling stations and,
therefore, subject to the regulations governing gasoline service or filling
stations.
      8.   Certain businesses claiming to be automobile repair shops,
automobile sales, tire sales and services, and towing and wrecking service
businesses that do not meet the definitions in section
10-1.1 of the UDO may be deemed junk yards and, therefore, subject to the
regulations governing junk yards.
      9.   The provisions contained in chapter 9, article III concerning
abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicles continues to apply. Automobile
repair shops and automobile sales businesses, tire sales and services and
towing and wrecking service businesses must obtain a permit from the zoning
office.
      10.   All automobile repair shops and automobile sales businesses, tire
sales and services and towing and wrecking service businesses within the city
limits of Marion not in compliance with this section within six (6) months
after the adoption of the ordinance adopting or amending this section, shall be
in violation.
Automated teller machine (ATM) stand alone.
      1.   An ATM terminal may be located within, as part of, or under an
exterior canopy of a building occupied by a bank or other financial institution
for which the occupant is responsible for the terminal's operation and
maintenance;
      2.   As an accessory use and/or structure on a parcel of land with an
existing principal commercial use so long as there is no more than one terminal
located independently on the property; or where, with the exception of one
independently-located terminal, all other terminals are "walk-up" pedestrian-
oriented and located within or attached flush to a principal commercial
building.
      3.   All ATM terminals independently located shall be constructed in a
manner that provides users with a canopy for protection from adverse weather
conditions.
      4.   All ATM terminals shall include a security camera.
Automobile wrecking, junk, and salvage yard.
      1.   All motor vehicles stored or kept in such yards shall be so kept
that they will not catch and hold water in which mosquitoes may breed and so
that they will not constitute a place or places in which rats, mice, or other
vermin may be harbored, reared, or propagated.
      2.   Because of the tendency for salvage yards to promote the breeding of
vermin, such operation shall be permitted no closer than two hundred (200) feet
from any established residential zone.
      3.   All outdoor storage of salvage and wrecking operations shall be
conducted entirely within an enclosed opaque fence, screen, or wall, excepting
driveway area, from eight (8) to twelve (12) feet in height. Storage between
the road and street and such fence, screen, or wall is expressly prohibited.
Any fence, screen, or wall for screening purposes shall be properly painted or
otherwise maintained in good condition.
      4.   All such yards shall be so maintained as to be in sanitary condition
and so as not to be a menace to the public health or safety.
      5.   The number of vehicular access driveways permitted on any single
street frontage shall be limited to:
         a.   One driveway where the parcel to be used as a maximum road or
street frontage of one hundred (100) feet or less.
         b.   Two (2) driveways where the road or street frontage exceeds one
hundred (100) feet. Driveways used for ingress and egress shall be limited to
twenty-five (25) feet in width.
      6.   For the purposes of this section, an inoperable or junked motor
vehicle shall not be deemed to be viewed from a public roadway if it is stored
on a site that is the subject of an approved screening plan, as defined herein
and approved by the body issuing the permit, or within an enclosed structure
which visually conceals the inoperable motor vehicles.
      7.   In order to maintain safety for pedestrian and vehicle traffic,
vehicles associated with automobile repair shops, automobile sales, tire sales
and services, towing and wrecking service businesses may not be parked,
displayed, stored or repaired within four (4) feet of the curb or the edge of
the road if no curb exists.
      8.   On-site traffic areas shall be provided and arranged in such a
manner as to provide easily identifiable ingress and egress, adequate customer
and employee parking, access for emergency vehicles, and adequate turnarounds
such that backward movement onto the public roadways is avoided.
      9.   Inoperable motor vehicles shall not be stored in the customer or
employee parking spaces required per the off-street parking requirements set
out in chapter 6, article 1.
      10.   The provisions contained in chapter 6, article 1 concerning
abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicles continue to apply.
      11.   Automobile graveyards, automobile wrecking, junkyards and salvage
yards must obtain a permit from the zoning office.
      12.   Those junk yards or automobile graveyards lawfully existing at the
time that subsection (6) through (12) of this subsection are adopted shall have
five (5) years from the adoption of the ordinance to come into full compliance
with the provisions of this subsection.
Bed and breakfast home.
      1.   The business does not serve food or drink to the general public for
pay.
      2.   The business serves only the breakfast meal, and that meal is served
only to overnight guests.
      3.   The room rates include the price of the breakfast.
      4.   The business is the permanent residence of the owner or manager.
      5.   One (1) off-street parking space must be provided for each
accommodation (rented bedroom) plus two (2) spaces for the owner/manager.
Boarding kennel or animal shelter.
      1.   Property is located no less than five hundred (500) feet from any
residential zoning district.
      2.   All activity is located on property no less than two (2) acres in
size.
      3.   All kennels shall be contained within a fully enclosed building or
designed in a manner that would prohibit outdoor access between dusk and dawn.
      4.   The setback requirement for any outdoor animal enclosure shall
include the following:
         a.   The front yard setback shall be the same or greater than the
principal building.
         b.   Side and rear yard setbacks shall have a minimum twenty (20) foot
setback from the property line.
         c.   A solid twenty (20) foot wide landscape buffer yard utilizing a
double row of evergreen trees no less than eight (8) feet in height at
installation and no less than twenty (20) feet in height at maturity shall be
installed and maintained in perpetuity between any outdoor enclosure and an
adjacent property line, or no less than fifty (50) feet with a solid opaque
fence.
      5.   All outdoor enclosures shall be screened by a solid or opaque fence
a minimum of six (6) feet in height.
      6.   No outdoor animal enclosure shall be located any closer than one
hundred fifty (150) feet from any structure occupied as a residential use
existing at the time of approval.
      7.   The facility shall be maintained and operated in such a manner that
all animal odors, noise, refuse and/or other onsite activities deemed as a
public nuisance and/or hazard shall not be detectable beyond the property line
in which the animal shelter or kennel is located.
      8.   A waste management plan that demonstrates compliance with applicable
state and local regulations and which ensures sanitary handling of animal waste
and prevents contamination or pollution of adjacent lands or water bodies shall
be submitted to and approved by the administrator prior to establishment of
such uses.
      9.   All animal waste shall not be stored within one hundred (100) feet
or any property line.
      10.   Kennels shall at all times maintain a sanitary and humane
environment pursuant to all applicable state and local regulations.
      11.   The facility operates in compliance with all other applicable city
codes including but not limited to chapter 3 Animals as may be amended.
      12.   A sign clearly visible and located at the entrance of the building/
facility shall be posted containing twenty-four (24) hour emergency contact
information for the facility including no fewer than two (2) telephone numbers
where the persons responsible for the facility may be contacted at any hour of
the day or night. The sign shall comply with regulations established for signs
in chapter 6, article 2 of this UDO.
      13.   The approving authority may impose additional conditions upon the
operation of any kennel, including but not limited to hours of operation, the
size and scale of a kennel, or the number of animals to be housed within a
kennel.
      14.   The city shall conduct an inspection as deemed necessary of a
facility and shall report any violation to the approving authority. After
reviewing the findings of the administrator and upon conclusion of the kennel
operator's due process procedures as set forth in chapter one of the City Code,
the approving authority may revoke permits for the operation of any kennel that
has been found to be in violation of this section.
Campgrounds/recreational vehicle park. Refer to chapter six, article eight.
Carport.
Allowed in the side or rear yard of the principal building but they shall not
be allowed within one (1) foot of the side and rear property lines nor shall
they be constructed so as to not drain onto adjoining property pursuant to
Article X, Exceptions and Modifications.
Columbarium.
   Permitted as an accessory use provided that such use is located on the same
lot as a church and located a minimum of fifty (50) feet from adjacent
residential property.
Customary accessory building.
      1.   Such buildings shall be located in the rear yard and shall comply
with all applicable setback requirements of article four of this chapter.
      2.   No accessory building on a corner lot shall extend beyond the front
yard line required for abutting property on the side street.
      3.   No greenhouse heating plants shall be located within twenty-five
(25) feet of any lot line.
Customary incidental home occupation.
      1.   No external evidence of such occupation except an announcement or
professional sign not more than two (2) square feet in area.
      2.   No direct retail sales or permanent display on the premises.
      3.   No person not a resident on the premises is employed specifically in
connection with the activity, except that not more than one (1) assistant may
be employed in the following home occupations: lawyer, physician, optometrist,
dentist, osteopath, private home shows, chiropractor, and insurance agent.
      4.   Provided further that no mechanical equipment is installed or used
except such as is normally used for domestic or professional purposes.
      5.   Not over twenty-five (25) percent of the total floor space of any
structure is used for home occupations.
      6.   No use defined as a special use in any zoning district shall be
permitted as a customary incidental home occupation without prior approval by
the board of adjustment.
Duplex.
      1.   Multifamily dwellings are created only within existing residential
structure when use is defined as limited in the permitted use table in Sec.
4-3.2.
      2.   Adequate off-street parking shall be available as provided pursuant
to the development standards in chapter six.
      3.   The owner of the multifamily dwelling must live on the premises.
      4.   There shall be no more than two (2) separate units created within
any residential structure.
      5.   A zoning compliance certificate must be obtained from the planning
and development director.
Family care home.
      1.   A family care home may be located no closer than one-half mile of an
existing family care home.
      2.   In R-1 and R-2 Neighborhood Residential Districts, a family care
home may have up to 6 resident persons.
      3.   In O-1 and R-3 districts, a family care home may have up to 9
resident persons.
      4.   A family care home is not permitted within a non-residential zoning
district unless specifically noted in this section.
Fortune telling.
      Cannot be not located or operated within seven hundred (1000) feet of:
         a.   A church, synagogue, or regular place of worship;
         b.   A public or private elementary or secondary school;
         c.   A public library;
         d.   A park or playground with the exception of a greenway or other
public trail;
         e.   A licensed child-care facility;
         f.   A licensed group-home facility; and
         g.   An entertainment business that is oriented primarily towards
minors.
Gasoline service station.
   Provided that petroleum derivatives in excess of five hundred (500) gallons
are not stored aboveground.
Group Home or family care home.
   A group home or family care home with six or fewer occupants shall meet a
distance separation of one-half mile from another existing group home in a
residential district measured from the closest point of each lot property line
in a straight line.
Indoor firing or archery range.
      1.   It is located five hundred (500) feet, measured form the closest
point of the facility to the property line of a school or day care center,
residential dwelling, place of worship, hospital or other health care facility
offering overnight care.
      2.   Located in an enclosed building that absorbs and contains all sound
from the discharge of a firearm through the use of sound deflection, absorbent
baffles barriers, or other sound emission control devices.
      3.   Construction of interior and exterior walls, ceiling, and floor that
is incapable of being penetrated or in any manner allow the ricochet or re-
direction of a projectile that in doing so could inflict harm on a range user
or member of the public.
      4.   Maintain filtration and disposal systems for the removal of lead and
other heavy metals meeting OSHA.
Live-Work residential.
      1.   Single-family or multifamily residential dwellings units in existing
structures provided that all units are located on floor levels above or below
the adjacent street level, or residential dwelling units located in the back
forty (40) percent of the street level portion of the building when the front
sixty (60) percent is commercial and provided that all live-work spaces are in
compliance with the North Carolina Building Code.
      2.   There shall be no apparent evidence of residential living from
within the commercial establishment, and the dwelling units shall have a
separate ingress and egress.
      3.   In lieu of any other parking requirements of the UDO, the property
owner shall provide each dwelling unit with one (1) off-street parking space.
Such space may be located on property separate from the dwelling unit but shall
be within a reasonable walking distance of such unit.
Manufactured home.
      1.   One (1) Class A manufactured home per residential lot in the R-
2 Residential District; and one (1) Class A or Class B manufactured home per
residential lot in the R-3 or R-4 Residential District subject to the following
conditions:
         a.   Standards for manufactured home in the R-2 Zoning District.
            i.   The manufactured home shall have a minimum width of twenty-
four (24) feet and a maximum length not to exceed four (4) times its width, and
a minimum gross floor area of one thousand (1,000) square feet;
            ii.   The towing apparatus, wheels, axles, and transporting lights
shall be removed after placement on the lot and before occupancy and shall not
be included in the length and width measurements of the manufactured home;
            iii.   The longest axis dimension of the manufactured home shall be
oriented parallel with the front property line along a street. The placement of
a manufactured home on a corner lot shall be determined by the Planning and
development director based on the orientation of existing single-family
dwellings located on either side of the street on both intersecting streets;
and
            iv.   The exterior siding shall consist predominantly of vinyl,
aluminum, wood, hardboard, or other non-reflective material comparable in
composition, appearance, and durability to the exterior siding commonly used in
standard residential construction.
         b.   The following standards shall be met for the installation of any
manufactured home within the City of Marion.
            i.   It is the principal structure on the lot, and no other
residential structure is located on the same lot;
            ii.   The applicant shall demonstrate to the satisfaction of the
building inspector that the manufactured home was built after June 15, 1976 in
accordance with the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety
Standards Act. The applicant may provide evidence of the construction date of
the home and compliance with the National Manufactured Housing Construction and
Safety Standards Act using one (1) of the following methods:
               a)   A HUD seal mounted on the outside of the home; or
               b)   An original HUD data plate on the inside of the home; or
               c)   A third-party inspection report by a state licensed
engineer or architect; or
               d)   A verification letter from either the manufacturer or the
United States Department of Housing and Urban Development demonstrating the
home's compliance with this subsection.
               e)   A Certificate of Title issued by an official State
Department of Motor Vehicles (DMV) office that indicates the date of
manufacture of the home.
      2.   The manufactured home complies with all other municipal building and
zoning codes, and is set up in accordance with the standards established by the
North Carolina Department of Insurance;
      3.   The manufactured home shall be placed on a permanent masonry
foundation that meets or exceeds the standards of the North Carolina
Residential Building Code and such foundation walls shall be un-pierced except
for normal ventilation and access openings. Exposed common concrete block shall
be covered by brick, stone, stucco, or other masonry or exterior veneer façade
commonly used in standard residential construction;
      4.   The roof shall have a vertical rise of at least three (3) inches for
each twelve (12) inches of horizontal run, shall be a Class 'C' as defined by
the North Carolina Building Code or better material that is commonly used in
conventional residential construction, and shall provide an eave projection of
no less than six (6) inches, which may include a gutter;
      5.   All attachments, including but not limited to stairs, steps,
porches, decks, and/or other additions to the manufactured home, shall meet or
exceed the standards of the North Carolina Residential Building Code;
      6.   Structural additions that alter the original shape of the structure
shall be architecturally compatible with the original building, and have
exterior siding and roofing with the color, material and appearance similar and
complementary in appearance to the predominant materials used in the original
manufactured home construction or materials commonly used in conventional
residential construction. Unfinished metal roofing and/or siding shall be
prohibited;
      7.   The manufactured home shall not be permitted within three hundred
(300) feet of any structure listed as a locally designated historic landmark or
U.S. Department of Interior's National Register of Historic Places; or located
within a locally designated historic district, U.S. Department of Interior's
National Register Historic District, or in an area listed as a Traditional
Neighborhood on the Comprehensive Land Use Plan's Future Land Use Map, as may
be amended.
Manufactured home park.
      1.   Class A and Class B manufactured homes are permitted within a
manufactured home park. Class C manufactured homes, travel trailers, park
models, and/or any other vehicle that does not meet the U.S. Housing and Urban
Development (HUD) Department Standards for manufactured home construction and
not already existing at the time of the effective date of the UDO are
prohibited. Each manufactured home within a park shall be located in a
designated manufactured home site;
      2.   The minimum area for a manufactured home park shall be two (2)
acres;
      3.   The maximum density shall be eight (8) manufactured home sites per
acre;
      4.   No less than five (5) manufactured home sites shall be delineated on
an approved site plan and made available at first occupancy;
      5.   The minimum lot size for individual manufactured home site shall be
forty (40) feet by eighty
(80) feet;
      6.   Each manufactured home including structural additions shall be
spaced no less than ten (10) feet apart except where the NC Department of
Insurance requires greater separation, the stricter provision shall apply;
      7.   All manufactured home sites shall abut upon a driveway of not less
than twenty (20) feet in width. All driveways shall have unobstructed access to
a public street or highway and shall be hard surfaced, or of properly compacted
gravel, well-marked and lighted by the mobile home park owner;
      8.   There shall be a minimum of two (2) off-street parking spaces for
each manufactured home site, which shall be on the same site as the
manufactured home served;
      9.   A densely planted buffer yard consisting of evergreen trees shall be
located along all sides of the manufactured home park, but shall not extend
beyond the established setback line along any street. The buffer yard shall
include evergreen species that reach no less than twelve (12) feet at mature
height. Minimum plant size and installation shall conform to the landscape
standards of this chapter. This planting requirement may be modified by the
board where adequate buffering exists in the form of vegetation and/or terrain;
      10.   Each manufactured home shall be set up and in accordance with
regulations for the installation of manufactured homes adopted and published by
the North Carolina Department of Insurance;
      11.   Each manufactured home or manufactured home site shall have a
county-issued 911 address plaque or other city approved permanent address
plaque identifying the home's physical address prominently displayed and
visible from the driveway;
      12.   The towing apparatus, wheels, axles, and transporting lights shall
be removed after placement on the lot and prior to the issuance of a
Certificate of Occupancy and shall not be included in the length and width
measurements of the manufactured home;
      13.   The applicant shall demonstrate to the satisfaction of the building
inspector that the manufactured home was built after June 15, 1976 in
accordance with the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety
Standards Act. The applicant may provide evidence of the construction date of
the home and compliance with the National Manufactured Housing Construction and
Safety Standards Act using one (1) of the following methods:
         a.   A HUD seal mounted on the outside of the home; or
         b.   An original HUD plaque on the inside electrical panel of the
home; or
         c.   A third party inspection report by a state licensed engineer or
architect; or
         d.   A verification letter from either the manufacturer or the United
States Department of Housing and Urban Development demonstrating the home's
compliance with this subsection.
         e.   A Certificate of Title issued by an official State Department of
Motor Vehicles (DMV) office that indicates the date of manufacture of the home.
      14.   Each manufactured home shall have a continuous underpinning of
either masonry materials or other products suitable for the purpose of
underpinning and installed under the perimeter, un-pierced except for required
ventilation and access prior to receiving a certificate of occupancy;
      15.   Exterior siding shall consist predominantly of vinyl, wood,
hardboard, or other nonreflective material comparable in composition,
appearance, and durability to the exterior siding commonly used in standard
residential construction including but not limited to manufactured home
construction;
      16.   All attachments, including but not limited to stairs, steps,
porches, decks, and/or other additions to the manufactured home, shall meet or
exceed the standards of the North Carolina Residential Building Code;
      17.   Structural additions that alter the original shape of the structure
shall be architecturally compatible with the original building, and have
exterior siding and roofing with the color, material and appearance similar and
complementary in appearance to the predominant materials used in the original
manufactured home construction or materials commonly used in conventional
residential construction. Unfinished metal roofing and/or siding shall be
prohibited; and
      18.   The grounds of a manufactured home park shall be kept free of
trash, liter, and debris. Grounds, buildings, and storage areas shall be
properly maintained to prevent the infestation of rodents, vermin, and insects.
It shall be the responsibility of the manufactured home park owner to maintain
the park in accordance with these standards and all other applicable Marion
City Code requirements at all times standards and Chapter 20, Article IV
sewerage and waste discharge standards of the Marion City Code.
Multifamily dwelling in the R-1 Single Family Residential District.
      1.   Multifamily dwellings are created only within existing residential
structure.
      2.   Adequate off-street parking shall be available as provided in
development standards for off- street parking in chapter six.
      3.   The owner of the multifamily dwelling must live on the premises.
      4.   There shall be no more than two (2) separate units created within
any residential structure.
      5.   A zoning compliance certificate must be obtained from the planning
and development director.
Open storage.
   The storage of materials, either raw materials, partly or completely
finished products, scrap or waste, shall be prohibited unless such materials
are completely screened from view from all adjoining streets, alleys or
properties.
Golf course, park, playground, swimming pool, recreational community center,
country club, civic club and lodge.
   Operated on a noncommercial or nonprofit basis for recreational purposes
only.
Parking lot
   A satellite parking lot location is permitted provided that the required
parking spaces are located within five hundred (500) feet of the building
entrance of the principal structure or use and meeting the requirements of the
UDO Chapter Six Development Standards, Article One Off-Street Parking
Standards.
Patio Homes, cottage-style homes, townhomes, and other attached and detached
single-family home development.
      1.   A development consisting of individual lots having a minimum of
three thousand (3,000) square feet in area or larger which are designed for
either detached or attached single-family housing.
      2.   Prior to development each individual lot must be approved and
platted in accordance with the subdivision regulations in the UDO and described
by metes and bounds. The plats(s) for home developments must show the location
of all proposed buildings and party walls to be located on each lot, driveway,
utility easements, and common areas. The plat(s) and metes and bounds
description(s) must be recorded in the office of the Register of Deeds for
McDowell County, North Carolina, following final plat approval.
      3.   The ground floor area of principal and accessory buildings shall not
exceed seventy (70) percent of the total lot area.
      4.   One (1) driveway approach, no greater than sixteen (16) feet in
width per residential unit may be permitted, provided it is no less than twenty
(20) feet from the edge of an adjacent driveway approach; except that one (1)
driveway approach, not exceeding thirty-two (32) feet in width, may serve two
(2) residential units.
      5.   When four (4) or more principal buildings are proposed, a reduction
to internal setbacks between principal buildings may be reduced to no less than
eight (8) feet to each other. A minimum twenty-five (25)-foot front yard
setback is required from any public right-of-way and a minimum rear and side
yard setback of fifteen (15) feet is required.
      6.   All other setbacks shall meet the provisions of UDO Chapter 4,
Article 2 Dimensional Standards.
Pet grooming.
      1.   Day care and overnight boarding of animals is prohibited.
      2.   An outdoor area provided for the temporary containment of an animal
is permitted provided all areas are fully screened, fenced to prohibit escape,
and setback a minimum of ten (10) feet from any property line adjacent to a
residential use.
      3.   All areas shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition at
all times, and all refuse shall be removed and disposed of on a daily basis to
prevent noxious odor associated with the land use activity.
      4.   Site has direct access to and fronts a thoroughfare, and does not
require vehicular access through or within a residential neighborhood.
Planned Unit Development (PUD).
      1.   The land in a PUD shall be under single ownership or management by
the applicant before final approval and/or construction, or proper assurances
(legal title or execution of a binding sale agreement) shall be provided that
the development can be successfully completed by the applicant.
      2.   There are no density requirements for nonresidential uses as long as
the proposed project does not violate the intent of the district in which it is
located. The proposed residential density of the planned unit development shall
conform to that permitted in the district in which the development is located
as indicated in chapter 4, article 2, Dimensional Standards and Article X
Exceptions and Modifications. If the planned unit development lies in more than
one (1) district, the number of allowable dwelling units must be separately
calculated for each portion of the planned unit development that is in a
separate district, and must then be combined to determine the number of
dwelling units allowable in the entire planned unit development.
      3.   Planned unit developments shall have access to a highway or road
suitable for the scale and density of development being proposed.
      4.   Minimum requirements:
         a.   Required distance between buildings. The minimum distance between
buildings shall be twenty (20) feet or as otherwise specified by the board to
ensure adequate air, light, privacy, and space for emergency vehicles.
         b.   Every dwelling unit shall have access to a public or private
street, walkway or other area dedicated to common use, and there shall be
provision for adequate vehicular circulation to all development properties, in
order to ensure acceptable levels of access for emergency vehicles.
      5.   Each development shall provide reasonable visual and acoustical
privacy for all dwelling units. Fences, insulation, walks, barriers, and
landscaping shall be used, as appropriate, for the protection and aesthetic
enhancement of property and the privacy of its occupants and adjacent
properties for screening of objectionable views or uses, and for reduction of
noise. Multi-level buildings shall be located in such a way as to dissipate any
adverse impact on adjoining low rise buildings and shall not invade the privacy
of the occupants of such low-rise buildings.
      6.   Structures located on the perimeter of the development must be set
back from property lines and right-of-way of abutting streets in accordance
with the provisions of the zoning ordinance controlling the district within
which the property is situated.
      7.   Plans and accompanying documentation to ensure that the water and
sewer systems proposed for the planned unit development have been approved by
the appropriate local and state agencies shall be submitted as part of the
application.
      8.   Preliminary plans shall include parking provisions for all proposed
uses within the planned unit development in accordance with chapter six,
article one off-street parking standards. When more than one use is located in
the planned unit development, the minimum required parking shall be the sum of
the required parking for each use within the development.
      9.   Any pedestrian and bicycle path circulation system and its related
walkways shall be designed to minimize conflicts between vehicle and pedestrian
traffic.
      10.   Layout of parking areas, service areas, entrances, exits, yards,
courts and landscaping, and control of signs, lighting, noise or other
potentially adverse influences shall be such as to protect the character within
the zoning district and desirable character in any adjoining district.
      11.   Conveyance and maintenance of open space, recreational areas and
communally owned facilities shall be in accordance with the Unit Ownership Act
(G.S. Chapter 47-A) and/or any other appropriate mechanisms acceptable to the
board.
Private club.
A private club proposed on a floor level above or below the adjacent street
level shall be permitted by administrative staff. All other proposed locations,
including but not limited to locations adjacent to street level, shall be
reviewed and approved as a special use.
Professional and business office.
      1.   The land use is located on a collector street, minor or major
thoroughfare, and not located on a local residential street, except if located
on a corner lot with a side yard contiguous to other said roadways.
      2.   All parking areas are located on the side of the property and
setback equal to the front building line of the primary structure, or in the
rear of the property.
      3.   With the exception of an approved driveway and/or pedestrian
walkways, the front or side yard facing the residential street shall remain as
open space and include a maintained lawn, landscaping, or combination of both
in addition to all other landscaping requirements within this chapter.
      4.   All outdoor lighting shall be fully-shielded, compatible to outdoor
lighting found within a residential area, and shall not direct light onto
adjacent property.
Public school and private school.
      1.   Buildings designed to be mobile or equipped with hitch apparatus,
wheels, axles, and transporting lights or other factory-assembled unit built on
a chassis shall be prohibited.
      2.   All buildings and structures are in keeping with the residential
character of the neighborhood.
      3.   Adequate landscaping, screening and/or buffering shall be provided
to ensure compatibility with the neighborhood.
Public utility building, structure, and facility.
      1.   All buildings shall be located at least thirty-five (35) feet from
side and front lot lines and ten (10) feet from rear lot lines.
      2.   Fences and/or other appropriate safety devices are installed to
protect the public safety and welfare.
      3.   No vehicles or equipment are stored, maintained or repaired on the
premises.
      4.   All structures are in keeping with the residential character of the
neighborhood.
      5.   Adequate landscaping, screening and/or buffering shall be provided
to insure compatibility with the neighborhood.
Radio and television broadcasting station.
      1.   Such facilities shall be housed in structures which are in keeping
with the character of the residential neighborhood.
      2.   No structure shall be located within thirty-five (35) feet of any
lot.
      3.   Adequate landscaping, screening and/or buffering shall be provided
to insure compatibility with the neighborhood.
Restaurant.
      1.   R-2 Residential District provided:
         a.   Permitted only within an existing historic structure.
         b.   The structure shall be listed on the National Register of
Historic Places at the time of the application.
         c.   All rehabilitation shall be done in accordance with the
"Secretary of Interior's Guidelines for Historic Preservation."
         d.   All landscaping, parking and site improvements shall preserve the
historic character of the structure.
         e.   All mechanical systems and solid waste storage facilities shall
be properly screened so as not to be visible from adjacent property.
         f.   One (1) freestanding sign not to exceed nine (9) square feet in
size and eight (8) feet in height shall be allowed.
         g.   Outbuildings should be preserved if of an historical
significance.
         h.   The structure shall be located on a lot of at least ten (10)
acres.
         i.   No outside lighting shall direct light on adjacent property.
         j.   All parking areas shall be properly screened so as not to be
visible from adjacent property.
      2.   C-1 or B-1 Business Districts provided: no drive-thru service
permitted.
Shelter/mission.
      1.   Any shelter shall comply fully with the requirements of applicable
state, county, and city codes, ordinances, and regulations; and
      2.   Any shelter shall be contained within the structure of, and operated
by, a not-for-profit corporation and/ or charitable organization; and
      3.   All shelters must operate in a safe, clean and orderly manner.
      4.   The applicant must state maximum capacity for overnight stay at time
of application. Such capacity shall be approved by the board of adjustment with
recommendations from the Marion Fire Chief.
      5.   Three (3) parking spaces shall be required per ten (10) residents at
maximum capacity.
      6.   A retail establishment may be included on the premises if the
purpose and profit are to benefit the shelter and other nonprofits. Such retail
establishment shall not exceed the size (square footage of gross floor area) of
the shelter. In addition to required parking for the shelter, there shall be
one (1) parking space per two hundred (200) square feet of gross floor space
associated with the retail use.
Sports Complex.
      1.   A twenty (20) feet of undisturbed, natural buffer along the entire
perimeter of the property is provided to protect surrounding property owners
from noise and visual effects.
      2.   The total requirement of off-street parking spaces shall be the sum
of the off-street parking requirements of the various uses computed separately
as specified in chapter six, article one.
Tobacco shop, vapor store, controlled substance retail dispensary, and like
uses.
The ancillary sale of tobacco and vapor products, as well as retail sale of
federal and state regulated schedule VI controlled substances is limited to no
more than one percent of the gross floor area of a business or no more than ten
square feet, whichever is less, within the C-1 Central Business District and
permitted as of right within the C-2 Central Business District.
Tattoo parlor and body piercing shop.
      1.   A tattoo parlor, body piercing shop, or a combination of the two
shall be permitted under the provisions of Section
4-3.2 above when such land use activity complies with the regulations within
the specific zoning district where the use is proposed.
      2.   A tattoo parlor, body piercing shop, or a combination of the two
proposed within the C-2 General Business District not meeting the specific
provisions below shall request a special use approval pursuant to UDO Section
3-7.1.
      3.   Requirements within the C-1 Central Business District.
         a.   Located within a multi-tenant commercial building having four (4)
or more separate businesses offering unrelated goods and services occupying
fifty (50) percent or more of the total building floor area;
         b.   Maintain a five hundred (500) foot separation from a church,
synagogue, or regular place of worship located within a single-occupancy
building, measured in a direct line from the closest point of each structure;
         c.   Locate within a multi-tenant commercial building on a floor above
or below street-level or within no more than twenty-five (25) percent of the
rear portion of a one (1)-story building or street-level floor of a multi-
tenant commercial building; and
         d.   The physical space where such land use activity takes place shall
be designed and constructed in a manner that there is no visual appearance that
such land use activity is taking place within view of any public right-of-way.
      4.   Requirements within the C-2 General Business District.
         a.   Cannot be not located or operated within seven hundred (700)
linear feet of:
            i.   A church, synagogue, or regular place of worship;
            ii.   A public or private elementary or secondary school;
            iii.   A public library;
            iv.   A park or playground, with the exception of a greenway or
other public trail;
            v.   A licensed child-care facility;
            vi.   A licensed group-home facility; or
            vii.   An entertainment business that is oriented primarily towards
minors.
         b.   And where such use is not located within the Mixed Use
Neighborhood Land Use Category as identified on the Future Land Use Map (FLUM)
adopted as part of the City of Marion Comprehensive Land Use Plan.
Thrift/retail store operated by a nonprofit organization.
      1.   The nonprofit organization is expressly permitted in the R-
2 district.
      2.   The store shall not be open from 7:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. and shall
not be open for more than two (2) days per week.
      3.   Off-street parking is provided per chapter 6, article 1, off-street
parking requirements.
      4.   Only one (1) on-premises freestanding sign shall be permitted and it
shall not exceed four (4) square feet in area.
Tire recapping centers and heavy duty truck repair.
      1.   A Class 7 or greater rating (Gross Vehicle Weight Rating (GVWR) of
26,001 pounds or greater).
      2.   All recapping and other repair activities are conducted completely
within an enclosed building and in such a manner that noise, odor, smoke, and
other debris associated with this type of operation will not be offensive to
adjoining property owners.
      3.   There will be no outside storage of any materials, including tires,
old or new. It is not the intent of this section to prohibit tire displays.
Tire displays shall be limited to no more than ten (10) tires.
      4.   Tires may be temporarily located outside, only during business hours
of the recapping operations, for the purpose of loading and unloading tires.
Tobacco shop, vapor store, controlled substance retail dispensary, and like
uses.
      1.   Permitted within the C-2 Central Business District.
      2.   Permitted within the C-1 Central Business District provided that it
is ancillary to an approved principal retail use and the ancillary sale of such
products is limited to no more than one percent of the gross floor area of a
business or no more than ten square feet, whichever is less.
(Ord. No. 22-01-18-3, § 3, 1-18-22; Ord. No. O-22-05-17-3, § 3, 5-17-22; Ord.
No. O-23-07-18-4, § 7, 7-18-23)
ARTICLE IV.
TEMPORARY USES AND STRUCTURES
Sec. 4-4.1. Purpose and intent.
   A.   Purpose and intent. It is the purpose of this section to permit
temporary uses and structures within the city on a controlled, time-limited
basis to minimize adverse impacts on the community. The intent of this section
is to establish specific regulations to allow temporary uses while eliminating
to the greatest possible extent any problems, threats, or dangers to the public
health, safety or welfare as may exist with any and all such uses.
   B.   Permitted temporary uses. Temporary uses shall be limited to a use or
use of land, building, or structure not intended to be of a permanent duration.
Such uses shall be limited to the following:
      l.   Circuses and/or carnivals.
      2.   Evangelistic and religious events.
      3.   Outdoor bazaars, cookouts and/or similar activities by churches or
other nonprofit institutions or organizations.
      4.   Open lot sale area for farm produce made or grown by the farm
producer or immediate family.
      5.   Open lot sales area for Christmas trees.
      6.   Contractors' office and/or construction shed including mobile
offices during construction on the development site.
      7.   Temporary special sales, yard sale or "flea" markets in commercial
or industrial zoned districts.
      8.   Yard sales conducted outdoors by a resident in their respective yard
area.
      9.   Other temporary recreational or entertainment related events or
activities such as fairs or concerts.
      10.   Temporary relocation of manufactured housing for displaced persons
as a result of natural or manmade disaster.
      11.   Mobile food vendor, push cart, or similar temporary retail food
sales.
   Itinerant merchants, as defined by the North Carolina General Statutes,
shall not be considered a temporary use pursuant to this section. Itinerant
merchants shall be subject to the regulations of chapter 10, article VII of the
Marion City Code, rather than the regulations of this section.
   C.   Duration, frequency and permitted zoning districts. The following table
defines the requirements for duration, frequency, and permitted zoning
districts for which a temporary use may occupy a site:
              Maximum Duration Per  Maximum Frequency of      Permitted Zoning
Temporary Use Separate Use Per Site Event Per Person or Group Districts
                                    Per Site
                    Maximum Duration    Maximum Frequency   Permitted Zoning
Temporary Use       Per Separate Use    of Event Per Person Districts
                    Per Site            or Group Per Site
                                                            Any nonresidential
                                                            zoning district
Circuses and/or                         Four (4) per        within a distance
carnivals           Seven (7) days      calendar year       no greater than two
                                                            thousand (2,000)
                                                            feet from
                                                            Interstate 40
Circuses and/or                         One (1) per         All other locations
carnivals           Seven (7) days      calendar year       nonresidential
                                                            zoning districts
Evangelistic and                        Four (4) per        All nonresidential
related religious   Fourteen (14) days  calendar year       zoning districts.
congregations
Outdoor bazaars,
cookouts and/or
similar activities                      One (1) every three All zoning
by churches or      Three (3) days      (3) months          districts
other nonprofit
institutions or
organizations
Open lot sales for  Two (2) days        Twenty-four (24)    All commercial
farm produce                            per calendar year   zoning districts
Open lot sales for  Forty-five (45)     One (1) per year    All commercial
Christmas trees     days                                    zoning districts
Contractors' office Between issuance of
and/or construction a building permit
shed including      and a final                             All zoning
mobile offices      certificate of      None                districts
during construction occupancy, annual
on the development  renewal is
site                required.
Temporary special
sales, yard sale or
"flea" markets in   Two (2) days        Four (4) times per  All nonresidential
commercial or                           year                zoning districts
industrial zoned
districts
Yard sales
conducted outdoors                      Four (4) times per  All residential
by a resident in    Two (2) days        year                zoning districts
their respective
yard area
On-site estate      Two (2) days        One (1) per year    All zoning
auctions                                                    districts
Other temporary                         One (1) per month
recreational or     One (1) day except  for one (1)-day
entertainment       fourteen (14) days  events; one (1) per All nonresidential
related events or   for an annual       year for fourteen   zoning districts
activities such as  event.              (14) day events
fairs or concerts
Temporary
relocation of
manufactured        Eighteen (18)                           Within a designated
housing for         months unless       None                disaster relief
displaced persons   authorized by city                      area
as a result of      council
natural or manmade
disaster
 
   D.   Criteria. A temporary use permit may be issued to the owner, tenant or
lessee of any property located within the city. A temporary use permit may be
issued provided the proposed use meets the following criteria:
      1.   The temporary use must be compatible with the surrounding uses.
      2.   The temporary use shall not generate noise, vibration, glare, fumes,
odors, or electrical interference beyond what normally occurs in the applicable
zoning district.
      3.   If the temporary use is anticipated to draw less than one hundred
(100) people at any given time, then it shall be approved by the planning and
development director.
      4.   If the temporary use is anticipated to draw more than one hundred
(100) people at any given time, then it shall be approved by the city manager.
If the event is anticipated to draw over one thousand (1,000) people, it must
be approved by the city council and an application must be submitted no less
than thirty (30) calendar days prior to the event.
      5.   No more than two (2) temporary use permits may be issued at any
given time to the same applicant, unless approved by the city manager.
      6.   The city shall refuse to issue a permit when the activity or purpose
stated in the application would violate any ordinance of the city or statute of
the state, or when the activity or purpose would constitute a clear and present
danger to public health or safety.
   E.   Permit required. Any person desiring to conduct a permitted temporary
use, as defined in subsection (2) and (3) above with the exception of
residential yard sales, must first obtain a permit from the city. Such permit
will establish the requirements for the particular use set out in subsection
(C) and (D) below.
      1.   Purpose. The purpose of this permit is to insure that a temporary
use meets the requirements set out herein and to coordinate traffic, parking,
and other inspections as necessary to the safe and healthful operation of the
event.
      2.   Application. Application for a temporary use permit shall be made to
the city of Marion at least five (5) business days prior to the start of such
use with the exception of temporary uses requiring city council approval in
which the application must be submitted no less than thirty (30) calendar days
prior to the event.
      3.   Requirements. A temporary use permit shall not be issued until
evidence is shown that the following requirements have been or will be complied
with:
         a.   The temporary use is permitted under subsection (2) and (3)
above.
         b.   Ample parking is provided for the temporary use, in addition to
required parking for any permanent use or uses located on the same property as
the proposed temporary use.
         c.   Written authorization is given from the property owner or his/her
agent for the temporary use to take place.
         d.   Any temporary use held outside of a building and within five
hundred (500) feet of any residence shall cease operation by 10:00 p.m.
         e.   Noise shall be controlled so that no adjoining property owner or
occupant is unduly disturbed by the temporary use.
         f.   Restroom facilities are provided at a rate of not more than one
hundred (100) persons per toilet seat unless otherwise approved by the county
health officer. All facilities shall be located and screened in a manner not to
be visible from the public right-of-way or adjacent to a residential use.
         g.   All solid waste, human waste and animal waste shall be removed
off-site and transported to an approved sanitary facility pursuant to chapter
9, health and sanitation of the Marion City Code.
      4.   Additional requirements. The following additional requirements shall
apply:
         a.   Where a tent or similar structure is to be used, the following
requirements or documentation shall be met:
            i.   A limitation on the number of occupants in a structure shall
be observed as per the fire inspector.
            ii.   If a tent is to be used for human occupancy, a certificate of
insurance must be submitted which will cover liability on the part of the
applicant or sponsor in the event of an accident.
            iii.   A certificate of flame resistance shall be submitted which
will provide assurance that the structure has been properly treated with flame
retardant and has been maintained as such.
         b.   Contractors' office and/or construction shed including mobile
offices shall be removed prior to receiving a certificate of occupancy.
         c.   Any temporary use deemed by the chief of police to have a
potential risk to health, safety or public order may require the applicant to
provide private protective services.
         d.   Where a mobile food vending unit is to be established the
applicant shall meet the provisions of Sec.
4-4.3.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 4-4.2. Temporary structures.
   A temporary structure not associated with an approved temporary use shall be
permitted on a limited basis, provided that it meets the requirements of the
zoning district it is located in and complies with the provisions of this
section.
   A.   Placement.
      1.   Temporary structures shall be permitted within all nonresidential
zoning districts, except the C-1 central business district;
      2.   There shall be no more than two (2) temporary structures per acre or
three (3) temporary storage units per lot, whichever is less;
      3.   Temporary structures shall not be located within the front yard
setbacks and shall be adequately screened from the public right-of-way and from
all adjacent property;
      4.   Temporary structures shall not be stacked on top of one another;
      5.   Temporary structures shall not be modified by adding windows,
electrical, plumbing or mechanical improvements and/or used for permanent
occupancy or habitable space;
      6.   Temporary structures shall not be used to store solid waste, debris,
hazardous or toxic materials, or used to store materials or goods for property
other than at the site where the structure is located.
   B.   Time limit.
      1.   The maximum time for a temporary structure to remain on a property
shall be thirty (30) consecutive days with a maximum of two (2) permits in a
twelve-month period per lot if not in conjunction with an active building
permit for construction as specified in this section.
      2.   Temporary structures shall be removed prior to any final inspections
for the building permit or issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
      3.   Maintenance. The temporary structure shall remain in good condition,
free from evidence of deterioration, rust, holes, cracks, or breaks. When not
in use the temporary structure shall remain locked.
      4.   Existing structures. Temporary structures which existed prior to the
effective date of Ordinance No. O-08-06-17-11, and have not received approval
from the City of Marion, may continue subject to chapter one, article two,
nonconformities, providing the following:
         a.   The structures are not located within any required setback,
bufferyard or parking area;
         b.   The structures are not connected to electric or water utilities;
         c.   Existing structures are registered with the planning and
development department within one hundred eighty (180) days of the effective
date of the ordinance and renewed annually thereafter; and
         d.   This section shall not apply to structures that have received an
official approval from the building inspector for the installation as a
permanent structure.
   C.   Inspections. The city may inspect the contents of any temporary
structure at any reasonable time to ensure that it is not in violation of this
section or with all other applicable sections of the Code.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 4-4.3. Mobile food vendor operations.
   A.   Application and approval to operate.
      1.   The mobile food vendor shall provide the City with a copy of written
consent from the property owner or their designee on a form prescribed by the
City of Marion granting permission to establish a mobile vending unit on the
subject property. It shall be unlawful for any mobile food vendor to establish
upon private property without consent by the property owner or their designee.
      2.   A mobile food vendor permit shall not be required when vending
activities are secondary or accessory to an approved temporary event.
      3.   The vending unit shall receive all applicable state health and food
safety permits or exemption in writing from the state health inspector prior to
city approval.
   B.   Operation requirements.
      1.   The mobile food vendor shall be in attendance at the mobile food
vendor unit at all times during operation.
      2.   All mobile food vendor equipment and merchandise shall be removed
from the premises or stored from public view during non-operating hours.
      3.   The mobile food vendor shall remove all trash generated from mobile
food operation at the end of each business day.
      4.   The mobile vending unit shall operate only at times concurrent with
the operating hours of the existing business on which the vending unit is
located.
      5.   The vending unit operator shall comply with all federal, state and
local laws when operating the unit.
      6.   All signage associated with the mobile food operation shall be
securely attached flush to the vending unit and shall not be attached to the
ground.
      7.   All mobile food vending units shall be self-contained and not
require the use of ancillary power from any secondary source in order to
operate, and all generators shall come equipped with a sound dampening
enclosure.
   C.   Location requirements.
      1.   The vending unit shall not obstruct at any time any trash container,
fire hydrant, fire lane, ingress or egress to the property, or building
entrance.
      2.   Extension cords, drop cords, wires, and/or other materials shall not
obstruct pedestrian or vehicular movement.
      3.   The mobile food vending unit shall be located on property of an
existing business having an active business license, and a minimum of one
restroom open to the public.
      4.   Mobile food unit shall not take up more than one (1) designated
parking space, or 10 foot by 10 foot area. Except that one portable tent may be
erected in addition to the mobile food unit so long as the tent is flame
retardant, adequately anchored and secured to prevent collapse, and is located
in a manner that does not take up additional parking and meets all other
requirements in this section.
      5.   No more than one (1) mobile food vendor shall be located on a site
at any one time.
   D.   Additional requirements on public property. Where a mobile vending unit
is placed on city-owned property or within a public right-of-way the following
requirements shall apply:
      1.   Application requirements.
         a.   The mobile food vendor shall be required to sign and execute a
hold harmless release and agreement for sidewalk and right-of-way obstruction.
         b.   The mobile food vendor shall be required to maintain active
liability insurance and provide documentation of lender's receipt of signed and
notarized release and agreement form at the time of application submission.
      2.   General requirements.
         a.   The mobile food vendor shall be responsible for removing
equipment and merchandise when the mobile vending unit is not in operation.
         b.   The mobile food vendor shall be responsible for removing all
trash at the close of each business day and shall not place trash associated
with the vending operation in public trash receptacles.
         c.   Generators, noise generating devices, or any other attention
getting device that may, by virtue of its design, create a distraction to
motorists, pedestrians, or adjacent properties shall be prohibited.
         d.   The City of Marion shall not provide power to a mobile food unit
as part of the approved mobile food vendor permit application unless authorized
by the Marion City Council.
      3.   Use of a public parking space. A mobile food vendor operating in a
self-contained motorized vehicle or mobile trailer is permitted to locate in a
designated parking space in one of the City- owned public parking lots or
approved loading zone where use of such space is specifically posted, provided
the following conditions are met.
         a.   The designated public parking space shall not be set up or used
for mobile food vending before 5:30 p.m. any day of the week, with operations
ending no later than 10:00 p.m. Sunday through Thursday, and 12:00 a.m. Friday
and Saturday.
         b.   Designated parking spaces shall be used on a first come first
serve basis, and the mobile food vendor shall not occupy more than one
designated space at any given time.
         c.   When located in an on-street parking space, the mobile vending
unit shall be oriented toward the sidewalk to maintain the public's safety and
prevent conflicts between pedestrians and motorists.
         d.   No other parking space beyond the designated mobile food vendor
parking space shall be used by the vendor during operation. Vehicles used to
tow mobile food vending units shall be moved to a secondary location prior to
operation in order to maintain adequate public parking.
         e.   The following locations include a designated space for a mobile
food vending unit to operate.
            i.   Mid-block loading zone on the 0-100 block of South Main Street
next to the McDowell Arts Council Building.
            ii.   City Stage Parking Lot located on North Main Street.
            iii.   West Henderson Street Parking Lot outside of the Marion
Tailgate Market Pavilion.
            iv.   Brown Drive parking lot behind City Stage.
            v.   Marion Community Building Park lower level.
      4.   Use of public sidewalk and other public space.
         a.   A mobile food vendor may operate a mobile pushcart on a public
sidewalk or other approved public space provided that it is designed to be
moved manually by no more than one (1) person, and when setup provides a
minimum of five-foot sidewalk clearance to allow for adequate pedestrian
passage.
         b.   A mobile food vendor operating on a sidewalk or other approved
public space may operate on public property between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and
10:00 p.m. Sunday through Thursday and 7:00 a.m. and 12:00 a.m. Friday and
Saturday unless otherwise posted.
   E.   Enforcement. A violation of this section or any other applicable City
Code shall be cause for immediate revocation of any permit issued pursuant to
this section.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Chapter 5
SUBDIVISION STANDARDS
   Art. I. General Subdivision Standards, §§ 5-1.1--5-1.5
   Art. II. Infrastructure Improvements, §§ 5-2.1--5-2.7
   Art. III. Watershed Protection Subdivision Standards, § 5-3.1
ARTICLE I.
GENERAL SUBDIVISION STANDARDS
Sec. 5-1.1. Compliance.
   All subdivisions established after the adoption of the UDO shall be
developed in accordance with the minimum design standards of the UDO and any
other applicable plans, policies, ordinances or standards of the Marion Code of
Ordinances and all applicable State and Federal Laws.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 5-1.2. New streets.
   A.   Conformity to existing maps or plans. The location and width of all
streets shall be in conformity with official plans and maps of the city and
with existing plans of the city council, including the major thoroughfare plan.
   B.   Continuation of adjoining street system. The street layout shall be
coordinated with the street system of the surrounding area.
   C.   Access to adjacent properties. Where, in the judgment of the city
council, it is desirable to provide for street access to adjoining property,
streets shall be extended by dedication to the boundary of such property and a
temporary turnaround shall be provided.
   D.   Private streets. There shall be no private streets or reserve strips
platted in any subdivision.
   E.   Street names. The names of new streets shall not duplicate or be
phonetically similar to existing street names. New streets which are in
alignment with existing and named streets shall bear the assigned name of the
street.
   F.   Street right-of-way widths. Minimum street right-of-way widths shall be
in accordance with the following:
 
Street Type             Right-of-Way Width (feet)
Highways                80 to 100
Major streets           80
Collector streets       50
Minor streets           50
Marginal access streets 50
Cul-de-sacs             100
 
Street pavement widths. Pavement width back-to-back of curb shall not be less
than the following:
 
Street Type             Pavement Width (feet)
Major streets           55
Collector streets       28
Minor streets           28
Marginal access streets 28
Cul-de-sacs             80
 
   G.   Street grades. Street grades shall be as follows:
      1.   Street grades shall not be more than fifteen (15) percent nor less
than one-half of one (1) percent.
      2.   Grades approaching intersections shall not exceed five (5) percent
for a distance of not less than one hundred (100) feet from the centerline of
such intersection.
   H.   Intersections. Street intersections shall be laid out as follows:
      1.   Streets shall intersect as nearly as possible at right angles and no
street shall intersect at less than sixty (60) degrees.
      2.   Property lines at street intersections shall be rounded with a
minimum radius of twenty (20) feet. At an angle of intersection of less than
seventy-five (75) degrees a greater radius may be required. Where a street
intersects a highway, the design standards of the state highway commission
shall apply.
   I.   Alleys. Alleys shall be provided to the rear of all lots used for other
than residential purposes. Alleys are prohibited in residential blocks unless
such are approved by the city council. All dead-end alleys shall be provided
with a turnaround. All alleys shall be constructed in accordance with city
specifications and standards and shall have a right-of- way width of twenty
(20) feet.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 5-1.3. Street improvements.
   The following requirements shall apply to all streets within the corporate
limits of the city.
   A.   Grading. All streets shall be graded to their full width. Finished
grade, cross section and profile shall be approved by the city council.
   B.   Paving. Road base and paving shall be installed in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter and city specifications and standards.
   C.   Curb and gutter. Combination curb and gutter shall be installed in
accordance with city specifications and standards.
   D.   Cul-de-sac. A cul-de-sac shall not exceed eight hundred (800) feet in
length and shall be provided with a turnaround having a roadway diameter of at
least eighty (80) feet and a right-of-way diameter of at least one hundred
(100) feet. Temporary turnarounds shall be paved in accordance with the city's
specifications and standards. All streets must be through streets unless
approved otherwise by the city council.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 5-1.4. Lots.
   A.   General requirements.
      1.   Frontage. All lots shall front on a public or private street and
have a minimum width at the street line of thirty (30) feet to accommodate all
driveways, drainage facilities, and utilities in accordance with the City of
Marion Standard Specifications and Detail Manual. Corner lots shall have an
extra width of ten (10) feet to permit adequate setback from public and private
rights-of-way.
      2.   Compliance with Zoning. The size, width, depth, shape, and location
of lots shall be established with due regard to topographic conditions, and
comply with applicable zoning district regulations.
      3.   Area. Lot sizes and building setback lines shall conform to the
minimum lot area, minimum lot width, and minimum yard requirements set forth in
the zoning district in which the subdivision is located.
      4.   Orientation of Lot Lines. Side lot lines shall be substantially at
right angles or radial to street lines.
      5.   Corner Lot. Property lines at street intersections shall be rounded,
with a radius of at least twenty (20) feet; a greater radius may be required by
the City Council as part of its approval of the preliminary plat.
      6.   Double-Frontage Lot. Residential lots that front on more than one
(1) street, other than corner lots, shall be avoided to the maximum extent
possible. The creation of such lot shall only be permitted if necessary to
allow a property owner reasonable use and benefit of parcel of land, which
would otherwise cause extreme hardship. A request to create a new double-
frontage lot shall be conducted in the form of a Variance pursuant to Sec. 16-
9.4 of this chapter.
   B.   Flag Lot Requirements.
      1.   A flag lot shall be permitted if necessary to allow a property owner
reasonable use and benefit of a parcel of land or to alleviate situations,
which would otherwise cause extreme hardship for the owner. A flag lot may only
be approved if it meets the following requirements, all other requests shall be
conducted in the form of a Variance pursuant to Sec. 16-9.4 of this chapter.
      2.   Uses. A flag lot may contain only one single-family dwelling and its
accessory structures.
      3.   Frontage. The flagpole section of the lot must have a minimum of 20
feet of street frontage on a public or private road and the adjoining
conventional lot from which the flag lot is being subdivided must have a
minimum of 50 feet of street frontage on a public or private road after the
subdivision is complete.
      4.   Length. The entire length of the flagpole section of land shall not
exceed 150 feet in length.
      5.   Size. The flagpole portion of the lot shall not be included in
calculating lot size. The minimum lot size shall be consistent with zoning
district where the subdivision will occur.
      6.   Driveway. The minimum driveway width for a flag lot is ten (10)
feet.
      7.   Joint Access. Use of a single driveway to serve adjoining flag lots
or to serve a flag lot and an adjoining conventional lot is permitted and
encouraged. In the latter case, the preferred location for the driveway is on
the flagpole portion of the flag lot, with the conventional lot granted an
access easement over the flagpole. All access easements shall be recorded in
the office of the register of deeds in McDowell County.
      8.   Special Provision. A note must be placed on any plat for recording
flag lots noting that the lot may not be further subdivided following the
initial subdivision approval.
      9.   Access. Flag lots are not permitted where it will increase the
number of lots accessing a collector or arterial street.
   C.   Blocks. The maximum and minimum lengths and widths of blocks shall be
as follows:
      1.   Length. Block lengths shall not exceed one thousand five hundred
(1,500) feet nor be less than four hundred (400) feet. If deemed necessary by
the city council a pedestrian crosswalk of at least ten (10) feet in width may
be required.
      2.   Width. Blocks shall have sufficient width to allow two (2) tiers of
lots of minimum depth. Blocks may be one (1) lot in depth where single-tier
lots are required to separate residential development from through vehicular
traffic or nonresidential uses.
   D.   Sidewalks. Sidewalks shall be constructed with all new non-residential
development on such streets the city council considers sidewalks to be
necessary. Sidewalks, if constructed, shall be within the street right-of-way
and installed in accordance with city specifications and standards.
   E.   Subdivision corner ties and monuments. Prior to the approval of the
final plat, permanent reference points shall have been placed in accordance
with the following requirements:
      1.   Subdivision corner tie. At least one (1) corner of the subdivision
shall be designated by course and distance (tie) from a readily discernible
reference marker. If a corner is within two thousand (2,000) feet of a U.S.
Coast and Geodetic Station or state grid system coordinated monument or city
limit marker, then this corner shall be marked with a monument so designed by
computed X and Y coordinates which shall appear on the map with a statement
identifying this station or monument. When such a monument or station is not
available, the tie shall be made to some pertinent and readily recognizable
landmark or identifiable point, physical object or structure.
      2.   Monument. Within each block of a subdivision at least two (2)
monuments designed and designated as control corners shall be installed. The
surveyor shall employ additional monuments if and when required. All
monuments.shall be constructed of concrete and be at least four (4) inches in
diameter or square and not less than three (3) feet in length. Each monument
shall have imbedded in the top and attached by a suitable means a metal plate
of noncorrosive materials and marked plainly with the point, the surveyor's
registration number, the month and year it was installed, and the word monument
or control corner. A monument shall be set at least thirty (30) inches in the
ground with at least six (6) inches exposed above the ground unless this
requirement is impractical.
   F.   Property markers. A steel or wrought iron pipe or the equivalent not
less than three-fourths inches in diameter and at least thirty (30) inches in
length shall be set at all corners, expoint curve, point of intersection,
property corner, point of tangency and reference point unless a monument has
already been placed at such points. Additional markers shall be placed at other
points as required.
   G.   Utilities. Storm sewers, waterlines and sanitary sewers shall be
designed by a registered engineer and shall be approved by the city manager and
public works director. Sanitary sewers and water mains shall be installed in
accordance with city specifications and standards. No private water and
sewerage systems will be accepted by the city unless they are installed
according to city specifications and standards.
   H.   Building setback lines. The minimum setback from property lines shall
comply with the development standards of chapter four of the UDO.
   I.   Easements. Utility and other easements shall be provided as follows:
      1.   Utility easements. Utility easements centered on rear or side lot
lines shall be provided where deemed necessary by the city council and shall be
at least fifteen (15) feet in width.
      2.   Crosswalk easements. A crosswalk easement of at least eight (8) feet
in width shall be provided if required by the city council.
      3.   Watercourse and drainage easement. Where a subdivision is traversed
by a watercourse, drainage way, channel, or stream, there shall be provided a
stormwater easement or drainage right-of-way conforming substantially with the
lines of such watercourse, and such further width or construction, or both, as
will be adequate for the purpose.
   J.   Street Naming and Addressing. Street naming, addressing, and amendments
to such shall be processed in accordance with the City of Marion Street Naming
and Addressing Technical Manual. The latest edition of the City of Marion
Street Naming and Addressing Technical Manual, including subsequent amendments
and editions, as promulgated by the McDowell County Office of Emergency
Management and the City of Marion is adopted by reference pursuant to § 160A-
77. The adoption of said manual shall make it an administrative code of the
City of Marion, and a copy of this manual shall be maintained for public
inspection in the office of the city clerk pursuant to § 160A-77.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 5-1.5. Steep slope compliance.
   For the purpose of the UDO, the term "steep slope" means land proposed to be
subdivided which has a fifteen (15) percent slope, an average difference in
elevation of more than fifteen (15) feet in a horizontal distance of one
hundred (100) feet, or more. Any block frontage shall be considered a hillside
subdivision if the slope of thirty (30) percent or more of its length equals or
exceeds fifteen (15) percent. All provisions of this article as set forth
herein shall apply to hillside subdivisions.
   A.   Street design.
      1.   Within the corporate limits of the city, minor streets shall have a
right-of-way of at least fifty (50) feet except that a right-of-way of forty
(40) feet will be permitted if:
         a.   The average cross slope of the hillside is forty (40) percent or
more; or
         b.   The street is permanently dead-ended; or
         c.   Lots front on only one (1) side of the street and the cross slope
is twenty-six (26) percent or more.
      2.   Cul-de-sacs. The required turnaround on a dead-end street in a
hillside subdivision shall have a roadway diameter of not less than sixty (60)
feet. If the street length does not exceed three hundred (300) feet and if
construction difficulties will not permit a turnaround, the use of a Y or
hammerhead turning space may be acceptable if approved by the city council.
   B.   Pavement widths. Where the average cross slope is twenty-six (26)
percent or greater, pavement widths may be reduced to twenty (20) feet by the
city council.
   C.   Lots.
      1.   Where the average cross slope is between fifteen (15) percent and
twenty-five (25) percent, design requirements for lots are as follows:
         a.   The average minimum lot area for the entire subdivided area will
be twelve thousand (12,000) square feet. Not less than eighty (80) percent of
the lots shall have an area of twelve thousand seven hundred (12,700) feet and
no lot shall have an area of less than nine thousand (9,000) square feet.
         b.   Minimum lot frontage will be seventy (70) feet except a minimum
frontage of forty-five (45) feet may be permitted at the end of a cul-de-sac.
         c.   Minimum average lot width will be seventy (70) feet.
      2.   When the average cross slope is between twenty-six (26) percent and
forty (40) percent, design requirements for lots are as follows:
         a.   The average minimum lot area for the entire subdivided area will
be twenty-five thousand (25,000) square feet. Not less than eighty (80) percent
of the lots shall have a minimum area of twenty-eight thousand (28,000) square
feet and no lot shall have an area of less than fourteen thousand (14,000)
square feet.
         b.   Minimum lot frontage will be one hundred (100) feet except a
minimum frontage of fifty- five (55) feet may be permitted at the end of a cul-
de-sac. The city council may approve panhandle lots in exceptional cases where
it is impractical to serve an isolated lot by a public street. The frontage of
a panhandle lot shall have a minimum width of twenty-five (25) feet providing
an access strip between two (2) regular lots to the isolated building site. The
area of such strip shall be excluded in computing the lot area and width, and
the length of such strip shall not exceed three hundred (300) feet.
         c.   Minimum average lot width will be one hundred (100) feet.
      3.   When the average cross slope is greater than forty (40) percent,
design requirements for lots are as follows:
         a.   The average minimum lot area for the entire subdivided area will
be one (1) acre. Not less than eighty (80) percent of the lots shall have a
minimum area of forty-eight thousand (48,000) square feet and no lot shall have
an area less than twenty-five thousand (25,000) square feet.
         b.   Minimum lot frontage will be one hundred forty (140) feet except
a minimum frontage of seventy (70) feet may be permitted at the end of a cul-
de-sac. In exceptional cases, flag lot may be permitted as provided for in Sec.
5-4.18.
         c.   Minimum average lot width will be one hundred thirty (130) feet.
   D.   Front setback. Within the city limits, setback requirements for steep
slope lots shall conform to the requirements of chapter four, article two
district development standards.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
ARTICLE II.
INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENTS
Sec. 5-2.1. Purpose.
   The purpose of infrastructure improvement standards is to insure that all
new development is served at sufficient levels of service. Land shall not be
approved for development unless and until adequate public facilities exist or
provision has been made for the following essential public facilities: water
service, wastewater treatment and disposal, transportation and stormwater
management. Public facilities shall be provided in a manner that is consistent
with the Comprehensive Plan, the UDO and other standards adopted by the City.
   A.   New development shall provide adequate facilities and services,
including required easements, to accommodate demands from proposed development
in conformance with the minimum standards established in this chapter and other
design standards and specifications adopted by the City.
   B.   Unconstructed improvements shall be guaranteed prior to the recording
of the Final Plat.
   C.   New development shall be phased at a pace that will ensure the
provision of adequate community facilities and services for proposed and future
development.
   D.   Each development project shall be designed so that the project is
capable of functioning effectively and independently at completion of each
phase.
   E.   Adequate transportation, water, and wastewater infrastructure shall be
provided concurrently with new development and shall be designed and
constructed in conformance with applicable City standards.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 5-2.2. Fee in lieu of improvements.
   Where the installation of public improvements is required, and the City
determines that installation at the time of development would conflict with a
planned project, a fee in lieu may be permitted. All right-of-way dedication
and easements shall be dedicated to the City for the completion and maintenance
of future improvements. All fees collected by the City pursuant to this section
shall be deposited in a city fund to be used for construction of public
improvements for which the fee is collected.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 5-2.3. Oversizing and extension of improvements.
   The City is authorized to require installation of oversized utilities and
the extension of utilities to adjacent property when the city deems the
oversizing and/or extension to be in the interest of future development. If the
installation of oversized improvements is required, the city must reimburse the
developer for the oversizing at rates set by the city according to the terms of
an executed utility participation agreement.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 5-2.4. Consistency with adopted plans required.
   Proposed public improvements shall conform to and be properly related to the
City of Marion Comprehensive Land Use Plan, Comprehensive Transportation Plan,
and applicable facility and capital improvements plans.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 5-2.5. Inspections and acceptance.
   The City or its authorized agent shall inspect public improvements to ensure
that such improvements are constructed to City standards and specifications
prior to acceptance of those improvements.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 5-2.6. Maintenance.
   A.   Original applicants and all subsequent applicants and developers are
responsible for the construction, installation, and maintenance of all
improvements in accordance with the standards in this chapter and other
standards and specifications adopted by City Council unless otherwise dedicated
to the City pursuant to Sec.
3-2.12.
   B.   If the applicant files a final plat for only a portion of the
subdivision for which a preliminary plat was approved, the improvements
required to be constructed, installed, and maintained in accordance with the
recorded plat must be those improvements that the city deems necessary to serve
the lots shown on the final plat.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 5-2.7. Warranty.
   A.   All development-related improvements must have a warranty guaranteeing
the work against defects for a period of one (1) year from the date of warranty
period from commencement of the infrastructure system.
   B.   The warranty shall list the City as a beneficiary prior to acceptance.
   C.   A warranty surety shall be provided in an amount of 15% of the
estimated value of the warranted development-related improvements. The surety
shall expire six (6) months after the expiration of the warranty period.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
ARTICLE III.
WATERSHED PROTECTION SUBDIVISION STANDARDS
Sec. 5-3.1. Watershed subdivision standards and required improvements.
   A.   Building space. All lots shall provide adequate building space in
accordance with the development standards contained in Article 8 of the
Watershed Protection Ordinance. Lots which are smaller than the minimum
required for residential lots may be developed using built-upon area criteria
in accordance with Article 8 of the Watershed Protection Ordinance.
   B.   Total project area. For the purpose of calculating built-upon area,
total project area shall include total acreage in the tract on which the
project is to be developed.
   C.   Storm water drainage facilities. The application shall be accompanied
by a description of the proposed method of providing storm water drainage. The
applicant shall provide a drainage system that diverts stormwater runoff away
from surface waters and incorporates best management practices to minimize
water quality impacts.
   D.   Erosion and sedimentation control. The application shall, where
required, be accompanied by a written statement that a Sedimentation and
Erosion Control Plan has been submitted to and approved by the N.C. Division of
Land Quality.
   E.   Roads constructed in critical areas and watershed buffer areas. Where
possible, roads should be located outside of critical areas and watershed
buffer areas. Roads constructed within these areas shall be designed and
constructed to minimize their impact on water quality.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Chapter 6
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
   Art. I. Off-Street Parking Standards, §§ 6-1.1--6-1.8
   Art II. Sign Regulations, §§ 6-2.1--6-2.17
   Art. III. Landscape Standards, §§ 6-3.1--6-3.5
   Art. IV. Outdoor Lighting Standards, §§ 6-4.1--6-4.3
   Art. V. Accessory Uses, §§ 6-5.1--6-5.2
   Art. VI. Auto-Related Business Standards, §§ 6-6.1--6-6.2
   Art. VII. Campground Standards, §§ 6-7.1--6-7.7
   Art. VIII. Telecommunications, §§ 6-8.1--6-8.13
ARTICLE I.
OFF-STREET PARKING STANDARDS
Sec. 6-1.1. Generally.
   A.   Purpose. In order to assure proper and uniform development of public
and private property in the City of Marion, to relieve traffic congestion, and
to minimize any detrimental effects of off-street parking areas on adjacent
properties, the procedures and standards set forth herein shall apply. Off-
street automobile storage or parking space shall be provided on every lot on
which any of the following uses are hereafter established. The number of
parking spaces provided shall be at least as great as the number specified
below for the various uses.
   B.   Permit.
      1.   Permit required. All permanent off-street parking shall require a
permit from the planning and development director prior to the creation,
alteration, enlargement, establishment or change of use of a structure or
outdoor use of land occurs, and prior to any development, redevelopment,
reconfiguration, or expansion of a new or existing parking area not part of a
larger building or use activity.
      2.   Permit not required. Regular maintenance and restriping that does
not change the number or configuration of parking spaces or increase the
parking area shall not require a permit.
      3.   Application for permit. An application for permit shall be
submitted, reviewed and approved by the planning and development director prior
to any activity required under the permit and shall contain adequate
information to determine compliance with this division and all other applicable
sections of the City Code.
      4.   Off-street parking plan. An off-street parking plan shall be
submitted with a permit application pursuant to Sec.
3-4.3 and shall show the design and dimensions for the off-street parking area
that conform to the standards in this division and all other applicable
sections of the City Code.
      5.   General requirements.
         a.   Parking space requirements for uses not specifically listed
herein shall be determined by the planning and development director based upon
the requirements for comparable uses and upon the particular characteristics of
the use.
         b.   Fractional space requirements shall be rounded to the nearest
whole number.
         c.   For properties containing more than one (1) use, the number of
required parking spaces is the cumulative number of spaces for all uses with
the exception of approved shared parking.
         d.   All required off-street parking spaces shall be located on the
same lot as the principal structure or use or on a contiguous lot which has the
same zoning classification and is under the same ownership. The planning and
development director may authorize an alternative satellite parking location
provided that the required parking spaces are located within five hundred (500)
feet of the building entrance of the principal structure or use, are located in
a zoning district that permits the principal use and provided that ownership
arrangements are made so as to assure the permanent availability of such spaces
to the satisfaction of the planning and development director.
         e.   Required off-street parking spaces may be provided cooperatively
for two (2) or more uses, subject to arrangements that will assure the
permanent availability of such spaces to the satisfaction of the planning and
development director. The number of such combined parking spaces shall equal
the sum of the parking spaces required for the separate uses. However, the
planning and development director may reduce the total number of parking spaces
required if it is determined that some or all of the spaces may serve two (2)
or more uses by reason of the daily hours of operation or seasonal activity of
such uses.
         f.   No open area in an off-street parking area shall be encroached
upon by buildings, storage, or any other uses; nor shall the number of parking
spaces be reduced except after the submission of proof to the planning and
development director that, by reason of reduction in floor area, seating
capacity, number of employees, or change in other factors controlling the
regulation of the number of off-street parking spaces, the proposed reduction
is reasonable and consistent with the intent of this chapter.
         g.   No parking space shall be utilized for storage, repair work, or
other similar activity.
         h.   Off-street parking shall not be required within the C-1 central
business district; however, all off-street parking provided within the C-
1 central business district shall comply with this division and all other
applicable sections of the City Code.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 6-1.2. Schedule of required parking spaces.
   Automobile repair shop – Two (2) spaces for each gas pump plus two (2)
spaces for each grease rack or working bay or one (1) space for each two
hundred (200) square feet of gross floor space, whichever number produces the
largest number of parking spaces, plus one (1) space for each employee at
maximum employment on any one (1) shift.
   Automobile sales, outdoor equipment and machinery sales, and commercial
nurseries – One (1) space for each two hundred (200) square feet of gross floor
area, plus one (1) space for each employee or sales person, plus one (1) space
for each vehicle stored on site.
   Rooming and boarding houses – One (1) space for each accommodation; plus one
(1) space for each two (2) employees.
   Motels, hotels, inns, and tourist courts – One (1) space for each
accommodation; plus one (1) space for each two (2) employees.
   Bowling alleys – Two (2) spaces for each alley, plus one (1) space for each
two (2) employees.
   Funeral homes (mortuary) –One (1) space for each four (4) seats in the
chapel or parlor.
   Places of public assembly with fixed seats – One (1) space for each two
hundred (200) square feet of gross floor space directed to patron use.
   Residential dwellings – Two (2) spaces for each dwelling unit, including
mobile homes.
   Schools, kindergartens, elementary and junior high, public or private – One
(1) space for each classroom and administrative offices.
   Schools, high, public and private – One (1) space for each staff member and
employee plus one (1) space for each ten (10) students. Spaces should be
calculated for the maximum staff and students for which the building is
designed.
   Churches and other religious institutions – One (1) space for each four (4)
seats in the principal assembly room.
   Colleges – One (1) space for each four (4) students, plus one (1) space for
each faculty and staff member.
   Libraries, museums, art galleries, and public buildings – One (1) space for
each two hundred (200) square feet of gross floor space.
   Professional and business offices – One (1) space for each two hundred (200)
square feet of gross floor space.
   Wholesale and industrial uses – One (1) space for each two (2) employees at
maximum employment on a single shift, plus one (1) space for each company
vehicle operating from the premises.
   Bank and other financial institutions – One (1) space for each two hundred
(200) square feet of gross floor space, plus one (1) space for each two (2)
employees.
   Retail stores and shops of all kinds including barber, shoe repair and
similar service outlets which are not included in an approved planned unit
development – One (1) space for each two hundred (200) square feet of gross
floor space, plus one (1) space for each two (2) employees.
   Restaurants (café) – One (1) space for each three (3) seating
accommodations, plus one (1) space for each two (2) employees on shifts of
greatest employment.
   Gasoline service or filling stations – Two (2) spaces for each gas pump plus
two (2) spaces for each grease rack or other working bay.
   Hospitals – One (1) space per bed intended for patients (except bassinets)
plus one (1) space for each medical staff member, plus one (1) space for each
two (2) employees on shift of greatest employment.
   Law enforcement facilities – One (1) space per two (2) cells, plus one (1)
space for each staff member on the shift of greater employment.
   Auditoriums, assembly halls, gymnasiums, community centers, and senior
centers – One (1) space for every three (3) fixed seats and one (1) space for
every three (3) movable seats in the largest assembly room.
   Recreational center swimming pools – One (1) space for each one hundred
(100) square feet of water and deck area.
   Bed and breakfast homes – One (1) space for each accommodation (rented
bedroom) plus two (2) spaces for the owner/manager.
   Planned unit development consisting of retail and service outlets – Four (4)
parking spaces for every one thousand (1,000) square feet of gross floor space.
The board of adjustment may approve up to twenty (20) percent reduction of the
required parking upon finding that the reduced number of parking spaces will be
sufficient to satisfy the demand for parking expected for the use, considering
the nature of the use and characteristics of the property. The board of
adjustment may approve parking spaces for use of an outdoor display area
provided that such area is indicated on the site plan and approved by the board
of adjustment.
   Senior housing – One (1) space for each dwelling unit.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 6-1.3. Design of nonresidential and multifamily residential parking areas.
   A.   General parking area design standards. The following minimum design
standards shall apply to all nonresidential and multifamily residential parking
areas. Additional design standards are recommended but not required for
properties and uses with fourteen (14) spaces or less.
      1.   All off-street parking areas and parking spaces shall be designed in
a manner which does not require vehicles to back out onto a public street,
sidewalk or over a landscape bufferyard.
      2.   Wheel stops are required if the space abuts a wall, fence,
landscaped area, pedestrian walkway, building, or is located perpendicular to
another parking space, and shall have a minimum three-foot clearance from the
back of the wheel stop to such abutment. Wheel stops or curbs shall be a
minimum of six (6) inches in height and shall be anchored to the ground, and
may be concrete, rot-resistant heavy timber or other effective materials.
      3.   All handicap accessible parking spaces shall be designed and
constructed in accordance with the North Carolina Building Code.
      4.   All off-street parking areas shall comply with the provisions of
article three of this chapter.
   B.   Additional parking area design standards. All nonresidential and
multifamily residential uses requiring fifteen (15) or more parking spaces
shall conform to the following design standards:
      1.   Parking areas must be graded for proper drainage to ensure surface
water is diverted to a storm drain or other on-site catch basin to keep parking
area, public streets and adjacent property free of accumulated water.
      2.   All required parking areas and driveways shall be surfaced with a
minimum thickness of two (2) inches of asphalt, concrete, other all-weather
hard surface, over a minimum thickness of four (4) inches of an aggregate base
material. All parking areas shall be designed to facilitate proper drainage and
shall not drain over any public street, public right-of-way, or onto adjacent
property.
      3.   Parking spaces shall be clearly marked with paint striping a minimum
of four (4) inches in width. All parking areas shall be maintained in good
condition and clear of obstructions at all times.
      4.   Directional entrances, exits, and aisles shall be signed and marked
on the pavement to adequately guide vehicular and pedestrian circulation on-
site.
      5.   Parking areas may be designed to connect with parking areas on
adjacent lots, where appropriate and approved by the adjacent property owner to
eliminate the need to use the abutting roads for cross movement of vehicles.
      6.   All parking areas shall include facilities that ensure safe
pedestrian circulation on-site and between parking areas, dedicated rights-of-
way, and adjacent properties where appropriate. Bikeway facilities are
recommended but optional. If a bikeway system is included it shall comply with
the following requirements as part of the site design:
         a.   An internal pedestrian walkway or bikeway system shall
functionally connect front doors, storefronts or primary building entries with
planned or existing public sidewalks on each public street;
         b.   An internal pedestrian walkway or bikeway system shall provide a
direct connection to any planned or existing public greenway system or park
facility;
         c.   An internal pedestrian walkway or bikeway system shall provide a
direct and functional connection from the front doors, storefronts or primary
building entry to any on-site off-street parking area;
         d.   An internal pedestrian walkway or bikeway system shall provide
for identifiable pedestrian crossing treatments along functional pedestrian
routes wherever an internal pedestrian walkway or bikeway system crosses an
interior access drive or interior access driveway; and
         e.   Parking areas with twenty (20) or more parking spaces may
substitute a bicycle rack that provides space for five (5) bicycles at a ratio
of one (1) bicycle rack for each twenty (20) parking spaces. One (1) parking
space may be subtracted for each five-space bicycle rack.
   C.   Parking space design standards. All parking spaces shall comply with
the parking dimension standards set forth below:
Table 6-1.3: Minimum Parking Space Dimensional Requirements
 
                                       Angle of Off-Street Parking Space
                                      0°     30°    45°    60°    90°
Minimum width of parking space         9 feet  9 feet  9 feet  9 feet  9 feet
Minimum length of parking space        22 feet 18 feet 18 feet 18 feet 18 feet
Minimum aisle width single row parking 12 feet 12 feet 14 feet 19 feet 20 feet
Minimum aisle width double row parking 22 feet 22 feet 22 feet 24 feet 25 feet
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eb71827f41c5203b3fce3e3bd57dd8fdaf20a993/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3828.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eb71827f41c5203b3fce3e3bd57dd8fdaf20a993/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3830.jpg]
 
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 6-1.4. Off-street loading and unloading space required.
   Every lot on which a nonresidential use is hereafter established shall
provide space as indicated herein for the loading and unloading of vehicles off
the street or public alley. Such space shall have access to an alley or, if
there is no alley, to a public street. For the purpose of this section an off-
street loading space shall have minimum dimensions of twelve (12) feet by forty
(40) feet and an overhead clearance of fourteen (14) feet in height. Required
space shall be considered as follows:
Table 6-1.4 Off-Street Loading Space Standards
 
Gross Floor Area (sq. ft.) Number of Spaces
0 - 20,000                 1
20,001 - 40,000            2
40,001 and above           3
 
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 6-1.5. Clear visibility triangle.
   A.   Corner lot. On a corner lot, with the exception of lots located within
the C-1 central business district, in any residential district, no obstruction
to vision more than two and one-half (2) feet in height measured from the
center line of the street shall be placed or maintained within the triangular
area formed by the intersection street right-of-way lines and a straight line
connection points on said street right-of-way lines each of which is thirty-
five (35) feet distance from the point of intersection.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eb71827f41c5203b3fce3e3bd57dd8fdaf20a993/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3832.jpg]
 
   B.   Driveway access. The same criteria as used on corner lots in this
section shall apply to driveway access except that such standards shall apply
to driveways in all districts that do not have a controlled stop, and the
triangular area formed by the intersection street right-of-way lines and
straight line connection points on said street right-of-way lines each shall be
twenty-five (25) feet distance from the point of intersection.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eb71827f41c5203b3fce3e3bd57dd8fdaf20a993/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3834.jpg]
 
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 6-1.6. Driveway and internal traffic lane standards.
   A.   Driveway standards.
      1.   Driveway permit. All driveways shall conform to the standards
required in
chapter 15, streets, of the City Code. Exceptions may only be granted in
writing by the public works director prior to the issuance of a permit.
      2.   Abandoned driveways. As a condition of issuance of any permit, all
abandoned and nonconforming driveways and driveway aprons on the same property
shall be removed, landscaped and the curb, gutter and sidewalk shall be
properly restored.
   B.   Internal traffic lane standards.
      1.   Traffic lanes shall be designed so that each lane is no less than a
minimum of twelve (12) feet in width and no greater than a maximum of eighteen
(18) feet in width.
      2.   Traffic lanes shall be clearly marked with directional painting and/
or traffic control signage and shall not provide direct access from individual
parking spaces or parking aisles.
   C.   Drive-through stacking lane. Access and stacking for a drive-through
lane shall be located away from a public street, private driveway, internal
traffic lane, and parking aisle so that queued vehicles do not block traffic
along a public road, driveway access, or the internal movement of other
vehicles on-site. The total length of an on-site stacking lane shall be a
minimum of two hundred (200) linear feet.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 6-1.7. Parking area maintenance.
   It shall be the duty of the property owner to maintain and repair the
parking area and related improvements in accordance with the above standards.
If the city council finds that a parking area is in need of maintenance or
repair, to ensure public safety and welfare, the council may direct the
property owner to repair the parking area, or direct the city to repair the
parking area thirty (30) days after written notice to the property owner. Such
repair or maintenance costs shall be applied as a lien against the property.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 6-1.8. Sidewalks.
   A.   Purpose and intent. The purpose of these standards is to ensure greater
pedestrian safety and ease of access for pedestrians in the City in accordance
with the City's adopted policy guidance. More specifically the intent of these
standards is to:
      1.   Establish Locations. Establish the locations where new sidewalks are
required to be installed as part of development;
      2.   Promote Walking. Promote expanded opportunities for recreational
walking and running;
      3.   Meet Daily Needs. Help ensure City residents can meet their daily
needs without use of an automobile;
      4.   Allow Access. Allow easier access to shopping and commercial areas;
      5.   Clarify Timing. Clarify the timing of sidewalk installation; and
      6.   Fee In-Lieu. Establish provisions for the payment of a fee in-lieu
of sidewalk installation when sidewalk installation would conflict with other
infrastructure improvements.
   B.   Applicability. The provisions of this section shall apply to the
following, unless exempted in accordance with subsection C.
      1.   Subdivisions. Subdivisions, including group developments of ten or
more individual lots.
      2.   New Buildings or Uses. New non-residential development and multi-
family development where principal buildings or new open uses of land are
subject to a site plan.
      3.   Expansions. Individual or collective expansions of existing
principal buildings, open uses of land, or off-street parking that are subject
to a site plan and that exceed 50 percent.
   C.   Exemptions. Sidewalks shall not be required in the following instances:
      1.   Residential Areas. Along existing local residential streets where
the TRC determines the following conditions exist:
         a.   The proposed development is within an area consisting
predominately of single-family detached residential development, where no
sidewalks are present and have not been otherwise required; and
         b.   The character and size of the proposed development will not
result in substantial additional pedestrian facility needs; and
         c.   There are no new pedestrian facilities planned that would provide
a pedestrian connection to the proposed development.
      2.   Subdivisions and Group Developments. Along an existing local street
abutting a proposed development where the TRC determines the following
conditions exist:
         a.   No new pedestrian facilities are planned along the existing
street; and
         b.   The abutting street does not have a sidewalk and has minimal
potential for additional development along it such that the need for pedestrian
facilities is greatly reduced; or
         c.   Sidewalk construction is deemed substantially challenged or
unreasonable due to existing topography or other physical constraints.
      3.   Industrial Areas. Sidewalks are not required along new and existing
local and collector streets within industrial areas where all of the following
conditions exist:
         a.   The proposed development is within an area consisting mostly of
industrial uses where the majority of developed parcels do not have sidewalks;
         b.   The character, size, and density of the developments are such
that pedestrian demand is expected to be limited; and
         c.   No transit service or greenway route exists or is planned in that
location as indicated in the comprehensive land use plan or supplemental
transportation or greenway plan adopted by city council.
      4.   Cul-De-Sac and Dead End Streets. Along cul-de-sac streets and
permanent dead-end streets of 800 feet or less in length, except when they
contain cluster mailbox units.
      5.   Controlled Access Roads. Along streets that are designated North
Carolina Department of Transportation controlled access facilities.
   D.   Cluster Mailbox Units. Sidewalk access must be provided to all areas
that contain cluster mailbox units.
   E.   Configuration. The configuration of the sidewalk is subject to the
approval of TRC.
   F.   Timing of Installation. The site plan or subdivision preliminary plan
shall address the phasing and timing criteria for the installation of required
sidewalks, including a maximum timeframe for completion.
   G.   Payment in-Lieu of Required Installation.
      l.   Payment of fees shall be in an amount equal to 100 percent of the
actual installation and construction cost of completing the infrastructure
improvements, as estimated by a professional engineer licensed by the State of
North Carolina and approved by the Public Works Director.
      2.   All fees collected by the City pursuant to this section shall be
deposited in a fund and used only for the installation of the required
infrastructure improvements on the site or in the general vicinity of the site
for the infrastructure for which the fee is collected.
      3.   Use of submitted funds to construct the required infrastructure
improvements shall be coordinated with the appropriate phase of any conflicting
roadway or utility project.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
ARTICLE II.
SIGN REGULATIONS
Sec. 6-2.1. Permits required; application.
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, construct, enlarge,
attach, post, paint, move, replace, or in any other manner display any sign
without first obtaining a sign permit from the Planning and development
director, except otherwise prohibited, exempted, or not requiring a permit
under this chapter. Additional permits may be necessary pursuant to the
regulations in the state building code or other sections of the UDO.
   B.   1.   All permanent signs. A sign permit shall not be issued until a
complete application for each separate sign and support structure has been
submitted to and approved by the planning and development director.
      2.   Permanent off-premises signs. The sign structure must be completely
installed within one hundred eighty (180) days from the date of permit
issuance. During the 180-day period, the new sign structure shall be considered
in existence for the purpose of spacing of adjacent signs as set out in the
appropriate rules and regulations of this chapter. The off-premises sign owner
shall pay an annual renewal fee for each off-premises sign. Off-premises
initial and annual renewal fees shall be required to be paid by the owners of
the off-premises sign structures for each permit requested in order to defray
the cost of the administrative and inspection expenses incurred by the City of
Marion in administering the permit procedures. Such fee schedules shall be
determined by the city council.
      3.   Alteration of sign face. Resurfacing of a sign, if in conformance
with the applicable provisions of this chapter, shall be considered maintenance
or repair and shall not require a permit.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 6-2.2. Compliance required.
   Any sign, which becomes a legal nonconforming sign as herein defined may
continue to exist provided that no nonconforming sign shall be:
   A.   Changed or replaced with another nonconforming sign, except that the
sign face may be changed on an existing sign structure so long as it is not
enlarged or expanded.
   B.   Relocated, except in conformance with the requirements of this chapter.
   C.   Re-established after damage or destruction in excess of fifty (50)
percent of the value at the time of the damage or destruction.
   D.   Modified in any way which increases the sign's degree of nonconformity.
   E.   Re-established after the sign structure has been removed.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 6-2.3. Message type.
   A.   Noncommercial message. Any sign display or device allowed under this
chapter may contain, in lieu of any other copy, any otherwise lawful
noncommercial message.
   B.   Commercial message. Any sign wording, logo, or other representation
that directly or indirectly, names, advertises, or calls attention to a
business, product, service, or other commercial activity.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 6-2.4. Measurement of sign face.
   A.   The area of a sign face shall be deemed to be the entire area within
the smallest square or rectangle that will encompass the outer limits of the
text, representation, emblem, logo, symbol, or other display on the sign. The
area shall include any material or color forming an integral part of the
background of the display or used to differentiate the sign from the structure
against which it is placed. See Figure 6-2.4.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eb71827f41c5203b3fce3e3bd57dd8fdaf20a993/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3836.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eb71827f41c5203b3fce3e3bd57dd8fdaf20a993/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3838.jpg]
 
   B.   The structural members not bearing informational or representational
matter shall not be included in computation of area of a sign face.
   C.   A sign may include double-sided display so long as both sides are of
the same size and location on the sign structure, otherwise it shall be deemed
two separate signs.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 6-2.5. Measurement of sign height.
   The height of a sign shall be measured from the highest point of a sign or
its support, whichever is greater, to the base of the sign at the highest
adjacent grade. See Figure 6-2.5.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eb71827f41c5203b3fce3e3bd57dd8fdaf20a993/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3840.jpg]
 
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 6-2.6. Location.
   A.   All permitted signs, with the exception of public signs, shall be
located outside of a public right-of-way and outside of the clear-site
triangle.
   B.   Such signs shall be no closer than twenty (20) feet from the edge of
the traveled way where the right- of- way is unknown or does not exist.
   C.   The following signs are permitted by zoning district provided such
signs are in conformance with all applicable provisions in this chapter. All
other signs are prohibited pursuant to Sec.
6-2.11:
TABLE 6-2.6: DISTRICT SIGN PROVISIONS
              District Types:                M-1 Industrial
District Sign R-1 Single Family Residential  DO Downtown Overlay
Provisions    R-2 General Residential        C-2 General Business
              B-1 Neighborhood Business      O-I Office Institutional
              C-1 Central Business
Sign Type     R-1 & R-2 C-1 &C-2 M-1         O-I B1 & DO Description
             District Types:                M-1 Industrial
District     R-1 Single Family Residential  DO Downtown Overlay
Sign         R-2 General Residential        C-2 General Business
Provisions   B-1 Neighborhood Business      O-I Office Institutional
             C-1 Central Business
Sign Type    R-1 & R-2  C-1 &C-2 M-1        O-I B1 & DO Description
Arm sign     P          P        P          P   P       Sec.
                                                        6-2.10.A.3.
Banner       E(1)       E        E          E   E       Sec.
(temporary)                                             6-2.9.P.1
Building     E          E        E          E   E       Sec.
marker                                                  6-2.9.B.
Building-
mounted      P(1)       P        P          P   P       Sec.
banner                                                  6-2.10.B.3.
(permanent)
Canopy       P(1)       P        P          P   P       Sec.
awning                                                  6-2.10.B.2.
Changeable   P(1)       P        P          P   P       Sec.
copy sign                                               6-2.10.A.4.
Construction E          E        E          E   E       Sec.
sign                                                    6-2.9.C.
Digital                                                 Sec.
petroleum    N          P        P          N   N       6-2.10.C.8.b
price signs
Digital
time, date,  N          P        P          P   P       Sec.
temperature                                             6-2.10.C.8.a
(TDT) sign
Directional                                             Sec.
sign (on-    N          E        E          E   N       6-2.9.D.
premise)
Drive-thru   N          P(3)     N          N   N       Sec.
menu sign                                               6-2.10.A.5.
Electronic                                              Sec.
message sign P(4)       P(3)     N          P   N       6-2.10.C.
(on-premise)
Flag         E          E        E          E   E       Sec.
                                                        6-2.9.F.
Government   E          E        E          E   E       Sec.
sign                                                    6-2.9.G.
Holiday      E          E        E          E   E       Sec.
decoration                                              6-2.9.H.
Home                                                    Sec.
occupation   P          P        N          N   P       6-2.10.A.3 - B.1, or -
sign                                                    B.5
Incidental   E          E        E          E   E       Sec.
sign                                                    6-2.9.I.
Legal or     E          E        E          E   E       Sec.
warning sign                                            6-2.9.J.
Multi-
tenant/                                                 Sec.
mixed-use    P(1)       P        P          P   N       6-2.10.A.2.
monument
sign
Occupant/                                               Sec.
street       E          E        E          E   E       6-2.9.K.
number sign
Pedestrian   P(1)       P        P          P   P       Sec.
canopy sign                                             6-2.10.B.4.
Pole-mounted N          P        P          P   P       Sec.
sign                                                    6-2.10.A.6.
Portable
political    E          E        E          E   E       Sec.
campaign                                                6-2.9.L.
sign
Public art/  E          E        E          E   E       Sec.
murals                                                  6-2.9.M.
Off-premises N          P        P          P   P       Sec.
advertising                                             6-2.10.D.
Off-premises P(1)       P        P          P   P       Sec.
directional                                             6-2.10.D.2
Real estate  E          E        E          E   E       Sec.
sign                                                    6-2.9.N.
Single                                                  Sec.
tenant       P(1)(2)(5) P        P          P   P       6-2.10.A.1.
monuments
Special      E          E        E          E   E       Sec.
event sign                                              6-2.9.P.1.
Stadium/                                                Sec.
recreational E(2)       N        E          E   N       6-2.9.O.
sign
Sidewalk "A- N          N        N          N   E       Sec.
frame" sign                                             6-2.9.A.
Vending/
automatic    E(1)       E        E          E   E       Sec.
teller, gas                                             6-2.9.Q.
pump signs
Wall-mounted P(1)       P        P          P   P       Sec.
sign                                                    6-2.10.B.5.
Wall-mounted                                            Sec.
projecting   P(1)       P        P          P   P       6-2.10.B.1.
arm sign
Window sign/ E(1)       E        E          E   E       Sec.
display                                                 6-2.9.R.
Yard sale    E          E        E          E   E       Sec.
sign                                                    6-2.9.P.2.
E = Permit Not Required (1)   Approved businesses (excluding home occupations).
P = Permit Required     (2)   R-2 only
N = Not Permitted       (3)   C-2 only
S = Special Exception   (4)   Non-commercial non-residential
                        (5)   Multi-family residential six units or more only
 
(Ord. No. O-22-01-04-1, § 7, 1-4-22)
Sec. 6-2.7. Illumination.
   Any sign illuminated by a direct or indirect source of light including but
not limited to neon, fluorescent, incandescent, light-emitting diode (LED), or
other similar lighting or light-producing element shall adhere to the following
provisions in addition to all other applicable regulations.
   A.   All illuminated signs.
      1.   Signs may be illuminated by a direct or indirect source of light,
provided the indirect light source is shaded, shielded or directed so that no
direct rays or glare emanating from the light source are visible from any
public right-of-way or abutting property.
      2.   Unless otherwise stated in this chapter, the average level of
illumination on the vertical surface of any direct or indirect illuminated sign
shall not exceed three (3) foot-candles, unless permitted ground-mounted or
bottom-mounted lighting fixture is used, in which case the average level of
illumination on the vertical surface of the sign shall not exceed two (2) foot-
candles. A foot candle is defined as a unit of illuminance or light falling
onto a surface. One foot candle is equal to one lumen per square foot. A lumen
is the basic measure of the quantity of light emitted by a source.
      3.   No sign shall have flashing, scrolling, intermittent, fluttering, or
animated illumination which has changing light intensity, brightness or color,
or simulates movement unless otherwise expressly permitted with this chapter.
      4.   No illuminated sign shall be permitted within one hundred (100) feet
of property in any residential district unless the illumination of such sign is
so designed that it does not shine or reflect light onto such property. Any
illuminated sign that is permitted in a residential district shall not reflect
light or shine onto any property in the residential district except the
property on which the sign is located.
      5.   Illuminated signs shall be shielded so as to prevent beams or rays
of light from being directed at any portion of a public right-of-way or
adjacent property. Illumination intensity or brilliance shall not cause glare
or impair the vision of motorists, and shall not interfere with any driver's
operation of a motor vehicle.
      6.   Any outdoor open-faced sign where the source of illumination is
uncovered or exposed, such as but not limited to, neon tubing, LED lighting, or
other exposed illumination source is prohibited unless otherwise expressly
permitted in this chapter. See Figure 6-2.7(A).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eb71827f41c5203b3fce3e3bd57dd8fdaf20a993/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3844.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eb71827f41c5203b3fce3e3bd57dd8fdaf20a993/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3857.jpg]
      7.   All lighting shall meet all applicable state electrical codes.
   B.   Direct illumination signs. For the purposes of this chapter, a sign
illuminated from an internal light source so that light shines through a
translucent surface or where the silhouette of alphabetic or numeric
characters, symbols, or logos are illuminated as a result of the light source
illuminating the background shall be considered a direct illumination sign. See
Figure 6-2.7(B).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eb71827f41c5203b3fce3e3bd57dd8fdaf20a993/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3860.jpg]
 
      1.   Channel letter type signs may use neon tubing as an internal
illumination source, provided that the light source is shielded by translucent
face or that a silhouette type sign is used where the light source illuminates
the sign background and the letters or symbols are opaque.
      2.   With the exception of backlit signs, it is recommended that direct
illumination signs consist of light colored letters or symbols on a dark
background to improve visibility.
   C.   Indirect illumination signs. For the purpose of this chapter, a sign
illuminated primarily by light being directed toward, across, or from behind
and not from within the sign structure is considered an indirect illumination
sign. See Figure 6-2.7(C).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eb71827f41c5203b3fce3e3bd57dd8fdaf20a993/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3862.jpg]
   D.   Electronic message center (EMC) signs. An electronic message center
(EMC) sign is an electronically activated changeable copy sign that can be
programmed manually or by computer to display message content during a fixed
duration of time. See Figure 6-2.7(D).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eb71827f41c5203b3fce3e3bd57dd8fdaf20a993/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3851.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eb71827f41c5203b3fce3e3bd57dd8fdaf20a993/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3864.jpg]
Where electronic message center signs are permitted they must conform to the
following regulations:
      1.   No sign shall be brighter than is necessary for clear and adequate
visibility and shall not exceed a maximum of 7,500 cd/ m2 during daylight hours
or greater than 750 cd/ m2 between dusk and dawn so as not to cause glare or
impair the vision of motorists, and shall not interfere with any driver's
operation of a motor vehicle.
      2.   Such sign shall come equipped and be controlled by either a
combination of a photosensor and a time switch, astronomical time switch, or
other manufacturer installed dimming technology that automatically adjusts the
brightness in direct correlation with ambient light conditions.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 6-2.8. Historic signs.
   A sign designated as a historic resource by the Historic Resources
Commission shall be exempt from the requirements of this Chapter as to height,
illumination, location, and sign area and may be maintained as legally
conforming signs subject to the following conditions.
   A.   All parts of the exempted historic sign including neon tubes,
incandescent lights and shields, and sign faces shall be maintained in a
functioning condition as historically intended for the sign to the greatest
degree possible.
   B.   The wording or image of a historic sign may be altered only if the
alterations do not substantially change the historic dimensions, height, scale,
style, or type of materials of the historic sign.
   C.   Failure to maintain a historic sign as required above shall be grounds
for disallowing an exemption from the requirements of this Chapter. The sign
shall thereafter be brought into compliance with the requirements of this
Chapter subject to a determination by the Planning Director.
   D.   Full reconstruction of a historic sign shall require approval of the
Historic Preservation Commission or, in the CBD zoning district, the Design
Commission of the Marion Business Association.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 6-2.9. Signs not requiring a permit.
   A permit is not required for the following signs, provided they are not
prohibited as defined in Sec.
6-2.11, and provided they comply with all provisions set forth in this chapter.
Signs permissible in this section shall not be considered in determining the
total sign area for a property. However, if a sign exceeds the size or in any
other way does not comply with these limitations, it shall be considered as a
prohibited sign and/or shall be subject to all other provisions in this
chapter.
   A.   A-frame signs. A-frame signs are defined as signs with two sides angled
vertically that advertise a special sale, event, or feature that are removed at
the close of business each day. This sign type includes changeable grease
boards, black boards, and white boards.
      1.   When located in the Downtown Overlay (DO) District the placement of
such sign shall be within three (3) feet of the building except that such signs
may be placed no less than two and one-half (2 ½) feet from the edge of curb
where it abuts on-street parking. A minimum five (5) foot wide unobstructed
pathway shall be maintained to provide free and clear pedestrian accessibility.
In all other business districts, such signs shall be located on private
property and not within the public right-of-way, and shall not obstruct the
view of motorists, cyclists, or pedestrians.
      2.   Such signs shall be designed to be visible to and orient pedestrian
traffic, and not intended for viewing by motorists.
      3.   No more than one (1) per business when fronting a sidewalk and no
more than one (1) per property when fronting a public street.
      4.   Shall be removed and placed indoors when business is closed.
      5.   Such signs shall be constructed in an "A-Frame" design and shall be
no greater than three (3) feet wide and six (6) feet in height.
      6.   Such signs shall be constructed of durable materials to withstand
normal weather conditions. Unfinished and/or untreated plywood or other
material unsuitable for outdoor conditions shall be prohibited. Spray- painted
messages shall be prohibited.
      7.   Such signs located in the Downtown Overlay (DO) District and having
unique artistic qualities that enhance the appearance of downtown but do not
meet the requirements of this section may be approved upon favorable
recommendation by the Marion Business Association.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eb71827f41c5203b3fce3e3bd57dd8fdaf20a993/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3866.jpg]
   B.   Building marker signs. A sign cut or etched into the masonry, or
constructed of bronze or similar material on a building.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eb71827f41c5203b3fce3e3bd57dd8fdaf20a993/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3868.jpg]
   C.   Construction signs.
      1.   Construction signs shall be allowed provided such signs do not
exceed one (1) sign per street frontage with a maximum of two (2) signs per
construction site.
      2.   Non-residential and multi-family construction signs shall not exceed
thirty-two (32) square feet in area and residential construction signs shall
not exceed four (4) square feet in an area.
      3.   Such signs shall not exceed eight (8) feet in height.
      4.   Signs shall not be erected prior to the issuance of a building
permit and shall be removed within seven (7) days after the issuance of a
certificate of occupancy.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eb71827f41c5203b3fce3e3bd57dd8fdaf20a993/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3870.jpg]
   D.   Directional Signs.
      1.   Directional signs must be located on-premises to which directions
are indicated.
      2.   Directional signs may not exceed four (4) square feet per face.
      3.   Such signs may contain no copy other than directional information.
      4.   No more than two (2) signs per entrance or exit shall be permitted.
      5.   A sign larger than four (4) square feet or illuminated shall require
a sign permit and shall be installed in conformance to the state building code.
      6.   In addition to such signs, one (1) parking lot informational sign
not exceeding nine (9) square feet shall be permitted identifying the
conditions of use.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eb71827f41c5203b3fce3e3bd57dd8fdaf20a993/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3875.jpg]
   E.   Feather banner. Feather banner is a sign on flexible material that
blows in the wind like a flag and resembles the outline of a feather and
advertises a business, special sale, event or feature.
      1.   One per property is permitted.
      2.   Must be removed daily at the close of business.
      3.   Must be placed on private property outside of the street right-of-
way.
      4.   Shall not interfere with pedestrian or vehicular circulation or
sight lines.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eb71827f41c5203b3fce3e3bd57dd8fdaf20a993/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3877.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eb71827f41c5203b3fce3e3bd57dd8fdaf20a993/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3873.jpg]
 
   F.   Flags. Flags or insignia of any nation, state, county or municipality,
any religious, civic or fraternal organization, or any educational or cultural
facility provided that the height of the flagpole does not exceed the maximum
building height and includes no more than three (3) individual poles installed
less than one hundred linear feet apart.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eb71827f41c5203b3fce3e3bd57dd8fdaf20a993/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3879.jpg]
   G.   Government signs.
      1.   Signs posted by various local, state, and federal agencies in the
performance of their duties such as regulatory signs, welcome signs and traffic
signs.
      2.   Signs installed under governmental authority which note the donation
of buildings, structures or streetscape materials.
      3.   Any other sign required by local, state, or federal law, statute or
ordinance.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eb71827f41c5203b3fce3e3bd57dd8fdaf20a993/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3881.jpg]
   H.   Holiday decorations (temporary). Temporary decorations or displays are
permitted when such are clearly incidental to and are customarily and commonly
associated with any national, local or religious holiday or celebration
provided that such signs do not create a public safety hazard or a distraction
to motorists.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eb71827f41c5203b3fce3e3bd57dd8fdaf20a993/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3883.jpg]
   I.   Incidental signs.
      1.   On-premise sign that are intended to provide information of a
general directive or are informational in nature, which bears no advertising
matter, and does not exceed two (2) square feet of sign copy area.
      2.   Such signs shall be attached flush to a building, which may include
windows and doors.
      3.   Such signs shall not scroll, flash, simulate movement, or create a
distraction to motorists, and shall meet all requirements for illumination,
except that indoor neon signs meeting the provisions for incidental signs are
permitted.
      4.   Indoor electronic message center signs visible from a public right-
of-way or adjacent property are prohibited except those that conform to the
provisions for incidental signs and the requirements of Sec. 6-2.10 of this
article.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eb71827f41c5203b3fce3e3bd57dd8fdaf20a993/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3885.jpg]
   J.   Legal or warning signs.
      1.   Signs erected to warn of danger or hazardous conditions such as
signs erected by public utility companies or construction companies.
      2.   Signs required for or specifically authorized for a public purpose
by any law, statute or ordinance.
      3.   Signs that display information pertinent to the safety or legal
responsibilities of the general public with regard to a particular piece of
property shall be located on the premises to which the information pertains. No
advertising may be affixed to such sign.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eb71827f41c5203b3fce3e3bd57dd8fdaf20a993/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3887.jpg]
   K.   Occupant/street number signs. Such signs shall be affixed to
structures, mailboxes, and driveway entrances which serve to identify the
address of the structure or occupant. All such signs shall be placed in such a
manner as to be visible from the street.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eb71827f41c5203b3fce3e3bd57dd8fdaf20a993/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3889.jpg]
   L.   Portable political campaign signs.
      1.   Political signs shall not be illuminated.
      2.   Such signs shall be no greater than 864 square inches on NC
Department of Transportation rights- of-way, and in all other locations such
signs shall not exceed thirty-two (32) square feet in non-residential zoning
districts, and four (4) square feet in residential zoning districts.
Freestanding signs exceeding this size shall be required to obtain a permit and
must comply with regulations for permanent freestanding signs within the
district they are located.
      3.   No sign shall be higher than 42 inches (four feet) above the edge of
the adjacent roadway as measured from the edge of pavement.
      4.   Such signs shall not be located within landscaped beds and shall not
be attached to trees or utility poles or on city-owned property, and shall not
be located in a manner that blocks site visibility at street intersections,
obscure motorist visibility, or obstruct another sign.
      5.   Political signs may be displayed sixty (60) days prior to an
election and removed no later than seven (7) days after the election. In the
event of a runoff election, political signs for the candidates involved may
remain until seven (7) days after the runoff election. Signs not removed after
seven (7) days shall be removed by the City and shall be held for ten (10) days
before being discarded.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eb71827f41c5203b3fce3e3bd57dd8fdaf20a993/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3893.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eb71827f41c5203b3fce3e3bd57dd8fdaf20a993/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3891.jpg]
   M.   Public art/murals. Any work of art intended for the pleasure and
enjoyment of the public and approved by resolution by the City Council, and/or
recommended by either McDowell Arts Council or the Marion Business Association.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eb71827f41c5203b3fce3e3bd57dd8fdaf20a993/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3895.jpg]
   N.   Real estate signs.
      1.   Such signs shall not be illuminated.
      2.   Such signs shall be no greater than four (4) square feet in area and
four (4) feet in height (if freestanding) when located on residential property.
      3.   Such signs shall be no greater than thirty-two (32) square feet in
area and eight (8) feet in height (if freestanding) for non-residential
property.
      4.   Real estate signs, including "sold" signs, shall be removed within
thirty (30) days of closing of the sale, rental, or lease of the property.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eb71827f41c5203b3fce3e3bd57dd8fdaf20a993/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3897.jpg]
   O.   Stadium and recreational signs. Signs located within a stadium intended
to be read only by the persons seated within the stadium, and not visible from
any public right-of-way outside the stadium.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eb71827f41c5203b3fce3e3bd57dd8fdaf20a993/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3901.jpg]
   P.   Temporary signs. A sign that is used in connection with a circumstance,
situation or event that is designated, intended, or expected to take place or
to be completed within a reasonably short or definite period of time. Such
signs shall be permitted provided the following:
      1.   Special event signs. Signs may be erected by a public agency,
school, non-profit, civic or other persons(s) approved by the city to hold a
special non-commercial event; or business grand opening, special sale, or
business closing.
         a.   Such on-premises signs shall not exceed thirty-two (32) square
feet.
         b.   Signs larger than four (4) square feet shall be attached flush to
a building, structure, or fence, and shall not be attached directly to the
ground, to a pole, or between two (2) or more poles or similar support
structures.
         c.   On-premises signs may be erected no greater than thirty (30) days
prior to the event and off-premise non-commercial signs may be erected no
greater than seven (7) days prior to the event; all signs shall be removed no
later than one (1) business day following the event.
         d.   Signs shall not be illuminated.
         e.   Signs shall be located on private property.
         f.   Off-premise signs shall be limited to no more than one (1)
temporary event sign per property at any one time except that one (1)
additional sign shall be allowed for each additional street frontage.
         g.   Off-premises signs shall contain no commercial messages.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eb71827f41c5203b3fce3e3bd57dd8fdaf20a993/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3899.jpg]
      2.   Yard sale signs.
         a.   Such signs may be located on-premises only and shall not be
located within a public right-of-way nor placed on a tree, street sign or
utility pole.
         b.   Such signs shall not be illuminated.
         c.   Yard sale signs are limited to four (4) square feet in area and
four (4) feet in height.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eb71827f41c5203b3fce3e3bd57dd8fdaf20a993/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3903.jpg]
   Q.   Vending machine/automatic teller and gasoline pump signs. Signs
attached to and made an integral part of a vending machine, automatic teller
machine, or gasoline pump if advertising or giving information about the
products or services dispensed or vended by that machine.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eb71827f41c5203b3fce3e3bd57dd8fdaf20a993/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3905.jpg]
   R.   Window signs and displays.
      1.   Window displays. Merchandise, pictures, or models of product or
services that are incorporated as an integral part of a window display.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eb71827f41c5203b3fce3e3bd57dd8fdaf20a993/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3909.jpg]
      2.   Window and vehicle signs.
         a.   Signs which are posted, painted, placed, or affixed to the
interior or exterior of a window.
         b.   Signs affixed flush to an operational motor vehicle indicating
the name of a business, when the vehicle is not intended to be used for display
of signs.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eb71827f41c5203b3fce3e3bd57dd8fdaf20a993/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3911.jpg]
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 6-2.10. Signs requiring a permit.
   The following signs are allowed subject to the issuance of a permit.
   A.   Freestanding signs.
      1.   Single tenant monuments.
         a.   Single tenant monument signs are permitted in all commercial
districts and multi-unit residential community developments with greater than
six (6) units.
         b.   All ground mounted signs shall be located a minimum of five (5)
feet behind the public right-of-way to avoid obstructing visibility.
         c.   Such signs shall not be located ten (10) feet of a side property
line, twenty (20) feet from any public right-of-way intersection, or within a
required clear-sight triangle.
         d.   Such signs shall have a solid architectural base that supports
the sign and is comprised of masonry materials.
         e.   Sign display areas shall not exceed sixty (60) percent of the
overall monument. The overall monument including bases and structural elements
shall not exceed eighty-four (84) square feet and an overall height of seven
(7) feet. Except that a monument sign established on a slope will be calculated
from the base at highest adjacent grade. See Figure 6-2.10(A) for calculating
measurement of a monument sign. See Figure 6-2.10(B) for examples of a monument
sign.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eb71827f41c5203b3fce3e3bd57dd8fdaf20a993/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3913.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eb71827f41c5203b3fce3e3bd57dd8fdaf20a993/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3915.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eb71827f41c5203b3fce3e3bd57dd8fdaf20a993/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3917.jpg]
      2.   Multi-tenant and mixed use signs.
         a.   Multi-tenant and mixed-use signs shall be allowed for multi-
tenant commercial, mixed- use, and planned unit developments only. Individual
tenant ground mounted signs are not permitted under this set of criteria.
         b.   Maximum sign area allowed is one hundred (100) square feet plus
eight additional feet per storefront or office. Including all structural
elements, the maximum height of the sign shall not exceed twenty (20) feet.
Overall monument (armatures, monument, bases, brick or stone structural
elements, etc.) including maximum sign area should not exceed two hundred (200)
square feet.
         c.   One multi-tenant sign per primary street frontage shall be
permitted. Additional monuments on secondary road entrances shall not exceed
one hundred (100) square feet in total area, including all structural elements.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eb71827f41c5203b3fce3e3bd57dd8fdaf20a993/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3919.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eb71827f41c5203b3fce3e3bd57dd8fdaf20a993/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3921.jpg]
      3.   Arm signs.
         a.   Arm signs shall not exceed eight (8) square feet, and no greater
than six (6) feet in height from adjacent grade; with the exception of home
occupation signs which shall not exceed two (2) square feet in size, and no
greater than four (4) feet in height from adjacent grade.
         b.   Bottom of sign panels shall maintain a minimum three (3) feet
clearance from grade.
         c.   All arm signs shall be located a minimum of five (5) feet behind
the public right-of-way.
         d.   A ten (10) foot side-yard setback shall be required if the
property abuts a residential district.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eb71827f41c5203b3fce3e3bd57dd8fdaf20a993/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3923.jpg]
      4.   Changeable copy signs. A sign capable of having changeable copy,
excluding electronic message center signs, for the purpose of advertising a
schedule of events, rules and regulations, or similar messages.
         a.   Such sign shall not exceed thirty-two (32) square feet, and shall
include the name of the on-premises advertiser or co-located with a sign
indicating the advertiser's name.
         b.   Such signs may be double-sided if it is manufactured in one (1)
enclosed sign cabinet or by means of installation that gives the appearance of
being one (1) sign.
         c.   Such signs shall be located a minimum of five (5) feet behind the
public right-of-way. At intersections, no sign shall be located within the
clear-sight triangle.
         d.   Such sign shall not be located closer than ten (10) feet to any
adjacent lot line. A twenty (20) foot side-yard setback shall be required if
the side yard abuts a residential district.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eb71827f41c5203b3fce3e3bd57dd8fdaf20a993/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3925.jpg]
      5.   Drive-thru menu boards.
         a.   Such signs shall not exceed sixty (60) square feet and shall
conform to the architectural standards and colors of the building.
         b.   No more than one (1) menu board is permitted per drive-thru
entrance.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eb71827f41c5203b3fce3e3bd57dd8fdaf20a993/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3927.jpg]
      6.   Pole-mounted signs.
         a.   Pole-mounted signs shall not exceed one hundred (100) square feet
in sign area, and shall not exceed a maximum height of thirty (30) feet within
the C-2 General Business District and M-1 Industrial District. Within all other
non-residential districts, pole-mounted signs shall not exceed 50 square feet
in sign area, and twenty (20) feet in height.
         b.   There shall be no more than two (2) pole mounted signs permitted
per property, except that one additional sign may be permitted at the entrance
of each additional road frontage.
         c.   Such signs, including any structural and/or design elements,
shall not encroach into the public right-of-way.
         d.   A pole-mounted sign within the C-2 District may exceed the height
and size requirements provided the following conditions are met:
            i.   The property is no less than two (2) acres in size.
            ii.   The sign is within a 1,000-foot radius of the centerline of
the I-40 interchange.
            iii.   The scale of the sign is in proportion with the building or
site to which it pertains and does not overshadow the building or surrounding
area.
            iv.   The sign is consistent with building design and surrounding
structures, and is appropriate to the type of use to which it pertains. Design
elements, such as the size, shape, materials, color, lettering style, and
arrangement of the sign shall present a professional quality appearance.
            v.   Special circumstances exist that require deviation from the
standard requirements.
            vi.   The sign area does not exceed 300 square feet in size and is
no greater than 50 feet in height above the street grade of the adjacent
interstate.
            vii.   Such sign is expressly used for the advertising of
interstate dependent businesses (e.g. restaurants, lodging, and/or gas
stations).
            viii.   The sign shall not be located within four hundred (400)
feet of another sign that is greater than thirty (30) feet in height.
            ix.   The sign application is approved by the board of adjustment.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eb71827f41c5203b3fce3e3bd57dd8fdaf20a993/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3931.jpg]
   B.   Building mounted signs.
      l.   Projecting arm signs.
         a.   A projecting arm sign shall maintain a clearance of eight (8)
feet from the bottom of the sign above the finished grade of the sidewalk, with
the exception of home occupation signs which shall not exceed two (2) square
feet in size.
         b.   One projecting arm sign per primary business entrance.
         c.   Such signs shall not project more than four (4) feet from the
wall and shall not exceed ten (10) square feet in sign area.
         d.   Such signs should reflect the proportional and dimensional
relationships of the structure.
         e.   The projecting sign shall not be mounted above the floor of the
second story, parapet wall or eave line of the building.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eb71827f41c5203b3fce3e3bd57dd8fdaf20a993/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3933.jpg]
      2.   Canopy awning signs.
         a.   All awnings should be made of a flame-resistant woven fabric
(suggested weight of 9.25 oz. per square yard).
         b.   Pitch may vary, but shall be limited to a minimum of 35 degrees
and a maximum of 55 degrees.
         c.   The bottom valance length shall not exceed ten (10) inches, and
shall not be less than nine (9) feet above the finished grade of the sidewalk.
         d.   All custom screen print shall be professionally designed and
applied to the awning.
         e.   Structural tubing should be steel or aluminum frame only.
         f.   Any variations to the standard awning specifications shall be
approved by the Planning and development director upon favorable recommendation
by the Marion Business Association.
         g.   With the exception of pedestrian signs, no other sign temporary
or permanent shall be attached to a canopy awning or support structure.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eb71827f41c5203b3fce3e3bd57dd8fdaf20a993/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3943.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eb71827f41c5203b3fce3e3bd57dd8fdaf20a993/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3935.jpg]
      3.   Building-mounted banner signs.
         a.   One (1) permanently affixed flag or banner shall be permitted for
every five (5) feet of linear building frontage, with no more than five (5)
total per building.
         b.   Such signs shall be attached perpendicular to the building and
secured using industry standard mounting hardware.
         c.   No individual building mounted banner shall exceed eight (8) feet
in height or three (3) feet in width.
         d.   Such sign shall be located above the first floor level of the
building frontage with the lowest mounting armature no less than twelve (12)
feet above grade.
         e.   No banner or mounting armature shall be attached to any other
existing sign, awning, or other structural apparatus.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eb71827f41c5203b3fce3e3bd57dd8fdaf20a993/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3937.jpg]
      4.   Pedestrian canopy signs.
         a.   Pedestrian canopy signs shall be centered under a canopy or
covered walkway, and the bottom of such signs being no less than eight (8) feet
above the pedestrian walkway.
         b.   Such signs shall not exceed three square feet in size.
         c.   No more than one (1) sign per storefront shall be permitted.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eb71827f41c5203b3fce3e3bd57dd8fdaf20a993/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3939.jpg]
      5.   Wall-mounted signs.
         a.   Such signs shall not have a maximum size limit, with the
exception of home occupation signs which shall not exceed two (2) square feet
in size.
         b.   No wall sign shall project more than eighteen (18) inches from
the building wall. Further, no wall sign or its supporting structures shall
cover any part of a window, nor shall it extend beyond above the highest point
of the building wall, roof line, parapet, or mansard roof.
         c.   No wall sign shall be attached to any cupola, tower, chimney, or
other architectural structure that is above the roofline.
         d.   A transition line should separate the signage from the façade
below.
         e.   Wall signs should reflect the proportional and dimensional
relationships of the structure.
         f.   No wall sign within the C-1 Central Business District shall be
internally illuminated.
         g.   A wall sign shall not be mounted above the first floor elevation
unless such sign is incorporated into a building sign band. Signs placed within
a sign band above the first floor elevation shall be limited to the name of the
building.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eb71827f41c5203b3fce3e3bd57dd8fdaf20a993/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3941.jpg]
   C.   Electronic message signs. Electronic message signs are permitted as a
component of otherwise permitted signage subject to the following standards.
      1.   No sign shall be placed within three hundred (300) feet of a
residential district or one hundred (100) feet of a residential property,
except signs that can be automatically programmed to be turned off between the
hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. or have received special use approval by the
City of Marion Board of Adjustment.
      2.   The message and/or graphic image must be complete during the
duration of the display, without continuation in content to the next image,
message, and/or to any other sign. Transitions from one (1) static message and/
or image to the next shall appear instantaneous without the appearance of
movement of any kind, and take no longer than two (2) seconds to complete.
      3.   With the exception of regulatory warning signs, all moving text,
graphics, lights creating the appearance of animation, flashing, scrolling,
fading, streaming video, and other forms of motion are prohibited.
      4.   The message display shall remain static for a minimum of eight (8)
seconds before transitioning to another static image.
      5.   With the exception of time, date, temperature, and petroleum price
signs, all other electronic message center (EMC) signs larger than twenty-four
(24) square feet but no greater than one hundred (100) square feet shall be
approved as a special use by the Board of Adjustment. Double-sided display
shall not be calculated individually if the sign is manufactured in one (1)
enclosed sign cabinet or by means of installation gives the appearance of being
one (1) sign.
      6.   Each static message display shall be limited to one (1) monochrome
color displayed on a solid black background at any one (1) given time, and have
pixel line spacing no greater than twenty (20) mm in width. Full color display
is permitted provided such signs have pixel line spacing of ten (10) mm or less
[Ord. No. 0-14-11-18-4] and shall have an optimal viewing distance (OVD) a
minimum of three (3) times the pixel pitch to the public right of way. The OVD
shall be calculated using the formula: pixel pitch value multiplied by three
(3) = setback in linear feet.
      7.   There shall be no more than one (1) electronic message sign per
property, which shall be wall-mounted, co-located with a larger existing pole-
mounted sign and affixed no greater than ten (10) feet from adjacent grade, or
as an individual monument sign.
      8.   Limited exceptions. Such signs which are illuminated or which use
electronic lighting to display messages shall be subject to the restrictions
and limitation applicable to illumination in this chapter.
         a.   Time, date, and temperature (TOT) signs. Time, date, and
temperature digital display areas shall not exceed thirty-two (32) square feet
per face, and shall not be included in the allowable sign area; provided that
it is co-located on an existing ground-mounted sign and all other requirements
for electronic message signs are met.
         b.   Petroleum digital price signs.
            i.   The total digital display area on one sign shall not exceed
thirty-two (32) square feet, and illuminated numerals shall not exceed twelve
(12) inches in height.
            ii.   Such signs may contain single-faced or double-faced display
areas.
            iii.   Such signs shall be co-located on an approved ground-mounted
or pole-mounted sign.
            iv.   The digital display area shall not be calculated as part of
the total allowable display area for an approved sign.
         c.   Non-commercial message signs.
            i.   The total digital display area on such sign shall not exceed
twelve (12) square feet, shall be installed consistent with the requirements of
the chapter for single-tenant monument signs, and shall not be calculated as
part of the total allowable display area for an approved sign.
            ii.   No sign shall be placed within three hundred (300) feet of a
residential district or one hundred (100) feet of a residential property,
except signs that can be automatically programmed to be turned off between the
hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
   D.   Off-premise advertising signs. Any sign identifying, advertising, or
directing the public to a product, service, business or activity sold, located
or conducted primarily elsewhere than on the premises is permitted in
accordance with the following regulations with exception of off-premise
electronic message signs which are prohibited:
      1.   All off-premises signs.
         a.   Each structure shall have no more than one (1) sign, and such
sign may have double- sided display face.
         b.   No off-premise outdoor advertising sign in any location shall be
more than eight hundred (800) feet from a business, commercial or industrial
enterprise located on the same side of the street, road or highway as the sign.
         c.   No off-premise advertising sign shall be attached to or painted
on any building or structure.
         d.   Notwithstanding all other applicable regulations, such signs set
forth in subsection 2 below may be constructed within one thousand (1,000) feet
of any dwelling unit; or such signs set forth in subsection 3 or 4 below may be
constructed within five hundred (500) feet of any dwelling unit provided that
the owner of any dwelling unit located within such distance executes a
statement granting express permission for the placement permitted under this
section. Such statement shall refer to the book and page number on which the
deed for the owner's property is recorded in the McDowell County Registry and
said statement shall be properly notarized. A copy of said statement shall be
submitted with application to the planning and development director.
         e.   Off-premise advertising signs shall only be illuminated by an
indirect source of light and shall be subject to the restrictions and
limitation applicable to illumination in this chapter. Electronic Message
Center signs and all other signs designed to emit light from within the sign
face is prohibited, with the exception of government- controlled information
and directional signs.
      2.   Directional signs. Directional signs shall conform to the standards
and provisions of this chapter, except subsection (d.) above. Directional signs
shall:
         a.   Contain only the name and logo of a business located in the city
limits, with an arrow or other mark to indicate the direction of the business
location and the distance to the business from the sign.
         b.   Such signs shall not exceed four (4) square feet in area per sign
face, and may be double- sided.
         c.   Directional signs shall not be located in the right-of-way and
shall have written notarized permission from the property owner in which the
sign is located.
         d.   There shall be no more than one directional sign per street, and
no more than two directional signs providing direction to one site.
         e.   An off-premises sign directing or assisting the flow of
pedestrian or vehicular traffic associated with an approved temporary use or
civic event shall be considered temporary and shall comply with subsection
6-2.9.P of this article.
      3.   Off-premises advertising signs (highway). In addition to subsection
1. above, off-premise advertising signs located where designed to be visible
from any U.S. or N.C. highway shall be permitted if in accordance with the
following:
         a.   Such sign shall not exceed three hundred (300) square feet per
sign face, and not exceed thirty (30) feet in height above adjacent roadway
grade.
         b.   Shall be no less than twenty (20) feet from the edge of right-of-
way or no less than thirty
(30) feet from the edge of the traveled way where the right-of-way is unknown.
         c.   Such signs shall be no less than one thousand five hundred
(1,500) linear feet (measuring along both sides of the highway) from any other
off-premise advertising sign; no less than five hundred (500) feet from any
intersection of the centerlines of any street; no less than five hundred (500)
feet from any at-grade railroad crossing or any bridge; and no less than one
thousand (1,000) feet from any dwelling unit, church or place of worship,
cemetery, school, playground or park located within six hundred sixty (660)
feet of the right-of-way.
      4.   Off-premises advertising signs (commercial corridor). In addition to
Subsection a. above, off- premises advertising signs located where designed to
be visible from any other road or street shall be permitted if in accordance
with the following:
         a.   Such sign shall not exceed one hundred (100) square feet per sign
face, and shall not exceed thirty (30) feet above adjacent roadway grade.
         b.   Shall be no closer to the right-of-way than ten (10) feet from
the right-of-way, or no closer than twenty (20) feet from the edge of the
traveled way where the right-of-way is unknown or does not exist.
         c.   Such signs shall be at least one thousand (1,000) linear feet
(measuring along both sides of the highway) from any other off-premises
advertising sign; at least three hundred (300) feet away from any intersection
of the centerlines of any streets; at least three hundred (300) feet from any
at-grade railroad crossing or any bridge, and at least five hundred (500) feet
from any dwelling unit, church or place of worship, cemetery, school,
playground or park located within six hundred sixty (660) feet of the right-of-
way.
(Ord. No. 22-01-04-1, § 8, 1-4-22; Ord. No. O-23-07-18-4, § 8, 7-18-23)
Sec. 6-2.11. Prohibited signs.
   In order to maintain the character and the aesthetic quality within the City
of Marion, the following signs are prohibited:
   A.   Signs which contain words or graphics which are obscene, as that term
is defined in G.S. Chapter 15.
   B.   No sign shall be erected or maintained where by reason of its position,
wording, illumination, size, shape, or color it may obstruct, impair, obscure,
interfere with the view of, or be confused with, any authorized traffic control
sign, signal, or device.
   C.   Any sign which obstructs ingress or egress, is located within a clear-
sight triangle, creates an unsafe distraction for motorist, or obstructs the
view of motorist entering a public road or highway.
   D.   Signs, whether temporary or permanent, within any street or highway
right-of-way, with the exception of governmental signage.
   E.   Signs attached, maintained, painted, or drawn on utility poles, towers,
telephone poles, trees, bridges and overpasses, rocks or other natural
features, benches, or other signs.
   F.   No signs located in a manner which are designated to be visible from
any road, street or highway, or portion thereof, which is designated a scenic
corridor by the city council shall be permitted.
   G.   Vehicles used for the sole purpose of displaying signs, and/or any sign
designed to be placed and/or transported on wheels.
   H.   Signs located on or attached to the roof of a structure, except as
expressly permitted herein.
   I.   Spectacular signs, flashing arrow signs, or any sign advertising copy
with changeable letters to display a message or advertise, except as expressly
permitted herein.
   J.   Signs including but not limited to billboards, "snipe" or "bandit"
signs, or those that include people wearing costumes and/or holding temporary
signs, except as expressly permitted herein.
   K.   Abandoned signs, dilapidated signs, or signs that advertise an activity
or business no longer conducted on the property on which the sign is located.
   L.   Signs that incorporate flashing, blinking, strobe lights or signs with
moving parts or parts which simulate movement.
   M.   Inflatable signs, aerial signs, or balloons (excluding standard latex
party balloons) that direct attention to a business, product, service, or other
commercial activity conducted, sold, or offered on a permanent or temporary
basis.
   N.   Permanent or temporary signs placed on property without permission from
its property owner or agent.
   O.   Any sign or form of lettering attached to, rather than printed on, an
awning.
   P.   Any printed and/or translucent canvas awnings with internal
illumination.
   Q.   Any sign attached to gas pumps or gas pump islands that can be read
from off the property.
   R.   Portable signs or any other sign having the potential to be relocated,
and which is not permanently installed or permanently anchored to either the
ground, pole, canopy, or other structure except as expressly permitted herein.
   S.   All other signs that do not conform to the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 6-2.12. Sign maintenance.
   A.   All signs, supports, braces, poles, wires and other appurtenances of
signs or sign structures shall be kept in good repair, maintained in safe
condition, and shall conform to the standards in this chapter. Maintenance
carried out in accordance with this section shall not require a sign permit,
provided the sign is not enlarged, moved or altered in any manner which would
create or increase a nonconforming condition.
   B.   A sign shall be in a state of disrepair when more than twenty (20)
percent of its total surface area is absent, covered with disfigured, cracked,
ripped, peeling paint or poker paper, or any combination of these conditions.
Any sign in a state of disrepair shall be considered in violation of this
chapter.
   C.   No sign shall be allowed to stand with bent or broken sign facing,
broken supports, loose appendages or struts which cause the sign to stand more
than fifteen (15) degrees from the perpendicular.
   D.   No sign or sign structure shall be allowed to have weeds, vines or
other vegetation growing on it and obscuring it from the street or highway from
which it is intended to be viewed.
   E.   No illuminated sign shall be allowed to stand with only partial
illumination.
   F.   Any sign that violates the maintenance provisions listed above shall be
in violation of this chapter and shall be repaired or removed as required by
the applicable sections of this chapter.
   G.   No person may, for the purpose of increasing or enhancing the
visibility of any sign, damage, trim, destroy or remove any trees, shrubs or
other vegetation located within a public right-of-way of any road or highway,
except where a legal permit for such has been obtained from the City of Marion
and/or the North Carolina Department of Transportation.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 6-2.13. Revocation of permit.
   Any valid permit issued for a lawful sign structure shall be revoked by the
planning and development director for any one (1) of the following reasons:
   A.   Mistake of material facts by the issuing authority for which, had the
correct facts been known, the sign permit in question would not have been
issued.
   B.   Misrepresentation of material facts by the applicant on the application
for permit for the sign.
   C.   Failure to pay annual renewal fees.
   D.   Failure to construct the sign structure within one hundred eighty (180)
days from the date of issuance of the permit.
   E.   Any alteration of a sign structure for which a permit has previously
been issued which would cause that sign structure to fail to comply with the
provisions of this chapter and the rules and regulations promulgated by the
city council pursuant thereto.
   F.   Any violation of subsection
6-2.16 of this article.
   G.   Unlawful destruction of trees or shrubs or other growth located on the
right-of-way in order to increase or enhance the visibility of a sign
structure.
   H.   Abandonment or discontinuance of a sign.
   I.   Failure to maintain a sign such that it remains blank for a period of
twelve (12) consecutive months.
   J.   Failure to maintain a sign such that it reaches a state of dilapidation
or disrepair as determined by the planning and development director.
   K.   Making repairs to a nonconforming sign which exceed fifty (50) percent
of the initial cost of the sign. Total repairs within any twenty-four (24)
consecutive months may not exceed fifty (50) percent of the value of the sign.
To avoid liability under this clause, the advertiser should contact the
planning and development director prior to making any repairs to discuss the
scope of the proposed improvements. The scope of the improvements is limited to
the following: repairing the sign or the sign structure, replacing broken glass
or other work to keep the sign safe and in good repair.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 6-2.14. Reconstruction of damaged signs or sign structures.
   A.   Any conforming sign or sign structure which has been damaged may be
repaired and used as before, provided all repairs are initiated within thirty
(30) days and completed within sixty (60) days of such damage. However, if the
sign should be declared unsafe by the planning and development director, the
owner of the sign or the owner of the record of the real property whereon the
sign is located, shall immediately correct all unsafe conditions in a manner
satisfactory to the planning and development director.
   B.    As a courtesy to the sign owner, if the planning and development
director discovers that a sign has been damaged or is in an unsafe condition,
the planning and development director will promptly notify the owner of the
sign or the owner of record of the real property whereon the sign is located of
such damage or unsafe condition. The affirmative duty and liability shall,
however, at all times remain with the owner of each sign to keep each sign in a
safe and undamaged condition in keeping with the terms of this chapter.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 6-2.15. Value of signs.
   The value of a sign shall be the value for tax purposes of any sign so
listed. If the tax value is not available, the value shall mean the original
cost of the sign. In the absence of information as to the original cost
submitted by the sign owner, the planning and development director shall
estimate the original cost based upon the best information reasonably
available.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 6-2.16. Administration, enforcement, appeals.
   The planning and development director shall have the following authority:
   A.   To issue a violation notice for any violation of the chapter. A
violation notice shall be delivered by certified mail, return receipt
requested, or by such other method as allowed by law, to the owner of the sign
in violation of the ordinance. Whenever the owner of the sign cannot be located
and notified, said notice shall be delivered to the owner of record of the real
property whereon the sign is located. The time period provided herein shall
commence upon receipt of such violation notice. The violation notice shall
identify the sign and shall describe the nature of the violation, refer to the
section of the ordinance violated, specify in detail what action must be taken
to correct the violation, and specify a reasonable time limit of up to thirty
(30) days within which the violation must be corrected.
   B.   To issue a remove order for any sign or sign structure not corrected
within the time allotted under the violation notice, or for a prohibited sign
under the violation notice, or for a prohibited sign as established by this
chapter. A remove order shall be delivered to the sign owner or to the owner of
record of real property whereon the sign is located in the same manner as set
out for a violation notice and shall not be effective until received. The
recipient of the remove order shall be allowed thirty (30) days after the
receipt of the remove order within which to remove the subject sign at his
expense. The remove order shall identify the sign and reasons for the issuance
of the remove order and shall refer to the section of the ordinance violated.
   C.   To remove or cause to be removed any sign or sign structure not removed
in accordance with a remove order after thirty (30) days from receipt of such
order, and to assess the receipt of such order with the cost of such removal.
   D.   To issue citations for any violation of this chapter in accordance with
section
1-10 Code Enforcement of the Marion city code of ordinances.
   E.   To issue an unsafe sign notice should the planning and development
director find that any sign has become insecure in imminent danger of falling
or otherwise unsafe. An unsafe sign notice shall be delivered to the sign owner
or to the owner of the record of the real property whereon the sign is located
in the same manner as set out for a violation notice except that the recipient
of the notice shall forthwith in the case of immediate danger, and in any case
within ten (10) days of receipt, secure the sign in a manner to be approved by
the planning and development director in conformance with the provisions of
this chapter or remove such sign. If the notice is not complied with in ten
(10) days, the planning and development director shall remove such sign at the
expense of the recipient of the notice.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 6-2.17. Amortization of certain signs.
   A.   Spectacular signs shall become nonconforming in all districts within
one (1) year after the date of adoption of this chapter, at which time annual
permits will expire and shall not be renewed. After the one-year amortization
period, all spectacular signs in the city limits shall be considered in
violation of this section and shall be removed.
   B.   Portable signs, as defined in Sec.
6-2.11.S shall become nonconforming in all districts, unless otherwise
specified, as of the date of adoption of this section and shall be removed
within six (6) months after the date of adoption.
   C.   Electronic message signs in which illumination level and duration of
display message exceed the standards set forth in this chapter shall become
nonconforming in all districts and shall come into conformance within (1) year
after adoption of this chapter, at which time the sign shall be brought into
compliance. Existing electronic signs that do not have the functional
capability to be programmed to control illumination level and duration of
display may remain so long as they do not create a public safety hazard.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
ARTICLE III.
LANDSCAPE STANDARDS
Sec. 6-3.1. General provisions.
   A.   Purpose and intent. The purpose of this section is to encourage
landscaping throughout the City of Marion, hence protecting and enhancing
public and private investments, economic and tourism opportunities, while
providing multiple environmental benefits. The landscaping and buffering
standards for new development, as defined in paragraph (C) set forth below,
require landscaping along public rights-of-way, in parking lots, between
residential districts and commercial or industrial districts and require
screening of certain trash containers, in order to:
      1.   Improve the visual quality of the city and minimize potential
negative impacts of developments such as noise, dust, glare of lights, parking
lots, traffic, heat, overcrowding, and odor.
      2.   Provide environmental benefits such as climate modification,
decreased energy consumption, reduced impervious surface area and storm water
runoff, decreased erosion, improved water and air quality and protection of
wildlife habitat.
      3.   Safeguard public and private property values and to protect public
and private investment.
   B.   Definitions. The following words or terms have the meaning as herein
defined:
   Critical root zone. A circular area surrounding a tree, of which the center
is the center of the tree trunk and the radius is the distance from the outside
of the trunk to any point twelve (12) times the diameter at breast height
(DBH), which points constitute the circumference of the critical root zone.
   Diameter at breast height (DBH). The total cross-sectional diameter of the
trunk(s) of a tree measured four and one-half (4.5) feet from the ground at the
center of the tree.
   Evergreen. A tree, shrub, or plant having foliage that persists and remains
green throughout the year.
   Groundcover. A prostrate plant growing less than two (2) feet in height at
maturity that is grown for ornamental purposes. Groundcovers are used as an
alternative to grasses. On slopes, groundcovers control erosion while
eliminating the maintenance of mowing on hillsides. Many groundcovers survive
in poor soils, shade and other adverse conditions.
   Planting area. The area prepared for the purpose of accommodating the
planting of trees, shrubs, and groundcovers.
   Residential buffer yard. A row of trees or shrubs reaching a height of at
least eight (8) feet in height so that property is screened visually from
neighboring residential uses. Buffer strips shall be an evergreen species, or
combination of evergreen species dense enough to provide visual screening from
the ground level to the mature height of at least eight (8) feet.
   Shrub. A woody plant, usually multi-stemmed or well branched from the base,
the branches being retained to the ground. When used for buffer plantings,
shrubs must also reach a mature height between four (4) and fifteen (15) feet.
   Street buffer. A planting area or strip of land, extending inward from the
curb, edge of street, or property line that runs parallel to a public street,
and is designed to provide continuity of vegetation along the right-of-way and
to soften the impact of development by providing a pleasing view from the road
and a more comfortable pedestrian environment, while decreasing noise, dust,
litter, glare of lights, and stormwater runoff from impervious surfaces.
   Tree, large. A large tree growing to over forty (40) feet in height at
maturity, usually deciduous, that is planted to provide a canopy cover for
shade.
   Tree, small. A small to medium ornamental tree, growing fifteen (15) feet to
forty (40) feet in height at maturity, that is planted for aesthetic purposes
such as colorful flowers, interesting bark, or fall foliage.
   C.   Landscape plan required. A landscape plan is required for:
      1.   Any new development in the B-1, C-1, C-2, M-1, or OI districts.
      2.   Any new development in the R-1 or R-2 district with the exception of
single-family or multifamily developments with less than eight (8) units.
      3.   Renovations in the B-1, C-1, C-2, M-1 or OI districts with a total
cost exceeding fifty (50) percent of the assessed value of the building,
according to McDowell County tax records, within a twenty-four-month time
period.
      4.   Expansions exceeding fifty (50) percent of the pre-expansion floor
area or paved surface in the B- 1, C-1, C-2, M-1, or OI districts within a
twenty-four-month time period.
      5.   Existing unpaved parking lots which are paved over or existing paved
lots which are demolished and repaved.
   D.   Contents of landscape plan and approval process.
      1.   Applicants are advised to meet with the planning and development
director prior to submitting a plan in order to discuss applicable landscape
requirements, other ordinance requirements, and coordination with utility
plans.
      2.   Whenever an application for a zoning permit and/or a building permit
is submitted to the planning and development services department, a landscape
plan shall be submitted if required by Sec.
3-4.7. Such plan shall be in sufficient detail to enable the planning and
development director to determine whether or not such plan, when fully
implemented, will comply with these landscaping requirements. The planning and
development director shall review the plan and assure compliance with these
requirements, and approve or deny the zoning permit accordingly.
      3.   A landscape plan shall be drawn to scale and shall contain the
location of the streets, street rights- of-way, all existing and proposed
structures, utilities, dumpster (trash container), street yards, planting
areas, screening, vehicular parking areas with individual parking spaces
identified, as well as location of existing and proposed plants and associated
characteristics. Plants shall be identified on plan by species (common or
scientific name,) size and age. Proposed date of planting shall also be noted
on plan. The dimensions of the required street yard and planting areas shall be
identified. The landscape plan may be incorporated into the site plan as
outlined in Sec.
3-4.3.
      4.   Certificate of occupancy. The landscape shall be completely
installed as indicated on the approved plan prior to the issuance of a
certificate of compliance/ occupancy. A conditional certificate of occupancy
may be issued by the building inspector for the temporary use and occupancy of
a building, structure or land for a maximum period of one hundred eighty (180)
days from the date of the issuance of such certificate whenever the landscaping
requirements of the UDO are not complied with on time. If the landscaping
indicated on approved plans is not completely installed within one hundred
eighty (180) days, the conditional certificate of occupancy shall expire and
further use of the property shall constitute an illegal use and occupancy of
said property.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 6-3.2. General requirements and conditions.
   A.   Alternate methods of compliance. The landscape requirements herein are
intended to be minimum standards for quality development and environmental
protection and are not intended to be arbitrary or inhibit creative solutions.
An alternative compliance proposal may be used if it is equal or better than
normal compliance in its ability to fulfill the intent of this article and
exhibits superior design quality. The planning board shall determine whether
alternate method of compliance is equal or better than normal compliance and
that the intent of this chapter has been fulfilled.
   B.   Safety considerations. Landscaping shall not obstruct the view of
motorists using any street, private drive, parking aisle or other approaches to
street intersections so as to constitute a condition endangering the public
safety upon any such street, driveway, parking aisle or street intersection.
   C.   Trees may be planted on the public right-of-way of any public street
provided they have been approved by the North Carolina Department of
Transportation and the City of Marion, and they do not hinder the repair or
construction of public utilities.
   D.   All required tree planting and landscaped areas shall be maintained at
all times in good, stable and healthy condition.
   E.   Large trees shall not be planted within fifteen (15) feet overhead
electrical power lines or other overhead utilities.
   F.   Planting material greater than two and one-half (2½) feet in height
shall not be planted within the clear visibility triangle without approval from
the planning and development director pursuant to section 6-1.5 of the UDO.
   G.   Adequate wheel stops or curbs shall be installed for the protection of
required trees and plantings that are adjacent to vehicular parking, display
area, or driveway. Wheel stops or curbs shall be a minimum of six (6) inches in
height and shall be anchored to the ground, and may be concrete, rot-resistant
heavy timber or other effective materials.
   H.   In most cases, the applicant shall avoid removing existing vegetation
and shall incorporate such vegetation as much as possible in proposed plan.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 6-3.3. Specific landscaping requirements.
   A.   Street buffer yard. All land uses to which these landscaping
requirements apply with the exception of properties in the C-1, central
business district, shall provide a street buffer yard along the property.
      1.   The minimum size requirement for a buffer yard is based on the
following table:
Table: 6-3.3(A) Street Buffer Yard Requirement.
 
Street Type        Right-of-Way Width (Feet) Buffer Yard Width (Feet)
Two-Lane           20 to 50                  10
Two-Lane/Four-Lane 51 or greater             20
 
      2.   Reduced buffer yard on corner lot. Land uses located on a corner lot
contiguous to two (2) public streets may reduce one (1) required buffer yard
width by fifty (50) percent provided that the following conditions are met:
         a.   All vegetation required prior to the reduction shall be installed
within the buffer yard.
         b.   The reduced buffer yard shall be located on the property deemed
to be the side yard or portion of the property adjoining the lesser of the
right-of-way widths.
      3.   Impervious surfaces, such as driveways, within a street buffer yard
shall not exceed twenty-five (25) percent of the required street buffer yard,
except that not more than two (2) twenty-five-foot driveways may be permitted
for any lot having a street frontage of less than two hundred (200) feet in
length.
      4.   The amount of plant material required in a bufferyard area is
measured per every one hundred (100) linear feet and is based on the following
table. Calculations shall be rounded to the nearest whole number.
Table: 6-3.3(B) Required Plant Material
 
Bufferyard Type Large Tree Small Tree1 Shrub
10-foot wide    1          2           10
20-foot wide    2          3           14
1 Two (2) small trees may be substituted for one (1) large tree.
 
      5.   Minimum planting sizes required at installation are as follows:
         a.   Groundcover: Two-inch pot.
         b.   Shrubs: Eighteen (18) inches in height, or three-gallon pot.
         c.   Small trees: Five (5) feet in height, one-inch caliper, or seven-
gallon pot.
         d.   Large trees: Eight (8) feet in height, two-inch caliper, or ten-
gallon pot.
      6.   Minimum tree placement requirements are as follows:
         a.   Large trees. All trees reaching a mature height of thirty-five
(35) feet or more should be planted a minimum of:
            i.   Four (4) feet from the back of the curb, edge of street
pavement, driveway, or sidewalk.
            ii.   Ten (10) feet from all buildings.
            iii.   Fifteen (15) feet from street lights, utility poles, and
above ground utility wires.
            iv.   Ten (10) feet from all underground utilities.
         b.   Small trees. All trees reaching a mature height of less than
thirty-five (35) feet should be placed a minimum of:
            i.   Three (3) feet from the back of the curb, edge of street
pavement, driveway, or sidewalk.
            ii.   Five (5) feet from all buildings.
            iii.   Ten (10) feet from street lights, utility poles, and above
ground utility wires.
            iv.   Five (5) feet from all underground utilities, utility vaults,
ground level utility structures.
      7.   Parking, merchandise display, off-street loading, and dumpsters are
prohibited in the buffer yard.
      8.   Signs are permitted in accordance with the UDO.
      9.   Provided the required buffer yard width and landscaping is
maintained, a buffer yard may contain pedestrian and bicycle paths, or other
similar design elements.
   B.   Vehicular parking areas and display areas.
      1.   All new parking lots with fifteen (15) or more spaces or parking
lots expanded to add fifteen (15) or more spaces shall be required to obtain a
zoning permit and to comply with this section of the landscape ordinance.
      2.   If an existing parking lot is expanded or improved to add fifteen
(15) or more parking spaces, it shall comply with the parking lot requirements
of the landscape ordinance within the expanded or improved portion.
      3.   In new or expanded parking lots with fifteen (15) or more parking
spaces; trees shall be planted at a rate of one (1) large tree or two (2) small
trees for every fifteen (15) parking spaces.
      4.   Required trees shall be located within or adjacent to parking lots
as tree islands, medians, at the end of parking bays, traffic delineators, or
between rows or parking spaces in a manner such that no parking space is
located more than sixty (60) feet from the trunk of a large tree. A minimum
planting area of one hundred fifty (150) square feet of soil surface area shall
be required per large tree with a minimum planting area width of nine (9) feet.
   C.   Buffers and screening. Any use required to submit a landscape plan as
outlined in this article abutting a residentially zoned district or residential
use within a residentially zoned district must provide a buffer yard of ten
(10) feet in width between the proposed development and the existing
residential district or use. Such buffer yard area shall consist of a dense and
solid row of evergreen trees or shrubs at least eight (8) feet in height at
maturity.
   D.   Trash container (i.e., dumpsters) screens and/or buffers.
      1.   It is the intent of this section to provide for a visual screen and/
or buffers between trash container and dumpster location and all street rights-
of-way and adjoining properties.
      2.   Trash containers and dumpsters shall not be located in the front
yard of any property and shall be screened from view on all sides, except for
one (1) opening not greater than ten (10) feet in width to allow for service
access. If access is difficult, the public works director and the planning and
development director shall determine the acceptable location of the dumpster.
Screening may consist of evergreen vegetation growing to over ten (10) feet at
maturity or a solid wood fence. Existing vegetation may be used as an
alternative method of compliance as set forth in subsection C. of this section.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 6-3.4. Tree protection.
   A.   Protective fencing. Vegetation that is to be protected on land being
developed, as indicated on the approved landscape plan, shall be protected by
temporary fencing or other equally effective measures during construction
activity. All land disturbing activity, storage of equipment, building
material, or other debris shall be kept within the area of development activity
and outside of the protective fencing.
   B.   Treatment of trees. No nails, ropes, cables, signs, fencing, streamers,
banners or other material shall be attached to any part of any tree.
   C.   Public land.
      1.   It shall be unlawful to:
         a.   Plant, prune, remove, or apply chemicals that are harmful to or
disturb any tree or the soil within the critical root zone of any tree; or
         b.   Clear vegetation, begin any excavation, remove soil or place fill
on any public land or easement owned and maintained by the City of Marion.
   D.   Prohibited trees. It shall be unlawful to plant any invasive exotic
plant material or tree within the City of Marion.
   E.   Abuse and mutilation of trees. It shall be a violation of this division
to damage, destroy, or mutilate any tree or shrub in a public right-of-way or
any public place.
   F.   Public hazards. It shall be the duty of the property owner where a
public hazard exists to abate the hazard by removing or trimming the growth. If
the owner of property, after being notified of the existence of a public hazard
on their property, fails to abate the hazard within thirty (30) days, the City
of Marion shall have the hazard abated and assess the exact cost to the owner
as provided by law in the case of special assessments or liens.
   G.   Removal of trees.
      1.   Trees and shrubs shall not be removed from public property or public
right-of-way or easement without approval from the City of Marion Tree Board.
      2.   The city retains the right to remove any tree on any public street
right-of-way or easement owned or maintained by the city which is necessary to
permit the proper maintenance or improvement of the public street or abate a
public hazard.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 6-3.5. Penalties.
   A.   Any person(s) constituting a violation of this article resulting in the
loss or destruction of a tree located on public property shall be subject to a
civil penalty equivalent to one and one-half (1) times the monetary value of
the tree(s) removed or destroyed plus the cost to replace the destroyed trees
with new tree(s) with a total diameter at breast height (DBH) equal to that of
the destroyed tree(s).
   B.   Unless otherwise specified, the City of Marion shall enforce the
provisions of this chapter in accordance with procedures, penalties, and
remedies described in section 1-10, code enforcement, of the Marion City Code.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
ARTICLE IV.
OUTDOOR LIGHTING STANDARDS
Sec. 6-4.1. General.
   A.   Purpose. Outdoor lighting standards are established in order to permit
reasonable uses of outdoor lighting for night-time safety, utility, security,
productivity, enjoyment and commerce. These standards will minimize light
pollution, light trespass and glare and will work to promote energy efficient
lighting practices and systems.
   B.   Applicability.
      1.   Outdoor lighting standards shall apply to all new uses including
commercial, industrial, public and residential, all new dusk-to-dawn utility/
security lights, parking and vehicular display areas, and pedestrian areas.
      2.   The installation of site lighting, replacement of site lighting and
changes to existing light fixture wattage, type of fixture, mounting or fixture
location shall be made in strict compliance with this chapter.
      3.   To the extent regulated by this section, all existing outdoor lights
or lighting systems, installed prior to the adoption of the UDO, shall be
treated as nonconforming uses pursuant to chapter one, article two
nonconformities.
      4.   Routine maintenance, including changing the lamp, ballast, starter,
photo control, fixture housing, lens or other required components, is permitted
for all existing fixtures.
   C.   Exemptions. The following are not regulated by the lighting standards
set forth in this section:
      1.   Lighting for single-family residential use, with the exception of
dusk-to-dawn utility/security lights which shall be regulated pursuant to Sec.
6-4.3(D).
      2.   Lighting required by federal, state, or local laws or regulations;
      3.   Seasonal displays using multiple low-wattage bulbs;
      4.   Lighting used during an emergency or by emergency services personnel
or at their direction;
      5.   Temporary lighting which does not utilize the lighting types
described in Sec.
6-4.3.
      6.   Temporary lighting used for public purposes including but not
limited to highway construction and public utility repairs.
   D.   Prohibitions. The following lighting types are specifically prohibited:
      1.   Search lights, laser source lights, or any other similar high
intensity lights or narrow-beam fixtures except for those permitted in advance
as required in Sec.
6-4.2(B) to be used on a temporary basis;
      2.   Lighting that is oriented upward, except as otherwise provided for
in this section; or
      3.   Lighting that could be confused for a traffic control device.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 6-4.2. Administration and enforcement.
   A.   Permit required. A zoning compliance permit is required for all work
involving outdoor lighting. Documentation must be submitted that states the
proposed site lighting complies with the provisions of this chapter. As a
minimum, the documentation submitted must contain the following:
      1.   Location and mounted height of all exterior lighting proposed.
      2.   A point-by-point foot-candle array in a printout format indicating
the location and aiming of illuminating devices. The printout shall indicate
compliance with the lighting specifications.
      3.   Description of the illuminating devices, fixtures, lamps, supports,
reflectors, poles, raised foundations and other devices including but not
limited to manufacturers or electric utility catalog specification sheets and/
or drawings, and photometric report indicating fixture classification (cutoff
fixture, full cutoff fixture, etc.).
      4.   The Planning and Development Director may waive any or all of the
above permit requirements, provided the applicant can otherwise sufficiently
demonstrate compliance with this chapter.
   B.   Permit for temporary lighting required. Applicants who wish to utilize
lighting on a temporary basis must submit a written request to the Planning
Director. The Planning and Development Director shall have thirty (30) calendar
days to approve or deny the permit application. The application shall include:
      1.   The purpose of the lighting;
      2.   The hours of lighting operation;
      3.   Where applicable, a plan showing the extent and intensity of light
trespass upon adjacent properties;
      4.   Signed certification that in no case shall such lighting be directed
at roadways where such lighting could pose a public safety threat to vehicular
traffic; and
      5.   An application fee for the zoning certificate of compliance.
      6.   A permit for temporary lighting, in the form of a zoning certificate
of compliance, shall be issued for an operation period not to exceed seven (7)
consecutive days. Temporary lighting shall be event-specific, and in no case
shall temporary lighting be permitted on a single property, in one or in
multiple locations, on more than four (4) separate occasions per calendar year.
   C.   Light measurement technique.
      1.   Light levels are specified, calculated and measured in foot-candles.
      2.   Measurements are to be made at ground level, with the light-
registering portion of the meter held parallel to the ground pointing up.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 6-4.3. Design standards.
   A.   Intensity.
      1.   The maximum light level of any light fixture shall not exceed 0.5
foot-candles measured at the property line of any Residential District and 3.0
foot-candles measured at the public right-of-way.
      2.   Lighting must not be oriented so as to direct glare or excessive
illumination onto adjacent properties, streets, or sidewalks.
      3.   The maximum color temperature rating for LED lights shall be 4,300
degrees Kelvin.
   B.   Light fixture type. All light fixtures to be installed on a permanent
basis shall consist of full cutoff and cutoff fixtures, unless otherwise
stipulated by this chapter. Full cutoff fixtures shall be utilized where the
light fixture has more than a 1,250 lumen output, unless as otherwise
stipulated by this section. Lighting fixtures to be utilized on a temporary
basis and as permitted through Sec.
6-4.2(8) shall be exempt from this requirement.
   C.   Accent and facade lighting.
      1.   Lighting fixtures shall be selected, located, aimed, and shielded so
that direct illumination is focused exclusively on the building facade,
plantings or other intended site features and away from adjoining properties
and the street right-of-way.
      2.   All wall pack fixtures must be full cutoff fixtures.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eb71827f41c5203b3fce3e3bd57dd8fdaf20a993/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2921_4784x4784.jpg]
      3.   Only lighting used to accent architectural features, landscaping or
art may be directed upward, provided that the fixture is located, aimed, or
shielded to minimize light spill into the night sky.
      4.   The Planning and Development Director may waive this requirement in
cases where it is impractical.
   D.   Dusk-to-dawn utility/security lights.
      1.   Light fixture must either be aimed down at least 45 degrees from
vertical or the front of the fixture must be shielded so that no portion of the
light bulb extends below the bottom edge of the shield.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eb71827f41c5203b3fce3e3bd57dd8fdaf20a993/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2924_4011x4011.jpg]
      2.   Any light fixture located within 50 feet of a public right-of-way,
with a side-to-side horizontal aiming tolerance not to exceed 15 degrees.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eb71827f41c5203b3fce3e3bd57dd8fdaf20a993/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2927_3828x3828.jpg]
   Overhead View
      3.   All light fixtures emitting 1,000 or more lumens must be aimed at
least 60 degrees down from the horizontal or shielded so that the main beam is
not visible from adjacent properties or the street right-of-way.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eb71827f41c5203b3fce3e3bd57dd8fdaf20a993/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2930_4823x4823.jpg]
   E.   Outdoor display, parking, and pedestrian areas.
      1.   Light fixtures within outdoor display and parking areas shall not
exceed a height of 30 feet from adjacent grade.
      2.   Light fixtures within pedestrian areas or within 50 feet of a
residential district shall not exceed a height of 15 feet from adjacent grade.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eb71827f41c5203b3fce3e3bd57dd8fdaf20a993/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2933_4620x4620.jpg]
      3.   Light fixtnres in outdoor display and parking area must be full cut-
off. In other areas, light fixtures with more than 2,000 lumens must be full
cutoff unless they meet the following:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eb71827f41c5203b3fce3e3bd57dd8fdaf20a993/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2936_3895x3895.jpg]
         a.   Non-cutoff fixtures can be used when the maximum initial lumens
generated by each fixture does not exceed 9,500 lumens;
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eb71827f41c5203b3fce3e3bd57dd8fdaf20a993/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2939_4369x4369.jpg]
         b.   If the unshielded fixture has a metal halide, fluorescent,
induction, white high pressure sodium and color-corrected high pressure sodium
lamp, the outer lamp envelope must be coated with an internal white frosting to
diffuse light;
         c.   All metal halide fixtures equipped with a medium base socket must
use either an internal refractive lens or a wide-body refractive globe; or
         d.   All non-cutoff fixture open-bottom lights must be equipped with
full cut-off fixture shields.
   F.   Recreational Fields and Outdoor Performance Areas.
      1.   The mounting height of lighting fixtures shall not exceed 80 feet
from adjacent grade unless approved as a special use permit in accordance with
Sec.
3-7.1.
      2.   AH fixtures must be equipped with a glare control package, including
louvers, shields or similar devices. The fixtures must be aimed so that their
beams are directed and fall within the primary playing or performance area.
      3.   No illumination, when measured from the property line, shall exceed
0.4 foot-candle of lighting.
      4.   Lights within 100 feet of a residential district shall not be
illuminated between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
      5.   In all other districts, the hours of operation for the lighting
system shall not exceed one (1) hour after the end of the game or event.
   G.   Signs. Lighting fixtures illuminating signs must meet the standards of
Sec.
6-2.7.
   H.   Vehicular canopies. Lighting under vehicular canopies shall be less
than 30 foot-candles and be designed to prevent glare off-site. Acceptable
lighting designs include the following:
      1.   Recessed fixture incorporating a lens cover that is either recessed
or flush with the bottom surface of the canopy;
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eb71827f41c5203b3fce3e3bd57dd8fdaf20a993/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2942_4485x4485.jpg]
      2.   Light fixture incorporating shields or is shielded by the edge of
the canopy itself, so that light is restrained to 5 degrees or more below the
horizontal plane;
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eb71827f41c5203b3fce3e3bd57dd8fdaf20a993/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3945.jpg]
      3.   Surface mounted fixture incorporating a flat glass that provides a
cutoff design or shielded light distribution;
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eb71827f41c5203b3fce3e3bd57dd8fdaf20a993/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3947.jpg]
      4.   Surface mounted fixture measuring no more than 2 feet by 2 feet,
with a lens cover that contains at least 2% white fill diffusion material; or
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eb71827f41c5203b3fce3e3bd57dd8fdaf20a993/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2951_4002x4002.jpg]
      5.   Indirect lighting where light beamed upward and then reflected down
from the underside of the canopy, provided the fixture is shielded so that
direct illumination is focused exclusively on the underside of the canopy.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/eb71827f41c5203b3fce3e3bd57dd8fdaf20a993/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2954_3953x3953.jpg]
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
ARTICLE V.
ACCESSORY USES
Sec. 6-5.1. Swimming pools.
   All swimming pools both public and private shall be completely enclosed by a
solid wall or chain link fence at least six (6) feet in height. Swimming pools
shall be located only in rear or side yards and shall be at least ten (10) feet
from the property line.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 6-5.2. Fences and walls.
   In any district the following regulations shall apply for any wall or fence
(either natural or manmade):
   A.   Fences and walls may be permitted in a rear yard adjacent to the lot
line provided such fences and walls do not exceed eight (8) feet in height.
   B.   Fences and walls may be permitted in a side and/or front yard adjacent
to the lot line provided such fences and walls do not exceed six (6) feet in
height.
   C.   On a corner lot, no fence or wall located along a property line shall
exceed six (6) feet in height if it is located adjacent to a front or side lot
line of any adjoining property.
   D.   Fences and walls used to enclose the areas listed in (1), below, or
located in the districts listed in (2) through (4), below, shall not exceed
twelve (12) twelve feet in height and may be located adjacent to a property
line. However, no such fence or wall shall exceed the height limits as set
forth in (A) and (B) of this section when located in a side yard or if adjacent
to a street right-of-way line unless such fence or wall is set back at least
ten (10) feet from the lot line or the street right-of-way line:
      1.   Recreational areas such as swimming pools, basketball courts,
handball courts, and tennis courts.
      2.   C-2 general business district.
      3.   M-1 industrial district.
      4.   O-I office and institutional district.
   E.   Retaining walls built specifically to keep a bank of earth from sliding
or water from flooding shall be permitted anywhere on the property as needed
provided it meets the requirements of the North Carolina Building Code.
   F.   No fence, wall or other obstruction shall be placed so as to obstruct
vision to a public street from any public or private drive.
   G.   No fence or wall shall be permitted within a publicly dedicated street
right-of-way.
   H.   All fence and wall heights shall be measured from ground level at base
of fence or wall.
   I.   All fences shall be constructed with the finished surface facing the
exterior of the property with support posts placed to the inside, except in
cases where the fence posts are an integral part of the fence design.
   J.   Any fence constructed, maintained, or operated with barbed wire, razor
wire, electric fencing or other similar material with the ability to cause harm
is prohibited, except within the industrial zoning district. Where permitted,
such material shall be located no less than six (6) feet from the ground and
shall be angled away from any immediately adjacent sidewalk, public street, or
residential zoning district and shall be located entirely inside the property.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
ARTICLE VI.
AUTO-RELATED BUSINESS STANDARDS
Sec. 6-6.1. Automobile repair shops, automobile sales, tire sales and services,
towing business or combination thereof.
   The following regulations shall apply to all automobile repair shops,
automobile sales, tire sales and services, towing and wrecking service
businesses or combination thereof:
   A.   Open storage of junked or inoperable motor vehicles, auto parts or
similar materials shall not be permitted. Tires may be temporarily stored for
no longer than thirty (30) days in the side or rear yard and shall be neatly
stacked at all times in an organized manner using the lacing techniques. Up to
sixty (60) tires may be stored in the front yard provided the tires are also
neatly stacked using the lacing technique. Tires in the front yard in excess of
sixty (60) shall be enclosed in approved screening.
   B.   Junked or inoperable motor vehicles, auto parts or similar materials
may be stored within an enclosed structure which visually conceals such objects
or stored on a site that is the subject of an approved screening plan, as
defined herein and approved by the planning and development director.
   C.   In order to maintain safety for pedestrian and vehicle traffic,
vehicles associated with automobile repair shops, automobile sales, tire sales
and services, towing and wrecking service businesses may not be parked,
displayed, stored or repaired within four (4) feet of the curb or the edge of
the road if no curb exists.
   D.   Junked or inoperable motor vehicles shall not be stored in the customer
or employee parking spaces required per the off-street parking requirements set
out in division (2).
   E.   All service, sales, storage or similar activities shall be conducted
entirely on the premises.
   F.   All major repair work, if any, shall be conducted within a building
capable of being completely closed.
   G.   Certain businesses claiming to be auto repair shops, automobile sales,
tire sales and services or towing and wrecking service businesses that do not
meet the definitions in Sec.
10-1.1 may be deemed gasoline service or filling stations and, therefore,
subject to the regulations governing gasoline service or filling stations.
   H.   Certain businesses claiming to be automobile repair shops, automobile
sales, tire sales and services, and towing and wrecking service businesses that
do not meet the definitions in Sec.
10-1.1 shall be deemed junk yards and, therefore, subject to the regulations
governing junk yards.
   I.   The provisions contained in chapter 9, article III of the Marion code
of ordinances concerning abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicles continues
to apply. Automobile repair shops and automobile sales businesses, tire sales
and services and towing and wrecking service businesses must obtain a permit
from the zoning office.
   J.   All automobile repair shops and automobile sales businesses, tire sales
and services and towing and wrecking service businesses within the city limits
of Marion not in compliance with this section within six (6) months after the
adoption of the ordinance adopting or amending this section, shall be in
violation.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 6-6.2. Gasoline service or filling stations.
   A.   General purpose and intent. The purpose of this section is to support
and complement the various land uses allowed in the City of Marion by
regulating the installation and placement of signs. These regulations are
adopted under the zoning authority of the City to achieve the following:
      1.   To encourage the effective use of signs as a means of communication
while preserving the rights of free speech under the First Amendment to the
United States Constitution.
      2.   To preserve the scenic and aesthetic features that serve to unify
the City of Marion and convey a message of quality in order to protect and
promote the development of the tourist industry and provide for the protection
of the quality of life for residents and visitors.
      3.   To insure the safety of the local and visiting motorist on the
public roads by reducing the detracting influence of uncontrolled advertising
signage.
      4.   To provide reasonable regulations while safeguarding the interest of
local businesses.
      5.   To insure light, air, and open space is maintained, to reduce hazard
at intersections, and to protect property values of the entire community.
   B.   The following development standards shall apply to all gasoline service
or filling stations:
      1.   All buildings shall be located at least forty (40) feet from any
street or road right-of-way.
      2.   Gasoline pumps and other appliances shall be located at least
fifteen (15) feet from any street right-of-way.
      3.   All service, storage or similar activities shall be conducted
entirely on the premises.
      4.   All major repair work, if any, shall be conducted within a building
capable of being completely enclosed.
      5.   Open storage of wrecked or junked motor vehicles, discarded tires,
auto parts or similar materials shall not be permitted.
      6.   Wrecked or junked motor vehicles, discarded tires, auto parts or
similar materials may be stored within an enclosed structure which visually
conceals such objects.
      7.   In order to maintain safety for pedestrian and vehicle traffic,
vehicles associated with automobile repair shops, automobile sales, tire sales
and services, towing and wrecking service businesses may not be parked,
displayed, stored or repaired within four (4) feet of the curb or the edge of
the road if no curb exists.
      8.   On-site traffic areas shall be provided and arranged in such a
manner as to provide easily identifiable ingress and egress, adequate customer
and employee parking, access for emergency vehicles, and adequate turnarounds
such that backward movement onto the public roadways is avoided.
      9.   Inoperable motor vehicles shall not be stored in the customer or
employee parking spaces required per the off-street parking requirements set
out in section
6-1.1.
      10.   The provisions contained in chapter 9, article III, concerning
abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicles continues to apply.
      11.   Gasoline service or filling stations must obtain a permit from the
zoning office.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
ARTICLE VII.
CAMPGROUND STANDARDS
Sec. 6-7.1. Purpose.
   The purpose of this section is to regulate and guide the establishment of
campgrounds in order to promote the public health, safety, and general welfare
of the citizens of Marion, North Carolina. This section is designated to
accomplish the following specific objectives:
   A.   To further the orderly layout of travel trailer parks and campgrounds;
   B.   To secure safety from fire, panic, and other dangers;
   C.   To provide adequate light and air; and
   D.   To ensure that facilities for transportation, parking, water, sewage,
and recreation are provided for campground visitors.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 6-7.2. Permit required.
   No person, firm or corporation shall construct a new travel trailer park or
campground or alter or expand an existing travel trailer park or campground
unless such person, firm or corporation holds a valid zoning permit. Such
permit shall be issued by the planning and development director after special
use approval of the board of adjustment.
   A.   Fees. Fees for construction permits shall be one hundred dollars
($100.00) for each permit plus ten dollars ($10.00) for each campsite proposed.
   B.   Application. All applications shall be submitted in compliance with
Sec. 3-7.1 special use.
   C.   Development time frame. When a campground is to be developed in phases,
an application may be submitted for the entire development and a zoning
certificate of compliance may be made for each phase of development. If the
construction of the campground has not begun within twelve (12) months from the
issue date of the zoning permit or within twelve (12) months after each
subsequent certificate of compliance, the board of adjustment may grant an
extension of the special use approval if the applicant appears before the board
and shows cause.
   When a campground is developed in phases, the location and description of
each phase must be included in the application for special use to be considered
for approval.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 6-7.3. General requirements.
   All campgrounds shall have a gross land area of ten (10) acres or greater
and contain a minimum of fifteen (15) camper spaces.
   A.   A minimum of ten (10) percent of the total land area shall be devoted
to accessible common open space for recreational use. These areas shall be
separate from camper spaces, and shall be grouped and suitable for active and
passive recreation and shall be reasonably located for safe and convenient
access to campground residents.
   B.   No more than one (1) travel-trailer may be parked on any one (1) space.
Campers shall not be permitted on parcels, lots, or other areas not approved
through these regulations.
   C.   Pursuant to the N.C. State Building Code, each campground shall have at
least one (1) service building to provide necessary sanitation and laundry
tray. This structure may also contain a retail sales counter and/or coin-
operated machine for the campground residents use, provided there is no
exterior advertising. Vending machines also may be permitted in a sheltered
area. All service buildings shall be provided and maintained in a clean and
sanitary condition and kept in good repair at all times. They shall be safely
and adequately lighted. Facilities shall be ADA accessible and conveniently
located. All buildings and structures shall be constructed in accordance with
the N.C. State Building Code, and all applicable requirements of the Marion
City Code.
   D.   No swimming pool or bathing area shall be installed, altered, improved,
or used without compliance with applicable McDowell County Health Department
regulations and approvals.
   E.   The campground owner/operator is responsible for providing a central
location for refuse collection and shall adequately screen and buffer such
location from campground residents and campsites. Storage, collection and
disposal of refuse shall be managed as not to create health hazards, rodent
harborage, insect-breeding areas, accident, fire hazards, or air pollution. The
location of on-site refuse facilities and collection schedule shall be approved
by the Marion Public Works Solid Waste Department prior to zoning approval.
   F.   It shall be unlawful to park or store a manufactured home in a
campground. However, one (1) manufactured home or other permanent residence may
be allowed within the campground to be used by persons responsible for the
operation and/or maintenance of the campground.
   G.   All campgrounds must comply with zoning regulations for signs within
the zoning district they are located.
   H.   All camping units must be placed individually on approved camper spaces
where all design standards and utilities have been completed and a certificate
of compliance has been issued.
   I.   Junked, wrecked or inoperable vehicles and/or travel-trailers are
prohibited in campgrounds.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 6-7.4. Design standards.
   A.   Off-street parking.
      1.   One (1) off-street parking space shall be provided and maintained
for each camper space. Required parking spaces may be included within the
minimum required space area for each camper space.
      2.   One (1) additional off-street parking space shall be provided for
every two hundred (200) square feet of office space and one (1) space for each
campground employee.
   B.   Ingress and egress. No camper space within the campground shall
directly access a public road. Access to all campers and accessory structures
within the campground shall be made using internal streets.
   C.   Internal streets.
      1.   One-way or two-way streets shall be used throughout the campground.
One-way streets shall have a minimum width of sixteen (16) feet. Two-way
streets shall have a minimum width of eighteen (18) feet. Such streets shall be
well maintained and clearly identified. All streets within the campground shall
be privately owned and maintained. Each camper space shall abut an internal
street within the campground.
      2.   All internal streets that dead-end shall provide a permanent forty-
foot-wide radius turnaround to accommodate travel trailers and emergency
response vehicles.
      3.   Maintenance of all internal streets and drainage facilities shall be
the responsibility of the owner and/or operator of the campground. Such streets
shall be maintained in a manner to be free from pot holes, breaks in the
pavement, rough surfaces, ponding of water and associated problems that would
impede or cause hazards to motor vehicles.
      4.   Campgrounds shall not be located on through lots unless the
campground is designed in a manner which does not encourage motorists from
using the campground as a means of traveling from one (1) public street to
another. Campgrounds requiring only one (1) entrance and exit area shall
provide at least one (1) permanent turnaround within the campground.
   D.   Travel trailer campground space standards. The following minimum space
requirements take into account the need for adequate space to prevent
overcrowding, prevent fire hazards, and to provide sufficient light and air.
      1.   No space shall have direct vehicular access to a public road.
      2.   Each space shall be a minimum of one hundred (100) feet from the
centerline of any public road.
      3.   Each space shall be a minimum of one thousand two hundred fifty
(1,250) square feet and a minimum of twenty-five (25) feet in width.
      4.   Each space shall be identified by a permanent number that is
displayed on each space. Each number shall be placed on concrete, wood, metal,
or any permanent post and conspicuously located on the space.
   E.   Utility requirements. Each space shall have access to public water and
sewer with quick disconnect. Adequate and safe sewage disposal facilities shall
be provided in all campgrounds. A public sewage disposal system and sewage
treatment plant complying with the requirements of the North Carolina
Department of Environment, Health, and Natural Resources shall be provided in
every campground. Individual septic tank systems are not permissible. Sewage
dumping stations shall be approved by the Marion Public Works Department. Each
campground shall provide a minimum of one (1) sewage dumping station for each
one hundred (100) camper spaces which are not equipped with individual sewer
and water connections. Each campground shall also provide a sewer outlet to
accommodate any dependent campers for emptying containers of human waste. No
method of sewage disposal shall be installed, altered, or used without the
approval of the Marion Public Works Department.
   F.   Buffering. A minimum ten-foot wide vegetated buffer strip shall be
installed and maintained around the perimeter of the campground property
boundary. This strip shall be free of all encroachment by buildings, parking/
camper areas or impervious coverage.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 6-7.5. Registration of occupants.
   A.   Every campground owner or operator shall maintain an accurate register
containing a record of all occupants and owners of campers in the campground.
The register shall be available for inspection at all times by authorized city
officials. The register shall contain the following information:
      1.   Name and address of the occupants of each space.
      2.   Camper space number.
      3.   Date when occupancy within the campground begins and the date when
occupancy within the campground ceases.
   B.   No camper space shall be used as a permanent place of residence. Any
action toward removal of wheels of a camper except for temporary purposes or
repair or any action that attempts to permanently affix a travel trailer to a
camper space is hereby prohibited.
   C.   No travel trailer or occupant of a travel trailer shall be permitted
within a campground for longer than one hundred eighty (180) consecutive days
within a twelve-month period.
   D.   All travel trailers or other similar vehicles or devices shall be fully
licensed and ready for highway use.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 6-7.6. Inspection.
   The City of Marion Code Enforcement Officer or other authorized public
official is hereby authorized and directed to make such inspections as are
necessary to determine satisfactory compliance with this section. In connecting
to city water and sewer, it shall be the duty of campground owners or operators
to give free access to such premises at reasonable times for inspections.
   The person to whom a permit for a campground is issued shall operate the
campground in compliance with this section and shall provide adequate
supervision to maintain the campground, its facilities and equipment in good
repair and in a clean and sanitary condition. Failure to comply with this
section may result in revocation of the zoning permit by the planning and
development services director.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 6-7.7. Planned unit development.
   A.   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to encourage and provide for
flexibility and innovation in the design and location of structures and land
development, to provide for the most efficient use of land resources, and to
provide an opportunity to develop land areas in a manner different from the
standard arrangement of one (1) principal building on one (1) lot. It is
further intended that a planned unit development will be in harmony with the
character of the district in which it is located.
   B.   Planned unit development defined. See Sec.
10-1.1.
   C.   Land development standards. The following land development standards
shall apply for all planned unit developments. These planned unit developments
may be located only in certain specified districts as special uses, subject to
a finding by the board of adjustment that the following conditions exist:
      1.   Ownership control. The land in a planned unit development shall be
under single ownership or management by the applicant before final approval
and/or construction, or proper assurances (legal title or execution of a
binding sale agreement) shall be provided that the development can be
successfully completed by the applicant.
      2.   Density requirements. There are no density requirements for
nonresidential uses as long as the proposed project does not violate the intent
of the district in which it is located. The proposed residential density of the
planned unit development shall conform to that permitted in the district in
which the development is located as indicated in article VI, applications of
regulations. If the planned unit development lies in more than one (1)
district, the number of allowable dwelling units must be separately calculated
for each portion of the planned unit development that is in a separate
district, and must then be combined to determine the number of dwelling units
allowable in the entire planned unit development.
      3.   Frontage requirement. Planned unit developments shall have access to
a highway or road suitable for the scale and density of development being
proposed.
      4.   Minimum requirements.
         a.   Required distance between buildings. The minimum distance between
buildings shall be twenty (20) feet or as otherwise specified by the board to
ensure adequate air, light, privacy, and space for emergency vehicles.
         b.   Every dwelling unit shall have access to a public or private
street, walkway or other area dedicated to common use, and there shall be
provision for adequate vehicular circulation to all development properties, in
order to ensure acceptable levels of access for emergency vehicles.
         c.   Privacy. Each development shall provide reasonable visual and
acoustical privacy for all dwelling units. Fences, insulation, walks, barriers,
and landscaping shall be used, as appropriate, for the protection and aesthetic
enhancement of property and the privacy of its occupants and adjacent
properties for screening of objectionable views or uses, and for reduction of
noise. Multi-level buildings shall be located in such a way as to dissipate any
adverse impact on adjoining low rise buildings and shall not invade the privacy
of the occupants of such low rise buildings.
      5.   Perimeter requirements. Structures located on the perimeter of the
development must be set back from property lines and right-of-way of abutting
streets in accordance with the provisions of the zoning ordinance controlling
the district within which the property is situated.
      6.   Plans and accompanying documentation to ensure that the water and
sewer systems proposed for the planned unit development have been approved by
the appropriate local and state agencies shall be submitted as part of the
application.
      7.   Preliminary plans shall include parking provisions for all proposed
uses within the planned unit development in accordance with off-street parking
standards in chapter six, article one. When more than one use is located in the
planned unit development, the minimum required parking shall be the sum of the
required parking for each use within the development.
      8.   Any pedestrian and bicycle path circulation system and its related
walkways shall be designed to minimize conflicts between vehicle and pedestrian
traffic.
      9.   Layout of parking areas, service areas, entrances, exits, yards,
courts and landscaping, and control of signs, lighting, noise or other
potentially adverse influences shall be such as to protect the character within
the zoning district and desirable character in any adjoining district.
      10.   Conveyance and maintenance of open space, recreational areas and
communally owned facilities shall be in accordance with the Unit Ownership Act
(Chapter 47-A of the North Carolina General Statutes) and/or any other
appropriate mechanisms acceptable to the board.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
ARTICLE VIII.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS
Sec. 6-8.1. Purpose.
   The City Council finds that the construction of telecommunications towers
may cause unusual problems and hazards to the residents and visitors of the
city. The purpose of this article is to regulate the construction of
telecommunications towers to avoid potential damage to adjacent properties from
tower failure and falling ice, to maximize the use of existing and new towers
in order to reduce the number of towers needed, to minimize potential hazards
to low flying law enforcement and medical helicopters, to restrict towers that
adversely detract from the natural beauty of the mountains and the city by
discouraging visual eyesores and to minimize the negative economic impact on
tourism.
(Ord. No. O-23-07-18-4, § 9, 7-18-23)
Sec. 6-8.2. Definition of terms.
   Adjacent valley floor. The adjacent valley floor is the valley (refer to the
N.C. Ridge Law) nearest by air distance to the major mountain ridge or peak.
   Antenna. A conductor by which electromagnetic waves are transmitted or
received.
   Balloon test. A test conducted by allowing a large colored balloon to rise
to the same height as the proposed tower. The balloon is viewed from different
locations and distances to mark the range of visibility to surrounding
properties and any adjacent viewsheds.
   Construction. Any new construction, reconstruction, alteration or expansion
requiring a building permit in accordance to the N.C. Building Code.
   Crest. The uppermost line of a mountain or chain of mountains from which the
land falls away on at least two (2) sides to a lower elevation or elevations.
   Existing vegetative canopy. The existing vegetative plants, trees or shrubs
at the site specific location of the proposed communication tower site, that
will provide natural camouflage, concealment, or otherwise hide the
communication tower after its construction. This vegetative canopy will also be
used to determine the allowable height of the proposed communication tower.
   Fall area. A circle whose center is the base of a telecommunications tower
and whose radius is equal to the tower's height.
   Person. Any individual, partnership, firm, association, joint venture,
public or private institution, utility, cooperative, interstate body, the State
of North Carolina, and its agencies and political subdivision, or other legal
entity.
   Protected mountain ridges. All mountain ridges in the city whose elevation
is one thousand two hundred fifty (1,250) feet or more and whose elevation is
three hundred (300) or more feet above the elevation of an adjacent valley
floor. The mountain ridge identified as Grant Mountain on the USGS 7.5 minute
East Marion, N.C. topographic map is exempt from this definition and shall not
be considered a protected mountain ridge.
   Resident. Any person residing, doing business or maintaining an office
within the city.
   Ridge. The elongated crest or series of crests at the apex or uppermost
point of intersection between two (2) opposite slopes or sides of a mountain,
and includes all land within one hundred (100) feet below the elevation of any
portion of such line or surface along the crest.
   Structure. Anything constructed or erected, including but not limited to
buildings, that requires location on the land or attachment to something having
permanent location on the land.
   Telecommunications tower (hereinafter known as "tower"). Any tower or
structure erected for the purpose of supporting one (1) or more antennas
designed to transmit or receive signals (e.g., telephonic, radio, television or
microwave).
   Tower height. The vertical distance measured from ground to the upper most
point of the telecommunications tower and any antenna affixed thereto.
   Viewshed. An unobstructed sight of, or the range of one's sight while
traveling, visiting, driving or otherwise using the natural or manmade
resources of the Robert C. Hunter Expressway, a designated scenic corridor. For
the purpose of the UDO, the viewshed distance is one (1) air mile from the
outermost boundary of the city adjoining the Robert C. Hunter Expressway.
(Ord. No. O-23-07-18-4, § 9, 7-18-23)
Sec. 6-8.3. Permits required.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, corporation, partnership or other
entity to erect any communication tower without first obtaining a permit from
the Planning and Development Director or his/her designee. A permit shall be
required for the erection of a replacement tower or the modification of an
existing tower. Existing towers owned by governmental agencies and designed for
non-commercial emergency communications may be replaced with a tower equal in
height to the replaced tower. AM and FM radio towers and towers operated by a
federally-licensed amateur radio station operator shall be excluded from this
section and shall not require a permit prior to construction.
(Ord. No. O-23-07-18-4, § 9, 7-18-23)
Sec. 6-8.4. Application submission and review process.
   A.   A completed tower permit application and five (5) copies of all
supporting documentation identified in Sec.
6-8.5 shall be submitted to the Planning and Development Director or his/her
designee thirty (30) working days prior to a regularly scheduled Board of
Adjustment meeting.
   B.   The Planning and Development Director or his/her designee shall review
the completed tower permit application for compliance with Sec.
6-8.5. Any application not containing all information required in Sec.
6-8.5 shall be returned to the applicant for correction and resubmission. If
the Planning and Development Director or his/her designee deems it necessary,
he may retain, at a reasonable expense to the permit applicant, one (1) or more
professional engineers to assist him in reviewing any technical requirements.
   C.   The Planning and Development Director or his/her designee shall
recommend to the Board of Adjustment either approval, approval with conditions
or disapproval. In making his/her recommendation, the Planning and Development
director or his/her designee may include any appropriate conditions he deems
should be placed on issuing the permit as identified in Sec.
6-8.6.
   D.   The Board of Adjustment shall consider the tower permit application at
their next regularly scheduled meeting after receiving recommendation from the
Planning and Development Director or his/her designee.
   E.   The Board of Adjustment shall take formal action to approve, approve
with conditions or disapprove the tower permit application within sixty (60)
working days. If the action is to disapprove the tower permit application, the
reasons for such action shall be stated in the minutes and specific reference
shall be made to the requirements not met. If the Board of Adjustment fails to
act within the specified time period, the application shall be considered
approved or disapproved as recommended by the Planning and Development Director
or his/her designee.
(Ord. No. O-23-07-18-4, § 9, 7-18-23)
Sec. 6-8.5. Requirements for site development and preliminary tower design
plans.
   The site development plan and preliminary design plan shall contain the
following information and be part of the tower permit application:
   A.   The site development plan shall be prepared by a N.C. registered civil
engineer and contain the following:
      1.   The tower applicant's name and property owner's name and their
addresses, scale, north arrow, vicinity map, tax parcel identification number,
and the tower's latitude and longitude coordinates.
      2.   The name, address, signature and seal of the engineer preparing the
site development plan.
      3.   The surveyed boundary lines of the parcel(s) that will contain the
proposed tower and its fall area.
      4.   The name, addresses and tax parcel identification numbers of all
owners of property abutting the subject property
      5.   All identifiable structures located on the parcel, all private and
public roads, highways, and underground and overhead utilities.
      6.   All existing towers on the property or any towers whose fall area
encroaches onto the property.
      7.   The proposed tower's location, the proposed fall area and the
location of all support structures and guy line anchors.
      8.   The ground elevation of the proposed tower's base, all proposed
support structures, property corners, and a permanent site bench mark. All
elevations shall be determined using the National Geodetic Vertical Datum of
1929.
      9.   The height of the existing vegetative canopy surrounding the
proposed tower.
   B.   The preliminary tower design plan shall be prepared by a N.C.
registered civil engineer and contain the following:
      1.   The tower permit applicant's name and address, scale, north arrow,
vicinity map and tax parcel identification number.
      2.   The name, address, signature and seal of the engineer preparing the
preliminary tower design plan.
      3.   A plan showing the base of the tower and the foundations for all guy
line anchors and support structures, all proposed buildings and any other
proposed improvements including access roads and utility connections within and
to the proposed site.
      4.   A tower elevation showing the proposed lighting, tower color and all
proposed antennas.
      5.   An elevation of each proposed set of guy line anchors.
      6.   The proposed tower design loads.
   C.   A map or description showing the service area(s) for the proposed
tower's antenna(s).
   D.   The applicant shall provide written statements from the Federal
Aviation Administration (FAA) and the Federal Communications Commission (FCC)
showing that the proposed tower complies with all permit regulations
administered by that agency or evidence that the proposed tower is exempt from
those regulations.
   E.   The applicant shall identify all other possible alternatives considered
within the service area for the proposed tower's antenna(s) and explain why the
proposed tower is necessary and why existing towers and structures (e.g., Duke
Energy transmission towers) cannot accommodate the proposed antenna(s).
   F.   The applicant shall identify any variance(s) to the ordinance, the
reason(s) for seeking the variance(s) and any measures that are proposed to
mitigate possible adverse effects of the proposed variance(s).
   G.   The applicant may be required to conduct a balloon test at the request
of the Board of Adjustment.
(Ord. No. O-23-07-18-4, § 9, 7-18-23)
Sec. 6-8.6. Tower approval standards.
   A.   Any proposed tower shall provide a needed service or benefit to the
residents of the city that cannot otherwise be met.
   B.   Wireless telecommunications towers (including cellular towers, digital
towers and PCS towers), are permitted uses by right in all M-1 industrial
zoning districts pursuant to the regulations set forth in this section.
Telecommunications towers require the issuance of a special use permit in all
other zoning districts pursuant to the regulations set forth in this section.
   C.   Towers shall be sited to contain all ice-fall or debris from tower
failure onsite. The applicant must present to the Board of Adjustment proof of
either fee simple ownership, a recorded leasehold interest, or an easement from
the record property owner of all property within a radius of one (1) times the
height of the tower.
   D.   Lighting on towers shall not be permitted except as required by federal
and state regulations.
   E.   The base of the tower shall be surrounded by a fence or wall at least
eight (8) feet in height unless the tower is constructed entirely on a building
over eight (8) feet in height.
   F.   The tower shall be engineered and constructed to accommodate at least
one (1) additional antenna that is at least as large as the largest proposed
antenna.
   G.   Tower permit approval is conditional subject to the owner(s) agreeing
to allow future colocation of other antenna(s) on the tower to be permitted as
well as on any other tower in co-location county in the possession of the owner
(s).
   H.   No tower shall exceed one hundred fifty (150) feet in height.
   I.   Colors of towers shall be determined by each site specific location.
Any permitted tower shall be of a color which will best accomplish its
concealment, usually light gray, except when otherwise required by applicable
federal or state regulations.
   J.   Any tower not in use for one (1) continuous year shall be removed
within one hundred twenty (120) days after the tower owner and the current
property owner have received written notice by the Planning and Development
Director or his/her designee or the City Attorney.
   K.   Any communication tower proposing to locate within the viewshed of any
protected mountain ridge or protected mountain peak within the city shall have
a height no greater than twenty (20) feet over the existing vegetative canopy
located on that site specific location. If no vegetation exists on the proposed
location, then the maximum communication tower height in that site specific
location shall be thirty-five (35) feet. If possible, extraordinary measures
shall be taken to ensure total and complete concealment of the communications
tower (see Sec.
6-8.2, definition of "existing vegetative canopy").
   L.   Reasonable access to the permitted communications tower site location
shall be required. The Planning and Development Director or his/her designee
shall reserve the right to inspect the site to ensure compliance with the UDO.
   M.   A sign identifying the owner(s) and operator(s) of the tower and an
emergency telephone number shall be placed in a clearly visible location on the
premises of the tower.
   N.   The telecommunication tower must be consistent with the public health
and public safety and shall promote the general welfare of the city.
   0.   An applicant must collocate unless there is substantial evidence that
collocation is either infeasible or impossible.
   P.   No wireless communication tower, antenna, their accessory structures or
the required fall zone shall be located in a historic district or on a historic
site, or within one thousand (1,000) feet of such locations, which meets
federal, state, or local requirements for historic designation.
(Ord. No. O-23-07-18-4, § 9, 7-18-23)
Chapter 7
BUILDING REGULATIONS
   Art. I. General Provisions, §§ 7-1.1--7-1.7
   Art. II. Permit Requirements, §§ 7-2.1--7-2.10
   Art. III. Unsafe Buildings, §§ 7-3.1--7-3.11
   Art. IV. Minimum Housing and Unsafe Structures, §§ 7-4.1--7-4.25
ARTICLE I.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
Sec. 7-1.1. Authority to regulate building regulations.
   This chapter is adopted under the authority granted by Article 8 of Chapter
160A and G.S. § 160D-401 and hereby ordains and enacts into law these articles
and sections.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 7-1.2. Purpose.
   This chapter is adopted to preserve, protect and promote the public health,
safety and general welfare or residents and businesses within the corporate
limits of the City. More specifically, this Chapter is adopted to achieve the
following objectives:
   A.   Establish minimum standards of the construction, maintenance,
sanitation, and safety relating to buildings or structures, as expressly
authorized by G.S. § 160D-1127.
   B.   Provide minimum standards for the repair, closing or demolition of
buildings or structures that are unsafe or unfit for human habitation caused by
conditions that are dangerous to the public health, safety and welfare.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 7-1.3. Scope of chapter and codes.
   The provisions of this chapter, technical codes and of the regulatory codes
adopted in this Chapter shall apply to the following:
   A.   The location, design, materials, equipment, construction,
reconstruction, alteration, repair, maintenance, moving, demolition, removal,
use, and occupancy of every building or structure or any appurtenances
connected, attached, or used in connection with any such building or structure;
   B.   The installation, erection, alteration, repair, use and maintenance of
plumbing systems consisting of building sewers, building drains, waste and vent
systems, hot and cold water supply systems, and all fixtures and appurtenances;
   C.   The installation, erection, alteration, repair, use and maintenance of
mechanical systems consisting of heating, ventilating, air conditioning or
refrigeration systems, fuel burning equipment, and appurtenances; and
   D.   The installation, erection, alteration, repair, use and maintenance of
electrical systems and appurtenances.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 7-1.4. Technical codes.
   The term technical codes shall mean the collective provisions of the North
Carolina: Building, Accessibility, Plumbing, Electrical, Mechanical, Fire
Prevention, Fuel Gas, Energy, Existing Buildings and Residential codes as
adopted by the North Carolina Building Code Council, and the North Carolina
Rehabilitation Code. The most recent edition, including all subsequent
amendments, of the North Carolina Building Code, as adopted by the North
Carolina Building Code Council is adopted by reference as fully as though set
forth here to the extent such code is applicable for safe and stable design,
methods of construction, minimum standards, and use of materials in building or
structures erected, enlarged, altered, repaired, or otherwise constructed or
reconstructed after adoption of this chapter. The following technical codes
referenced include:
   A.   The most recent edition, including all subsequent amendments, of the
North Carolina State Building Code, Volume LX, Existing Buildings, as adopted
by the North Carolina Building Code Council is hereby adopted by reference as
fully as though set forth here.
   B.   The most recent edition, including all subsequent amendments, of North
Carolina Energy Code, as adopted by the North Carolina Building Code Council is
hereby adopted by reference as fully as though set forth here.
   C.   The most recent Edition, including all subsequent amendments, of the
North Carolina Residential Code, as adopted by the North Carolina State
Building Code Council, is hereby adopted by reference as fully as though set
forth here.
   D.   The most recent edition, including all subsequent amendments, of the
North Carolina Rehabilitation Code (NCRC) is hereby adopted by reference as
fully as though set forth here.
   E.   The most recent edition, including all subsequent amendments, of the
North Carolina Plumbing Code, as adopted by the North Carolina Building Code
Council, is hereby adopted by reference as fully as though set forth here.
   F.   The most recent edition, including all subsequent amendments, of the
North Carolina Mechanical Code, as adopted by the North Carolina State Building
Code Council, is hereby adopted by reference as fully as though set forth here.
   G.   The most recent edition, including all subsequent amendments, of the
North Carolina Electrical Code, as adopted by the North Carolina State Building
Code Council, is hereby adopted by reference as fully as though set forth here.
   H.   The National Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards Act of
1974 U.S.C. 55401 et seq. and the regulations in 24 CFR Part 3280 adopted
pursuant thereto, including all their subsequent amendments, are hereby adopted
by reference as fully as though set forth here.
   I.   The most recent edition, including all subsequent amendments, of the
North Carolina Fuel Gas Code, as adopted by the North Carolina Building Code
Council, is hereby adopted by reference as fully as though set forth here.
   J.   Appendix D-Fire Districts, of the North Carolina Building Code is
hereby adopted by reference as fully as though set forth here and shall be
enforced as part of this chapter.
   K.   The most recent edition, including all subsequent amendments, of Volume
II-C, "Making Buildings and Facilities Accessible to and Usable by Persons with
Disabilities," the Accessibility Code, as adopted by the North Carolina
Building Code Council, is hereby adopted by reference as fully as though set
forth here.
   L.   The most recent edition, including all subsequent amendments, of "State
of North Carolina Regulations for Manufactured/Mobile Homes" as adopted by the
North Carolina Commissioner of Insurance is hereby adopted by reference as
fully as though set forth here.
   M.   The most recent edition, including all subsequent amendments, of North
Carolina Fire Prevention Code, as adopted by the North Carolina State Building
Code Council, is hereby adopted by reference as fully as though set forth here.
   N.   The most recent edition, including all subsequent amendments, of
"Floodproofing Regulations" as prepared and published by the office of the
Chief of Engineers, U.S. Army, Washington, D.C. is hereby adopted by reference
as fully as though set forth here to the extent said regulations are applicable
for safe and stable design, methods of construction, minimum standards, and use
of materials in buildings or structures hereafter erected, enlarged, altered,
repaired, or otherwise constructed or reconstructed in flood hazard areas.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 7-1.5. Compliance with codes.
   A.   All buildings or structures and connected appurtenances which are
constructed, reconstructed, erected, altered, extended, enlarged, repaired,
altered, occupied, used, demolished, or moved shall conform to the
requirements, minimum standards, and other provisions of either the North
Carolina Building Code, or the North Carolina Residential Code, whichever is
applicable, or both if both are applicable. Where the provisions of this
Chapter conflict with any of the technical codes listed above, the more
restrictive provisions shall apply.
   B.   Every building or structure intended for human habitation, occupancy,
or use shall have plumbing, plumbing systems, or plumbing fixtures installed,
constructed, altered, extended, repaired, or reconstructed in accordance with
the minimum standards, requirements, and other provisions of the North Carolina
Plumbing Code.
   C.   All mechanical systems consisting of heating, ventilating, air
conditioning or refrigeration systems, fuel- burning equipment, incinerators,
and other energy-related systems, their fittings, appliances, fixtures, and
appurtenances shall be installed, erected, altered, replaced, repaired, used,
and maintained in accordance with the minimum standards, requirements, and
other provisions of the North Carolina State Mechanical Code.
   D.   All electrical wiring, installations and appurtenances shall be
erected, altered, repaired, used, and maintained in accordance with the minimum
standards, requirements, and other provisions of the North Carolina Electrical
Code.
   E.   All construction, alterations, repairs, replacement, equipment,
appliances, fixtures, fittings, and appurtenances made or installed to any
building or structure, other than one and two-family dwellings and townhouses,
shall conform to the provisions of the North Carolina Accessibility Code.
   F.   The installation of gas piping systems extending from the point of
delivery to the inlet connections of equipment served, and the installation and
operation of residential and commercial gas appliances and related accessories
shall conform to the provisions of the North Carolina Fuel Gas Code.
   G.   All manufactured housing shall be constructed, repaired, altered,
installed, erected, replaced, or moved to another site in conformance with the
provisions of the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety
Standards Act and the State of North Carolina procedural and reference codes
for mobile homes, modular dwelling units, and other factory building
structures, and all regulations adopted pursuant thereto.
   H.   All construction, alterations, repairs, replacement, equipment, and
maintenance hereinafter made or installed to any building or structure, other
than one- and two-family dwelling and townhouses, shall conform to the
provisions of the North Carolina Fire Prevention Code.
   I.   The thermal envelope of the building and installation of energy
systems, including alterations, repairs, replacement, equipment, appliances,
fixtures, fittings, and appurtenances, ventilation, cooling, air conditioning
and refrigeration systems, incinerators, and other energy-related systems shall
conform to the provisions of the North Carolina Energy Code.
   J.   All alterations, repairs, replacement, rehabilitation or change of
occupancy of any existing building shall conform to applicable provisions of
the North Carolina Building Code Volume IX - Existing Buildings or other
applicable technical codes.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 7-1.6. Official copies of codes.
   An official copy of each regulatory code and technical code adopted in this
chapter, and official copies of all amendments, shall be kept on file in the
planning and development department. Such copies shall be the official copies
and the codes and amendments.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 7-1.7. Inspection procedure.
   A.   The planning and development department shall inspect all buildings and
structures and work therein for which a permit of any kind has been issued as
often as necessary in order to determine whether the work complies with this
chapter and the appropriate codes.
   B.   When deemed necessary by the Building Inspector, materials and
assemblies may be inspected at the point of manufacture or fabrication, or
inspections may be made by approved and recognized inspection organizations;
provided, no approval shall be based upon reports of such organizations unless
they are in writing and certified by a responsible officer of such
organization.
   C.   All holders of permits shall notify the planning and development
department and the Building Inspector at each of the following stages of
construction so that approval may be given before work is continued:
      1.   Foundation inspection. To be made after trenches are excavated and
the necessary reinforcement and forms are in place, and before concrete is
placed. Drilled footings, piles, and similar types of foundations shall be
inspected as installed.
      2.   Framing inspection. To be made after all structural framing is in
place and all roughing-in of plumbing and electrical and heating installations
have been installed, after all fire blocking, chimneys, bracing and vents are
installed, but before any of the structure is enclosed or covered. Poured in
place concrete structural elements shall be inspected before each pour of any
structural member.
      3.   Fireproofing inspection. To be made after all areas required to be
protected by fireproofing are lathed, but before the plastering or other
fireproofing is applied.
      4.   Final inspection. To be made after building or structure has all
doors hung, fixtures set, and ready for occupancy, but before the building is
occupied.
   D.   Requests for inspections may be made to the office of the inspection
department or to the Building Inspector. The inspection department shall make
inspections as soon as practicable after a request is made, provided such work
is ready for inspection at the time the request is made.
   E.   Reinspections may be made at the convenience of the Inspector. No work
shall be inspected until it is in proper and completed condition ready for
inspection. All work which has been concealed before the inspection and
approval shall be uncovered at the request of the Inspector and placed in
condition for proper inspection. Approval or rejection of the work shall be
furnished by the Building Inspector in the form of a notice posted on the
building or given to the permit holder. Failure to call for inspections or
proceeding without approval at each stage of construction shall be deemed a
violation of this chapter.
   F.   Where the applicant for a permit proposes to erect any building or
structure on the line of any street, alley, or other public place, he shall
secure a survey of the line of such street, alley or other public place,
adjacent to the property upon which such building or structure is to be erected
before proceeding with construction of such building or structure. It shall be
the duty of the Building Inspector to see that the building does not encroach
upon such street, alley, or other public place.
   G.   No new building or part thereof shall be occupied, and no addition or
enlargement of any existing building shall be occupied, and no existing
building after being altered or moved shall be occupied, and no change of
occupancy shall be made in any existing building or part thereof, until the
planning and development department has issued a certificate of occupancy
therefor. A temporary certificate of occupancy may be issued for a portion or
portions of a building which may safely be occupied prior to final completion
and occupancy of the entire building. Application for a certificate of
occupancy may be made by the owner or his agent after all final inspections
have been made for new buildings, or, in the case of existing buildings, after
supplying the information and data necessary to determine compliance with this
chapter, the appropriate regulatory codes and the zoning ordinance for the
occupancy intended. The planning and development department shall issue a
certificate of occupancy when, after examination and inspection, it is found
that the building in all respects conforms to the provisions of this chapter,
the regulatory codes, and the zoning ordinance for the occupancy intended.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
ARTICLE II.
PERMIT REQUIREMENTS
Sec. 7-2.1. General requirements.
   A.   A land development permit shall be required, in conformance with the
provisions of the UDO, prior to the commencement of any construction,
reconstruction, alteration, repair, removal, or demolition of any building or
other structure, or any part thereof, or the subdivision, or use of land,
building, or structure.
   B.   A permit shall not be issued until development plans and associated
information required pursuant to chapter three, article one common review
procedures that demonstrates full compliance with the UDO.
   C.   A building permit for alteration, repair, or construction of any
building or structure shall not be issued until a zoning compliance permit has
first been issued.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 7-2.2. Building permit exceptions.
   A building permit shall not be required under the following conditions:
   A.   The connection of a water heater in a one- or two-family dwelling unit
that is being replaced, provided that the work is performed by a person
licensed under G.S. § 87-21, who personally examines the work at completion and
ensures that a leak test has been performed on the gas piping, and provided the
energy use rate or thermal input is not greater than that of the water heater
which is being replaced, there is no change in fuel, energy source, location,
capacity, or routing or sizing of venting and piping, and the replacement is
installed in accordance with the current edition of the State Building Code.
   B.   The repair or replacement of electrical lighting fixtures or devices in
a one- or two-family dwelling unit, such as receptacles and lighting switches,
or for the connection of an existing branch circuit to an electric water heater
that is being replaced, provided that all of the following requirements are
met:
      1.   With respect to electric water heaters, the replacement water heater
is placed in the same location and is of the same or less capacity and
electrical rating as the original.
      2.   With respect to electrical lighting fixtures and devices, the
replacement is with a fixture or device having the same voltage and the same or
less amperage.
      3.   The work is performed by a person licensed under G.S. § 87-43.
      4.   The repair or replacement installation meets the current edition of
the State Building Code, including the State Electrical Code.
   C.   The installation, maintenance, or replacement of any load control
device or equipment by an electric power supplier, as defined in G.S. § 62-
133.8, or an electrical contractor contracted by the electric power supplier,
so long as the work is subject to supervision by an electrical contractor
licensed under Article 4 of Chapter 87 of the General Statutes. The electric
power supplier shall provide such installation, maintenance, or replacement in
accordance with:
      1.   An activity or program ordered, authorized, or approved by the North
Carolina Utilities Commission pursuant to G.S. § 62-133.8 or G.S. § 62-133.9;
or
      2.   A similar program undertaken by a municipal electric service
provider, whether the installation, modification, or replacement is made before
or after the point of delivery of electric service to the customer. The
exemption under this subdivision applies to all existing installations.
   D.   Pursuant to G.S. Chapter 143 Articles 9 and 9C, no permit shall be
required for any construction, installation, repair, replacement, or alteration
performed in accordance with the current edition of the North Carolina State
Building Code and costing fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000) or less in any
single-family residence or farm building unless the work involves any of the
following:
      1.   The addition, repair or replacement of load bearing structures.
However, no permit is required for replacements of windows, doors, exterior
siding, or the pickets, railings, stair treads, and decking of porches and
exterior decks.
      2.   The addition or change in the design of plumbing. However, no permit
is required for replacements otherwise meeting the requirements of this
subsection that do not change size or capacity.
      3.   The addition, replacement or change in the design of heating, air
conditioning, or electrical wiring, devices, appliances, or equipment, other
than like-kind replacement of electrical devices and lighting fixtures.
      4.   The use of materials not permitted by the North Carolina Residential
Code for One and Two- Family Dwellings.
      5.   The addition, excluding replacement, of roofing.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 7-2.3. Application.
   Written application shall be made for all permits required by this chapter.
Such application shall be made by the owner of the building or structure
affected or by his authorized agent or representative, and in addition to such
other information as may be required by the building inspector to enable them
to determine whether the permit applied for should be issued, shall show the
following:
   A.    Name, residence, and business address of owner;
   B.   Name, residence, and business of authorized representative or agent, if
any; and
   C.   Name and address of the contractor, if any, together with evidence that
he has obtained a certificate from the appropriate state licensing board for
such contractors, if such be required for the work involved in the permit for
which application is made.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 7-2.4. Plans and specifications.
   Detailed plans and specifications shall accompany each application for
permit for any building or structure where plans and specifications are deemed
necessary by the Building Inspector in order for him or her to determine
whether the proposed work complies with the appropriate regulatory codes. Plans
shall be drawn to scale with sufficient clarity to indicate the nature and
extent of the work proposed, and the plans and specifications together shall
contain information sufficient to indicate that the work proposed will conform
to the provisions of this chapter and the appropriate regulatory codes. Where
plans and specifications are required, a copy of them shall be kept at the work
site until all authorized operations have been completed and approved by the
Building Inspector.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 7-2.5. Limitations on issuance.
   A.   No building permit shall be issued for any building or structure the
estimated total cost of which is more than thirty thousand dollars ($30,000.00)
unless the work is to be performed by a licensed general contractor or meets
the requirements of G.S. § 160D-1110.
   B.   No building permit shall be issued for any building or structure, other
than a one (1) or two (2) family dwelling, the estimated total cost of which is
more than ninety thousand dollars ($90,000.00) unless the plans bear the state
seal of a registered architect or a registered engineer.
   C.   Where any provision of the state statutes or of any ordinance requires
that work be done by a licensed specialty contractor of any kind, no permit for
such work shall be issued unless it is to be performed by such licensed
specialty contractor.
   D.   Where detailed plans and specifications are required under this
chapter, no building permit shall be issued unless such plans and
specifications have been provided.
   E.   No permit shall be issued for any land-disturbing activity, as defined
in G.S. § 113A-52(6), for any activity covered by G.S. § 113A-57, unless an
erosion and sedimentation control plan has been approved by the Sedimentation
Pollution Control Commission pursuant to G.S. § 113A-54(d)(4) or by a local
government pursuant to G.S. § 113A-61 for the site of the activity or a tract
of land including the site of the activity.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 7-2.6. Issuance.
   When proper application for a permit has been made, and the Building
Inspector is satisfied that the application and the proposed work comply with
the provisions of this chapter and the appropriate regulatory codes, they shall
issue such permit upon payment of the proper fee as adopted by the Marion City
Council.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 7-2.7. Revocation.
   The Building Inspector may revoke and require the return of any permit by
notifying the permit holder in writing stating the reason for such revocation.
Permits shall be revoked for:
   A.   Any material departure from the approved application, plans, or
specifications;
   B.   Refusal or failure to comply with proper orders of the inspector;
   C.   Refusal or failure to comply with requirements of this chapter and the
appropriate regulatory codes; or
   D.   False statements or misrepresentations made in securing such permit.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 7-2.8. Time limitations.
   Unless otherwise stated, all permits issued under this chapter shall expire
by limitation six (6) months after the date of issuance if the work authorized
by the permit has not been commenced. If after commencement the work is
discontinued for a period of twelve (12) months, the permit therefor shall
immediately expire. No work authorized by any permit which has expired shall
thereafter be performed until a new permit therefor has been secured.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 7-2.9. Changes in work.
   After a permit has been issued, no changes or deviations from the terms of
the application and permit, or changes or deviations from the plans or
specifications involving any work under the jurisdiction of this chapter or of
any regulatory code adopted herein except where changes or deviations are
clearly permissible under the state building code shall be made until specific
written approval of such changes or deviations has been obtained from the
Building Inspector.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 7-2.10. Definitions.
   The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement
of this chapter.
   Basement shall mean a portion of a building which is located partly
underground, having direct access to light and air from windows located above
the level of the adjoining ground.
   Board shall mean the board of adjustment.
   Cellar shall mean a portion of a building located partly or wholly
underground having a limited access to light and air from windows located
partly or wholly below the level of the adjoining ground.
   Deteriorated shall mean that a dwelling is unfit for human habitation and
can be repaired, altered, or improved to comply with all of the minimum
standards established by this article, at a cost not in excess of 50 percent of
its value, as determined by finding of the Inspector.
   Dilapidated shall mean that a dwelling is unfit for human habitation and
cannot be repaired, altered or improved to comply with all of the minimum
standards established by this chapter, at a cost not in excess of 50 percent of
its value, as determined by finding of the Inspector.
   Dwelling shall mean any building which is wholly or partly used or intended
to be used for living or sleeping by human occupants; provided that temporary
housing as hereinafter defined shall not be regarded as a dwelling.
   Dwelling unit shall mean any room or group of rooms located within a
dwelling and forming a single habitable unit with facilities which are used or
intended to be used for living, sleeping, cooking and eating.
   Extermination shall mean the control and elimination of insects, rodents or
other pests by eliminating their harborage places; by removing or making
inaccessible materials that may serve as their food; by poisoning, spraying,
fumigating, trapping or by any other recognized and legal pest elimination
methods approved by the Inspector.
   Garbage shall mean the animal and vegetable waste resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   Habitable room shall mean a room or enclosed floor space used or intended to
be used for living, sleeping, cooking or eating purposes, excluding a bathroom,
laundry room, heater room, foyer or hallway, closet and storage space.
   Human Habitation shall mean a place designed and constructed in accordance
with state and local building codes for the intent of person(s) to dwell or
reside.
   Building Inspector shall mean an authorized agent of the City of Marion with
the power and authority to interpret and enforce the provisions of the City of
Marion development regulations and the North Carolina Building Code.
   Infestation shall mean the presence, within or around a dwelling, of any
insects, rodents or other pests in such number as to constitute a menace to the
health, safety or welfare of the occupants or to the public.
   Meaning of certain words. Whenever the words "dwelling, dwelling unit,
rooming house, rooming unit, premises" are used in this chapter, they shall be
construed as though they were followed by the words "or any part hereof."
   Multiple dwelling shall mean any dwelling containing more than two dwelling
units.
   Occupant shall mean any person over one year of age, living, sleeping,
cooking or eating in, or having actual possession of a dwelling unit or rooming
unit.
   Operator shall mean any person who has charge, care or control of a building
or part thereof, in which dwelling units or rooming units are let.
   Owner shall mean any person who alone, or jointly, or severally with others:
   A.   Shall have title to any dwelling or dwelling unit, with or without
accompanying actual possession thereof; or
   B.   Shall have charge, care or control of any dwelling or dwelling unit, as
owner or agent of the owner, or as executor, executrix, administrator, trustee
or guardian of the estate of the owner. Any such person thus representing the
actual owner shall be bound to comply with the provisions of this chapter, and
of rules and regulations adopted pursuant to the provisions of this chapter to
the same extent as if he were the owner.
   Plumbing shall mean and include all of the following supplied facilities and
equipment: gas pipes, gas burning equipment, water pipes, mechanical garbage
disposal units (mechanical sink grinders), waste pipes, water closets, sinks,
installed dishwashers, lavatories, bathtubs, shower baths, installed clothes
washing machines, catch basins, drains, vents and any other similar supplied
fixtures, together with all connections to a water, sewer or gas line.
   Public authority shall mean the Building Inspector.
   Room (bedroom) shall mean any room or group of rooms in a dwelling forming a
single habitable unit used or intended to be used for living and sleeping, but
not for cooking or eating purposes.
   Rooming house shall mean any dwelling, or that part of any dwelling
containing one or more rooming units, in which space is let by the owner or
operator to three or more occupants who are not spouse, child, parent, or
sibling of the owner or operator.
   Supplied shall mean paid for, furnished, or provided by, or under the
control of, the owner or operator.
   Temporary housing shall mean any tent, trailer or other structure used for
human shelter which is designed to be transportable and which is not attached
to the ground, to another structure, or to any utilities system on the same
premises for more than 30 consecutive days.
   Trash (Rubbish) shall mean combustible and noncombustible waste materials,
except garbage and ashes, and the term shall include paper, rags, cartons,
boxes, wood, excelsior, rubber, leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, tin
cans, metals, mineral matter, glass, crockery, and dust.
   Unfit for human habitation shall mean that conditions exist in a dwelling
which violate or do not comply with one or more of the minimum standards of
fitness or one or more of the requirements established by this chapter.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
ARTICLE III.
UNSAFE BUILDINGS
Sec. 7-3.1. Unsafe buildings condemned.
   A.   Designation of Unsafe Buildings. Every building that shall appear to
the public officer to be especially dangerous to life because of its liability
to fire or because of bad condition of walls, overloaded floors, defective
construction, decay, unsafe wiring or heating systems, inadequate means of
egress, or other causes shall be held to be unsafe, and the public officer
shall affix a notice of the dangerous character of the structure to a
conspicuous place on the exterior wall of the building.
   B.   Nonresidential Building or Structure. In addition to the authority
granted in Sec.
7-3.10, a public officer may declare a nonresidential building or structure
within a community development target area to be unsafe if it meets all of the
following conditions:
      1.   It appears to the public officer to be vacant or abandoned.
      2.   It appears to the public officer to be in such dilapidated condition
as to cause or contribute to blight, disease, vagrancy, or fire or safety
hazard, to be a danger to children, or to tend to attract persons intent on
criminal activities or other activities that would constitute a public
nuisance.
   C.   Notice Posted on Structure. If a public officer declares a
nonresidential building or structure to be unsafe under subsection (B) of this
section, the public officer.
   D.   Must affix a notice of the unsafe character of the structure to a
conspicuous place on the exterior wall of the building. For the purposes of
this section, the term "community development target area" means an area that
has characteristics of an urban progress zone pursuant to G.S. 143B-437.09, a
"nonresidential redevelopment area" under G.S. 160A-503(10), or an area with
similar characteristics designated by the City Council as being in special need
of revitalization for the benefit and welfare of its citizens.
   E.   Applicability to Residential Structures. The City Council may expand
subsections (B) and (C) of this section to apply to residential buildings by
holding a legislative hearing to adopt an ordinance after providing public
notice pursuant to G.S. 160D-601.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 7-3.2. Removing notice from condemned building.
   If any person shall remove any notice that has been affixed to any building
or structure by a public officer of any local government and that states the
dangerous character of the building or structure, that person shall be guilty
of a Class 1 misdemeanor.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 7-3.3. Action in event of failure to take corrective action.
   If the owner of a building or structure that has been condemned as unsafe
pursuant to G.S. 160D-1119 fails to take prompt corrective action, the public
officer shall give written notice, by certified mail to the owner's last known
address or by personal service, of all of the following:
   A.   That the building or structure is in a condition that appears to meet
one or more of the following conditions:
      1.   Constitutes a fire or safety hazard.
      2.   Is dangerous to life, health, or other property.
      3.   Is likely to cause or contribute to blight, disease, vagrancy, or
danger to children.
      4.   Has a tendency to attract persons intent on criminal activities or
other activities that would constitute a public nuisance.
   B.   That an administrative hearing will be held before the public officer
at a designated place and time, not later than 10 days after the date of the
notice, at which time the owner will be entitled to be heard in person or by
counsel and to present arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter.
   C.    Following the administrative hearing, the public officer may issue
such order to repair, close, vacate, or demolish the building or structure as
appears appropriate.
   If the name or whereabouts of the owner cannot, after due diligence, be
discovered, the notice shall be considered properly and adequately served if a
copy is posted on the outside of the building or structure in question at least
10 days prior to the hearing and a notice of the hearing is published in a
newspaper having general circulation in the local government's area of
jurisdiction at least once not later than one week prior to the hearing.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 7-3.4. Order to take corrective action.
   If, upon a hearing held pursuant to the notice prescribed in G.S. 160D-1119,
the public officer shall find that the building or structure is in a condition
that constitutes a fire or safety hazard or renders it dangerous to life,
health, or other property, the public officer shall make an order in writing,
directed to the owner of such building or structure, requiring the owner to
remedy the defective conditions by repairing, closing, vacating, or demolishing
the building or structure or taking other necessary steps, within such period,
not less than 60 days, as the public officer may prescribe, provided that where
the public officer finds that there is imminent danger to life or other
property, the public officer may order that corrective action be taken in such
lesser period as may be feasible.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 7-3.5. Appeal; finality of order if not appealed.
   Any owner who has received an order under G.S. 160D-1122 may appeal from the
order to the governing board by giving notice of appeal in writing to the
public officer and to the local government clerk within 10 days following
issuance of the order. In the absence of an appeal, the order of the public
officer is final. The City Council shall hear an appeal in accordance with G.S.
160D-406 and render a decision within a reasonable time. The City Council may
affirm, modify and affirm, or revoke the order.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 7-3.6. Failure to comply with order.
   If the owner of a building or structure fails to comply with an order issued
pursuant to G.S. 160D-1122 from which no appeal has been taken or fails to
comply with an order of the governing board following an appeal, the owner is
guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 7-3.7. Enforcement.
   A.   Action Authorized. Whenever any violation is denominated a misdemeanor
under the provisions of this Article, the City Council may authorize, either in
addition to or in lieu of other remedies, the initiation of any appropriate
action or proceedings to prevent, restrain, correct, or abate the violation or
to prevent the occupancy of the building or structure involved.
   B.   Removal of Building. In the case of a building or structure declared
unsafe under G.S. 160D-1119 or an ordinance adopted pursuant to G.S. 160D-1119,
the City Council may, in lieu of taking action under subsection (A) of this
section, cause the building or structure to be removed or demolished. The
amounts incurred by the City in connection with the removal or demolition are a
lien against the real property upon which the cost was incurred. The lien shall
be filed, have the same priority, and be collected in the same manner as liens
for special assessments provided in Article 10 of Chapter 160A of the General
Statutes. If the building or structure is removed or demolished by the City,
the City shall sell the usable materials of the building and any personal
property, fixtures, or appurtenances found in or attached to the building. The
City shall credit the proceeds of the sale against the cost of the removal or
demolition. Any balance remaining from the sale shall be deposited with the
McDowell County Clerk of Superior Court and shall be disbursed by the court to
the person found to be entitled thereto by final order or decree of the court.
   C.   Additional Lien. The amounts incurred by the City in connection with
the removal or demolition are also a lien against any other real property owned
by the owner of the building or structure and located within the City's
planning and development regulation jurisdiction, and within one mile of the
city limits, except for the owner's primary residence. The provisions of
subsection (B) of this section apply to this additional lien, except that this
additional lien is inferior to all prior liens and shall be collected as a
money judgment.
   D.   Nonexclusive Remedy. Nothing in this section shall be construed to
impair or limit the power of the City to define and declare nuisances and to
cause their removal or abatement by summary proceedings or otherwise.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 7-3.8. Records and reports.
   The planning and development department shall keep complete and accurate
records in convenient form of all applications received, permits issued,
inspections and reinspections made, defects found, certificates of compliance
or occupancy granted, and all other work and activities of the department.
These records shall be kept in the manner and for the periods prescribed by the
Department of Natural and Cultural Resources. Periodic reports shall be
submitted to the City Council and to the Commissioner of Insurance as they
shall by ordinance, rule, or regulation require.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 7-3.9. Appeals.
   Unless otherwise provided by law, appeals from any order, decision, or
determination by a public officer pertaining to the State Building Code or
other State building laws shall be taken to the Commissioner of Insurance or
the Commissioner's designee or other official specified in G.S. 143-139 by
filing a written notice with the Commissioner and with the planning and
development department within a period of ten (10) calendar days after the
order, decision, or determination. Further appeals may be taken to the State
Building Code Council or to the courts as provided by law.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 7-3.10. Regulation authorized as to repair, closing, and demolition of
nonresidential buildings or structures; order of public officer.
   A.   Authority. Pursuant to the authority provided in G.S. 160D-1129, the
City Council authorizes the Planning and Development Director to serve as the
public officer in exercising and enforcing regulations within the City's
planning and development regulation jurisdiction relating to nonresidential
buildings or structures that fail to meet minimum standards of maintenance,
sanitation, and safety established to address conditions that are dangerous and
injurious to public health, safety, and welfare and under which a public
necessity exists for the repair, closing, or demolition of such buildings or
structures. Pursuant to subsection (L) below, the Planning and Development
Director may delegate any of the public officer's functions and powers under
the ordinance to other officers and agents.
   B.   Investigation. Whenever it appears to the public officer that any
nonresidential building or structure has not been properly maintained so that
the safety or health of its occupants or members of the general public are
jeopardized for failure of the property to meet the minimum standards
established the City Council, the public officer shall undertake a preliminary
investigation. If entry upon the premises for purposes of investigation is
necessary, such entry shall be made pursuant to a duly issued administrative
search warrant in accordance with G.S. 15-27.2 or with permission of the owner,
the owner's agent, a tenant, or other person legally in possession of the
premises.
   C.   Complaint and Hearing. If the preliminary investigation discloses
evidence of a violation of the minimum standards, the public officer shall
issue and cause to be served upon the owner of and parties in interest in the
nonresidential building or structure a complaint. The complaint shall state the
charges and contain a notice that an administrative hearing will be held before
the Chief Building Official, or their designated agent, at a place within the
city scheduled not less than 10 days nor more than 30 days after the serving of
the complaint; that the owner and parties in interest shall be given the right
to answer the complaint and to appear in person, or otherwise, and give
testimony at the place and time fixed in the complaint; and that the rules of
evidence prevailing in courts of law or equity are not controlling in hearings
before the public officer.
   D.   Order. If, after notice and hearing, the public officer determines that
the nonresidential building or structure has not been properly maintained so
that the safety or health of its occupants or members of the general public is
jeopardized for failure of the property to meet the minimum standards
established by the City Council, the public officer shall state in writing
findings of fact in support of that determination and shall issue and cause to
be served upon the owner thereof an order. The order may require the owner to
take remedial action, within a reasonable time specified, subject to the
procedures and limitations set forth in subsection (E) below.
   E.   Limitations on Orders.
      1.   An order may require the owner to repair, alter, or improve the
nonresidential building or structure in order to bring it into compliance with
the minimum standards established by the City Council or to vacate and close
the nonresidential building or structure for any use.
      2.   An order may require the owner to remove or demolish the
nonresidential building or structure if the cost of repair, alteration, or
improvement of the building or structure would exceed fifty percent (50%) of
its then current value. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, if the
nonresidential building or structure is designated as a local historic
landmark, listed in the National Register of Historic Places, or located in a
locally designated historic district or in a historic district listed in the
National Register of Historic Places and the City Council determines, after an
administrative hearing, that the nonresidential building or structure is of
individual significance or contributes to maintaining the character of the
district, and the nonresidential building or structure has not been condemned
as unsafe, the order may require that the nonresidential building or structure
be vacated and closed until it is brought into compliance with the minimum
standards established by the City Council.
      3.   An order may not require repairs, alterations, or improvements to be
made to vacant manufacturing facilities or vacant industrial warehouse
facilities to preserve the original use. The order may require such building or
structure to be vacated and closed, but repairs may be required only when
necessary to maintain structural integrity or to abate a health or safety
hazard that cannot be remedied by ordering the building or structure closed for
any use.
   F.   Action by City Council Upon Failure to Comply with Order.
      1.   If the owner fails to comply with an order to repair, alter, or
improve or to vacate and close the nonresidential building or structure, the
City Council may adopt an ordinance ordering the public officer to proceed to
effectuate the purpose of this section with respect to the particular property
or properties that the public officer found to be jeopardizing the health or
safety of its occupants or members of the general public. The property or
properties shall be described in the ordinance. The ordinance shall be recorded
in the office of the register of deeds and shall be indexed in the name of the
property owner or owners in the grantor index. Following adoption of an
ordinance, the public officer may cause the building or structure to be
repaired, altered, or improved or to be vacated and closed. The public officer
may cause to be posted on the main entrance of any nonresidential building or
structure so closed a placard with the following words: "This building is unfit
for any use; the use or occupation of this building for any purpose is
prohibited and unlawful." Any person who occupies or knowingly allows the
occupancy of a building or structure so posted is guilty of a Class 3
misdemeanor.
      2.   If the owner fails to comply with an order to remove or demolish the
nonresidential building or structure, the City Council may adopt an ordinance
ordering the public officer to proceed to effectuate the purpose of this
section with respect to the particular property or properties that the public
officer found to be jeopardizing the health or safety of its occupants or
members of the general public. No ordinance shall be adopted to require
demolition of a nonresidential building or structure until the owner has first
been given a reasonable opportunity to bring it into conformity with the
minimum standards established by the City Council. The property or properties
shall be described in the ordinance. The ordinance shall be recorded in the
office of the register of deeds and shall be indexed in the name of the
property owner or owners in the grantor index. Following adoption of an
ordinance, the public officer may cause the building or structure to be removed
or demolished.
   G.   Action by City Council Upon Abandonment of Intent to Repair. If the
City Council has adopted an ordinance or the public officer has issued an order
requiring the building or structure to be repaired or vacated and closed and
the building or structure has been vacated and closed for a period of two years
pursuant to the ordinance or order, the City Council may make findings that the
owner has abandoned the intent and purpose to repair, alter, or improve the
building or structure and that the continuation of the building or structure in
its vacated and closed status would be inimical to the health, safety, and
welfare of the City in that it would continue to deteriorate, would create a
fire or safety hazard, would be a threat to children and vagrants, would
attract persons intent on criminal activities, or would cause or contribute to
blight and the deterioration of property values in the area. Upon such
findings, the City Council may, after the expiration of the two-year period,
enact an ordinance and serve such ordinance on the owner, setting forth the
following:
      1.   If the cost to repair the nonresidential building or structure to
bring it into compliance with the minimum standards is less than or equal to
fifty percent (50%) of its then current value, the ordinance shall require that
the owner either repair or demolish and remove the building or structure within
90 days.
      2.   If the cost to repair the nonresidential building or structure to
bring it into compliance with the minimum standards exceeds fifty percent (50%)
of its then current value, the ordinance shall require the owner to demolish
and remove the building or structure within 90 days.
   In the case of vacant manufacturing facilities or vacant industrial
warehouse facilities, the building or structure must have been vacated and
closed pursuant to an order or ordinance for a period of five years before the
City Council may take action under this subsection. The ordinance shall be
recorded in the McDowell County Office of the Register of Deeds and shall be
indexed in the name of the property owner in the grantor index. If the owner
fails to comply with the ordinance, the public officer shall effectuate the
purpose of the ordinance.
   H.   Service of Complaints and Orders. Complaints or orders issued by the
public officer pursuant to an ordinance adopted under this section shall be
served upon persons either personally or by certified mail so long as the means
used are reasonably designed to achieve actual notice. When service is made by
certified mail, a copy of the complaint or order may also be sent by regular
mail. Service shall be deemed sufficient if the certified mail is refused but
the regular mail is not returned by the post office within ten (10) days after
the mailing. If regular mail is used, a notice of the pending proceedings shall
be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises affected. If the identities of
any owners or the whereabouts of persons are unknown and cannot be ascertained
by the public officer in the exercise of reasonable diligence and the public
officer makes an affidavit to that effect, the serving of the complaint or
order upon the owners or other persons may be made by publication in a
newspaper having general circulation in the local government at least once no
later than the time that personal service would be required under this section.
When service is made by publication, a notice of the pending proceedings shall
be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises affected.
   I.   Liens.
      1.   The amount of the cost of repairs, alterations, or improvements, or
vacating and closing, or removal or demolition by the public officer are a lien
against the real property upon which the cost was incurred, which lien shall be
filed, have the same priority, and be collected as the lien for special
assessment provided in Article 10 of Chapter 160A of the General Statutes.
      2.   The amount of the costs is also a lien on any other real property of
the owner located within the city limits except for the owner's primary
residence. The additional lien provided in this subdivision is inferior to all
prior liens and shall be collected as a money judgment.
      3.   If the nonresidential building or structure is removed or demolished
by the public officer, the public officer shall offer for sale the recoverable
materials of the building or structure and any personal property, fixtures, or
appurtenances found in or attached to the building or structure and shall
credit the proceeds of the sale, if any, against the cost of the removal or
demolition, and any balance remaining shall be deposited in the superior court
by the public officer, shall be secured in a manner directed by the court, and
shall be disbursed by the court to the persons found to be entitled thereto by
final order or decree of the court. Nothing in this section shall be construed
to impair or limit in any way the power of the City Council to define and
declare nuisances and to cause their removal or abatement by summary
proceedings or otherwise.
   J.   Ejectment. If any occupant fails to comply with an order to vacate a
nonresidential building or structure, the public officer may file a civil
action in the name of the City of Marion to remove the occupant. The action to
vacate is in the nature of summary ejectment and shall be commenced by filing a
complaint naming as parties-defendant any person occupying the nonresidential
building or structure. The clerk of superior court shall issue a summons
requiring the defendant to appear before a magistrate at a certain time, date,
and place not to exceed ten (10) days from the issuance of the summons to
answer the complaint. The summons and complaint shall be served as provided in
G.S. 42-29. The summons shall be returned according to its tenor, and if on its
return it appears to have been duly served and if at the hearing the public
officer produces a certified copy of an ordinance adopted by the City Council
pursuant to subsection (F) of this section to vacate the occupied
nonresidential building or structure, the magistrate shall enter judgment
ordering that the premises be vacated and all persons be removed. The judgment
ordering that the nonresidential building or structure be vacated shall be
enforced in the same manner as the judgment for summary ejectment entered under
G.S. 42- 30. An appeal from any judgment entered under this subsection by the
magistrate may be taken as provided in G.S. 7A-228, and the execution of the
judgment may be stayed as provided in G.S. 7A-227. An action to remove an
occupant of a nonresidential building or structure who is a tenant of the owner
may not be in the nature of a summary ejectment proceeding pursuant to this
subsection unless the occupant was served with notice, at least 30 days before
the filing of the summary ejectment proceeding, that the City Council has
ordered the public officer to proceed to exercise his or her duties under
subsection (F) of this section to vacate and close or remove and demolish the
nonresidential building or structure.
   K.   Civil Penalty. The City Council may impose civil penalties against any
person or entity that fails to comply with an order entered pursuant to this
section. However, the imposition of civil penalties does not limit the use of
any other lawful remedies available to the City Council for the enforcement of
any ordinances adopted pursuant to this section.
   L.   Supplemental Powers. The powers conferred by this section are
supplemental to the powers conferred by any other law. An ordinance adopted by
the City of Marion may authorize the public officer to exercise any powers
necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate the purpose and provisions
of this section, including the following powers in addition to others herein
granted:
      1.   To investigate nonresidential buildings and structures in the local
government's planning and development regulation jurisdiction to determine
whether they have been properly maintained in compliance with the minimum
standards so that the safety or health of the occupants or members of the
general public are not jeopardized.
      2.   To administer oaths, affirmations, examine witnesses, and receive
evidence.
      3.   To enter upon premises pursuant to subsection (B) of this section
for the purpose of making examinations in a manner that will do the least
possible inconvenience to the persons in possession.
      4.   To appoint and fix the duties of officers, agents, and employees
necessary to carry out the purposes of the ordinances adopted by the City of
Marion.
      5.   To delegate any of the public officer's functions and powers under
the ordinance to other officers and agents.
   M.   Appeals. The City Council may provide that appeals may be taken from
any decision or order of the public officer to the City's housing appeals board
or board of adjustment. Any person aggrieved by a decision or order of the
public officer has the remedies provided in G.S. 160D-1208.
   N.   Funding. The City Council is authorized to make appropriations from its
revenues necessary to carry out the purposes of this section and may accept and
apply grants or donations to assist in carrying out the provisions of the
ordinances adopted by the City Council.
   O.   No Effect on Just Compensation for Taking by Eminent Domain. Nothing in
this section shall be construed as preventing the owner or owners of any
property from receiving just compensation for the taking of property by the
power of eminent domain under the laws of this State nor as permitting any
property to be condemned or destroyed except in accordance with the police
power of the State.
   P.   Definitions. As used in this section, the following definitions apply:
      1.   Parties in interest. - All individuals, associations, and
corporations who have interests of record in a nonresidential building or
structure and any who are in possession thereof.
      2.   Vacant industrial warehouse. - Any building or structure designed
for the storage of goods or equipment in connection with manufacturing
processes, which has not been used for that purpose for at least one year and
has not been converted to another use.
      3.   Vacant manufacturing facility. - Any building or structure
previously used for the lawful production or manufacturing of goods, which has
not been used for that purpose for at least one year and has not been converted
to another use.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 7-3.11. Vacant building receivership.
   A.   Petition to Appoint a Receiver. The City Council may petition the
superior court for the appointment of a receiver to rehabilitate, demolish, or
sell a vacant building, structure, or dwelling upon the occurrence of any of
the following, each of which is deemed a nuisance per se:
      1.   The owner fails to comply with an order issued pursuant to G.S.
160D-1122, related to building or structural conditions that constitute a fire
or safety hazard or render the building or structure dangerous to life, health,
or other property, from which no appeal has been taken.
      2.   The owner fails to comply with an order of the city following an
appeal of a public officer's order issued pursuant to G.S.160D-1122.
      3.   The City Council adopts any ordinance pursuant to subdivision (f)(1)
of G.S. 160D-1129, related to nonresidential buildings or structures that fail
to meet minimum standards of maintenance, sanitation, and safety, and orders a
public officer to continue enforcement actions prescribed by the ordinance with
respect to the named nonresidential building or structure. The public officer
may submit a petition on behalf of the City to the superior court for the
appointment of a receiver, and if granted by the superior court, the petition
shall be considered an appropriate means of complying with the ordinance. In
the event the superior court does not grant the petition, the public officer
and the City Council may take action pursuant to the ordinance in any manner
authorized in G.S. 160D-1129.
      4.   The owner fails to comply with an order to repair, alter, or
improve, remove, or demolish a dwelling issued under G.S. 160D-1203, related to
dwellings that are unfit for human habitation.
      5.   Any owner or partial owner of a vacant building, structure, or
dwelling, with or without the consent of other owners of the property, submits
a request to the City Council in the form of a sworn affidavit requesting the
City Council to petition the superior court for appointment of a receiver for
the property pursuant to this section.
   B.   Petition for Appointment of Receiver. The petition for the appointment
of a receiver shall include all of the following:
      1.   A copy of the original violation notice or order issued by the city
or, in the case of an owner request to the City Council for a petition for
appointment of a receiver, a verified pleading that avers that at least one
owner consents to the petition;
      2.   A verified pleading that avers that the required rehabilitation or
demolition has not been completed; and
      3.   The names of the respondents, which shall include the owner of the
property, as recorded with the McDowell County Office of the Register of Deeds,
any mortgagee with a recorded interest in the property, and all other parties
in interest, as defined in G.S. 160D-1202 (2). If the petition fails to name a
respondent as required by this subsection, the proceeding may continue, but the
receiver's lien for expenses incurred in rehabilitating, demolishing, or
selling the vacant building, structure, or dwelling, as authorized by
subsection (F) of this section, does not have priority over the lien of that
respondent.
   C.   Notice of Proceeding. Within ten (10) days after filing the petition,
the city shall give notice of the pendency and nature of the proceeding by
regular and certified mail to the last known address of all owners of the
property, as recorded with the McDowell County Office of the Register of Deeds,
any mortgagee with a recorded interest in the property, and all other parties
in interest, as defined in G.S. 160D-1202(2). Within 30 days of the date on
which the notice was mailed, an owner of the property, as recorded with the
McDowell County Office of the Register of Deeds, any mortgagee with a recorded
interest in the property, and all other parties in interest, as defined in G.S.
160D-1202(2), may apply to intervene in the proceeding and to be appointed as
receiver. If the City fails to give notice to any owner of the property, as
recorded with the McDowell County Office of the Register of Deeds, any
mortgagee with a recorded interest in the property, and all other parties in
interest, as defined in G.S. 160D-1202(2), as required by this subsection, the
proceeding may continue, but the receiver's lien for expenses incurred in
rehabilitating, demolishing, or selling the vacant building, structure, or
dwelling, as authorized by subsection (F) of this section, does not have
priority over the lien of that owner, as recorded with the register of deeds,
any mortgagee with a recorded interest in the property, and all other parties
in interest, as defined in G.S. 160D-1202(2).
   D.   Appointment of Receiver. The court shall appoint a qualified receiver
if the provisions of subsections (B) and (C) of this section have been
satisfied. If the court does not appoint a person to rehabilitate or demolish
the property pursuant to subsection (E) of this section, or if the court
dismisses such an appointee, the court shall appoint a qualified receiver for
the purpose of rehabilitating and managing the property, demolishing the
property, or selling the property to a buyer. To be considered qualified, a
receiver must demonstrate to the court:
      1.   The financial ability to complete the purchase or rehabilitation of
the property,
      2.   The knowledge of, or experience in, the rehabilitation of vacant
real property,
      3.   The ability to obtain any necessary insurance, and
      4.   The absence of any building code violations issued by the city on
other real property owned by the person or any member, principal, officer,
major stockholder, parent, subsidiary, predecessor, or others affiliated with
the person or the person's business. No member of City Council or the public
officer is qualified to be appointed as a receiver in that action. If, at any
time, the court determines that the receiver is no longer qualified, the court
may appoint another qualified receiver.
   E.   Rehabilitation Not by Receiver. The court may, instead of appointing a
qualified receiver to rehabilitate or sell a vacant building, structure, or
dwelling, appoint an owner or other party in interest in the property, as
defined in G.S. 160D-1202, to rehabilitate or demolish the property if that
person:
      1.   Demonstrates the ability to complete the rehabilitation or
demolition within a reasonable time,
      2.   Agrees to comply with a specified schedule for rehabilitation or
demolition, and
      3.   Posts a bond in an amount determined by the court as security for
the performance of the required work in compliance with the specified schedule.
After the appointment, the court shall require the person to report to the
court on the progress of the rehabilitation or demolition, according to a
schedule determined by the court. If, at any time, it appears to the city that
the owner, mortgagee, or other person appointed under this subsection is not
proceeding with due diligence or in compliance with the court-ordered schedule,
the city may apply to the court for immediate revocation of that person's
appointment and for the appointment of a qualified receiver. If the court
revokes the appointment and appoints a qualified receiver, the bond posted by
the owner, mortgagee, or other person shall be applied to the receiver's
expenses in rehabilitating, demolishing, or selling the vacant building,
structure, or dwelling.
   F.   Receiver Authority Exclusive. Upon the appointment of a receiver under
subsection (D) of this section and after the receiver records a notice of
receivership in the office of the McDowell County Register of Deeds that
identifies the property, all other parties are divested of any authority to
collect rents or other income from or to rehabilitate, demolish, or sell the
building, structure, or dwelling subject to the receivership. Any party other
than the appointed receiver who actively attempts to collect rents or other
income from or to rehabilitate, demolish, or sell the property may be held in
contempt of court and is subject to the penalties authorized by law for that
offense. Any costs or fees incurred by a receiver appointed under this section
and set by the court constitute a lien against the property, and the receiver's
lien has priority over all other liens and encumbrances, except taxes or other
government assessments.
   G.   Receiver's Authority to Rehabilitate or Demolish. In addition to all
necessary and customary powers, a receiver appointed to rehabilitate or
demolish a vacant building, structure, or dwelling has the right of possession
with authority to do all of the following:
      1.   Contract for necessary labor and supplies for rehabilitation or
demolition.
      2.   Borrow money for rehabilitation or demolition from an approved
lending institution or through a governmental agency or program, using the
receiver's lien against the property as security.
      3.   Manage the property prior to rehabilitation or demolition and pay
operational expenses of the property, including taxes, insurance, utilities,
general maintenance, and debt secured by an interest in the property.
      4.   Collect all rents and income from the property, which shall be used
to pay for current operating expenses and repayment of outstanding
rehabilitation or demolition expenses.
      5.   Manage the property after rehabilitation, with all the powers of a
landlord, for a period of up to two years and apply the rent received to
current operating expenses and repayment of outstanding rehabilitation or
demolition expenses.
      6.   Foreclose on the receiver's lien or accept a deed in lieu of
foreclosure.
   H.   Receiver's Authority to Sell.  In addition to all necessary and
customary powers, a receiver appointed to sell a vacant building, structure, or
dwelling may do all of the following: (i) sell the property to the highest
bidder at public sale, following the same presale notice provisions that apply
to a mortgage foreclosure under Article 2A of Chapter 45 of the General
Statutes, and (ii) sell the property privately for fair market value if no
party to the receivership objects to the amount and procedure. In the notice of
public sale authorized under this subsection, it is sufficient to describe the
property by a street address and reference to the book and page or other
location where the property deed is registered. Prior to any sale under this
subsection, the applicants to bid in the public sale or the proposed buyer in
the private sale shall demonstrate the ability and experience needed to
rehabilitate the property within a reasonable time. After deducting the
expenses of the sale, the amount of outstanding taxes and other government
assessments, and the amount of the receiver's lien, the receiver shall apply
any remaining proceeds of the sale first to the city's costs and expenses,
including reasonable attorneys' fees, and then to the liens against the
property in order of priority.
Any remaining proceeds shall be remitted to the property owner.
   I.   Receiver Forecloses on Lien. A receiver may foreclose on the lien
authorized by subsection (F) of this section by selling the property subject to
the lien at a public sale, following public notice and notice to interested
parties in the manner as a mortgage foreclosure under Article 2A of Chapter 45
of the General Statutes. After deducting the expenses of the sale and the
amount of any outstanding taxes and other government assessments, the receiver
shall apply the proceeds of the sale to the liens against the property, in
order of priority. In lieu of foreclosure, and only if the receiver has
rehabilitated the property, an owner may pay the receiver's costs, fees,
including reasonable attorneys' fees, and expenses or may transfer ownership in
the property to either the receiver or an agreed upon third party for an amount
agreed to by all parties to the receivership as being the property's fair
market value.
   J.   Deed After Sale. Following the court's ratification of the sale of the
property under this section, the receiver shall sign a deed conveying title to
the property to the buyer, free and clear of all encumbrances, other than
restrictions that run with the land. Upon the sale of the property, the
receiver shall at the same time file with the court a final accounting and a
motion to dismiss the action.
   K.   Receiver's Tenure. The tenure of a receiver appointed to rehabilitate,
demolish, or sell a vacant building, structure, or dwelling shall extend no
longer than two years after the rehabilitation, demolition, or sale of the
property. Any time after the rehabilitation, demolition, or sale of the
property, any party to the receivership may file a motion to dismiss the
receiver upon the payment of the receiver's outstanding costs, fees, and
expenses. Upon the expiration of the receiver's tenure, the receiver shall file
a final accounting with the court that appointed the receiver.
   L.   Administrative Fee Charged. The city may charge the owner of the
building, structure, or dwelling subject to the receivership an administrative
fee that is equal to five percent (5%) of the profits from the sale of the
building, structure, or dwelling or one hundred dollars ($100.00), whichever is
less.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
ARTICLE IV.
MINIMUM HOUSING AND UNSAFE STRUCTURES
Sec. 7-4.1. Findings; purpose.
   A.   It is hereby found and declared that there exist in this city dwelling
units which are unfit for human habitation due to deterioration, dilapidation,
defects increasing the hazards of fire, accidents and other calamities, lack of
ventilation, light and sanitary facilities, and due to other conditions
rendering such dwellings unsafe or unsanitary, and dangerous and detrimental to
the health, safety and morals, and otherwise harmful to the welfare of the
residents of the city.
   B.   In order to protect the health, safety and welfare of the residents of
the city this article hereby establishes and provides for administration of
minimum standards of fitness for the initial and continued occupancy of all
buildings used for human habitation.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 7-4.2. Definitions.
   The following terms shall have the meanings whenever used or referred to as
indicated when used in this Article unless a different meaning clearly appears
from the context:
   Owner. The holder of the title in fee simple and every mortgagee of record.
   Parties in interest.  All individuals, associations, and corporations who
have interests of record in a dwelling and any who are in possession thereof.
   Public officer.  The officer or officers who are authorized by ordinances
adopted hereunder to exercise the powers prescribed by the ordinances and by
this Article.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 7-4.3. Responsibilities of owners and occupants.
   A.   Shared/public areas. Every owner of a dwelling unit shall maintain in a
clean and sanitary condition the shared or public areas of the dwelling and
premises thereof.
   B.   Cleanliness. Every occupant of a dwelling unit shall keep in a clean
and sanitary condition that part of the dwelling, and premises thereof which he
or she occupies and controls.
   C.   Rubbish, garbage/trash. Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit
shall dispose of all his rubbish and garbage in a clean and sanitary manner by
placing it in the supplied storage facilities. In all cases the owner shall
provide rubbish and garbage storage facilities on the property where the
dwelling unit is located.
   D.   Supplied plumbing fixtures. Every occupant of a dwelling unit shall
keep all supplied plumbing fixtures therein in a clean and sanitary condition
and shall be responsible for the exercise of reasonable care in the proper use
and operation of same.
   E.   Care of facilities, equipment, and structure. No occupant shall
willfully destroy, deface, or impair any of the facilities or equipment, or any
part of the structure of a dwelling or dwelling unit.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 7-4.4. Fitness for dwellings and dwelling units.
   A.   Every dwelling unit used for human habitation, or held for the use of
human habitation, shall comply with the minimum standards of fitness for human
habitation and all of the requirements of the Marion City Code.
   B.   No person shall occupy as owner-occupant, or let to another for
occupancy or use as a human habitation, any dwelling or dwelling unit which
does not comply with all of the minimum standards of fitness for human
habitation and all of the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 7-4.5. Space use and location.
   Room sizes. Every dwelling unit shall contain at least the minimum room size
in each habitable room as required by the state residential building code.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 7-4.6. Structural condition.
   A.   Walls or partitions or supporting members, sills, joists, rafters or
other structural members shall not list, lean or buckle, and shall not be
rotted, deteriorated, or damaged, and shall not have holes or cracks which
might admit rodents.
   B.   Floors and roofs shall have adequate supporting members and strength to
be reasonably safe for the purpose used.
   C.   Foundations, foundation walls, piers or other foundation supports shall
not be deteriorated or damaged.
   D.   Steps, stairs, handrails, landings, porches, or other parts or
appurtenances shall be maintained in such condition that they will not fail or
collapse, and are not missing integral components that insure safety.
   E.   Adequate facilities for egress in case of fire or panic shall be
provided.
   F.   Interior walls and ceilings of all rooms, closets and hallways shall be
finished of suitable materials, which will, by use of reasonable household
methods, promote sanitation and cleanliness, and shall be maintained in such a
manner so as to enable the occupants to maintain reasonable privacy between
various spaces.
   G.   The roof, flashings, exterior walls, basement walls, floors, and all
doors and windows exposed to the weather shall be constructed and maintained so
as to be weathertight and watertight.
   H.   There shall be no chimneys or parts thereof which are defective,
deteriorated or in danger of falling, or in such condition or location as to
constitute a fire hazard.
   I.   There shall be no use of the ground for floors, or wood floors on the
ground.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 7-4.7. Safe and sanitary maintenance.
   A.   Exterior foundation, walls, and roofs. Every foundation wall, exterior
wall, and exterior roof shall be substantially weathertight and rodent proof;
shall be kept in sound condition and good repair; shall be capable of affording
privacy; and shall be safe to use and capable of supporting the load which
normal use may cause to be placed thereon. Every exterior wall shall be
protected with paint or other protective covering to prevent the entrance or
penetration of moisture or the weather.
   B.   Interior floor, walls, and ceilings. Every floor, interior wall, and
ceiling shall be substantially rodent proof; shall be kept in sound condition
and good repair; and shall be safe to use and capable of supporting the load
which normal use may cause to be placed thereon.
   C.   Windows and doors. Every window, exterior door, basement or cellar
door, and attic door shall be substantially weathertight, watertight, and
rodent proof; and shall be kept in sound working condition and good repair.
   D.   Stairs, porches, and appurtenances. Every inside and outside stair,
porch, and any appurtenance thereto shall be safe to use and capable of
supporting the load that normal use may cause to be placed thereon, and shall
be kept in sound condition and good repair.
   E.   Bathroom floors. Every bathroom floor surface shall be constructed and
maintained so as to be reasonably impervious to water and so as to permit such
floor to be easily kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
   F.   Supplied facilities. Every supplied facility, piece of equipment, or
utility which is required under this article shall be so constructed or
installed that it will function safely and effectively, and shall be maintained
in satisfactory working condition.
   G.   Egress. Every dwelling unit shall be provided with adequate means of
egress as required by the city's building code.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 7-4.8. Plumbing systems.
   A.   Each dwelling unit shall be connected to a potable water supply and to
the public sewer or other approved sewage disposal system.
   B.   Each dwelling unit shall contain not less than a kitchen sink,
lavatory, tub or shower, toilet, and adequate supply of both cold water and hot
water. All water shall be supplied through an approved pipe distribution system
connected to a potable water supply.
   C.   All plumbing fixtures shall meet the standards of the city's plumbing
code and shall be maintained in a state of good repair and in good working
order.
   D.   All required plumbing fixtures shall be located within the dwelling
unit and be accessible to the occupants of same. The toilet and tub or shower
shall be located in a room or rooms affording privacy to the user.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 7-4.9. Heating systems.
   Every dwelling and dwelling unit leased to one or more occupants shall have
facilities for providing heat in accordance with either subsection (A) or (B)
of this section.
   A.   Central and electric heating systems. Every dwelling shall have a
central or electric heating system or sufficient chimneys, flues, or gas vents,
with heating appliances connected and shall be of sufficient capacity so as to
heat at least one habitable room, excluding kitchen, in every unit to which it
is connected with a minimum temperature of 68 degrees Fahrenheit measured at a
point three feet above the floor with an outside temperature of 20 degrees
Fahrenheit.
   B.   Other heating facilities. Portable kerosene heaters are not acceptable
as a permanent source of heat as required by subsection (A) of this section but
may be used as a supplementary source in single family dwellings and duplex
units. An owner who has complied with subsection (A) shall not be held in
violation of this section where the occupant of a dwelling uses a kerosene
heater as a primary source of heat.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 7-4.10. Electrical systems.
   A.   The minimum capacity of the service supply and the main disconnect
switch shall be sufficient to adequately carry the load required in accordance
with the state electrical code.
   B.   Every dwelling unit shall be wired for electric lights and convenience
receptacles. Every habitable room shall contain at least two floor or wall-type
electric convenience receptacles, connected in such manner as determined by the
state electrical code. There shall be installed in every bathroom, laundry room
and furnace room at least one supplied ceiling, or wall-type electric light
fixture. If wall or ceiling light fixtures are not provided in any habitable
room, then each such habitable room shall contain at least three floor or wall-
type electric convenience receptacles in safe and working condition.
   C.   All fixtures, receptacles, equipment and wiring shall be maintained in
a state of good repair, safe, capable of being used, and installed in
accordance with the state electrical code.
   D.   No extension cords shall be spliced or used as fixed wiring of a
dwelling. Electrical odor, flickering lights, visibly frayed wiring, broken
switch plates or outlets or failure of circuit tester check shall be evidence
of an unsafe electrical system.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 7-4.11. Control of insects, rodents, and infestations.
   A.   Extermination. Every occupant of a dwelling containing a single
dwelling unit shall be responsible for the extermination of any insects,
rodents, or other pests therein or on the premises; and every occupant of a
dwelling unit in a dwelling containing more than one dwelling unit shall be
responsible for such extermination whenever his dwelling unit is the only one
infested. Whenever infestation is caused by failure of the owner to maintain a
dwelling in a rodent-proof and reasonably insect-proof condition, extermination
shall be the responsibility of the owner. Whenever infestation exists in two or
more of the dwelling units in any dwelling or in the shared or public parts of
any dwelling containing two or more dwelling units, extermination shall be the
responsibility of the owner.
   B.   Rubbish/garbage storage and disposal. Every dwelling unit shall be
supplied with facilities for the storage of rubbish as required by city
ordinances, and the owner, operator or agent in control of such dwelling unit
shall be responsible for the removal of rubbish.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 7-4.12. Fire protection and safety.
   Every dwelling unit shall be provided, by the owner, an approved smoke
detector on each level of the dwelling and in all stairwells, hallways, and
other common areas of multiple unit dwellings. A dwelling unit that utilizes
gas shall also be provided with a carbon monoxide detector. Detectors shall be
installed in accordance with the manufacturer's recommendations and listing and
when activated shall provide an audible alarm. The detector shall be listed in
accordance with Underwriters Laboratories Listing 217 ("Single and Multiple
Station Smoke Detectors"). Safety standards for detectors recommend that these
should be tested on an annual basis at a minimum.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 7-4.13. Violations; penalty.
   A.   No owner of any dwelling or dwelling unit shall fail, neglect, or
refuse to repair, alter, or improve the same, or to vacate and close and remove
or demolish the same, upon order of the Building Inspector duly made and served
as provided in this chapter, within the time specified in the order, and each
day that the failure, neglect, or refusal to comply with the order continues
shall constitute a separate and distinct offense. No owner of any dwelling or
dwelling unit, with respect to which an order has been issued pursuant to Sec.
7-4.20 to occupy or permit the occupancy of the same after the time prescribed
in such order for its repair, alteration or improvement or its vacation and
closing, and each day that such occupancy continues after such prescribed time
shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
   B.    The violation of any provision of this article shall constitute a
Class 1 misdemeanor, as provided by G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 7-4.14. Unsafe conditions.
   Pursuant to G.S. 160D-1119 and G.S. 160D-1129 a residential or non-
residential building or structure shall be declared by the Chief Building
Official to be unsafe and dangerous and injurious to public health, safety, and
welfare, if the Inspector finds any of the following conditions exist:
   A.   No operating heating facilities that would maintain a minimum room
temperature of 68 degrees at a point three feet from the floor in all habitable
rooms (residential only).
   B.   No working potable water supply.
   C.   No working hot water supply (residential only).
   D.   No electricity supplied to the building or structure (residential
only).
   E.   Presence of overloaded, non-isolated electrical circuits, or unsafe or
exposed electrical wiring.
   F.   Lack of properly functioning sanitary facilities.
   G.   The presence of raw sewage or open sewer inside the building or
structure whether from broken or plugged fixtures or pipes inside the building
or structure, or migrating into the building or structure from the outside, or
the presence of inadequate ventilation of sewer systems.
   H.   Presence of unsafe structural conditions:
      1.   Foundations, foundation walls, piers or other foundation supports;
exterior walls, interior structural walls, joists, rafters, sills, floors, and
other structural members which are not capable of supporting the load which
normal use would cause to be placed thereon;
      2.   Roofs, flashing, exterior walls, basement walls, foundation walls,
floors, exterior doors, windows, which are not maintained so as to be in good
condition;
      3.   The ground used as a floor or any wood floors that are placed on the
ground (residential only);
      4.   Outside or inside stairs, steps, porches, landings and other parts
or appurtenances which are in such donation as may increase the hazards of
collapse, tripping, falling, rodent or pest infestation, fire or otherwise
endanger the health or safety of the occupants, including broken windows; or
      5.   Lack of exterior doors or exterior doors that lack deadbolt lock and
dead-latch having the ability to retract by a single action (residential only).
   I.   Presence of uncontained flammable or combustible liquids or gases,
poisonous solids, liquids or gases that threaten life or health and that are
the property of the owner or owner's agent.
   J.   Missing portion of roof or ceiling which allows rain or weather, severe
bulging, or large amounts of loose or falling surface materials such as
plaster.
   K.   Chimneys and other heating systems that do not meet minimum standards.
   L.   The building is a physical threat due to the immediate possibility of
collapse.
   M.   The primary means of exit in the event of emergency is structurally
unsafe.
   N.   Interior wall sheathing or sheeting that is not present or has been
removed causing diminished protection from the spread of fire from story to
story or from shared habitable spaces to bedrooms.
   O.   Insulations and weatherproofing which did not meet the state building
code at the time of construction or is not properly maintained.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 7-4.15. Duties of the public officer.
   The Planning and Development Director is hereby designated as the public
officer to enforce the provisions of this article and to exercise the duties
and powers prescribed by the provisions of this chapter. Such officer shall:
   A.   Investigate the dwelling conditions, and inspect dwellings and dwelling
units, located in the city, in order to determine if such dwellings and
dwelling units are unfit for human habitation, and for the purpose of carrying
out the objectives of this chapter with respect to such dwellings and dwelling
units;
   B.   Take such action, together with other appropriate departments and
agencies, public and private, as may be necessary to effect rehabilitation of
housing which is deteriorated;
   C.   Keep a record of the results of inspections made under this chapter and
an inventory of those dwellings that do not meet the minimum standards of
fitness prescribed by this chapter; and
   D.   To perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 7-4.16. Powers of the public officer.
   The Building Inspector is authorized to exercise such powers as may be
necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate the purpose and provisions
of this chapter, including the following powers in addition to others granted
by the provisions of this chapter:
   A.   To investigate the dwelling conditions in the city in order to
determine which dwellings therein are unfit for human habitation;
   B.   To administer oaths and affirmations, examine witnesses and receive
evidence;
   C.   To enter upon premises for the purpose of making examinations and
inspections; provided, such entries shall be made in such manner as to cause
the least possible inconvenience to the persons in possession; and
   D.   To appoint and fix the duties of such officers, agents, and employees
as he deems necessary to carry out the purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 7-4.17. Right of access.
   A.   For the purpose of making inspections, the Inspector is hereby
authorized to enter, examine, and survey at all reasonable times all dwellings,
dwelling units, rooming units and premises. The owner or occupant of every
dwelling, dwelling unit, or rooming unit, or the person in charge thereof,
shall give the Inspector free access to such dwelling, dwelling unit, or
rooming unit and its premises at all reasonable times for the purposes of such
inspection, examination, and survey.
   B.   Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall give the owner
thereof, or his agent or employee, access to any part of such dwelling or
dwelling unit, and its premises, at all reasonable times for the purpose of
making such repairs or alterations as are necessary to effect compliance with
the provisions of this article or with any lawful order issued pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 7-4.18. Methods of service of complaints and orders.
   A.   Complaints or orders issued by the public officer shall be served upon
persons either personally or by registered or certified mail. When service is
made by registered or certified mail, a copy of the complaint or order many
also be sent by regular mail. Service shall be deemed sufficient if the
registered or certified mail is unclaimed or refused, but the regular mail is
not returned by the post office within 10 days after the mailing. If regular
mail is used, a notice of the pending proceedings shall be posted in a
conspicuous place on the premises affected.
   B.   If the identities of any owners or the whereabouts of such persons are
unknown and the same cannot be ascertained by the Inspector in the exercise of
reasonable diligence, or if the owners are known but have refused to accept
service by registered or certified mail, the Building Inspector shall make an
affidavit to that effect, and the serving of such complaint or order upon the
owners or other persons may be made by publishing in a newspaper having general
circulation in the city at least once no later than the time at which personal
service would be received. Where service is made by publication, a notice of
the pending proceedings shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises
affected by the complaint or order.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 7-4.19. Preliminary investigation; notice; administrative hearing.
   Whenever a petition is filed with the Inspector by a public authority or by
at least five residents of the city charging that any dwelling or dwelling unit
is unfit for human habitation, or whenever it appears to the Inspector, upon
inspection, that any dwelling or dwelling unit is unfit for human habitation,
the Inspector, if his or her preliminary investigation discloses a basis for
such charges, shall issue and cause to be served upon the owner of and parties
in interest in such dwelling or dwelling unit a complaint stating the charges
and containing a notice that a hearing will be held before the Inspector at a
place therein fixed, not less than ten (10) nor more than 30 days after the
serving of such complaint. The owner of any party in interest shall have the
right to file an answer to the complaint and to appear in person, or otherwise,
and give testimony at the place and time fixed in the complaint. Notice of the
hearing shall also be given to at least one of the persons signing a petition
relating to the dwelling. Any person desiring to do so may attend such hearing
and give evidence relevant to the matter being heard. The rules of evidence
prevailing in courts of law or equity shall not be controlling in hearings
before the Inspector.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 7-4.20. Procedure after hearing.
   A.   After the notice and hearing, the Inspector shall state in writing his
determination whether such dwelling or dwelling unit is unfit for human
habitation, and, if so, whether it is deteriorated or dilapidated.
   B.   If the public officer determines that the dwelling or dwelling unit is
deteriorated, he shall state in writing his findings of fact in support of that
determination, and shall issue and cause to be served upon the owner thereof an
order directing and requiring the owner to repair, alter, and improve such
dwelling or dwelling unit to comply with the minimum standards of fitness
established by this article within a specified period of time, not to exceed 90
days. The order may also direct and require the owner to vacate and close such
dwelling or dwelling unit until such repairs, alterations, and improvements
have been made if continued occupancy during the time allowed for repair will
present a significant threat of bodily harm, taking into account the nature of
the necessary repairs, alterations, or improvements; the current state of the
property; and any additional risks due to the presence and capacity of minors
under the age of 18 or occupants with physical or mental disabilities. The
order shall state that the failure to make timely repairs as directed in the
order shall make the dwelling subject to the issuance of an unfit order under
Sec.
7-4.20; or
   C.   If the public officer determines that the dwelling is dilapidated, the
officer shall state in writing the findings of fact to support such
determination, and shall issue and cause to be served upon the owner thereof an
order directing and requiring the owner to vacate and close the dwelling, and
to remove or demolish the same within a specified period of time, not to exceed
90 days.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 7-4.21. Failure to comply with order of building inspector.
   A.   If the owner of any deteriorated dwelling shall fail to comply with an
order of the Inspector to repair, alter, or improve the same within the time
specified therein, or if the owner of a dilapidated dwelling shall fail to
comply with an order of the public officer to vacate and close, and remove or
demolish the same within the time specified therein, the officer shall submit
to the city council at its next regular meeting an ordinance authorizing the
officer to proceed to effectuate the purpose of this Article with respect to
the particular property or properties which the officer shall have found to be
unfit for habitation and which property or properties shall be described in the
ordinance. No such ordinance shall be adopted to require demolition of a
dwelling until the owner has first been given a reasonable opportunity to bring
the dwelling or dwelling unit into conformity with the housing code. This
ordinance shall be recorded in the office of the register of deeds in McDowell
County and shall be indexed in the name of the property owner in the grantor
index.
   B.   After failure of an owner of a deteriorated dwelling, or of a
dilapidated dwelling, to comply with an order of the officer within the time
specified therein, if injunctive relief has not been sought or has not been
granted as provided in subsection (a), the officer shall submit to the city
council an ordinance ordering the officer to cause such dwelling to be
repaired, altered, improved, or vacated and closed and removed or demolished,
as provided in the original order of the officer, and pending such removal or
demolition, to placard such dwelling with the following words: "This building
is unfit for human habitation; the use or occupation of this building for human
habitation is prohibited and unlawful." Occupation of a building or structure
so posted shall constitute a Class 1 misdemeanor as provided by G.S. § 160D-
1203.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 7-4.22. Failure to comply with order to vacate a dwelling.
   If any occupant fails to comply with an order to vacate a dwelling, the
public officer may file a civil action in the name of the City of Marion to
remove such occupant. The action to vacate the dwelling shall be in the nature
of summary ejectment and shall be commenced by filing a complaint naming as
parties-defendant any person occupying such dwelling. The clerk of superior
court shall issue a summons requiring the defendant to appear before a
magistrate at a certain time, date and place not to exceed ten (10) days from
the issuance of the summons to answer the complaint. The summons and complaint
shall be served as provided in section 42-29. The summons shall be returned
according to its tenor, and if on its return it appears to have been duly
served, and if at the hearing the public officer produces a certified copy of
an ordinance adopted by the city council pursuant to § 4-128(c) authorizing the
public officer to proceed to vacate the occupied dwelling, the magistrate shall
enter judgment ordering that the premises be vacated and that all persons be
removed. The judgment ordering that the dwelling be vacated shall be enforced
in the same manner as the judgment for summary ejectment entered unto G.S. §
42-30. An appeal from any judgment entered hereunder by the magistrate may be
taken as provided in G.S. § 7A-228, and the execution of such judgment may be
stayed as provided in G.S. § 7A-227. An action to remove an occupant of a
dwelling who is a tenant of the owner may not be in the nature of a summary
ejectment proceeding pursuant to this paragraph unless such occupant was served
with notice at least thirty (30) days before the filing of the summary
ejectment proceeding that the city council has ordered the public officer to
proceed to exercise his duties under section
7-4.15 of this article to vacate and close or remove and demolish the dwelling.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 7-4.23. Minimum housing appeals.
   A.   An appeal from any decision or order of the public officer may be taken
by any person who is the subject of the decision or order. Any appeal from the
public officer shall be taken within ten (10) days from issuance of the
decision or notice of the order, and shall be taken by filing a written notice
of appeal with the city clerk and the planning and development department which
shall specify the grounds upon which the appeal is based.
   B.   Upon the filing of any notice of appeal, the public officer shall
forthwith transmit to the City Council all papers constituting the record upon
which the decision appealed from was made. When an appeal is from a decision of
the public officer refusing to allow the person aggrieved thereby to do any
act, his decision shall remain in force until modified or reversed.
   C.   The City Council shall hear the appeal in accordance with G.S. 160D-406
and Sec.
7-3.9.
   D.   The City Council shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of all
appeals, shall give due notice to all the parties pursuant to Sec.
7-3.9 and shall render its decision within a reasonable time. Any party may
appear in person or by agent or attorney. The City Council may reverse or
affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the decision or order appealed from,
and may make such decision and order as in its opinion ought to be made in the
matter, and to that end it shall have all the powers of the public officer, but
the concurring vote of four members of the City Council shall be necessary to
reverse or modify any decision or order of the public officer.
   E.   The City Council shall have power also in passing upon appeals, in any
case where there are practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships in the way
of carrying out the strict letter of the ordinance, to adapt the application of
the ordinance to the necessities of the case to the end that the spirit of the
ordinance shall be observed, public safety and welfare secured, and substantial
justice done.
   F.   Every decision of the City Council shall be subject to review by
proceedings in the nature of certiorari instituted within fifteen (15) days of
the decision of the City Council, but not otherwise.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 7-4.24. Petition to superior court.
   Any person aggrieved by an order issued by the Building Inspector or a
decision rendered by the housing appeals board may petition the superior court
for an injunction restraining the public officer from carrying out the order or
decision and the court may, upon such petition, issue a temporary injunction
restraining the public officer pending a final disposition of the cause. The
petition shall be filed within thirty (30) days after issuance of the order or
rendering of the decision. Hearings shall be had by the court on a petition
within twenty (20) days, and shall be given preference over other matters on
the court's calendar. The court shall hear and determine issues raised and
shall enter such final order or decree as law and justice may require. It shall
not be necessary to file bond in any amount before obtaining a temporary
injunction under this article or G.S. § 160D-1208(d).
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 7-4.25. Lien for costs.
   A.   The amount of the costs of repairs, alterations or improvements, or
vacating and closing, or removal or demolition by the public officer shall be a
lien against the real property upon which the cost was incurred, which lien
shall be filed, have the same priority, and be collected as the lien for
special assessments provided in Article 10 of Chapter 160A of the North
Carolina General Statutes.
   B.   If the dwelling is removed or demolished by the public officer, he
shall sell the materials of the dwelling, and any personal property, fixtures
or appurtenances found in or attached to the dwelling, and shall credit the
proceeds of the sale against the cost of the removal or demolition and any
balance remaining shall be deposited in the superior court by the public
officer, shall be secured in a manner directed by the court, and shall be
disbursed by the court to the persons found to be entitled thereto by final
order or decree of the court.
   C.   Nothing in this section shall be construed to impair or limit in any
way the power of the City of Marion to define and declare nuisances and to
cause their removal or abatement by summary proceedings, or otherwise.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Chapter 8
ENVIRONMENTAL AND CULTURAL PROTECTION
   Art. I. Flood Damage Prevention, §§ 8-1.1--8-1.20
   Art. II. Lake James Watershed Protection, §§ 8-2.1--8-2.16
   Art. III. Historic Preservation Commission, §§ 8-3.1--8-3.21
ARTICLE I.
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Sec. 8-1.1. Authority.
   The Legislature of the State of North Carolina has in Part 6, Article 21 of
Chapter 143; Article 6 of Chapter 153A; Article 8 of Chapter 160A; and Article
7, 9, and 11 of Chapter 160D of the North Carolina General Statutes, delegated
to local governmental nnits the authority to adopt regulations designed to
promote the public health, safety, and general welfare. Therefore, the City
Council of the City of Marion, North Carolina, does ordain as follows.
(Ord. No. O-23-04-18-3, § 1, 4-18-23)
Sec. 8-1.2. Findings of fact.
   A.   The flood prone areas within the jurisdiction of the City of Marion are
subject to periodic inundation, which results in loss of life, property, health
and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services,
extraordinary public expenditures of flood protection and relief, and
impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the public health,
safety, and general welfare.
   B.   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities and by the
occupancy in flood prone areas of uses vulnerable to floods or other hazards.
(Ord. No. O-23-04-18-3, § 1, 4-18-23)
Sec. 8-1.3. Purpose.
   A.   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water or erosion hazards or that result in damaging increases
in erosion, flood heights or velocities;
   B.   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities that serve
such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   C.   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
   D.   Control filling, grading, dredging, and all other development that may
increase erosion or flood damage; and
   E.   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers that will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(Ord. No. O-23-04-18-3, § 1, 4-18-23)
Sec. 8-1.4. Objectives.
The objectives of the administration and enforcement of the flood damage
prevention regulations are to:
   A.   Protect human life, safety, and health;
   B.   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control projects;
   C.   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   D.   Minimize prolonged business losses and interruptions; minimize damage
to public facilities and utilities (i.e. water and gas mains, electric,
telephone, cable and sewer lines, streets, and bridges) that are located in
flood prone areas;
   E.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas;
   F.   Ensure that potential buyers are aware that property is in a special
flood hazard area;
   G.   Minimize damage to private and public property due to flooding; and
   H.   Make flood insurance available to the community through the National
Flood Insurance Program.
(Ord. No. O-23-04-18-3, § 1, 4-18-23)
Sec. 8-1.5. Effect on rights and liabilities under the existing flood damage
prevention ordinance.
   This chapter in part comes forward by re-enactment of some of the provisions
of the flood damage prevention ordinance enacted October 20, 1987 as amended,
and it is not the intention to repeal but rather to re-enact and continue to
enforce without interruption of such existing provisions, so that all rights
and liabilities that have accrued thereunder are reserved and may be enforced.
The enactment of this chapter shall not affect any action, suit or proceeding
instituted or pending. All provisions of the flood damage prevention ordinance
of the City of Marion enacted on October 20, 1987, as amended, which are not
reenacted herein are repealed. The date of the initial flood damage prevention
ordinance for each municipal jurisdiction within McDowell County is May 2,
1988.
(Ord. No. O-23-04-18-3, § 1, 4-18-23)
Sec. 8-1.6. Effect upon outstanding floodplain development permits.
   Nothing herein contained shall require any change in the plans,
construction, size, or designated use of any development or any part thereof
for which a floodplain development permit has been granted by the Floodplain
Administrator or his or her authorized agents before the time of passage of
this chapter; provided, however, that when construction is not begun under such
outstanding permit within a period of six (6) months subsequent to the date of
issuance of the outstanding permit, construction or use shall be in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. No. O-23-04-18-3, § 1, 4-18-23)
Sec. 8-1.7. Lands to which this chapter applies.
   The flood damage prevention regulations shall apply to all special flood
hazard areas within the jurisdiction including extra-territorial jurisdictions
(ETJs), as allowed by law, of the City of Marion and within the jurisdiction of
any other community whose governing body agrees, by resolution, to such
applicability.
(Ord. No. O-23-04-18-3, § 1, 4-18-23)
Sec. 8-1.8. Basis for establishing the special flood hazard areas.
   The special flood hazard areas are those identified under the Cooperating
Technical State (CTS) agreement between the State of North Carolina and FEMA in
its flood insurance study (FIS). This is dated October 2, 2008 for McDowell
County along with its accompanying flood insurance rate map (FIRM), and
associated digital flood insurance rate map (DFIRM) panels. This includes any
digital data developed as part of the FIS, which are adopted by reference and
declared to be a part of this chapter, and all revisions thereafter.
(Ord. No. O-23-04-18-3, § 1, 4-18-23)
Sec. 8-1.9. Establishment of floodplain development permit.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities within special flood hazard areas determined in accordance with the
provisions of Sec.
8-1.8 of this chapter.
(Ord. No. O-23-04-18-3, § 1, 4-18-23)
Sec. 8-1.10. Compliance.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted,
altered, or developed in any way without full compliance with the terms of this
chapter and other applicable regulations.
(Ord. No. O-23-04-18-3, § 1, 4-18-23)
Sec. 8-1.11. Abrogation and greater restrictions.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions
shall prevail.
(Ord. No. O-23-04-18-3, § 1, 4-18-23)
Sec. 8-1.12. Interpretation.
   In the interpretation and application of this article, all provisions shall
be:
   A.   Considered as minimum requirements;
   B.   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   C.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under state
statutes.
(Ord. No. O-23-04-18-3, § 1, 4-18-23)
Sec. 8-1.13. Warning and disclaimer of liability.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
consideration. Larger floods can and will occur. Actual flood heights may be
increased by manmade or natural causes. This chapter does not imply that land
outside the special flood hazard areas or uses permitted within such areas will
be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not create liability
on the part of the City of Marion or by any officer or employee thereof for any
flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative
decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. No. O-23-04-18-3, § 1, 4-18-23)
Sec. 8-1.14. Penalties for violation.
   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
its requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with grants of variance or special use, shall constitute a Class
1 misdemeanor pursuant to G.S. 143-215.58. Any person who violates this article
or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof,
be fined not more than fifty dollars ($50.00) or imprisoned for not more than
thirty (30) days, or both. Each day such violation continues shall be
considered a separate offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the City
of Marion from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or
remedy any violation.
(Ord. No. O-23-04-18-3, § 1, 4-18-23)
Sec. 8-1.15. Administration.
   A.   Floodplain administration. The Planning Director, hereinafter referred
to as the "Floodplain Administrator", is hereby appointed to administer and
implement the provisions of this chapter. In instances where the Floodplain
Administrator receives assistance from others to complete tasks to administer
and implement this chapter, the Floodplain Administrator shall be responsible
for the coordination and community's overall compliance with the National Flood
Insurance Program and the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Floodplain development permit.
      1.   A floodplain development permit must be obtained in accordance with
the provisions of the UDO prior to the commencement of any development
activities within special flood hazard areas.
      2.   Application requirements. The following items shall be presented to
the Floodplain Administrator to apply for a floodplain development permit:
         a.   A plot plan drawn to scale, which shall include, but shall not be
limited to, the following specific details of the proposed floodplain
development:
            i.   The nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the area
of development/disturbance; existing and proposed structures; utility systems;
grading/pavement areas; fill materials; storage areas; drainage facilities; and
other development;
            ii.   The boundary of the special flood hazard area or future
conditions flood hazard area as delineated on the FIRM or other flood map as
determined in Section
8-1.8, or a statement that the entire lot is within the special flood hazard
area;
            iii.   Flood zone(s) designation of the proposed development area
as shown on the FIRM or other flood map as determined in Sec.
8-1.8; Sec.
8-1.5; or Sec.
8-1.19.C.
            iv.   The boundary of the floodway(s) or non-encroachment area(s)
as determined in Section
8-1.8; the base flood elevation (BFE) where provided as set forth in Sec.
8-1.8;
            v.   The old and new location of any watercourse that will be
altered or relocated as a result of proposed development;
            vi.   Certification of the plot plan by a registered land surveyor
or professional engineer.
         b.   Proposed elevation, and method thereof, of all development within
a special flood hazard area including but not limited to:
            i.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the proposed
reference level (including basement) of all structures;
            ii.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any
nonresidential structure in zone AE or A will be floodproofed; and
            iii.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any
proposed
utility systems will be elevated or floodproofed.
         c.   If floodproofing, a floodproofing certificate (FEMA Form 086-0-
34) with supporting data and an operational plan that includes, but is not
limited to, installation, exercise, and maintenance of floodproofing measures.
         d.   A foundation plan, drawn to scale, which shall include details of
the proposed foundation system to ensure all provisions of this chapter are
met. These details include but are not limited to:
            i.   The proposed method of elevation, if applicable (i.e., fill,
solid foundation perimeter wall, solid backfilled foundation, open foundation
on columns/posts/piers/piles/shear walls); and
            ii.   Openings to facilitate automatic equalization of hydrostatic
flood forces on walls in accordance with Section
8-1.19A.4 when solid foundation perimeter walls are used in Zones A or AE.
         e.   Usage details of any enclosed areas below the lowest floor.
         f.   Plans and/or details for the protection of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems to be located and
constructed to minimize flood damage.
         g.   Copies of all other local, state and federal permits required
prior to floodplain development permit issuance (wetlands, endangered species,
erosion and sedimentation control, riparian buffers, mining, etc.).
         h.   Documentation for placement of recreational vehicles and/or
temporary structures, when applicable, to ensure that the provisions of Sec.
8-1.19, subsections B.6 and B.7 of this chapter are met.
         i.   A description of proposed watercourse alteration or relocation,
when applicable, including an engineering report on the effects of the proposed
project on the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse and the effects to
properties located both upstream and downstream; and a map showing the location
of the proposed watercourse alteration or relocation.
   C.   Permit requirements. The floodplain development permit shall include,
but not be limited to:
      1.   A complete description of all the development to be permitted under
the floodplain development permit (e.g. house, garage, pool, septic, bulkhead,
cabana, pier, bridge, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation,
drilling operations, or storage of materials, etc.).
      2.   The special flood hazard area determination for the proposed
development in accordance with available data specified in Sec.
8-1.8.
      3.   The regulatory flood protection elevation required for the reference
level and all attendant utilities.
      4.   The regulatory flood protection elevation required for the
protection of all public utilities.
      5.   All certification submittal requirements with timelines.
      6.   A statement that no fill material or other development shall
encroach into the floodway or non-encroachment area of any watercourse, as
applicable.
      7.   The flood openings requirements, if in zones A, AE or A1-30.
      8.   Limitations of below BFE enclosure uses (if applicable) (i.e.,
parking, building access and limited storage only).
      9.   A statement, that all materials below BFE must be flood resistant
materials.
(Ord. No. O-23-04-18-3, § 1, 4-18-23)
Sec. 8-1.16. Certification of floor elevation and flood-proofing.
   A.   Elevation certificate.
      1.   An elevation certificate (FEMA Form 086-0-33) is required prior to
the actual start of any new construction. It shall be the duty of the permit
holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the
elevation of the reference level, in relation to mean sea level. The Floodplain
Administrator shall review the certificate data submitted. Deficiencies
detected by such review shall be corrected by the permit holder prior to the
beginning of construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure to
make required corrections shall be cause to deny a floodplain development
permit.
      2.   An elevation certificate (FEMA Form 086-0-33) is required after the
reference level is established. Within seven (7) calendar days of establishment
of the reference level elevation, it shall be the duty of the permit holder to
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the elevation of the
reference level, in relation to mean sea level. Any work done within the seven
(7)-day calendar period and prior to submission of the certification shall be
at the permit holder's risk. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the
certificate data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be
corrected by the permit holder immediately and prior to further work being
permitted to proceed. Failure to submit the certification or failure to make
required corrections shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the project.
      3.   A final as-built elevation certificate (FEMA Form 086-0-33) is
required after construction is completed and prior to certificate of
compliance/occupancy issuance. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of final as-built
construction of the elevation of the reference level and all attendant
utilities. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data
submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the
permit holder immediately and prior to certificate of compliance/occupancy
issuance. In some instances, another certification maybe required to certify
corrected as-built construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure
to make required corrections shall be cause to withhold the issuance of a
certificate of compliance/occupancy.
   B.   Floodproofing certificate.
      1.   If non-residential floodproofing is used to meet the regulatory
flood protection elevation requirements, a floodproofing certificate (FEMA Form
086-0-34), with supporting data, an operational plan, and an inspection and
maintenance plan are required prior to the actual start of any new
construction. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to the
Floodplain Administrator a certification of the floodproofed design elevation
of the reference level and all attendant utilities, in relation to mean sea
level. Floodproofing certification shall be prepared by or under the direct
supervision of a professional engineer or architect and certified by same. The
Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data, the operational
plan, and the inspection and maintenance plan. Deficiencies detected by such
review shall be corrected by the applicant prior to permit approval. Failure to
submit the certification or failure to make required corrections shall be cause
to deny a floodplain development permit. Failure to construct in accordance
with the certified design shall be cause to withhold the issuance of a
certificate of compliance/occupancy.
      2.   A final finished construction floodproofing certificate (FEMA Form
086-0-34), with supporting data, an operational plan, and an inspection and
maintenance plan are required prior to the issuance of a certificate of
compliance/occupancy. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to
the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the floodproofed design
elevation of the reference level and all attendant utilities, in relation to
NAVD 1988. Floodproofing certificate shall be prepared by or under the direct
supervision of a professional engineer or architect and certified by same. The
Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data, the operational
plan, and the inspection and maintenance plan. Deficiencies detected by such
review shall be corrected by the applicant prior to certificate of occupancy.
Failure to submit the certification or failure to make required corrections
shall be cause to deny a floodplain development permit. Failure to construct in
accordance with the certified design shall be cause to deny a certificate of
compliance/occupancy.
      3.   Manufactured dwelling. If a manufactured home is placed within zone
A, AE, or A1-30 and the elevation of the chassis is more than thirty-six (36)
inches in height above-grade, an engineered foundation certification is
required in accordance with the provisions of Sec.
8-1.19.B.3.b.
      4.   Watercourse alteration. If a watercourse is to be altered or
relocated, a description of the extent of watercourse alteration or relocation;
a professional engineer's certified report on the effects of the proposed
project on the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse and the effects to
properties located both upstream and downstream; and a map showing the location
of the proposed watercourse alteration or relocation shall all be submitted by
the permit applicant prior to issuance of a floodplain development permit.
   C.   Certification exemptions. The following structures, if located within
zone A, AE or A1-30, are exempt from the elevation/floodproofing certification
requirements specified in items (A) and (B) of this subsection:
      1.   Recreational vehicles meeting requirements of Sec.
8-1.19.B.6.
      2.   Temporary structures meeting requirements Sec.
8-1.19.B.7; and
      3.   Accessory structures less than one hundred fifty (150) square feet
meeting requirements of Sec.
8-1.19.B.8.
   D.   Determinations for existing buildings and structures. For applications
for building permits to improve buildings and structures, including
alterations, movement, enlargement, replacement, repair, change of occupancy,
additions, rehabilitations, renovations, substantial improvements, repairs of
substantial damage, and any other improvement of or work on such buildings and
structures, the Floodplain Administrator, in coordination with the Building
Official, shall:
      1.   Estimate the market value, or require the applicant to obtain an
appraisal of the market value prepared by a qualified independent appraiser, of
the building or structure before the start of construction of the proposed
work; in the case of repair, the market value of the building or structure
shall be the market value before the damage occurred and before any repairs are
made;
      2.   Compare the cost to perform the improvement, the cost to repair a
damaged building to its pre-damaged condition, or the combined costs of
improvements and repairs, if applicable, to the market value of the building or
structure;
      3.   Determine and document whether the proposed work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage; and
      4.   Notify the applicant if it is determined that the work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage and that compliance
with the flood resistant construction requirements of the NC Building Code and
this chapter is required.
(Ord. No. O-23-04-18-3, § 1, 4-18-23)
Sec. 8-1.17. Corrective procedures.
   A.   Violations to be corrected. When the Floodplain Administrator finds
violations of applicable state and local laws, it shall be his or her duty to
notify the owner or occupant of the building of the violation. The owner or
occupant shall immediately remedy each of the violations of law cited in such
notification.
   B.   Actions in event of failure to take corrective action. If the owner of
a building or property shall fail to take prompt corrective action, the
Floodplain Administrator shall give the owner written notice, by certified or
registered mail to the owner's last known address or by personal service,
stating:
      1.   That the building or property is in violation of the floodplain
management regulations;
      2.   That a hearing will be held before the Floodplain Administrator at a
designated place and time, not later than ten (10) days after the date of the
notice, at which time the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or by
counsel and to present arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter; and
      3.   That following the hearing, the Floodplain Administrator may issue
an order to alter, vacate, or demolish the building; or to remove fill as
applicable.
   C.   Order to take corrective action. If, upon a hearing held pursuant to
the notice prescribed above, the Floodplain Administrator shall find that the
building or development is in violation of the flood damage prevention article,
he or she shall issue an order in writing to the owner, requiring the owner to
remedy the violation within a specified time period, not less than sixty (60)
calendar days, nor more than one hundred eighty (180) calendar days. Where the
Floodplain Administrator finds that there is imminent danger to life or other
property, he or she may order that corrective action be taken in such lesser
period as may be feasible.
   D.   Appeal. Any owner who has received an order to take corrective action
may appeal the order to the local elected governing body by giving notice of
appeal in writing to the Floodplain Administrator and the Clerk within ten (10)
days following issuance of the final order. In the absence of an appeal, the
order of the Floodplain Administrator shall be final. The local governing body
shall hear an appeal within a reasonable time and may affirm, modify and
affirm, or revoke the order.
   E.   Failure to comply with order. If the owner of a building or property
fails to comply with an order to take corrective action for which no appeal has
been made or fails to comply with an order of the governing body following an
appeal, the owner shall be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor pursuant to G.S.
143-215.58 and shall be punished at the discretion of the court.
(Ord. No. O-23-04-18-3, § 1, 4-18-23)
Sec. 8-1.18. Variance procedures.
   A.   The Board of Adjustment as established by the City of Marion,
hereinafter referred to as the "Appeal Board", shall hear and decide requests
for variances from the requirements of this chapter.
   B.   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board may appeal
such decision to the court, as provided in Chapter 7A of the North Carolina
General Statutes.
   C.   Variances may be issued for:
      1.   The repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon the
determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the
structure's continued designation as a historic structure and that the variance
is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the
structure;
      2.   Functionally dependent facilities if determined to meet the
definition as stated in Sec.
8-1.20 of this chapter, provided provisions of Sec.
8-1.18.C.1, 2, 3, and 5 have been satisfied, and such facilities are protected
by methods that minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no
additional threats to public safety; or
      3.   And other type of development, provided it meets the requirements of
this section.
   D.   In passing upon variances, the appeal board shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other
sections of this chapter, and:
      1.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      2.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      3.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      4.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      5.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location as defined
under Sec. 8-20 of this chapter as a functionally dependent facility, where
applicable;
      6.   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
      7.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      8.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      9.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      10.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
      11.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and bridges.
   E.   A written report addressing each of the above factors shall be
submitted with the application for a variance.
   F.   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of this
chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes and objectives of this
chapter.
   G.   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation (BFE) and the
elevation to which the structure is to be built and that such construction
below the BFE increases risks to life and property, and that the issuance of a
variance to construct a structure below the BFE will result in increased
premium rates for flood insurance up to twenty-five dollars ($25.00) per one
hundred dollars ($100.00) of insurance coverage. Such notification shall be
maintained with a record of all variance actions, including justification for
their issuance.
   H.   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency and
the State of North Carolina upon request.
   I.   Conditions for variances.
      1.   Variances shall not be issued when the variance will make the
structure in violation of other federal, state, or local laws, regulations, or
ordinances.
      2.   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway or
nonencroachment area if the variance would result in any increase in flood
levels during the base flood discharge.
      3.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      4.   Variances shall only be issued prior to development permit approval.
      5.   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         a.   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         b.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship; and
         c.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, or
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
   J.   A variance may be issued for solid waste disposal facilities or sites,
hazardous waste management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage
facilities that are located in special flood hazard areas provided that all of
the following conditions are met:
      1.   The use serves a critical need in the community.
      2.   No feasible location exists for the use outside the special flood
hazard area.
      3.   The reference level of any structure is elevated or floodproofed to
at least the regulatory flood protection elevation.
      4.   The use complies with all other applicable federal, state and local
laws.
      5.   The City of Marion has notified the Secretary of the North Carolina
Department of Crime Control and Public Safety of its intention to grant a
variance at least thirty (30) calendar days prior to granting the variance.
(Ord. No. O-23-04-18-3, § 1, 4-18-23)
Sec. 8-1.19. Provisions for flood hazard reduction.
   A.   General standards. In all special flood hazard areas, the following
provisions are required:
      1.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be designed
(or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, and
lateral movement of the structure.
      2.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage in
accordance with the FEMA Technical Bulletin 2, Flood Damage-Resistant Materials
Requirements.
      3.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damages.
      4.   All new electrical, heating, ventilation, air-conditioning,
plumbing, duct systems, and other building utility systems, equipment, and
service facilities must be located at or above the regulatory flood protection
elevation (RFPE) and/or specially designed to prevent water from entering or
accumulating within the components and installed to resist hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and stresses, including the effects of buoyancy, during the
occurrence of flooding to the design flood elevation. Utility systems,
equipment, and service facilities include, but are not limited to, HVAC
equipment, water softener units, bath/kitchen plumbing fixtures, ductwork,
electric/gas meter panels/boxes, utility/cable boxes, water heaters, fuel
tanks, and electric outlets/switches.
         a.   Replacement part of a substantial improvement must also meet the
above provisions.
         b.   Replacements that are for maintenance and not part of a
substantial improvement, may be installed at the original location, provided
the addition and/or improvements comply with the standards for new construction
consistent with the code and requirements for the original structure.
      5.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
      6.   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into floodwaters.
      7.   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
      8.   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the repair, reconstruction, or
replacement of a building or structure existing on the effective date of this
chapter and located totally or partially within the floodway, nonencroachment
area, or stream setback, provided there is no additional encroachment below the
regulatory flood protection elevation in the floodway, nonencroachment area, or
stream setback, and provided that such repair, reconstruction, or replacement
meets all of the other requirements of this chapter.
      9.   New solid waste disposal facilities and sites, hazardous waste
management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage facilities shall not
be permitted, except by variance as specified in this section. A structure or
tank for chemical or fuel storage incidental to an allowed use or to the
operation of a water treatment plant or wastewater treatment facility may be
located in a special flood hazard area only if the structure or tank is either
elevated or floodproofed to at least the regulatory flood protection elevation
and certified in accordance with the provisions of Sec.
8-1.16.
      10.   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall be
consistent with the need to minimize flood damage.
      11.   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall
have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water
systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage.
      12.   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall
have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
      13.   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall
have received all necessary permits from those governmental agencies for which
approval is required by federal or state law, including Section 404 of the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. 1334.
      14.   When a structure is partially located in a special flood hazard
area, the entire structure shall meet the requirements for new construction and
substantial improvements.
      15.   When a structure is located in multiple flood hazard zones or in a
flood hazard risk zone with multiple base flood elevations, the provisions for
the more restrictive flood hazard risk zone and the highest base flood
elevation (BFE) shall apply.
      16.   Buildings and structures that are located in more than one flood
hazard area shall comply with the provisions associated with the most
restrictive flood hazard area.
   B.   Specific standards. In all special flood hazard areas where base flood
elevation (BFE) data has been provided, as set forth in Sec.
8-1.8, or Sec.
8-1.19.C, the following provisions, in addition to the provisions of Sec.
8-1.19.A, are required:
      1.   Residential construction. New construction and substantial
improvement of any residential structure (including manufactured homes) shall
have the reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the
regulatory flood protection elevation, as defined in Sec.
8-1.20 of this chapter.
      2.   Non-residential construction. New construction and substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or other non-residential structure
shall have the reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the
regulatory flood protection elevation, as defined in Sec.
8-1.20 of this chapter. Structures located in A, AE, and A1-30 zones may be
floodproofed to the regulatory flood protection elevation in lieu of elevation
provided that all areas of the structure, together with attendant utility and
sanitary facilities, below the regulatory flood protection elevation, are
watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water, using
structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and the effect of buoyancy. A registered professional
engineer or architect shall certify that the floodproofing standards of this
subsection are satisfied. Such certification shall be provided to the
Floodplain Administrator as set forth in Sec.
8-1.16, along with the operational plan and the inspection and maintenance
plan.
      3.   Manufactured homes.
         a.   New and replacement manufactured homes shall be elevated so that
the reference level of the manufactured home is no lower than the regulatory
flood protection elevation, as defined in Sec.
8-1.20 of this article.
         b.   Manufactured homes shall be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement, either
by certified engineered foundation system, or in accordance with the most
current edition of the State of North Carolina Regulations for Manufactured
Homes adopted by the Commissioner of Insurance pursuant to G.S. 143-143.15.
Additionally, when the elevation would be met by an elevation of the chassis
thirty-six (36) inches or less above the grade at the site, the chassis shall
be supported by reinforced piers or engineered foundation. When the elevation
of the chassis is above thirty-six (36) inches in height, an engineering
certification is required.
         c.   All enclosures or skirting below the lowest floor shall meet the
requirements of Sec.
8-1.19.B.4.
         d.   An evacuation plan must be developed for evacuation of all
residents of all new, substantially improved or substantially damaged
manufactured home parks or subdivisions located within flood prone areas. This
plan shall be filed with and approved by the Floodplain Administrator and the
local Emergency Management Coordinator.
      4.   Elevated buildings. Fully enclosed area, of new construction and
substantially improved structures, which is below the lowest floor:
         a.   Shall not be designed or used for human habitation, but shall
only be used for parking of vehicles, building access, or limited storage of
maintenance equipment used in connection with the premises. Access to the
enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow for parking of vehicles
(garage door) or limited storage of maintenance equipment (standard exterior
door), or entry to the living area (stairway or elevator). The interior portion
of such enclosed area shall not be finished or partitioned into separate rooms,
except to enclose storage areas;
         b.   Shall be constructed entirely of flood resistant materials at
least to the regulatory flood protection elevation; and
         c.   Shall include flood openings to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces on walls by allowing for the entry and exit of
floodwaters. To meet this requirement, the openings must either be certified by
a professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the following minimum
design criteria:
            i.   A minimum of two (2) flood openings on different sides of each
enclosed area subject to flooding;
            ii.   The total net area of all flood openings must be at least one
(1) square inch for each square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding;
            iii.   If a building has more than one (1) enclosed area, each
enclosed area must have flood openings to allow floodwaters to automatically
enter and exit;
            iv.   The bottom of all required flood openings shall be no higher
than one (1) foot above the adjacent grade;
            v.   Flood openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other
coverings or devices, provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions; and
            vi.   Enclosures made of flexible skirting are not considered
enclosures for regulatory purposes, and, therefore, do not require flood
openings. Masonry or wood underpinning, regardless of structural status, is
considered an enclosure and requires flood openings as outlined above.
      5.   Additions/improvements.
         a.   Additions and/or improvements to pre-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
            i.   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or
improvements must be designed to minimize flood damages and must not be any
more nonconforming than the existing structure.
            ii.   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and
the addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
         b.   Additions to post-FIRM structures with no modifications to the
existing structure other than a standard door in the common wall shall require
only the addition to comply with the standards for new construction.
         c.   Additions and/or improvements to post-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
            i.   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or
improvements only must comply with the standards for new construction.
            ii.   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and
the addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
         d.   Any combination of repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation,
addition or improvement of a building or structure taking place during a one
(1) year period, the cumulative cost of which equals or exceeds fifty (50)
percent of the market value of the structure before the improvement or repair
is started, must comply with the standards for new construction. For each
building or structure, the one (1) year period begins on the date of the first
improvement or repair of that building or structure subsequent to the effective
date of this chapter. Substantial damage also means flood-related damage
sustained by a structure on two (2) separate occasions during a ten (10)-year
period, for which the cost of repairs at the time of each such flood event, on
the average, equals or exceeds twenty-five (25) percent of the market value of
the structure before the damage occurred. If the structure has sustained
substantial damage, any repairs are considered substantial improvement
regardless of the actual repair work performed. The requirement does not,
however, include either:
            i.   Any project for improvement of a building required to correct
existing health, sanitary, or safety code violations identified by the Building
Official and that are the minimum necessary to assume safe living conditions.
            ii.   Any alteration of a historic structure provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
historic structure.
      6.   Recreational vehicles.
         a.   Temporary placement.
            i.   Be on site for fewer than one hundred eighty (180) consecutive
days and be fully licensed and ready for highway use (a recreational vehicle is
ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to
the site only by quick disconnect type utilities, and has no permanently
attached additions); or
            ii.   Meet all the requirements for new construction.
         b.   No more than two (2) forty (40)-pound LP tanks shall be permitted
per recreational vehicle located within a SHFA designated as "floodway";
campgrounds and other approved sites that provide fuel service to recreational
vehicles shall properly install and anchor all LP tanks in accordance with Sec.
8-1.19.B.9 Tanks, and with the National Fire Protection Association Chapter 58
(NFPA 58) Liquefied Petroleum Gas Code, Ed. 2011 as may be amended.
      7.   Temporary non-residential structures. Prior to the issuance of a
floodplain development permit for a temporary structure, the applicant must
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a plan for the removal of such structure
(s) in the event of a hurricane, flash flood or other type of flood warning
notification. The following information shall be submitted in writing to the
Floodplain Administrator for review and written approval:
         a.   A specified time period for which the temporary use will be
permitted. Time specified may not exceed three (3) months, renewable up to one
(1) year;
         b.   The name, address, and phone number of the individual responsible
for the removal of the temporary structure;
         c.   The time frame prior to the event at which a structure will be
removed (i.e., minimum of seventy-two (72) hours before landfall of a hurricane
or immediately upon flood warning notification);
         d.   A copy of the contract or other suitable instrument with the
entity responsible for physical removal of the structure; and
         e.   Designation, accompanied by documentation, of a location outside
the special flood hazard area, to which the temporary structure will be moved.
      8.   Accessory structures. When accessory structures (sheds, detached
garages, etc.) are to be placed within a special flood hazard area, the
following criteria shall be met:
         a.   Accessory structures shall not be used for human habitation
(including working, sleeping, living, cooking or restroom areas);
         b.   Accessory structures shall not be temperature-controlled;
         c.   Accessory structures shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential;
         d.   Accessory structures shall be constructed and placed on the
building site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
         e.   Accessory structures shall be firmly anchored in accordance with
the provisions of Sec.
8-1.19.A.1;
         f.   All service facilities such as electrical shall be installed in
accordance with the provisions of Sec.
8-1.19.A.4;
         g.   Flood openings to facilitate automatic equalization of
hydrostatic flood forces shall be provided below regulatory flood protection
elevation in conformance with the provisions of subsection
8-1.19.B.4. c; and
         h.   An accessory structure with a footprint less than one hundred
fifty (150) square feet that satisfies the criteria outlined above does not
require an elevation or floodproofing certificate. Elevation or flood-proofing
certifications are required for all other accessory structures in accordance
with subsection
8-1.19.B.4.
      9.   Tanks. When gas and liquid storage tanks are to be placed within a
special flood hazard area, the following criteria shall be met:
         a.   Underground tanks. Underground tanks in flood hazard areas shall
be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads during conditions of the design flood,
including the effects of buoyancy, assuming the tank is empty;
         b.   Above-ground tanks, elevated. Above-ground tanks in flood hazard
areas shall be elevated to or above the regulatory flood protection elevation
on a supporting structure that is designed to prevent flotation, collapse or
lateral movement during conditions of the design flood. Tank-supporting
structures shall meet the foundation requirements of the applicable flood
hazard area;
         c.   Above-ground tanks, not elevated. Above-ground tanks that do not
meet the elevation requirements of Section
8-1.19.B.2 of this chapter shall be permitted in flood hazard areas provided
the tanks are designed, constructed, installed, and anchored to resist all
flood-related and other loads, including the effects of buoyancy, during
conditions of the design flood and without release of contents in the
floodwaters or infiltration by floodwaters into the tanks. Tanks shall be
designed, constructed, installed, and anchored to resist the potential buoyant
and other flood forces acting on an empty tank during design flood conditions.
         d.   Tank inlets and vents. Tank inlets, fill openings, outlets, and
vents shall be:
            i.   At or above the regulatory flood protection elevation or
fitted with covers designed to prevent the inflow of floodwater or outflow of
the contents of the tanks during conditions of the design flood; and
            ii.   Anchored to prevent lateral movement resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy, during
conditions of the design flood.
      10.   Other development.
         a.   Fences in regulated floodways and NEAs that have the potential to
block the passage of floodwaters, such as stockade fences and wire mesh fences,
shall meet the limitations of this chapter.
         b.   Retaining walls, sidewalks and driveways in regulated floodways
and NEAs. Retaining walls, sidewalks, and driveways that involve the placement
of fill in regulated floodways shall meet the limitations of this chapter.
         c.   Roads and watercourse crossings in regulated floodways and NEAs.
Roads and watercourse crossings, including roads, bridges, culverts, low-water
crossings and similar means for vehicles or pedestrians to travel from one (1)
side of a watercourse to the other side, that encroach into regulated floodways
shall meet the limitations of this chapter.
         d.   Commercial storage facilities are not considered "limited
storage" as noted in this chapter, and shall be protected to the regulatory
flood protection elevation as required for commercial structures.
   C.   Standards for floodplains without established base flood elevations.
      1.   Within the special flood hazard areas designated as approximate zone
A and established in Sec.
8-1.7, where no base flood elevation (BFE) data have been provided by FEMA, the
following provisions, in addition to the provisions of Sec.
8-1.19.A shall apply:
      2.   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements or new development shall be permitted within a distance of twenty
(20) feet each side from the top of the bank or five (5) times the width of the
stream, whichever is greater, unless certification with supporting technical
data by a registered professional engineer is provided demonstrating that such
encroachments shall not result in any increase in flood levels during the
occurrence of the base flood discharge.
      3.   The BFE used in determining the regulatory flood protection
elevation shall be determined based on the following criteria:
         a.   When base flood elevation (BFE) data are available from other
sources, all new construction and substantial improvements within such areas
shall also comply with all applicable provisions of this chapter and shall be
elevated or floodproofed in accordance with the general and specific standards
in Sec.
8-1.19.
         b.   When floodway or non-encroachment data are available from a
federal, state, or other source, all new construction and substantial
improvements within floodway and non-encroachment areas shall also comply with
the requirements of Sec.
8-1.19.B and E.
         c.   All subdivision, manufactured home park and other development
proposals shall provide base flood elevation (BFE) data if development is
greater than five (5) acres or has more than fifty (50) lots/manufactured home
sites. Such BFE data shall be adopted by reference in accordance with the
provisions of this article and utilized in implementing this chapter.
         d.   When base flood elevation (BFE) data are not available from a
federal, state, or other source as outlined above, the reference level shall be
elevated or floodproofed (nonresidential) to or above the regulatory flood
protection elevation, as defined in Sec.
8-1.20. All other applicable provisions of Sec.
8-1.19.B. shall also apply.
   D.   Standards for riverine floodplains with BFE but without established
floodways or non-encroachment areas. Along rivers and streams where base flood
elevation (BFE) data is provided by FEMA or is available from another source,
but neither floodway nor non-encroachment areas are identified for a special
flood hazard area on the FIRM or in the FIS report, the following requirements
shall apply to all development within such areas:
      1.   Standards of Sec.
8-1.19 subsections B and C; and
      2.   Until a regulatory floodway or non-encroachment area is designated,
no encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial improvements,
or other development, shall be permitted unless certification with supporting
technical data by a registered professional engineer is provided demonstrating
that the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined with all
other existing and anticipated development, will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood more than one (1) foot at any point within the
community.
   E.   Standards floodways and non-encroachment areas. Areas designated as
floodways or non-encroachment areas are located within the special flood hazard
areas established in Sec.
8-1.8. The floodways and non-encroachment areas are extremely hazardous areas
due to the velocity of floodwaters that have erosion potential and carry debris
and potential projectiles. The following provisions, in addition to the
standards outlined in Sec.
8-1.19 subsections B and C, shall apply to all development within such areas:
      1.   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements and other developments shall be permitted unless:
         a.   It is demonstrated that the proposed encroachment would not
result in any increase in the flood levels during the occurrence of the base
flood, based on hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with
standard engineering practice and presented to the Floodplain Administrator
prior to issuance of floodplain development permit; or
         b.   A conditional letter of map revision (CLOMR) has been approved by
FEMA. A letter of map revision (LOMR) must also be obtained upon completion of
the proposed encroachment.
      2.   If subsection E.1 is satisfied, all development shall comply with
all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of this chapter.
      3.   No manufactured homes shall be permitted, except replacement
manufactured homes in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision,
provided the following provisions are met:
         i.   The anchoring and the elevation standards of subsection
8-1.19.E.3; and
         ii.   The no encroachment standard of subsection
8-1.19.E.1.
(Ord. No. O-23-04-18-3, § 1, 4-18-23)
Sec. 8-1.20. Definitions.
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter
shall be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage
and to give this chapter it's most reasonable application.
   Accessory structure or appurtenant structure. A structure located on the
same parcel of property as the principal structure and the use of which is
incidental to the use of the principal structure. Garages, carports and storage
sheds are common urban accessory structures. Pole barns, hay sheds and the like
qualify as accessory structures on farms, and may or may not be located on the
same parcel as the farm dwelling or shop building.
   Addition. An extension or increase in the floor area or height of an
existing building or structure.
   Alteration of a watercourse. A dam, impoundment, channel relocation, change
in channel alignment, channelization, or change in cross-sectional area of the
channel or the channel capacity, or any other form of modification which may
alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or velocity of the riverine
flow of water during conditions of the base flood.
   Appeal. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator's
interpretation of any provision of this chapter.
   Area of future-conditions flood hazard. The land area that would be
inundated by the one (1) percent-annual-chance (one hundred (100)-year) flood
based on future-conditions hydrology.
   Area of shallow flooding. A designated zone AO or AH on a community's flood
insurance rate map (FIRM) with base flood depths determined to be from one (1)
to three (3) feet. These areas are located where a clearly defined channel does
not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate, and
where velocity flow may be evident.
   Area of special flood hazard. See "special flood hazard area (SFHA)."
   Base flood. The flood having a one (1) percent chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
   Base flood elevation (BFE). A determination of the water surface elevations
of the base flood as published in the flood insurance study. When the BFE has
not been provided in a "special flood hazard area", it may be obtained from
engineering studies available from a federal, state, or other source using FEMA
approved engineering methodologies. This elevation, when combined with the
"freeboard", establishes the "regulatory flood protection elevation."
   Basement. Any area of the building having its floor sub grade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   Building. See "structure."
   Chemical storage facility. A building, portion of a building, or exterior
area adjacent to a building used for the storage of any chemical or chemically
reactive products.
   Design flood. See "regulatory flood protection evaluation."
   Development. Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
   Development activity. Any activity defined as development which will
necessitate a floodplain development permit. This includes buildings,
structures, and non-structural items, including (but not limited to) fill,
bulkheads, piers, pools, docks, landings, ramps, and erosion control/
stabilization measures.
   Digital flood insurance rate map (DFIRM). The digital official map of a
community, issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), on which
both the special flood hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to
the community are delineated.
   Disposal. The discharge, deposit, injection, dumping, spilling, leaking, or
placing of any solid waste into or on any land or water so that the solid waste
or any constituent part of the solid waste may enter the environment or be
emitted into the air or discharged into any waters, including groundwaters, as
defined in G.S. 130A-290(a)(6).
   Elevated building. A non-basement building which has its lowest elevated
floor raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear walls, posts, piers,
pilings, or columns.
   Encroachment. The advance or infringement of uses, fill, excavation,
buildings, structures or development into a floodplain, which may impede or
alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   Existing building or existing structure. Any building and/or structure for
which the "start of construction" commenced before the effective date of the
floodplain management regulations adopted by the City of Marion, dated October
20, 1987.
   Existing manufactured home park or manufactured home subdivision. A
manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities
for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) was
completed before the initial effective date of the floodplain management
regulations adopted by the City of Marion, dated October 20, 1987.
   Flood or flooding. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      1.   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
      2.   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   Flood boundary and floodway map (FBFM). An official map of a community,
issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, on which the special flood
hazard areas and the floodways are delineated. This official map is a
supplement to and shall be used in conjunction with the flood insurance rate
map (FIRM).
   Flood hazard boundary map (FHBM). An official map of a community, issued by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency, where the boundaries of the special
flood hazard areas have been defined as zone A.
   Flood insurance. The insurance coverage provided under the National Flood
Insurance Program.
   Flood insurance rate map (FIRM). An official map of a community, issued by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency, on which both the special flood hazard
areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community are delineated.
(see also DFIRM)
   Flood insurance study (FIS). An examination, evaluation, and determination
of flood hazards, corresponding water surface elevations (if appropriate),
flood hazard risk zones, and other flood data in a community issued by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency. The flood insurance study report includes
flood insurance rate maps (FIRMs) and flood boundary and floodway maps (FBFMs),
if published.
   Flood prone area. "See "floodplain."
   Flood zone. A geographical area shown on a flood hazard boundary map or
flood insurance rate map that reflects the severity or type of flooding in the
area.
   Floodplain. Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any
source.
   Floodplain Administrator. The individual appointed to administer and enforce
the floodplain management regulations.
   Floodplain development permit. Any type of permit that is required in
conformance with the provisions of this chapter, prior to the commencement of
any development activity.
   Floodplain management. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including, but not limited
to, emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations, and open space plans.
   Floodplain management regulations. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances, and other applications of police power. This term describes
federal, state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide
standards for preventing and reducing flood loss and damage.
   Floodproofing. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitation facilities,
structures, and their contents.
   Flood-resistant material. Any building product, material, component, or
system capable of withstanding direct and prolonged contact of a minimum of
seventy-two (72) hours with floodwaters without sustaining damage that requires
more than low-cost cosmetic repair. Any material that is water-soluble or is
not resistant to alkali or acid in water, including normal adhesives for above-
grade use, is not flood-resistant. Pressure-treated lumber or naturally decay-
resistant lumbers are acceptable flooring materials. Sheet-type flooring
coverings that restrict evaporation from below and materials that are
impervious, but dimensionally unstable are not acceptable. Materials that
absorb or retain water excessively after submergence are not flood-resistant.
Reference FEMA Technical Bulletin 2, Flood Damage-Resistant Materials
Requirements. Class 4 and 5 materials, referenced therein, are acceptable
flood-resistant materials.
   Floodway. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one (1) foot.
   Floodway encroachment analysis. An engineering analysis of the impact that a
proposed encroachment into a floodway or non-encroachment area is expected to
have on the floodway boundaries and flood levels during the occurrence of the
base flood discharge. The evaluation shall be prepared by a qualified North
Carolina licensed engineer using standard engineering methods and hydraulic
models meeting the minimum requirements of the National Flood Insurance
Program.
   Freeboard. The height added to the base flood elevation (BFE) to account for
the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than
the height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such
as wave action, blockage of bridge openings, and the hydrological effect of
urbanization of the watershed. The base flood elevation (BFE) plus the
freeboard establishes the "regulatory flood protection elevation."
   Functionally dependent facility. A facility which cannot be used for its
intended purpose unless it is located in close proximity to water, limited to a
docking or port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or
passengers, shipbuilding, or ship repair. The term does not include long-term
storage, manufacture, sales, or service facilities.
   Hazardous waste management facility. As defined in G.S. Ch. 130A, Article 9,
a facility for the collection, storage, processing, treatment, recycling,
recovery, or disposal of hazardous waste.
   Highest adjacent grade (HAG). The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface, prior to construction, immediately next to the proposed walls of the
structure.
   Historic structure. Any structure that is:
      1.   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the U.S. Department of Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
      2.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of Interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district;
      3.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic landmarks in
communities with a "certified local government (CLO) program"; or
      4.   Certified as contributing to the historical significance of a
historic district designated by a community with a "certified local government
(CLG) program" and as approved by the U.S. Department of the Interior in
cooperation with the North Carolina Department of Cultural Resources through
the State Historic Preservation Officer.
   Letter of map change (LOMC). An official determination issued by FEMA that
amends or revises an effective flood insurance rate map or flood insurance
study. Letters of map change include:
      1.   Letter of map amendment (LOMA). An official amendment, by letter, to
an effective National Flood Insurance Program map. A LOMA is based on technical
data showing that a property had been inadvertently mapped as being in the
floodplain, but is actually on natural high ground above the base flood
elevation. A LOMA amends the current effective flood insurance rate map and
establishes that a specific property, portion of a property, or structure is
not located in a special flood hazard area.
      2.   Letter of map revision (LOMR). A revision based on technical data
that may show changes to flood zones, flood elevations, special flood hazard
area boundaries and floodway delineations, and other planimetric features.
      3.   Letter of map revision based on fill (LOMR-F). A determination that
a structure or parcel of land has been elevated by fill above the BFE and is,
therefore, no longer located within the special flood hazard area. In order to
qualify for this determination, the fill must have been permitted and placed in
accordance with the community's floodplain management regulations.
      4.   Conditional letter of map revision (CLOMR). A formal review and
comment as to whether a proposed project complies with the minimum NFIP
requirements for such projects with respect to delineation of special flood
hazard areas. A CLOMR does not revise the effective flood insurance rate map or
flood insurance study; upon submission and approval of certified as-built
documentation, a letter of map revision may be issued by FEMA to revise the
effective FIRM.
   Light duty truck. Any motor vehicle rated at eight thousand five hundred
(8,500) pounds gross vehicular weight rating or less which has a vehicular curb
weight of six thousand (6,000) pounds or less, which has a basic vehicle
frontal area of 45 square feet or less as defined in 40 CFR 86.082-2, and is:
      1.   Designed primarily for purposes of transportation of property or is
a derivation of such a vehicle; or
      2.   Designed primarily for transportation of persons and has a capacity
of more than twelve (12) persons; or
      3.   Available with special features enabling off-street or off-highway
operation and use.
   Lowest adjacent grade (LAG). The elevation of the ground, sidewalk or patio
slab immediately next to the building, or deck support, after completion of the
building.
   Lowest floor. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access, or limited storage in an area other than
a basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor, provided that such
an enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   Manufactured home. A structure, transportable in one (1) or more sections,
which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
"manufactured home" does not include a "recreational vehicle."
   Manufactured home park or subdivision. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   Map repository. The location of the official flood hazard data to be applied
for floodplain management. It is a central location in which flood data is
stored and managed; in North Carolina, FEMA has recognized that the application
of digital flood hazard data products have the same authority as hard copy
products. For effective flood hazard data, the NC FRIS website is the map
repository, and for historical flood hazard data FloodNC is the map repository.
   Market value. The building value, not including the land value and that of
any accessory structures or other improvements on the lot. Market value may be
established by independent certified appraisal; replacement cost depreciated
for age of building and quality of construction (actual cash value); or
adjusted tax assessed values.
   New construction. Structure for which the "start of construction" commenced
on or after the effective date of the initial floodplain management regulations
and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   Non-conversion agreement. A document stating that the owner will not convert
or alter what has been constructed and approved. Violation of the agreement is
considered a violation of this chapter and, therefore, subject to the same
enforcement procedures and penalties. The agreement must be filed with the
recorded deed for the property. The agreement must show the Clerk's or
Recorder's stamps and/or notations that the filing has been completed.
   Non-encroachment area (NEA). The channel of a river or other watercourse and
the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base
flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one
(1) foot as designated in the flood insurance study report.
   Post-FIRM. Construction or other development for which the "start of
construction" occurred on or after the effective date of the initial flood
insurance rate map.
   Pre-FIRM. Construction or other development for which the "start of
construction" occurred before the effective date of the initial flood insurance
rate map.
   Principally above ground. Minimum of fifty-one (51) percent of the actual
cash value of the structure is above ground.
   Public safety and/or nuisance. Anything which is injurious to the safety or
health of an entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of
persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
   Recreational vehicle (RV). A vehicle, which is:
      1.   Built on a single chassis;
      2.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection; Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by
a light-duty truck;
      3.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use;
and
      4.   Is fully licensed and ready for highway use.
      5.   For the purpose of this chapter, "tiny homes/houses" and "park
models" that do not meet the items listed above are not considered recreational
vehicles and shall meet the standards of and be permitted as residential
structures.
   Reference level. The bottom of the lowest horizontal structural member of
the lowest floor for structures within all special flood hazard areas.
   Regulatory flood protection elevation. The "base flood elevation" plus the
"freeboard". In special flood hazard areas where base flood elevations (BFEs)
have been determined, this elevation shall be the BFE plus two (2) feet of
freeboard. In special flood hazard areas where no BFE has been established,
this elevation shall be at least two (2) feet above the highest adjacent grade.
   Remedy a violation. To bring the structure or other development into
compliance with state and community floodplain management regulations, or, if
this is not possible, to reduce the impacts of its noncompliance. Ways that
impact may be reduced include protecting the structure or other affected
development from flood damages, implementing the enforcement provisions of this
chapter or otherwise deterring future similar violations, or reducing federal
financial exposure with regard to the structure or other development.
   Riverine. Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, etc.
   Salvage Yard. Any nonresidential property used for the storage, collection,
and/or recycling of any type of equipment, and including but not limited to
vehicles, appliances and related machinery.
   Solid waste disposal facility. Any facility involved in the disposal of
solid waste, as defined in G.S. 130A-290(a)(35).
   Solid waste disposal site. Any place at which solid wastes are disposed of
by incineration, sanitary landfill, or any other method, as defined in G.S.
130A-290(a)(36).
   Special flood hazard area (SFHA). The land in the floodplain subject to a
one (1) percent or greater chance of being flooded in any given year, as
determined in Sec.
8-1.8 of this article.
   Start of construction. The date the building permit was issued, provided the
actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition
placement, or other improvement was within one hundred eighty (180) days of the
permit date. The actual start means either the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings,
the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the
building, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the
building.
   Structure. A walled and roofed building, a manufactured home, or a gas,
liquid, or liquefied gas storage tank that is principally above ground.
   Substantial damage. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure during any
one (1)-year period whereby the cost of restoring the structure to it's before
damaged condition would equal or exceed fifty (50) percent of the market value
of the structure before the damage occurred. See definition of "substantial
improvement". Substantial damage also means flood-related damage sustained by a
structure on two (2) separate occasions during a ten (10)-year period, for
which the cost of repairs at the time of each such flood event, on the average,
equals or exceeds twenty-five (25) percent of the market value of the structure
before the damage occurred.
   Substantial improvement. Any combination of repairs, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, or other improvement of a structure, taking place
during any one (1)-year period, for which the cost equals or exceeds fifty (50)
percent of the market value of the structure before the "start of construction"
of the improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred
substantial damage, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term
does not, however, include either:
      1.   Any correction of existing violations of state or community health,
sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been identified by the
community code enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or
      2.   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the alteration
will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic
structure.
   Technical bulletin and technical fact sheet. A FEMA publication that
provides guidance concerning the building performance standards of the NFIP,
which are contained in Title 44 of the U.S. Code of Federal Regulations at
Section 60.3. Technical bulletins and technical fact sheets are intended for
use primarily by state and local officials responsible for interpreting and
enforcing NFIP regulations and by members of the development community, such as
design professionals and builders. Technical bulletins and technical fact
sheets do not create regulations. They provide specific guidance for complying
with minimum requirements of existing regulations. Local and state regulations
that exceed NFIP take precedence. All applicable standards of the state or
local building code must also be met for any building in a flood hazard area.
   Temperature controlled. The act of having the temperature regulated by a
heating and/or cooling system, built-in or appliance.
   Variance. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter. See Sec.
3-7.4 flood damage prevention variance.
   Violation. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in this chapter is presumed to be in
violation until such time as that documentation is provided.
   Water surface elevation (WSE). The height, in relation to mean sea level, of
floods of various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or
riverine areas.
   Watercourse. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
Watercourse includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
(Ord. No. O-23-04-18-3, § 1, 4-18-23)
ARTICLE II.
LAKE JAMES WATERSHED PROTECTION
Sec. 8-2.1. In general.
   A.   Authority. The Legislature of the State of North Carolina has, in
Chapter 160A, Article 8, Section 174, General Ordinance Authority; and in
Chapter 143, Article 21, Watershed Protection Rules, delegated the
responsibility or directed local governmental units to adopt regulations
designed to promote the public health, safety, and general welfare of its
citizenry.
   B.   Jurisdiction. The provisions of this chapter shall apply within the
areas designated as a Public Water Supply Watershed by the N.C. Environmental
Management Commission and shall be defined and established on the map entitled,
"Lake James Watershed Protection Overlay Map of the City of Marion, North
Carolina". The Map and all explanatory matter contained thereon accompanies and
is hereby made a part of this chapter. This ordinance shall be permanently kept
on file in the office of the city clerk.
   C.   Establishment of Lake James Watershed Area. The Lake James Watershed is
divided into the following areas, as appropriate:
      1.   WS-IV-CA (Critical Area)
      2.   WS-IV-PA (Protected Area)
   D.   Applicability.
      1.   No building or land shall hereafter be used and no development shall
take place except in conformity with the regulations herein specified for the
watershed area in which it is located.
      2.   No area required for the purpose of complying with the provisions of
the UDO shall be included in the area required for another building.
      3.   If a use or class of use is not specifically indicated as being
allowed in a watershed area, such use or class of use is prohibited.
   E.   Exceptions to applicability.
      1.   Nothing contained herein shall repeal, modify, or amend any Federal
or State law or regulation, or any ordinance or regulation pertaining thereto
except any ordinance which these regulations specifically replace; nor shall
any provision of this Ordinance amend, modify, or restrict any provisions of
the Marion Code of Ordinances; however, the adoption of this Ordinance shall
and does amend any and all ordinances, resolutions, and regulations in effect
in the City of Marion at the time of the adoption of this Ordinance that may be
construed to impair or reduce the effectiveness of this Ordinance or to
conflict with any of its provisions.
      2.   It is not intended that these regulations interfere with any
easement, covenants or other agreements between parties. However, if the
provisions of these regulations impose greater restrictions or higher standards
for the use of a building or land, then the provisions of these regulations
shall control.
      3.   Existing development, as defined in this chapter, is not subject to
the requirements of this chapter. Expansions to structures classified as
existing development must meet the requirements of this chapter, however, the
built-upon area of the existing development is not required to be included in
the density calculations.
      4.   If a nonconforming lot of record is not contiguous to any other lot
owned by the same party, then that lot of record shall not be subject to the
development restrictions of this chapter if it is developed for single-family
residential purposes. Any lot or parcel created as part of a family subdivision
after the effective date of these rules shall be exempt from these rules if it
is developed for one single-family detached residence and if it is exempt from
local subdivision regulation. Any lot or parcel created as part of any other
type of subdivision that is exempt from a local subdivision chapter shall be
subject to the land use requirements (including impervious surface
requirements) of these rules, except that such a lot or parcel must meet the
minimum buffer requirements to the maximum extent practicable.
   F.   Existing development. Existing development, as defined in the UDO, may
be continued and maintained subject to the provisions provided herein.
Expansions to structures classified as existing development must meet the
requirements of the UDO, however, the built-upon area of the existing
development is not required to be included in the built-upon area calculations.
      1.   Uses of land. This category consists of uses existing at the time of
adoption of the UDO where such use of the land is not permitted to be
established hereafter in the watershed area in which it is located. Such uses
may be continued except as follows:
         a.   When such use of land has been changed to an allowed use, it
shall not thereafter revert to any prohibited use.
         b.   Such use of land shall be changed only to an allowed use.
         c.   When such use ceases for a period of at least one year, it shall
not be reestablished.
      2.   Reconstruction of buildings or built-upon areas. Any existing
building or built-upon area not in conformance with the restrictions of the UDO
that has been damaged or removed may be repaired and/or reconstructed, except
that there are no restrictions on single family residential development,
provided:
         a.   Repair or reconstruction is initiated within twelve (12) months
and completed within two (2) years of such damage.
         b.   The total amount of space devoted to built-upon area may not be
increased unless stormwater control that equals or exceeds the previous
development is provided.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 8-2.2. Watershed protection administration.
   A.   Watershed protection permit.
      1.   Except where a single family residence is constructed on a lot
deeded prior to the effective date of the UDO, no building or built-upon area
shall be erected, moved, enlarged or structurally altered, nor shall any
building permit be issued nor shall any change in the use of any building or
land be made until a Watershed Protection Permit has been issued by the
Watershed Administrator. No Watershed Protection Permit shall be issued except
in conformity with the provisions of the UDO.
      2.   Watershed Protection Permit applications shall be filed with the
Watershed Administrator. The application shall include a completed application
form and supporting documentation deemed necessary by the Watershed
Administrator.
      3.   Prior to issuance of a Watershed Protection Permit, the Watershed
Administrator may consult with qualified personnel for assistance to determine
if the application meets the requirements of the UDO.
      4.   A Watershed Protection Permit shall expire if a Building Permit or
Watershed Occupancy Permit for such use is not obtained by the applicant within
twelve (12) months from the date of issuance.
   B.   Building permit required. No permit required under the North Carolina
State Building Code shall be issued for any activity for which a Watershed
Protection Permit is required until that permit has been issued.
   C.   Watershed protection occupancy permit.
      1.   The Watershed Administrator shall issue a Watershed Protection
Occupancy Permit certifying that all requirements of the UDO have been met
prior to the occupancy or use of a building hereafter erected, altered or moved
and/or prior to the change of use of any building or land.
      2.   A Watershed Protection Occupancy Permit, either for the whole or
part of a building, shall be applied for coincident with the application for a
Watershed Protection Permit and shall be issued or denied within ten days after
the erection or structural alterations of the building.
      3.   When only a change in use of land or existing building occurs, the
Watershed Administrator shall issue a Watershed Protection Occupancy Permit
certifying that all requirements of the UDO have been met coincident with the
Watershed Protection Permit.
      4.   If the Watershed Protection Occupancy Permit is denied, the
Watershed Administrator shall notify the applicant in writing stating the
reasons for denial.
      5.   No building or structure which has been erected, moved, or
structurally altered may be occupied until the Watershed Administrator has
approved and issued a Watershed Protection Occupancy Permit.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 8-2.3. Watershed protection development standards.
   Development standards within designated watershed protection areas.
   A.   WS-IV Watershed Areas - Protected Area (WS-IV-PA). Only new development
activities that require an erosion/sedimentation control plan under State law
or approved local government program are required to meet the provisions of the
UDO when located in a WS-IV watershed. In order to accommodate moderate to high
land use intensity, single family residential uses shall develop at a maximum
of two (2) dwelling units per acre (2 du/ac). All other residential and non-
residential development shall be allowed at a maximum of twenty-four percent
(24%) built-upon area. A maximum of three (3) dwelling units per acre (3 du/ac)
or thirty-six (36%) percent built-upon area is allowed for projects without a
curb and gutter street system.
      1.   Uses allowed:
         a.   Agriculture, subject to the provisions of the Food Security Act
of 1985 and the Food, Agricultural, Conservation and Trade Act of 1990.
         b.   Silviculture, subject to the provisions of the Forest Practices
Guidelines Related to Water Quality (15 NCAC 11.0101-.0209).
         c.   Residential development.
         d.   Non-residential development.
      2.   Density and built-upon limits:
         a.   Single Family Residential-development shall not exceed two (2)
dwelling units per acre, as defined on a project by project basis. No
residential lot shall be less than one-half (½) acre (or 20,000 square feet
excluding roadway right-of-way), or one third (1/3) acre for projects without a
curb and gutter street system, except within an approved cluster development.
         b.   All Other Residential and Non-Residential--development shall not
exceed twenty-four percent (24%) built-upon area on a project by project basis.
For projects without a curb and gutter street system, development shall not
exceed thirty-six percent (36%) built-upon area on a project by project basis.
For the purpose of calculating built-upon area, total project area shall
include acreage in the tract on which the project is to be developed.
         c.   In addition to the development allowed under paragraphs (a) and
(b) above, new development and expansions to existing development may occupy up
to ten percent (10%) of the protected area with up to seventy percent (70%)
built-upon area on a project by project basis, when approved as a special
intensity allocation (SIA). The Watershed Administrator is authorized to
approve SIAs consistent with the provisions of the UDO. Projects must, to the
maximum extent practicable, minimize built-upon surface area, direct stormwater
away from surface waters and incorporate Best Management Practices to minimize
water quality impacts. For the purpose of calculating built-upon area, total
project area shall include total acreage in the tract on which the project is
to be developed.
         d.   The project shall not exceed that allowed for the critical area,
balance of watershed or protected area, whichever applies.
   B.   All built-upon area shall be designed and located to minimize
stormwater runoff impact to the receiving waters and minimize concentrated
stormwater flow, maximize the use of sheet flow through vegetated areas, and
maximize the flow length through vegetated areas.
   C.   Areas of concentrated density development shall be located in upland
area and away, to the maximum extent practicable, from surface waters and
drainageways.
   D.   The remainder of the tract shall remain in a vegetated or natural
state. The title to the open space area shall be conveyed to an incorporated
homeowners association for management; to a local government for preservation
as a park or open space; or to a conservation organization for preservation in
a permanent easement. Where a property association is not incorporated, a
maintenance agreement shall be filed with the property deeds.
   E.   Cluster developments that meet the applicable low-density requirements
shall transport stormwater runoff by vegetated conveyances to the maximum
extent practicable.
   F.   Buffer areas required.
      1.   A minimum one hundred (100) foot vegetative buffer is required for
all new development activities that exceed the low-density option; otherwise, a
minimum thirty (30) foot vegetative buffer for development activities is
required along all perennial waters indicated on the most recent versions of
U.S.G.S. 1:24,000 (7.5 minute) scale topographic maps or as determined by local
government studies. Desirable artificial streambank or shoreline stabilization
is permitted.
      2.   No new development is allowed in the buffer except for water
dependent structures, other structures such as flag poles, signs and security
lights which result in only diminutive increases in impervious area and public
projects such as road crossings and greenways where no practical alternative
exists. These activities should minimize built-upon surface area, direct runoff
away from the surface waters and maximize the utilization of stormwater Best
Management Practices.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 8-2.4. Watershed review board.
   A.   There shall be and hereby is created the Watershed Review Board
consisting of five (5) members appointed by the city council. Three (3)
residents of the city shall be appointed for three year terms. Two (2)
residents of the city shall be appointed for two (2) year terms. Thereafter,
all new terms shall be for three (3) years, and members may be reappointed.
   B.   Two (2) alternate members shall be appointed to serve on the Watershed
Review Board in the absence of any regular member and shall be appointed for
three (3) year terms. While attending in the capacity of a regular member, the
alternate shall have and exercise all the powers and duties of the absent
regular member.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 8-2.5. Rules of conduct for members.
   Members of the Board may be removed by the city council for cause, including
violation of the rules stated below:
   A.   Faithful attendance at meetings of the Board and conscientious
performance of the duties required of members of the Board shall be considered
a prerequisite to continuing membership on the Board.
   B.   No Board member shall take part in the hearing, consideration, or
determination of any case in which he is personally or financially interested.
A Board member shall have a "financial interest" in a case when a decision in
the case will: 1) cause him or his spouse to experience a direct financial
benefit or loss, or 2) will cause a business in which he or his spouse owns a
10 percent or greater interest, or is involved in a decision-making role, to
experience a direct financial benefit or loss. A Board member shall have a
"personal interest" in a case when it involves a member of his immediate family
(i.e., parent, spouse, or child).
   C.   No Board member shall discuss any case with any parties thereto prior
to the public hearing on that case; provided, however, that members may receive
and/or seek information pertaining to the case from the Watershed Administrator
or any other member of the Board, its secretary or clerk prior to the hearing.
   D.   Members of the Board shall not express individual opinions on the
proper judgement of any case prior to its determination on that case.
   E.   Members of the Board shall give notice to the chairman at least forty-
eight (48) hours prior to the hearing of any potential conflict of interest
which he has in a particular case before the Board.
   F.   No Board member shall vote on any matter that decides an application or
appeal unless he had attended the public hearing on that application or appeal.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 8-2.6. Powers and duties of the watershed review board.
   A.   Administrative review. The Watershed Review Board shall hear and decide
appeals from any decision or determination made by the Watershed Administrator
in the enforcement of the UDO.
   B.   Variances. The Watershed Review Board shall have the power to
authorize, in specific cases, minor variances from the terms of this Ordinance
as will not be contrary to the public interests where, owing to special
conditions, a literal enforcement of this Ordinance will result in practical
difficulties or unnecessary hardship, so that the spirit of this Ordinance
shall be observed, public safety and welfare secured, and substantial justice
done. In addition, the city shall notify and allow a reasonable comment period
for all other local governments having jurisdiction in the designated watershed
where the variance is being considered.
      1.   Applications for a variance shall be made on the proper form
obtainable from the Watershed Administrator and shall include the following
information:
         a.   A site plan, drawn to a scale of at least one (1) inch to forty
(40) feet, indicating the property lines of the parcel upon which the use is
proposed; any existing or proposed structures; parking areas and other built-
upon areas; surface water drainage. The site plan shall be neatly drawn and
indicate north point, name and address of person who prepared the plan, date of
the original drawing, and an accurate record of any later revisions.
         b.   A complete and detailed description of the proposed variance,
together with any other pertinent information which the applicant feels would
be helpful to the Watershed Review Board in considering the application.
         c.   The Watershed Administrator shall notify in writing each local
government having jurisdiction in the watershed and the entity using the water
supply for consumption. Such notice shall include a description of the variance
being requested. Local governments receiving notice of the variance request may
submit comments to the Watershed Administrator prior to a decision by the
Watershed Review Board. Such comments shall become a part of the record of
proceedings of the Watershed Review Board.
      2.   Before the Watershed Review Board may grant a variance, it shall
make the following three findings, which shall be recorded in the permanent
record of the case, and shall include the factual reasons on which they are
based:
         a.   There are practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships in the
way of carrying out the strict letter of the Ordinance. In order to determine
that there are practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships, the Board must
find that the five following conditions exist:
            i.   If he complies with the provisions of the Ordinance, the
applicant can secure no reasonable return from, nor make reasonable use of, his
property. Merely proving that the variance would permit a greater profit to be
made from the property will not be considered adequate to justify the Board in
granting a variance. Moreover, the Board shall consider whether the variance is
the minimum possible deviation from the terms of the Ordinance that will make
possible the reasonable use of his property.
            ii.   The hardship results from the application of the Ordinance to
the property rather than from other factors such as deed restrictions or other
hardship.
            iii.   The hardship is due to the physical nature of the
applicant's property, such as its size, shape, or topography, which is
different from that of neighboring property.
            iv.   The hardship is not the result of the actions of an applicant
who knowingly or unknowingly violates the Ordinance, or who purchases the
property after the effective date of the Ordinance, and then comes to the Board
for relief.
            v.   The hardship is peculiar to the applicant's property, rather
than the result of conditions that are widespread. If other properties are
equally subject to the hardship created in the restriction, then granting a
variance would be a special privilege denied to others, and would not promote
equal justice.
         b.   The variance is in harmony with the general purpose and intent of
the Ordinance and preserves its spirit.
         c.   In the granting of the variance, the public safety and welfare
have been assured and substantial justice has been done. The Board shall not
grant a variance if it finds that doing so would in any respect impair the
public health, safety, or general welfare.
      3.   In granting the variance, the Board may attach thereto such
conditions regarding the location, character, and other features of the
proposed building, structure, or use as it may deem advisable in furtherance of
the purpose of the UDO. If a variance for the construction, alteration or use
of property is granted, such construction, alteration or use shall be in
accordance with the approved site plan.
      4.   The Watershed Review Board shall refuse to hear an appeal or an
application for a variance previously denied if it finds that there have been
no substantial changes in conditions or circumstances bearing on the appeal or
application.
      5.   A variance issued in accordance with this section shall be
considered a Watershed Protection Permit and shall expire if a Building Permit
or Watershed Occupancy Permit for such use is not obtained by the applicant
within six (6) months from the date of the decision.
      6.   If the application calls for the granting of a major variance, and
if the Watershed Review Board decides in favor of granting the variance, the
Board shall prepare a preliminary record of the hearing with all deliberate
speed. The preliminary record of the hearing shall include:
         a.   The variance application;
         b.   The hearing notices;
         c.   The evidence presented;
         d.   Motions, offers of proof, objections to evidence, and rulings on
them;
         e.   Proposed findings and exceptions;
         f.   The proposed decision, including all conditions proposed to be
added to the permit.
      7.   The preliminary record shall be sent to the Environmental Management
Commission for its review as follows:
         a.   If the Commission concludes from the preliminary record that the
variance qualifies as a major variance and that (1) the property owner can
secure no reasonable return from, nor make any practical use of the property
unless the proposed variance is granted, and (2) the variance, if granted, will
not result in a serious threat to the water supply, then the Commission shall
approve the variance as proposed or approve the proposed variance with
conditions and stipulations. The Commission shall prepare a Commission decision
and send it to the Watershed Review Board. If the Commission approves the
variance as proposed, the Board shall prepare a final decision granting the
proposed variance. If the Commission approves the variance with conditions and
stipulations, the Board shall prepare a final decision, including such
conditions and stipulations, granting the proposed variance.
         b.   If the Commission concludes from the preliminary record that the
variance qualifies as a major variance and that (1) the property owner can
secure a reasonable return from or make a practical use of the property without
the variance or (2) the variance, if granted, will result in a serious threat
to the water supply, then the Commission shall deny approval of the variance as
proposed. The Commission shall prepare a Commission decision and send it to the
Watershed Review Board. The Board shall prepare a final decision denying the
variance as proposed.
   C.   Subdivision approval pursuant to
Chapter 3 of the UDO.
   D.   Public Health pursuant to Sec.
8-2.9 below.
   E.   Approval of all development greater than the low-density option.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 8-2.7. Appeal from the watershed administrator.
   A.   Any order, requirement, decision or determination made by the Watershed
Administrator may be appealed to and decided by the Watershed Review Board.
   B.   An appeal from a decision of the Watershed Administrator must be
submitted to the Watershed Review Board within thirty (30) days from the date
the order, interpretation, decision or determination is made. All appeals must
be made in writing stating the reasons for appeal. Following submission of an
appeal, the Watershed Administrator shall transmit to the Board all papers
constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken.
   C.   An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed,
unless the officer from whom the appeal is taken certifies to the Board after
the notice of appeal has been filed with him, that by reason of facts stated in
the certificate, a stay would in his opinion cause imminent peril to life or
property. In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by a
restraining order which may be granted by the Board or by a court of record on
application of notice of the officer from whom the appeal is taken and upon due
cause shown.
   D.   The Board shall fix a reasonable time for hearing the appeal and give
notice thereof to the parties and shall decide the same within a reasonable
time. At the hearing, any party may appear in person, by agent or by attorney.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 8-2.8. Appeals from the watershed review board.
   Appeals from the Watershed Review Board must be filed with the Superior
Court within 30 days from the date of the decision. Decisions by the Superior
Court will be in the manner of certiorari.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 8-2.9. Public health, in general.
   No activity, situation, structure or land use shall be allowed within the
watershed which poses a threat to water quality and the public health, safety
and welfare. Such conditions may arise from inadequate on-site sewage systems
which utilize ground absorption; inadequate sedimentation and erosion control
measures; the improper storage or disposal of junk, trash or other refuse
within a buffer area; the improper management of stormwater runoff; or any
other situation found to pose a threat to water quality.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 8-2.10. Abatement.
   A.   The Watershed Administrator shall monitor land use activities within
the watershed areas to identify situations that may pose a threat to water
quality.
   B.   The Watershed Administrator shall report all findings to the Watershed
Review Board. The Watershed Administrator may consult with any public agency or
official and request recommendations.
   C.   Where the Watershed Review Board finds a threat to water quality and
the public health, safety and welfare, the Board shall institute any
appropriate action or proceeding to restrain, correct or abate the condition
and/or violation.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 8-2.11. Changes and amendments to the watershed protection ordinance.
   A.   The Marion City Council may, on its own motion or on petition, after
public notice and hearing, amend, supplement, change or modify the watershed
regulations and restrictions as described herein.
   B.   No action shall be taken until the proposal has been submitted to the
Watershed Review Board for review and recommendations. If no recommendation has
been received from the Watershed Review Board within forty-five (45) days after
submission of the proposal to the Chairman of the Watershed Review Board, the
city council may proceed as though a favorable report had been received.
   C.   Under no circumstances shall the City adopt such amendments,
supplements or changes that would cause the UDO to violate the watershed
protection rules as adopted by the N.C. Environmental Management Commission.
All amendments must be filed with the N.C. Division of Water Quality, N.C.
Division of Environmental Health, and the N.C. Division of Community
Assistance.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 8-2.12. Criminal penalties.
   Any person violating any provisions of this Chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punished in accordance with G.S. §
14-4. The maximum fine for each offense shall not exceed $500.00. Each day that
the violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 8-2.13. Remedies.
   A.   If any subdivision, development and/or land use is found to be in
violation of this Chapter, the city council may, in addition to all other
remedies available either in law or in equity, institute a civil penalty
pursuant to Sec.
1-10.9 of the Marion Code of Ordinances, action or proceedings to restrain,
correct, or abate the violation; to prevent occupancy of the building,
structure, or land; or to prevent any illegal act, conduct, business, or use in
or about the premises. In addition, the N.C. Environmental Management
Commission may assess civil penalties in accordance with G.S. § 143-215.6(a).
Each day that the violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
   B.   If the Watershed Administrator finds that any of the provisions of this
chapter are being violated, he shall notify in writing the person responsible
for such violation, indicating the nature of the violation, and ordering the
action necessary to correct it. He shall order discontinuance of the illegal
use of land, buildings or structures; removal of illegal buildings or
structures, or of additions, alterations or structural changes thereto;
discontinuance of any illegal work being done; or shall take any action
authorized by this chapter to ensure compliance with or to prevent violation of
its provisions. If a ruling of the Watershed Administrator is questioned, the
aggrieved party or parties may appeal such ruling to the Watershed Review
Board.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 8-2.14. Rules governing the interpretation of watershed area boundaries.
   Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of the watershed areas, as
shown on the Watershed Map, the following rules shall apply:
   A.   Where area boundaries are indicated as approximately following either
street, alley, railroad or highway lines or centerlines thereof, such lines
shall be construed to be said boundaries.
   B.   Where area boundaries are indicated as approximately following lot
lines, such lot lines shall be construed to be said boundaries. However, a
surveyed plat prepared by a registered land surveyor may be submitted to the
city as evidence that one or more properties along these boundaries do not lie
within the watershed area.
   C.   Where the watershed area boundaries lie at a scaled distance more than
twenty-five (25) feet from any parallel lot line, the location of watershed
area boundaries shall be determined by use of the scale appearing on the
watershed map.
   D.   Where the watershed area boundaries lie at a scaled distance of twenty-
five (25) feet or less from any parallel lot line, the location of watershed
area boundaries shall be construed to be the lot line.
   E.   Where other uncertainty exists, the Watershed Administrator shall
interpret the Watershed Map as to location of such boundaries. This decision
may be appealed to the Watershed Review Board.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 8-2.15. Word interpretation.
   For the purpose of this Article, certain words shall be interpreted as
follows:
   A.   Words in the present tense include the future tense.
   B.   Words used in the singular number include the plural, and words used in
the plural number include the singular, unless the natural construction of the
wording indicates otherwise.
   C.   The word "person" includes a firm, association, corporation, trust, and
company as well as an individual.
   D.   The word "structure" shall include the word "building."
   E.   The word "lot" shall include the words, "plot," "parcel," or "tract."
The word "shall" is always mandatory and not merely directory.
   F.   The word "will" is always mandatory and not merely directory.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 8-2.16. Definitions.
   For the purposes of this article, the following terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them unless the context clearly indicates otherwise:
   Agricultural use. The use of waters for stock watering, irrigation, and
other farm purposes.
   Best management practices (BMP). A structural or nonstructural management-
based practice used singularly or in combination to reduce nonpoint source
inputs to receiving waters in order to achieve water quality protection goals.
   Buffer. An area of natural or planted vegetation through which stormwater
runoff flows in a diffuse manner so that the runoff does not become channelized
and which provides for infiltration of the runoff and filtering of pollutants.
The buffer is measured landward from the normal pool elevation of impounded
structures and from the bank of each side of streams or rivers.
   Building. Any structure having a roof supported by columns or by walls, and
intended for shelter, housing or enclosure of persons, animals or property. The
connection of two buildings by means of an open porch, breezeway, passageway,
carport or other such open structure, with or without a roof, shall not be
deemed to make them one building.
   Built-upon area. Built-upon areas shall include that portion of a
development project that is covered by impervious or partially impervious cover
including buildings, pavement, gravel areas (e.g. roads, parking lots, paths),
recreation facilities (e.g. tennis courts), etc. (Note: Wooden slatted decks
and the water area of a swimming pool are considered pervious.)
   Cluster development. Cluster development means the grouping of buildings in
order to conserve land resources and provide for innovation in the design of
the project including minimizing stormwater runoff impacts. This term includes
nonresidential development as well as single family residential and multi-
family developments. For the purpose of the UDO, planned unit developments and
mixed-use development are considered as cluster development.
   Critical area. The area adjacent to a water supply intake or reservoir where
risk associated with pollution is greater than from the remaining portions of
the watershed. The critical area is defined as extending either one-half mile
from the normal pool elevation of the reservoir in which the intake is located
or to the ridge line of the watershed (whichever comes first); or one-half mile
upstream from the intake located directly in the stream or river (run-of-the-
river), or the ridge line of the watershed (whichever comes first). Local
governments may extend the critical area as needed. Major landmarks such as
highways or property lines may be used to delineate the outer boundary of the
critical area if these landmarks are immediately adjacent to the appropriate
outer boundary of one-half mile.
   Customary home occupations. Any use conducted entirely within a dwelling and
carried on by the occupants thereof, which use is clearly incidental and
secondary to the use of the dwelling for residential purposes and does not
change the character thereof. Provided further that no mechanical equipment is
installed or used except as is normally used for domestic or professional
purposes, and that not over twenty-five percent (25%) of the total floor space
of any structure is used for the occupation. No home occupation shall be
conducted in any accessory building except for the storage and service of a
vehicle that is driven off site, such as a service repair truck, delivery
truck, etc.
   Development. Any land disturbing activity which adds to or changes the
amount of impervious or partially impervious cover on a land area or which
otherwise decreases the infiltration of precipitation into the soil.
   Dwelling unit. A building, or portion thereof, providing complete and
permanent living facilities for one family.
   Existing development. Those projects that are built or those projects that
at a minimum have established a vested right under North Carolina zoning law as
of the effective date of the UDO based on at least one of the following
criteria:
      1.   Substantial expenditures of resources (time, labor, money) based on
a good faith reliance upon having received a valid local government approval to
proceed with the project, or
      2.   Having an outstanding valid building permit as authorized by G.S. §
160D-108, or
      3.   Having an approved site specific or phased development plan as
authorized by G.S. § 160D-108.
   Existing lot (lot of record). A lot which is part of a subdivision, a plat
of which has been recorded in the Office of the Register of Deeds prior to the
adoption of the UDO, or a lot described by metes and bounds, the description of
which has been so recorded prior to the adoption of the UDO.
   Family. One or more persons occupying a single dwelling unit, provided that
unless all members are related by blood or marriage or adoption, no such family
shall contain over five persons, but further provided that domestic servants
employed or living on the premises may be housed on the premises without being
counted as a family or families.
   Family subdivision. Family subdivision means a division of a tract of land:
(a) to convey the resulting parcels, with the exception of parcels retained by
the grantor, to a relative or relatives as a gift or for nominal consideration,
but only if no more than one parcel is conveyed by the grantor from the tract
to any one relative; or (b) to divide land from a common ancestor among tenants
in common, all of whom inherited by intestacy or by will.
   Industrial development. Any non-residential development that requires an
NPDES permit for an industrial discharge and/or requires the use or storage of
any hazardous material for the purpose of manufacturing, assembling, finishing,
cleaning or developing any product or commodity.
   Landfill. A facility for the disposal of solid waste on land in a sanitary
manner in accordance with Chapter 130A Article 9 of the N.C. General Statutes.
For the purpose of the UDO this term does not include composting facilities.
   Lot. A parcel of land occupied or capable of being occupied by a building or
group of buildings devoted to a common use, together with the customary
accessories and open spaces belonging to the same.
   Major variance. A variance from the minimum statewide watershed protection
rules that results in any one or more of the following:
      1.   The relaxation. by a factor greater than ten (10) percent, of any
management requirement under the low density option;
      2.   The relaxation, by a factor greater than five (5) percent, of any
buffer, density or built-upon area requirement under the high density option;
      3.   Any variation in the design, maintenance or operation requirements
of a wet detention pond or other approved stormwater management system.
   Minor variance. A variance from the minimum statewide watershed protection
rules that results in a relaxation, by a factor of up to five (5) percent of
any buffer, density or built-upon area requirement under the high density
option; or that results in a relaxation, by a factor of up to ten (10) percent,
of any management requirement under the low density option.
   Nonconforming lot of record. A lot described by a plat or a deed that was
recorded prior to the effective date of local watershed protection regulations
(or their amendments) that does not meet the minimum lot size or other
development requirements of the statewide watershed protection rules.
   Non-residential development. All development other than residential
development, agriculture and silviculture.
   Plat. A map or plan of a parcel of land which is to be, or has been
subdivided.
   Protected area. The area adjoining and upstream of the critical area of WS-
IV watersheds. The boundaries of the protected area are defined as within five
miles of and draining to the normal pool elevation of the reservoir or to the
ridgeline of the watershed; or within 10 miles upstream and draining to the
intake located directly in the stream or river or to the ridgeline of the
watershed.
   Residential development. Buildings for residence such as attached and
detached single-family dwellings, apartment complexes, condominiums,
townhouses, cottages, etc. and their associated outbuildings such as garages,
storage buildings, gazebos, etc. and customary home occupations.
   Residuals. Any solid or semi-solid waste generated from a wastewater
treatment plant, water treatment plant or air pollution control facility
permitted under the authority of the Environmental Management Commission.
   Single family residential. Any development where: 1) no building contains
more than one dwelling unit, 2) every dwelling unit is on a separate lot, and
3) where no lot contains more than one dwelling unit.
   Street (road). A right-of-way for vehicular traffic which affords the
principal means of access to abutting properties.
   Structure. Anything constructed or erected, including but not limited to
buildings, which requires location on the land or attachment to something
having permanent location on the land.
   Subdivider. Any person, firm or corporation who subdivides or develops any
land deemed to be a subdivision as herein defined.
   Subdivision. All divisions of a tract or parcel of land into two or more
lots, building sites, or other divisions for the purpose of sale or building
development (whether immediate or future) and shall include all division of
land involving the dedication of a new street or a change in existing streets;
but the following shall not be included within this definition nor be subject
to the regulations authorized by the UDO:
      1.   The combination or recombination of portions of previously
subdivided and recorded lots where the total number of lots is not increased
and the resultant lots are equal to or exceed the standards of the UDO;
      2.   The division of land into parcels greater than 10 acres where no
street right-of-way dedication is involved;
      3.   The public acquisition by purchase of strips of land for the
widening or opening of streets;
      4.   The division of a tract in single ownership whose entire area is no
greater than two acres into not more than three lots, where no street right-of-
way dedication is involved and where the resultant lots are equal to or exceed
the standards of the UDO;
      5.   The division of a tract into plots or lots used as a cemetery.
   Toxic substance. Any substance or combination of substances (including
disease causing agents), which alter discharge and upon exposure, ingestion,
inhalation, or assimilation into any organism, either directly from the
environment or indirectly by ingestion through food chains, has the potential
to cause death, disease, behavioral abnormalities; cancer, genetic mutations,
physiological malfunctions (including malfunctions or suppression in
reproduction or growth) or physical deformities in such organisms or their
offspring or other adverse health effects.
   Variance. A permission to develop or use property granted by the Watershed
Review Board relaxing or waiving a water supply watershed management
requirement adopted by the Environmental Management Commission that is
incorporated into the UDO.
   Water dependent structure. Any structure for which the use requires access
to or proximity to or citing within surface waters to fulfill its basic
purpose, such as boat ramps, boat houses, docks and bulkheads. Ancillary
facilities such as restaurants, outlets for boat supplies, parking lots and
commercial boat storage areas are not water dependent structures.
   Watershed. The entire land area contributing surface drainage to a specific
point (e.g. the water supply intake.)
   Watershed Administrator. An official or designated person of the city
responsible for administration and enforcement of the UDO.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
ARTICLE III.
HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION
Sec. 8-3.1. Purpose.
   The historical heritage of Marion is one of the city's most valued and
important assets. The conservation of and preservation of historic districts
and landmarks stabilize and increase property values in their areas and
strengthen the overall economy of the city. The purpose of establishing local
historic districts and landmarks is to encourage the restoration, preservation,
rehabilitation and conservation of historically, architecturally, and
archaeologically significant areas, structures, buildings, sites, objects and
their surroundings, and to review new construction design to ensure
compatibility with the character of the district and to safeguard against any
potentially adverse influences which may cause the decline, decay, or total
destruction of these important assets. In addition, the preservation of
historic districts and landmarks provides for the education, pleasure and
enrichment of the residents of Marion and the state as a whole.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 8-3.2. Jurisdiction of historic preservation commission.
   A.   There is hereby established a commission which shall be known as the
Marion Historic Preservation Commission. Its jurisdiction shall include the
City of Marion as shown on the official zoning map of the city.
   B.   Number of members, method of appointment, composition of commission,
criteria for appointment, term of office, reimbursement.
   C.   The commission shall be a five-member commission appointed by the city
council. A majority of the members of the commission shall have demonstrated
special interest, experience or education in history, architecture, archaeology
or related fields; and all the members shall reside within the territorial
jurisdiction of the City of Marion, the limits of which are shown on the
official zoning map of the City of Marion, North Carolina.
   D.   Members shall be appointed for four-year staggered terms. In the case
of a vacancy occurring during a term, such vacancy shall be filled for the
unexpired portion of such term.
   E.   The commission shall serve without compensation except that they shall
be reimbursed for actual expenses incident to the performance of their duties
within the limits of any funds available to the commission.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 8-3.3. Rules of procedure, design guidelines and meetings.
   The historic preservation commission shall develop and adopt rules of
procedure that govern the conduct of its business in accordance with the
provisions of the UDO. Such rules of procedure shall also include as an
appendix "The Secretary of the Interior's Standards for Rehabilitation and
Illustrated Guidelines for Rehabilitating Historic Buildings" and the "McDowell
County Design Guidelines" including photographs, illustrations, descriptions
and other similar material interpreting the criteria for determining
appropriateness. The design guidelines shall be placed on file in the City of
Marion Planning and Development office and made available to the general public
during the regular city office business hours.
   Specific provisions shall be made in the commission's rules of procedure for
commission meetings following the filing of a proposal on which the commission
is required to pass. Such specific provisions shall be made in order that a
proposal be brought before the commission:
   A.    Within a reasonable time;
   B.   In a manner which is conducive to commission consideration; and
   C.   In a manner which will facilitate commission action.
   The commission shall meet at regularly scheduled times and at such other
times as the commission may determine or at the call of its chairman as
provided for in its rules of procedure.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 8-3.4. Powers and duties.
   The powers and duties of the historic preservation commission shall be to:
   A.    Undertake an inventory of properties of historical, prehistorical,
architectural, and/or cultural significance;
   B.   Recommend to the city council areas to be designated by ordinance as
"historic districts"; and individual structures, buildings, sites, areas, or
objects to be designated by ordinance as "landmarks";
   C.   Recommend to the governing board that designation of any area as a
historic district or part thereof, or designation of any building, structure,
site, area, or object as a landmark, be revoked or removed for cause;
   D.   Prepare and recommend the official adoption of a preservation element
as part of the municipality's comprehensive plan; and
   E.   Review and act upon proposals for alterations, demolitions, or new
construction within historic districts, or for the alteration or demolition of
designated landmarks; and
   F.   Exercise such other powers and perform such other duties or activities
as are required elsewhere by the Marion Zoning Ordinance or the General
Statutes of North Carolina or as assigned by the Marion City Council.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 8-3.5. Historic designation process.
   A.   Properties previously designated by county. Properties listed on the
National Register of Historic Places as a landmark or as a historic district as
of the date of the UDO are hereby designated historic properties under this
article.
   B.   Initiation of historic designation process. The designation process
under this article shall be initiated by the submission of an application
requesting historic designation to the department of planning and development
services, on a form prescribed by the director, by either the owner of the
proposed historic property, his authorized agent, Marion City Council, or the
historic preservation commission. The applicant shall provide information,
which illustrates that the property meets the criteria for listing as set forth
in this article. The information submitted must include sufficient preliminary
information to enable staff’s review for an initial determination that the
property meets the minimum eligibility criteria. The proposal shall include a
legal description of the property, a statement explaining the historic,
architectural, archaeological, or cultural significance, photographs of the
property, and any other materials or documents that may be used in evaluation
of the subject site.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 8-3.6. Historic district and landmark establishment.
   Historic districts and landmarks are established through the application of
an overlay district which are zoning districts that are applied only in
conjunction with other zoning districts, and may grant additional use or
development requirements upon the underlying zoning controlling the use and
development of a lot to ensure the compatibility and appropriateness of
exterior design within the historic district or for the landmark.
   Overlay districts can be applied to any zoning districts and the boundaries
of such overlay shall be shown on the official zoning map of the City of Marion
as an "HD historic district". An overlay district can be initiated as an
amendment by city council, planning board, historic preservation commission, a
property owner, or their agent.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 8-3.7. Designation of historic districts.
   The city council may adopt, amend, reject, or repeal ordinances designating
historic districts when adoption or amendment is pursuant to the following
procedure:
   A.   An investigation and report describing the historical, architectural,
or archaeological significance of the buildings, structures, features, sites or
surroundings included in any such proposed district, and the description of the
boundaries of such district has been prepared.
   B.   The North Carolina Department of Cultural Resources, acting through the
state historic preservation officer or his or her designee, shall make an
analysis of and recommendations concerning such report and description of
proposed boundaries. Failure of the department to submit its written analysis
and recommendations to the city council within thirty (30) calendar days after
a written request for such analysis has been received by the North Carolina
Department of Cultural Resources shall relieve the city of any responsibility
for awaiting such analysis, and the city council may at any time thereafter
take any necessary action to adopt or amend its zoning ordinance.
   C.   Historic districts shall consist of areas which are deemed to be of
special significance in terms of their history, prehistory, architecture and/or
culture, and to possess integrity of design, setting, materials, feeling, and
association. The area, buildings, structures, sites, or objects shall be
significant elements of cultural, social, economic, political, or architectural
history of the city or of the archaeological history or prehistory of the city.
The conservation of such a district will provide for the education, pleasure
and enhancement of the quality of life of all residents of the city.
   D.   The historic preservation commission, planning board, and city council
shall each hold a public hearing on the proposed ordinance to designate the
boundaries of a historic district in accordance with the procedures set forth
in Sec.
3-6.2
   E.   Following the city council designation and approval of a historic
district, the area so designated shall be labeled "HD" on the official zoning
map.
   F.   With respect to any changes in the boundaries of such district
subsequent to its initial establishment or the creation of additional districts
within the city, the investigative studies and reports shall be prepared by the
historic preservation commission and shall be referred to the city council for
its review and comment. Changes in the boundaries of an initial district or
proposals for additional districts shall also be submitted to the North
Carolina Department of Cultural Resources in accordance with the provisions as
stated in subsection (B) above.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 8-3.8. Designation of landmarks.
   The city council may adopt, amend, reject, or repeal ordinances designating
historic landmarks that meet the following criteria, when those ordinances
contain the following elements and when adoption or amendment is pursuant to
the following procedure:
   A.   Criteria for designation: No building, structure, site, area, or object
shall be recommended for designation as a historic landmark unless it is deemed
and found by the historic preservation commission to be of special significance
in terms of its historical, prehistorical, architectural, archaeological, and
for cultural importance, and to possess integrity of design, setting,
workmanship, materials, feeling and/or association.
   B.   Elements of ordinances designating historic landmarks: Ordinances
designating historic landmarks shall contain the following elements:
      1.   Describe each property designated in the ordinance, including the
approximate area of the property so designated.
      2.   List the name or names of the owner or owners of the property.
      3.   Describe those elements of the property that are integral to its
historical, prehistorical, architectural, archaeological and/or cultural
significance.
      4.   Describe the nature of the commission's jurisdiction over the
interior, if any, and those interior features of the property to be reviewed
for certificates of appropriateness if they are to be changed.
      5.   Require, for each building, structure, site, area, or object
designated as an historic landmark that the waiting period set forth in the
general statutes be observed prior to its demolition.
      6.   Provide any other information the city council deems necessary
within the authority conferred by the general statutes.
   C.   Procedure for adopting or amending historic landmark ordinances:
Ordinances designating historic landmarks shall be adopted and amended
according to the following procedure:
      1.   The historic preservation commission shall make, or cause to be
made, an investigation and report on the historical, prehistorical,
architectural, archaeological and/or cultural significance of each building,
structure, site, area, or object proposed for designation. Applications
prepared by owners will be judged by the same criteria as those prepared by the
commission. Such reports shall contain the following information:
         a.   The name of the property to be considered for designation, both
common and historic names, if they can be determined.
         b.   The name and address of the current property owner.
         c.   The location of the property proposed to be designated historic,
including the street address and tax map and parcel numbers.
         d.   The date of construction and of any later alterations, if any.
         e.   An assessment of the significance of the site or structure
pursuant to subsection (a), criteria for designation.
         f.   An architectural or archaeological description of the area of the
site or structure proposed to be designated. If outbuildings or other
appurtenant features are proposed to be designated, the report shall contain a
description of those features.
         g.   A historical discussion of the site or structure within its type,
period, and locality.
         h.   Color photographs consistent with the U.S. Department of
Interior's format guidelines that clearly document the appearance, condition,
and elements of the building, structure, or object proposed to be designated,
including views of all facades, pertinent details and surrounding environment.
         i.   A map showing the location of the property, including any
outbuildings and appurtenant features.
         j.   A clear description of the boundaries.
      2.   The commission shall forward its recommendation to the city council.
The commission shall refer the report to the North Carolina Department of
Cultural Resources.
      3.   The North Carolina Department of Cultural Resources, acting through
the state historic preservation officer or his or her designee, may make an
analysis of and recommendations concerning the report. If the department does
not submit its written comments or recommendations in connection with any
proposed designation within thirty (30) calendar days after a written request
for such analysis has been received by the department, the commission and the
city council shall be relieved of any responsibility to consider such comments.
      4.   The historic preservation commission and the city council shall each
hold a public hearing on the proposed ordinance in accordance with the
procedures set forth in chapter three, review procedures, of the UDO.
      5.   Following the public hearings, the city council may adopt the
ordinance as proposed, adopt the ordinance with any amendments it deems
necessary, or reject the proposed ordinance.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 8-3.9. Certificates of appropriateness; required.
   A.   No exterior portion of any building or other structure (including
masonry, walls, fences, light fixtures, steps and pavement, or other
appurtenant features) nor above-ground utility structure nor any type of
outdoor advertising sign shall be erected, altered, restored, moved or
demolished on a landmark, or within a historic district, until after an
application for a certificate of appropriateness as to exterior features has
been submitted to and approved by the historic preservation commission.
   Exterior features shall include the architectural style, general design and
general arrangement of the exterior of a building or other structure, including
the color, the kind and texture of the building material, the size and scale of
the building and the type and style of all windows, doors, light fixtures,
signs and other appurtenant fixtures. In the case of outdoor advertising signs,
exterior features shall be construed to mean the style, material, size and
location of all such signs.
   B.   Such a certificate shall be issued by the commission prior to the
issuance of a zoning permit or other permit granted for purposes of
constructing, altering, moving or demolishing structures. A certificate of
appropriateness shall be required whether or not a zoning permit is required.
Therefore, a certificate of appropriateness is a prerequisite to the issuance
of such a zoning permit or such other permits. Any such zoning permits or such
other permits not issued in conformity with this section shall be invalid.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 8-3.10. Criteria to determine appropriateness.
   The following review criteria, along with companion design guidelines and
the guidelines of the Secretary of the Interior, shall be considered, where
relevant, to make findings of fact indicating the extent to which the
application for a certificate of appropriateness is or is not congruous with
the historic aspects of the designated landmark or district:
   A.   Building height.
   B.   Walls.
   C.   Proportion of width to height of the total building facade.
   D.   Proportion, shape, positioning, location, pattern and sizes of any
elements of fenestration.
   E.   Spacing of buildings, defined as the distance between adjacent
buildings.
   F.   Building materials.
   G.   Surface textures.
   H.   Color.
   I.   Expression of architectural detailing.
   J.   Roof shapes.
   K.   Scale.
   L.   Orientation of the building to the street.
   M.   Ground cover or paving.
   N.   Signs.
   O.   Exterior lighting and appurtenant features.
   The commission shall adopt principles and guidelines interpreting these
criteria for new construction, alterations, additions, moving and demolition of
landmarks or properties in a historic district.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 8-3.11. Reconstruction.
   A.   Reconstruction of substantially damaged historic sites. When a
designated historic building, structure, object, or site has been substantially
damaged, the historic preservation commission shall determine through an
evaluation of architectural integrity, whether the building, structure, object,
or site can be reconstructed using the following criteria:
      1.   Whether there is sufficient evidence such as photo-documentation,
scaled drawings, or other physical evidence to accurately depict the form and
detail of the original resource.
      2.   Whether the original construction materials, or substitute materials
that are sufficiently similar so as to convey the original qualities of
construction, are readily available.
      3.   Whether the interior spaces are especially significant to the form
and function of the building. If so, the historic preservation commission shall
define the parameters necessary to adequately convey those interior spatial
characteristics as requirements in the reconstruction effort.
      4.   Whether the applicant has demonstrated a commitment to the
reconstruction effort by making every reasonable effort to preserve or salvage
the remaining significant features of the property.
      5.   Whether there are other unique factors or circumstances that would
make reconstruction desirable.
   If the historic preservation commission determines that a historic
designated structure within a historic district or landmark may be
reconstructed, the property owner may submit a reconstruction plan for
consideration based on the criteria enumerated in this article. If the property
owner chooses not to reconstruct, the historic preservation commission may
recommend repeal of the historic designation using the procedure established in
this article.
   B.   Reconstruction criteria. Reconstruction of a designated historic
structure within a historic district or landmark shall be carried out in
accordance with the following criteria:
      1.   Reconstruction shall be used to depict nonsurviving portions of a
structure when such reconstruction is essential to the public understanding of
the landmark or historic district, and documentary and physical evidence is
available to permit accurate reconstruction.
      2.   Reconstruction of a historic contributing structure within a
historic district or landmark in its historic location shall be preceded by a
thorough archaeological investigation identifying and evaluating those features
and artifacts, which are essential to an accurate reconstruction. If such
resources must be disturbed, mitigation measures shall be undertaken.
      3.   Reconstruction shall include measures preserving any remaining
historic materials, features, and spatial relationships.
      4.   Reconstruction shall be based on the accurate duplication of
historic features and elements substantiated by documentary or physical
evidence rather than on conjectural designs or the availability of different
features from other historic landmarks or contributing structures within a
historic district. A reconstructed contributing structure within a historic
district or landmark shall re-create the appearance of the non-surviving
historic site in materials, design, colors, and texture.
      5.   All "reconstructions" shall be clearly documented as being
contemporary re-creations.
   C.   Amendment or repeal of designation. A historic designation pursuant to
this article may only be amended or rescinded by complying with the same
procedures as the original approval. However, the director of planning and
development service's report need only contain a recommendation to grant or
deny the repeal or amendment, and the reasons therefor.
      1.   The historic preservation commission recommending repeal of the
designation shall be based on competent and substantial evidence supporting the
repeal.
      2.   Final approval of repeal shall come from the city council.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 8-3.12. Demolition of designated landmark or building.
   A.   An application for a certificate of appropriateness authorizing the
relocation, demolition, or destruction of a designated landmark or a building,
structure or site within a historic district may not be denied except as
provided in paragraph (B) below. However, the effective date of such a
certificate may be delayed for a period of up to three hundred sixty-five (365)
days from the date of approval. The maximum period of delay authorized by this
section shall be reduced by the commission where it finds that the owner would
suffer extreme hardship or be permanently deprived of all beneficial use of or
return from such property by virtue of the delay. During such period the
commission shall negotiate with the owner and with any other parties in an
effort to find a means of preserving the building or site.
   B.   An application for a certificate of appropriateness authorizing the
demolition or destruction of a building, site or structure determined by the
state historic preservation officer as having statewide significance as defined
in the criteria of the National Register of Historic Places may be denied
except where:
      1.   The commission finds that the owner would suffer extreme hardship or
be permanently deprived of all beneficial use or return by virtue of the
denial; or
      2.   The city has adopted a demolition ordinance under article three,
dwellings unfit for human habitation and abandoned structures, chapter 7,
building regulations.
   C.   If the commission has voted to recommend designation of a property as a
landmark or designation of an area as a district, and final designation has not
been made by the city council, the demolition or destruction of any building,
site or structure located on the property of the proposed landmark or in the
proposed district may be delayed by the commission for a period of up to one
hundred eighty (180) days or until the city council takes final action on the
designation, whichever comes first.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 8-3.13. Land use, interior arrangement, maintenance, emergency repairs not
considered.
   A.   Nothing herein shall be construed to prevent a property owner from
making any use of his or her property not prohibited by other statutes,
ordinances or regulations.
   B.   The commission may enter, solely in performance of its official duties
and only at reasonable times, upon private lands for examination or survey
thereof. However, no member, employee, or agent of the commission may enter any
private building or structure without express consent of the owner or occupant
thereof.
   C.   Except as provided in paragraph (D) below, the commission shall have no
jurisdiction over interior arrangement and shall take no action except to
prevent the construction, reconstruction, alteration, restoration, moving or
demolition of buildings, structures, appurtenant features, outdoor advertising
signs, or other significant features which would be incongruous with the
special character of a landmark or of the district.
   D.   Notwithstanding paragraph (C) above, the jurisdiction of the commission
over interior spaces shall be limited to specific interior features of
architectural, artistic or historical significance in publicly owned designated
landmarks; and of privately owned historic landmarks for which consent for
interior review has been given by the owner. Said consent of any owner for
interior review shall bind future owners and/or successors in title, provided
such consent has been filed in the office of the register of deeds and indexed
accordingly to the name of the owner of the property in the grantee and grantor
indexes. The landmark designation shall specify the interior features to be
reviewed and the specific nature of the commission's jurisdiction over the
interior.
   E.   The ordinary maintenance or repair of any exterior architectural
feature of a landmark, or in a historic district which does not involve a
change in design, material, color or outer appearance thereof, shall not be
prevented by the requirements pertaining to the designated landmark or historic
district.
   F.   Nothing in this article shall be construed to prevent the maintenance
or, in the event of an emergency, the immediate restoration of any existing
above-ground utility structure without approval by the commission.
   G.   The construction, reconstruction, alteration, restoration, moving or
demolition of any exterior architectural features, which the city public
officer or similar official shall certify is required for public safety because
of an unsafe or dangerous condition, shall not be prevented by the requirements
pertaining to the landmark, or the historic district.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 8-3.14. Hearing procedures.
   A.   The historic preservation commission shall receive applications for
certificates of appropriateness as required under this section. The commission
shall review such application according to the review criteria, the design
guidelines and the Secretary of the Interior's Standards for Rehabilitation and
Illustrated Guidelines for Rehabilitating Historic Buildings and shall approve
or disapprove such application as provided in paragraph (d) of this subsection.
   B.   Prior to issuance or denial of a certificate of appropriateness, the
Commission shall take such action as may reasonably be required to inform the
owners of any property likely to be materially affected by the application and
shall give the applicant and such owners an opportunity to be heard. A written
notice of the proposal shall be sent to the applicant and to owners of property
(i.e., lots, parcels or tracts of land) within one hundred (100) feet of the
subject property or properties.
   C.   In cases where the commission deems it necessary, it may hold a public
hearing concerning an application for a certificate of appropriateness.
   D.   The historic preservation commission's final action on an application
for a certificate of appropriateness shall be by the passage of a motion to
take one (1) of the following actions:
      1.   Approve the application for a certificate of appropriateness as
proposed;
      2.   Approve the application for a certificate of appropriateness subject
to specific conditions and/or modifications of the proposal presented in the
application for a certificate of appropriateness;
      3.   Disapprove the application for a certificate of appropriateness as
proposed or modified.
   E.   Any aggrieved party may appeal the historic preservation commission's
action in granting or denying a certificate, which shall be submitted in
writing to the city council within thirty (30) days of the commission's final
action.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 8-3.15. Minor works.
   A certificate of appropriateness application, when determined to involve a
minor work, may be reviewed and approved, by the planning and development
director or his or her designee.
   "Minor works" are defined as those exterior changes that do not involve
substantial alterations, additions or removals that could impair the integrity
of the landmark or property within a historic district.
   An application may receive a certificate of appropriateness from the
planning and development director or his or her designee if it falls under the
list of minor works provided in the historic preservation commission rules of
procedure. If the planning and development director or his or her designee does
not issue a certificate of appropriateness, the applicant will be advised to
make a formal application to the historic preservation commission. No
application may be denied without formal action by the historic preservation
commission.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 8-3.16. Certificate issuance; expiration; enforcement.
   A.   Passage of a motion to approve, with or without modification, an
application shall constitute the issuance of a certificate of appropriateness
by the historic preservation commission. The application and the duly approved
minutes of the commission shall constitute the written documentation of such
issuances. Following the meeting a certificate shall be mailed to the property
for which a certificate has been issued. The certificate shall be posted on the
premises, in a location visible from the street, while the work is in progress.
Minutes of a historic preservation commission meeting shall be approved before
the end of the next meeting.
   B.   A certificate of appropriateness shall be valid for a period of six (6)
months from the date of issuance for the purpose of obtaining a zoning permit
or other permit for constructing or altering structures. A certificate of
appropriateness shall expire six (6) months after the date of issuance if the
work authorized by the certificate has not been commenced. If after
commencement the work is discontinued for a period of six (6) months, the
permit therefor shall immediately expire.
   C.   Compliance with certificates of appropriateness shall be enforced by
the planning and development director or his or her designee. Failure to comply
with a certificate of appropriateness shall be a violation of the zoning
ordinance. The enforcement of any remedy provided herein shall not prevent the
enforcement of any other remedy or remedies provided herein or in other
ordinances or laws.
   D.   In case any building, structure, site, area or object designated as a
landmark or located within a historic district is about to be demolished
whether as a result of deliberate neglect or otherwise, materially altered,
remodeled, removed or destroyed, except in compliance with the ordinance, the
commission or other party aggrieved by such action may institute any
appropriate action or proceeding to prevent such unlawful action.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 8-3.17. Conditions for certain approvals.
   A.   In the event that the commission, in considering an application for a
certificate of appropriateness, finds that a building or structure for which a
zoning permit is requested is to be an authentic restoration or reconstruction
which existed at the same location but does not meet zoning requirements, said
building or structure may be authorized to be restored or reconstructed at the
same location provided the following:
      1.   The zoning board of adjustment authorizes a variance to the location
and placement of the building or structure and no use other than that permitted
in the district in which the property is located is permitted.
      2.   Conditions and approvals set by the board of adjustment are attached
to the historic preservation commission's approval and included in any
certificate of appropriateness related thereto.
   B.   If the commission finds that an application for a certificate of
appropriateness includes any porches, steps, fences, walls or other items
extending over, on or within public rights-of-way is necessary for the
authentic restoration, reconstruction or maintenance of a historic landmark,
and will not impede or block pedestrian traffic or constitute a hazard to
public safety, such findings shall be transmitted to the city council for its
consideration in authorizing or denying such encroachments into such rights-of-
way.
   C.   If the city council authorizes an encroachment, any items restored,
reconstructed or maintained on, over or within a public right-of-way shall be
the responsibility of the owner, and the owner shall agree to protect and hold
the City of Marion harmless against any and all liability, cost damage or
expense suffered as a result of the restoration, reconstruction or maintenance
thereof.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 8-3.18. Nonconforming structures; exemption from flood hazard
requirements.
   A.   Authority to continue nonconforming structures. Nonconforming
structures that are federally or state designated as historic shall be
permitted to continue in accordance with Article One, flood damage prevention
of the UDO.
   B.   Exemption from flood elevation requirements. Structures that are
federally or state designated as historic shall be exempt from the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) flood elevation requirements in accordance
with Article One, flood damage prevention of the UDO.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 8-3.19. Authority to prevent demolition, alteration or violation of
ordinance.
   If any building, structure, site, area or object designated a historic
landmark is about to be demolished, whether as the result of deliberate neglect
or otherwise, materially altered, remodeled or removed, except in compliance
with the ordinance enacted under authority of this chapter, the city or the
commission may institute any appropriate action or proceedings to prevent such
unlawful demolition, material alteration, remodeling or removal, to restrain,
correct or abate such violation or to prevent any legal act or conduct with
respect to such historic landmark.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 8-3.20. Civil penalty.
   Unless otherwise provided in the Code of Ordinances of the City of Marion or
in state law, persons violating the provisions of this article shall be
assessed a civil penalty as provided in
chapter 1 of the Marion City Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 8-3.21. Definitions.
   For the purposes of this article, the following terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them unless the context clearly indicates otherwise:
   Alteration. Any change because of construction, repair, maintenance or
otherwise to buildings located within a historic district or to buildings
designated as a historic landmark.
   Archeological resource. Material evidence of past human activity which is
found below the surface of the ground or water, portions of which may be
visible above the surface.
   Building. Any structure, place or any other construction built for the
shelter or enclosure of persons, animals or chattels or any part of such
structure when subdivided by division walls or party walls extending to or
above the roof and without openings in such separate walls.
   Certificate of appropriateness. A document evidencing approval by the
historic preservation commission for work proposed in a historic district or to
or on a historic landmark.
   Commission. The historic preservation commission of the City of Marion, as
established in this
chapter 21 of the Code of Ordinances of the City of Marion.
   Construction. The erection of any onsite improvements on any parcel of
ground located within a historic district or on or to a historic landmark,
whether the site is presently improved, unimproved or becomes unimproved by
demolition, destruction of the improvements located thereon by fire, windstorm
or other casualty after the adoption of the ordinance from which this article
derives.
   Demolition. The complete or constructive removal by an applicant of a
building on any historic landmark or in any historic district.
   Designation. The creation of a historic district or a historic landmark
through the passage of an ordinance by the appropriate governing body.
   Exterior architectural features. The architectural style, general design and
general arrangement of the exterior of a building or other structure, including
the color, the kind and texture of the building material and the type and style
of all windows, doors, light fixtures, signs and other appurtenant fixtures. In
the case of outdoor advertising signs, exterior architectural features shall be
construed to mean the style, material, size and location of all such signs.
   Historic district. An overlay district established by the Marion City
Council for an area deemed to be of special significance in terms of its
history, prehistory, architecture, and/or culture, and to possess integrity of
design, setting, materials, feeling and/or association.
   Historic landmark. Any building, structure, site, artifact above or below
ground, area or object which is designated as a historic landmark by ordinance
of the city council due to its special significance in terms of its historical,
pre-historical, architectural or cultural importance and its possession of
integrity of design, setting, workmanship, materials, feeling and/or
association.
   Ordinary repairs and maintenance. Work done on a building to prevent it from
deterioration or to replace any part thereof in order to correct any
deterioration, decay or damage to a building or any part thereof in order to
restore such building as nearly as practical to its condition prior to such
deterioration, decay or damage.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Chapter 9
VESTED RIGHTS AND LEGAL PROVISIONS
   Art. I. Vested Rights, §§ 9-1.1--9-1.14
   Art. II. Legal Provisions, §§ 9-2.1--9-2.5
ARTICLE I.
VESTED RIGHTS
Sec. 9-1.1. Vested rights and permit choice.
   A.   Findings. The North Carolina General Assembly has recognized that local
government approval of development typically follows significant investment in
site evaluation, planning, development costs, consultant fees, and related
expenses. The General Assembly also finds that it is necessary and desirable to
provide for the establishment of certain vested rights in order to ensure
reasonable certainty, stability, and fairness in the development regulation
process, secure the reasonable expectations of landowners, and foster
cooperation between the public and private sectors in land- use planning and
development regulation. The provisions of this section and G.S. 160D-108 and
160D-108.1 strike an appropriate balance between private expectations and the
public interest.
   B.   Permit choice. If a land development regulation is amended between the
time a development permit application was submitted and a development permit
decision is made or if a land development regulation is amended after a
development permit decision has been challenged and found to be wrongfully
denied or illegal, G.S. 143-755 applies.
   C.   Vested rights.
      1.   Amendments in land development regulations are not applicable or
enforceable without the written consent of the owner with regard to any of the
following:
      2.   Buildings or uses of buildings or land for which a development
permit application has been submitted and subsequently issued in accordance
with G.S. 143-755.
      3.   Subdivisions of land for which a development permit application
authorizing the subdivision has been submitted and subsequently issued in
accordance with G.S. 143-755.
      4.   A site-specific vesting plan pursuant to G.S. 160D-108.1.
      5.   A multi-phased development pursuant to subsection (f) of G.S. 160D-
108 and the UDO section.
      6.   A vested right established by the terms of a development agreement
authorized by Article 10 of G.S. Chapter 160D.
      7.   The establishment of a vested right under any subdivision of
subsection does not preclude vesting under one or more other subdivisions of
this subsection or vesting by application of common law principles. A vested
right, once established as provided in this section, G.S. 160D-108, or common
law, precludes any action by a local government that would change, alter,
impair, prevent, diminish, or otherwise delay the development or use of the
property allowed by the applicable land development regulation or regulations,
except where a change in State or federal law mandating local government
enforcement occurs after the development application is submitted that has a
fundamental and retroactive effect on the development or use.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 9-1.2. Duration of vesting.
   A.   Upon issuance of a developmental permit, the statutory vesting granted
by subsection Sec.
9-1.1 of this section or subsection (c) of G.S. 160D-108 for a development
project is effective upon filing of the application in accordance with G.S.
143-755, for so long as the permit remains valid pursuant to law.
   B.   Unless otherwise specified by this section, G.S. 160D-108, or other
statute, local development permits expire one year after issuance unless work
authorized by the permit has substantially commenced.
   C.   For the purposes of this section, a permit is issued either in the
ordinary course of business of the applicable governmental agency or by the
applicable governmental agency as a court directive.
   D.   Except where a longer vesting period is provided by statute or land
development regulation, the statutory vesting granted by this section, once
established, expires for an uncompleted development project if development work
is intentionally and voluntarily discontinued for a period of not less than 24
consecutive months, and the statutory vesting period granted by this section
for a nonconforming use of property expires if the use is intentionally and
voluntarily discontinued for a period of not less than 24 consecutive months.
   E.   The 24-month discontinuance period is automatically suspended during
the pendency of any board of adjustment proceeding or civil action in a State
or federal trial or appellate court regarding the validity of a development
permit, the use of the property, or the existence of the statutory vesting
period granted by this section. The 24-month discontinuance period is also
suspended during the pendency of any litigation involving the development
project or property that is the subject of the vesting.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 9-1.3. Multiple permits for development project.
   Subject to Sec. 9-3.1 above, and subsection (d) of G.S. 160D-108, where
multiple local development permits are required to complete a development
project, the development permit applicant may choose the version of each of the
local land development regulations applicable to the project upon submittal of
the application for the initial development permit. This provision is
applicable only for those subsequent development permit applications filed
within 18 months of the date following the approval of an initial permit. For
purposes of the vesting protections of this subsection, a floodplain management
or watershed management, or a sign permit is not an initial development permit.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 9-1.4. Multi-phased development.
   A multi-phased development is vested for the entire development with the
land development regulations then in place at the time a site plan approval is
granted for the initial phase of the multi-phased development. A right which
has been vested as provided for in this subsection or subsection (f) of G.S.
160D-108 remains vested for a period of 7 years from the time a site plan
approval is granted for the initial phase of the multi-phased development.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 9-1.5. Continuing review.
   Following issuance of a development permit, a local government may make
subsequent inspections and reviews to ensure applicable compliance with the
land development regulations in effect at the time of the original application.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 9-1.6. Process to claim vested rights.
   A person claiming a statutory or common law vested rights may submit
information to substantiate that claim to the subdivision administrator or
planning and development director who shall make an initial determination as to
the existence of the vested right. The decision of the administrator may be
appealed under G.S. 160D-405. On appeal, the existence of a vested right shall
be reviewed de nova from the beginning. In lieu of seeking such a determination
or pursuing an appeal to the board of adjustment in accordance with G.S. 160D-
405, a person claiming a vested right may bring an original civil action as
provided by G.S. 160D-1403.1.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 9-1.7. Miscellaneous provisions.
   The vested rights granted by this section run with the land except for the
use of land for outdoor advertising governed by G.S. 136-131.1 and 136-131.2 in
which case the rights granted by this section and section (i) of G.S. 160D-108
run with the owner of a permit issued by the North Carolina Department of
Transportation. Nothing in this section precludes judicial determination, based
on common law principles or other statutory provisions, that a vested right
exists in a particular case or that a compensable taking has occurred. Except
as expressly provided in this section, nothing in this section shall be
construed to alter the existing common law.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 9-1.8. Establishment of vested rights.
   A vested right is established with respect to any property upon the valid
approval, or conditional approval, of a site-specific vesting plan as provided
in this section or G.S. 160D-108.1. Such a vested right confers upon the
landowner the right to undertake and complete the development and use of the
property under the terms and conditions of the site- specific vesting plan,
including any amendments thereto.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 9-1.9. Site-specific vesting plan.
   A.   A site-specific vesting plan consists of a plan submitted to a local
government in which the applicant requests vesting pursuant to this section or
G.S. 160D-108.1, describing with reasonable certainty on the plan the type and
intensity of use for a specific parcel or parcels of property. The plan may be
in the form of, but not be limited to, any of the following plans or approvals:
      1.   Planned unit development plan,
      2.   Subdivision plat,
      3.   Preliminary or general development plan,
      4.   Special use permit,
      5.   Any other land use approval designation as may be utilized by the
city.
   B.   The plan shall include the following information:
      1.   Approximate boundaries of the site;
      2.   Significant topographical and other natural features affecting
development of the site;
      3.   Approximate location on the site of the proposed buildings,
structures, and other improvements;
      4.   Approximate dimensions, including height, of the proposed buildings
and other structures; and
      5.   Approximate location of all existing and proposed infrastructure on
the site, including water, sewer, roads, and pedestrian walkways.
   C.    What constitutes a site-specific vesting plan under this section that
would trigger a vested right shall be finally determined by the city pursuant
to a development regulation, and the document that triggers the vesting shall
be so identified at the time of its approval.
   D.   A variance does not constitute a site-specific vesting plan, and
approval of a site-specific vesting plan with the condition that a variance be
obtained does not confer a vested right unless and until the necessary variance
is obtained.
   E.   A sketch or other document that fails to describe with reasonable
certainty the type and intensity of use for a specified parcel or parcels of
property may not constitute a site-specific vesting plan.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 9-1.10. Approval and amendment of plans.
   A.   If a site-specific vesting plan is based on an approval required by a
local development regulation, the city shall provide whatever notice and
hearing is required for that underlying approval.
   B.   A duration of the underlying approval that is less than 2 years does
not affect the duration of the site- specific vesting plan established under
this section or G.S. 160D-108.1.
   C.   If the site-specific vesting plan is not based on such an approval, a
legislative hearing with notice as required by G.S. 160D-602 shall be held.
   D.    The city may approve a site-specific vesting plan upon any terms and
conditions that may reasonably be necessary to protect the public health,
safety, and welfare.
   E.   Conditional approval results in a vested right, although failure to
abide by the terms and conditions of the approval will result in a forfeiture
of vested rights.
   F.   The city shall not require a landowner to waive the landowner's vested
rights as a condition of development approval.
   G.   A site-specific vesting plan is deemed approved upon the effective date
of the city's decision approving the plan or another date determined by the
governing board upon approval.
   H.   An approved site-specific vesting plan and its conditions may be
amended with the approval of the owner and the City. Any substantial
modification must be reviewed and approved in the same manner as the original
approval.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 9-1.11. Continuing review.
   Following approval or conditional approval of a site-specific vesting plan,
the city may make subsequent reviews and require subsequent approvals by the
city to ensure compliance with the terms and conditions of the original
approval, provided that these reviews and approvals are not inconsistent with
the original approval. The city may, pursuant to G.S. 160D-403(f), revoke the
original approval for failure to comply with applicable terms and conditions of
the original approval or the applicable local development regulations.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 9-1.12. Duration and termination of vested rights.
   A.   A vested right for a site-specific vesting plan remains vested for a
period of 2 years. This vesting shall not be extended by any amendments or
modifications to a site-specific vesting plan unless expressly provided by the
city.
   B.   Notwithstanding the provisions of subdivision (a) of this subsection
above, the city may provide for rights to be vested for a period exceeding two
(2) years but not exceeding 5 years where warranted in light of all relevant
circumstances, including, but not limited to, the size and phasing of
development, the level of investment, the need for the development, economic
cycles, and market conditions or other considerations. These determinations are
in the sound discretion of the city and shall be made following the process
specified for the particular form of a site-specific vesting plan involved in
accordance with subsection Sec.
9-1.12.
   C.   Upon issuance of a building permit, the provisions of G.S. 160D-1111
and 160D-1115 apply, except that a permit does not expire and shall not be
revoked because of the running of time while a vested right under this section
or G.S. 160D-108.1 is outstanding.
   D.   A right vested as provided in this section terminates at the end of the
applicable vesting period with respect to buildings and uses for which no valid
building permit applications have been filed.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 9-1.13. Subsequent changes prohibited; exceptions.
   A.   A vested right, once established as provided in this section or G.S.
160D-108.1, precludes any zoning action by the city which would change, alter,
impair, prevent, diminish, or otherwise delay the development or use of the
property as set forth in an approved site-specific vesting plan, except under
one or more of the following conditions:
      1.   With the written consent of the affected landowner.
      2.   Upon findings, by ordinance after notice and an evidentiary hearing,
that natural or man-made hazards on or in the immediate vicinity of the
property, if uncorrected, would pose a serious threat to the public health,
safety, and welfare if the project were to proceed as contemplated in the site-
specific vesting plan.
      3.   To the extent that the affected landowner receives compensation for
all costs, expenses, and other losses incurred by the landowner, including, but
not limited to, all fees paid in consideration of financing, and all
architectural, planning, marketing, legal, and other consulting fees incurred
after approval by the city, together with interest as provided under G.S. 160D-
106. Compensation shall not include any diminution in the value of the property
which is caused by the action.
      4.   Upon findings, by ordinance after notice and an evidentiary hearing,
that the landowner or the landowner's representative intentionally supplied
inaccurate information or made material misrepresentations that made a
difference in the approval by the city of the site-specific vesting plan or the
phase development plan.
      5.   Upon the enactment or promulgation of a State or federal law or
regulation that precludes development as contemplated in the site-specific
vesting plan or the phased development plan, in which case the city may modify
the affected provisions, upon a finding that the change in State or federal law
has a fundamental effect on the plan, by ordinance after notice and an
evidentiary hearing.
         a.   The establishment of a vested right under this section or G.S.
160D-108.l does not preclude the application of overlay zoning or other
development regulations which impose additional requirements but do not affect
the allowable type or intensity of use, or ordinances or regulations which are
general in nature and are applicable to all property subject to development
regulation by a local government, including, but not limited to, building,
fire, plumbing, electrical, and mechanical codes. Otherwise applicable new
regulations become effective with respect to property which is subject to a
site-specific vesting plan upon the expiration or termination of the vesting
rights period provided for in this section or G.S. 160D-108.1.
         b.   Notwithstanding any provision of this section, the establishment
of a vested right does not preclude, change, or impair the authority of the
city to adopt and enforce development regulations governing nonconforming
situations or uses.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 9-1.14. Miscellaneous provisions.
   A.   A vested right obtained under this section or G.S. 160D-108.1 is not a
personal right, but attaches to and runs with the applicable property. After
approval of a site-specific vesting plan, all successors to the original
landowner are entitled to exercise these rights.
   B.   Nothing in this section or G.S. 160D-108.1 precludes judicial
determinations, based on common law principles or other statutory provisions,
that a vested right exists in a particular case or that a compensable taking
has occurred. Nothing in this section shall be construed to alter the existing
common law.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
ARTICLE II.
LEGAL PROVISIONS
Sec. 9-2.1. Oversight not to legalize violation.
   No oversight or dereliction of duty on the part of any administrator, public
officer, or any other official of the planning and development department shall
be deemed to legalize the violation of any provision of the UDO or any
provision of any other regulatory code adopted in the UDO.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 9-2.2. Adoption of moratoria on development approvals.
   A.   Per G.S. 160D-107, the city council may adopt temporary moratoria on
any development approval required by law. The duration of any moratorium shall
be reasonable in light of the specific conditions that warrant imposition of
the moratorium and may not exceed the period of time necessary to correct,
modify, or resolve such conditions.
   B.   Except in cases of imminent and substantial threat to public health or
safety, before adopting an ordinance imposing a development moratorium with a
duration of sixty (60) days or any shorter period.
   C.   The city council shall hold a public hearing and shall publish a notice
of the hearing in a newspaper having general circulation in the area not less
than seven (7) days before the date set for the hearing.
   D.   A development moratorium with a duration of sixty-one (61) days or
longer, and any extension of a moratorium so that the total duration is sixty-
one (61) days or longer, is subject to the notice and hearing requirements of
G.S. 160D-601.
   E.   Absent an imminent threat to public health or safety, a development
moratorium adopted pursuant to this section shall not apply to any project for
which a valid building permit issued pursuant to G.S. 160D-403 is outstanding,
to any project for which a special use application has been accepted under this
chapter, to development set forth in a site- specific development plan approved
pursuant to G.S. 160D-102 and the UDO, to development for which substantial
expenditures have already been made in good faith reliance on a prior valid
administrative or quasi-judicial approval, or to preliminary or final
subdivision plats that have been accepted for review by the City of Marion
prior to the call for public hearing to adopt the moratorium.
   F.   Any preliminary subdivision plat accepted for review by the city prior
to the call for public hearing, if subsequently approved, shall be allowed to
proceed to final plat approval without being subject to the moratorium.
   G.   Any ordinance establishing a development moratorium must expressly
include at the time of adoption each of the following:
      1.   A clear statement of the problems or conditions necessitating the
moratorium and what courses of action, alternative to a moratorium, were
considered by the city and why those alternative courses of action were not
deemed adequate.
      2.   A clear statement of the development approvals subject to the
moratorium and how a moratorium on those approvals will address the problems or
conditions leading to imposition of the moratorium.
      3.   An express date for termination of the moratorium and a statement
setting forth why that duration is reasonably necessary to address the problems
or conditions leading to imposition of the moratorium.
      4.   A clear statement of the actions, and the schedule for those
actions, proposed to be taken by the city during the duration of the moratorium
to address the problems or conditions leading to imposition of the moratorium.
   No moratorium may be subsequently renewed or extended for any additional
period unless the city shall have taken all reasonable and feasible steps
proposed to be taken by the city in its ordinance establishing the moratorium
to address the problems or conditions leading to imposition of the moratorium
and unless new facts and conditions warrant an extension.
   Any ordinance renewing or extending a development moratorium must expressly
include, at the time of adoption, the findings set forth in subdivisions (1)
through (4) of this section, including what new facts or conditions warrant the
extension.
   Any person aggrieved by the imposition of a moratorium on development
approvals required by law may apply to the appropriate division of the general
court of justice for an order enjoining the enforcement of the moratorium, and
the court shall have jurisdiction to issue that order. Actions brought pursuant
to this section shall be set down for immediate hearing, and subsequent
proceedings in those actions shall be accorded priority by the trial and
appellate courts. In any such action, the city shall have the burden of showing
compliance with the procedural requirements of this subsection.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 9-2.3. Declaratory judgments and other civil actions.
   Challenges of legislative decisions of the city, including the validity and
constitutionality of development regulations adopted pursuant to G.S. Chapter
160D, and actions authorized by G.S. 160D-108(c), 160D-108(g), and 160D-405(c),
may be brought pursuant to Article 26 of G.S. Chapter 1. If the city was the
governmental unit making the challenged decision, the city shall be named as a
party to the action.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 9-2.4. Appeals in the nature of certiorari.
   A.   Applicability. This section applies to appeal of quasi-judicial
decisions of decision-making boards when that appeal is in the nature of
certiorari as required by G.S. Chapter 160D.
   B.   Filing the Petition. An appeal in the nature of certiorari shall be
initiated by filing a petition for writ of certiorari with the superior court
of McDowell County. The petition shall do all of the following:
      1.   State the facts that demonstrate that the petitioner has standing to
seek review.
      2.   Set forth allegations sufficient to give the court and parties
notice of the grounds upon which the petition contends that an error was made.
      3.   Set forth with particularity the allegations and facts, if any, in
support of allegations that, as the result of an impermissible conflict as
described in G.S. 160D-109, the decision-making body was not sufficiently
impartial to comply with due process principles.
      4.   Set forth the relief the petitioner seeks.
   C.   Standing. A petition may be filed under G.S.160D-1402 only by a
petitioner who has standing to challenge the decision being appealed. The
following persons shall have standing to file a petition under this section:
      1.   Any person possessing any of the following criteria:
         a.   An ownership interest in the property that is the subject of the
decision being appealed, a leasehold interest in the property that is the
subject of the decision being appealed, or an interest created by easement,
restriction, or covenant in the property that is the subject of the decision
being appealed.
         b.   An option or contract to purchase the property that is the
subject of the decision being appealed.
         c.   An applicant before the decision-making board whose decision is
being appealed.
            i.   Any other person who will suffer special damages as the result
of the decision being appealed.
            ii.   An incorporated or unincorporated association to which owners
or lessees of property in a designated area belong by virtue of their owning or
leasing property in that area, or an association otherwise organized to protect
and foster the interest of the particular neighborhood or local area, so long
as at least one of the members of the association would have had standing as an
individual to challenge the decision being appealed, and the association was
not created in response to the particular development or issue that is the
subject of the appeal.
            iii.   The town, if the governing body of the town believes its
decision-making board made a decision that improperly granted a variance from
or is otherwise inconsistent with the proper interpretation of a development
regulation adopted by the town's governing body.
   D.   Respondent. The respondent named in the petition shall be the local
government whose decision-making board made the decision that is being
appealed, except that if the petition is a local government that has filed a
petition pursuant to subdivision (iv) of subsection (c) above, then the
respondent shall be the decision-making board. If the petitioner is not the
applicant before the decision-making board whose decision is being appealed,
the petitioner shall also name that applicant as a respondent. Any petitioner
may name as a respondent any person with an ownership or leasehold interest in
the property that is the subject of the decision being appealed who
participated in the hearing, or was an applicant, before the decision-making
board.
   E.   Writ of Certiorari. Upon filing the petition, the petitioner shall
present the petition and a proposed writ of certiorari to the clerk of superior
court of Buncombe County. The writ shall direct the respondent local
government, or the respondent decision-making board, to prepare and certify to
the court the record of proceedings below within a specified date. The writ
shall also direct that the petitioner shall serve the petition and the writ
upon each respondent named therein in the manner provided for service of a
complaint under Rule 4(j) of the North Carolina Rules of Civil Procedure,
except that, if the respondent is a decision-making board, the petition and
writ shall be served upon the chair of that decision- making board. Rule 4(j)
(5)d of the Rules of Civil Procedure shall apply in the event the chair of the
decision-making board cannot be found. No summons shall be issued. The clerk
shall issue the writ without notice to the respondent or respondents if the
petition has been properly filed and the writ is in proper form. A copy of the
executed writ shall be filed with the court. Upon the filing of a petition for
writ of certiorari, a party may request a stay of the execution or enforcement
of the decision of the quasi-judicial board pending superior court review. The
court may grant a stay in its discretion, and on such conditions that properly
provide for the security of the adverse party. A stay granted in favor of a
local government shall not require a bond or other security.
   F.   Response to the Petition. The respondent may, but need not, file a
response to the petition, except that, if the respondent contends for the first
time that any petitioner lacks standing to bring the appeal, that contention
must be set forth in a response served on all petitions at least 30 days prior
to the hearing on the petition. If it is not served within that time period,
the matter may be continued to allow petitioners time to respond pursuant to
subsection (j) below.
   G.   Intervention. Rule 24 of the North Carolina Rules of Civil Procedure
shall govern motions to intervene as a petitioner or respondent in an action
initiated under this section except that the exceptions noted in G.S. 160D-1402
(g) shall apply.
   H.   The Record. The record shall consist of the decision and all documents
and exhibits submitted to the decision-making board whose decision is being
appealed, together with the minutes of the meeting or meetings at which the
decision being appealed was considered. Upon request of any party, the record
shall also contain an audio or videotape of the meeting or meetings at which
the decision being appealed was considered if such a recording was made. Any
party may also include in the record a transcript of the proceedings, which
shall be prepared at the cost of the party choosing to include it. The parties
may agree that matters unnecessary to the court's decision be deleted from the
record or that matters other than those specified herein be included. The
record shall be bound and paginated or otherwise organized for the convenience
of the parties and the court. A copy of the record shall be served by the local
government respondent, or the respondent decision-making board, upon all
petitioners within three (3) days after it is filed with the court.
   I.   Hearing on the Record. The court shall hear and decide all issues
raised by the petition by reviewing the record submitted in accordance with
G.S. 160D-1402(h) and section (h) above. The court may, in its discretion,
allow the record to be supplemented with affidavits, testimony of witnesses, or
documentary or other evidence if, and to the extent that, the record is not
adequate to allow an appropriate determination of the following issues:
      1.   Whether the petitioner or intervenor has standing.
      2.   Whether, as a result of impermissible conflict as described in G.S.
160D-109 or locally adopted conflict rules, the decision-making board was not
sufficiently impartial to comply with due process principles.
      3.   Whether the decision-making board erred for the reasons set forth in
G.S. 160D-1402(j)(1)(a) and (b).
   J.   Scope of Review.
      1.   When reviewing the decision under the provisions of G.S. 160D-1402,
the court shall ensure that the rights of petitioners have not been prejudiced
because the decision-making board's findings, inferences, conclusions, or
decisions were:
         a.   In violation of constitutional provisions, including those
protecting procedural due process rights.
         b.   In excess of statutory authority conferred upon the local
government or the authority conferred upon the decision-making board by
ordinance.
         c.   Inconsistent with applicable procedures specified by statute or
ordinance.
         d.   Affected by other error of law.
         e.   Unsupported by competent, material, and substantial evidence in
view of the entire record.
         f.   Arbitrary or capricious.
            i.   When the issue before the court is whether the decision-making
board erred in interpreting an ordinance, the court shall review that issue de
novo. The court shall consider the interpretation of the decision-making board,
but is not bound by that interpretation, and may freely substitute its judgment
as appropriate.
            ii.   The term "competent evidence," as used in this section, shall
not preclude reliance by the decision-making board on evidence that would not
be admissible under the rules of evidence as applied in the trial division of
the North Carolina General Court of justice if (i) the evidence was admitted
without objection or (ii) the evidence appears to be sufficiently trustworthy
and was admitted under such circumstances that it was reasonable for the
decision-making board to rely upon it. The term "competent evidence," as used
in this section, shall not be deemed to include the opinion testimony of law
witnesses as to any of the following:
               a)   The use of the property in a particular way affects the
value of other property.
               b)   The increase in vehicular traffic resulting from a proposed
development poses a danger to the public safety.
               c)   Matters about which only expert testimony would generally
be admissible under the rules of evidence.
   K.   Decision of the Court. Following its review of the decision-making
board in accordance with G.S. 160D- 1402(j), the court may affirm the decision,
reverse the decision and remand the case with appropriate instructions, or
remand the case for further proceedings. If the court does not affirm the
decision below in its entirety, then the court shall determine what relief
should be granted to the petitioners:
      1.   If the court concludes that the error committed by the decision-
making board is procedural only, the court may remand the case for further
proceedings to correct the procedural error.
      2.   If the court concludes that the decision-making board has erred by
failing to make findings of fact such that the court cannot properly perform
its function, then the court may remand the case with appropriate instructions
so long as the record contains substantial competent evidence that could
support the decision below with appropriate findings of fact. However, findings
of fact are not necessary when the record sufficiently reveals the basis for
the decision below or when the material facts are undisputed and the case
presents only an issue of law.
      3.   If the court concludes that the decision by the decision-making
board is not supported by competent, material, and substantial evidence in the
record or is based upon error at law, then the court may remand the case with
an order that directs the decision-making board to take whatever action should
have been taken had the error not been committed or to take such action as is
necessary to correct the error. Specifically:
         a.   If the court concludes that a permit was wrongfully denied
because the denial was not based on competent, material, and substantial
evidence or was otherwise based on an error of law, the court may remand with
instructions that the permit be issued, subject to reasonable and appropriate
conditions.
         b.   If the court concludes that a permit was wrongfully issued
because the issuance was not based upon competent, material, and substantial
evidence or was otherwise based on an error of law, the court may remand with
instructions that the permit be revoked.
   L.   Effect of Appeal on Ancillary Injunctive Relief.
      1.   If a development approval is appealed, the applicant shall have the
right to commence work while the appeal is pending. However, if the development
approval is reversed by a final decision of any court of competent
jurisdiction, the applicant shall not be deemed to have gained any vested
rights on the basis of actions taken prior to or during the pendency of the
appeal and must proceed as if no development approval has been granted.
      2.   Upon motion of a party to a proceeding under G.S. 160D-1402, and
under appropriate circumstances, the court may issue an injunctive order
requiring any other party to that proceeding to take certain action or refrain
from taking action that is consistent with the court's decision on the merits
of the appeal.
   M.   Joinder. A declaratory judgment brought under G.S.160D-1401 or other
civil action relating to the decision at issue may be joined with a petition
for writ of certiorari and decided in the same proceeding.
   Final decisions may be appealed to the McDowell County Superior Court within
30 days of notice or the effective date of the decision pursuant to N.C.G.S.
160A-388 and 160A-393.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Sec. 9-2.5. Statutes of limitation.
   A.   Zoning Map Adoption or Amendments. A cause of action as to the validity
of any regulation adopting or amending a zoning map adopted under the UDO or
other applicable law or a development agreement adopted under Sec.
3-2.23 of the UDO accrues upon adoption of the ordinance and shall be brought
within 60 days as provided in G.S. 1- 54.1.
   B.   Text Adoption or Amendment. Except as otherwise provided in subsection
(a) of this section, an action challenging the validity of a development
regulation adopted under the UDO or other applicable law shall be brought
within one (1) year of the accrual of such action. Such an action accrues when
the party bringing such action first has standing to challenge the regulation.
A challenge to a regulation on the basis of an alleged defect in the adoption
process shall be brought within three years after the adoption of such
regulation.
   C.   Enforcement Defense. Nothing in this section or in G.S. 1-54(10) or
G.S. 1-54.1 bars a party in an action involving the enforcement of a
development regulation or in an action under G.S. 160D-1403.1 from raising as a
claim or defense in the proceedings the enforceability or the invalidity of the
UDO. Nothing in this section or in G.S. 1-54(10) or G.S. 1-54.1 bars a party
who files a timely appeal from an order, requirement, decision, or
determination made by an administrative official contending that the party is
in violation of a development regulation from raising in the judicial appeal
the invalidity of the UDO as a defense to the order, requirement, decision, or
determination. A party in an enforcement action or appeal may not assert the
invalidity of the UDO on the basis of an alleged defect in the adoption process
unless the defense is formally raised within three years of the adoption of the
challenged regulation.
   D.   Termination of Grandfathered Status. When a use constituting a
violation of a zoning ordinance is in existence prior to adoption of the UDO
creating the violation, and that use is grandfathered and subsequently
terminated for any reason, a local government shall bring an enforcement action
within 10 years of the date of the termination of the grandfathered status,
unless the violation poses an imminent hazard to health or public safety.
   E.   Quasi-Judicial Decisions. Unless specifically provided otherwise, a
petition for review of a quasi-judicial decision shall be filed with the clerk
of superior court by the later of 30 days after the decision is effective or
after a written copy thereof is given in accordance with G.S. 160D-406(j). When
first-class mail is used to deliver notice, three days shall be added to the
time to file the petition.
   F.   Others. Except as provided by this section, the statutes of limitations
are as provided in Subchapter II of Chapter 1 of the General Statutes.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
Chapter 10
DEFINITION OF TERMS USED IN THE UDO
Sec. 10-1.1. Definitions.
   Except as specifically defined herein, all words used in this chapter shall
have their customary dictionary definitions. For the purpose of this chapter,
certain words or terms used herein are defined as follows:
   Words used in the present tense include the future tense. Words used in the
singular include the plural, and words used in the plural include the singular.
The word "shall" is always mandatory. The word "lot" includes the word "plot"
or "parcel." The word "building" includes the word "structures." The word
"person" includes a firm, association, organization, partnership, trust company
or corporation as well as an individual. The words "used" or "occupied," as
applied to any land or building, shall be construed to include the words
"intended, arranged, or designed to be used or occupied." The words "map,""
zoning map," "Official Zoning Map" or "Marion Zoning Map" shall mean the
"Official Zoning Map of the City of Marion, North Carolina."
   Alley. A public thoroughfare which affords a secondary means of access to
abutting property and is fifteen (15) feet or less in width.
   Ancillary use. The display, sale, distribution, delivery, offering,
furnishing, or marketing of a product or range of products that does not exceed
and is subordinate to the primary use of a building, structure, or property and
supports or supplements the primary business activity.
   Approved screening. Includes, but is not limited to, opaque enclosures,
buildings, natural objects, plantings, fencings, walls or other appropriate
means to visually conceal the view of junked or inoperable motor vehicles (or
other uses that are required to be screened) from adjoining property or the
public roadway at any season of the year. In determining whether screening is
adequate, the following factors, along with others, should be considered:
topographical features of the property and naturally occurring visual
obstructions, such as but not limited to vegetation.
   Approved screening plan. A site specific plan approved by the person or
board issuing the permit and that includes but is not limited to natural
objects, plantings, fencings, walls or other appropriate means to visually
conceal the view of junked or inoperable motor vehicles (or other use that is
required to be screened) from the public roadway at any season of the year. In
determining whether to approve a screening plan, the following factors, along
with others, should be considered: topographical features of the property and
naturally occurring visual obstructions, such as but not limited to vegetation.
   Armory. A place where arms and federal and/or state military equipment may
be stored and military personnel may be trained.
   Automated teller machine (ATM). A terminal designed to facilitate
transactions that accept and dispense cash in connection with a financial
account. A machine may be located at a bank or other financial institution, or
as a terminal in an off-site location as an accessory use and/or structure to
an existing commercial use.
   Automobile. For the purpose of this chapter the term automobile shall
include all motor vehicles.
   Automobile graveyard. Any establishment or place of business which is
maintained, used, or operated for storing, keeping, buying or selling wrecked,
scrapped, ruined, or dismantled motor vehicles or motor vehicle parts. Any
establishment or place of business upon which six (6) or more unlicensed, used
motor vehicles which cannot be operated under their own power are kept or
stored for a period of fifteen (15) days or more shall be deemed to be an
"automobile graveyard."
   State Law References: Similar provisions, G.S. 136-143(1).
   Automobile sales (also referred to as "car sales" or "motor vehicle sales")
businesses. Any establishment or place of business which is maintained or
operated for the primary purpose of selling motor vehicles. For purposes of
this definition, factors to be considered in determining the primary purpose of
the business include but are not limited to the following:
      1.   Gross receipts of the business attributable to vehicle sales or
service broken down into the following categories: vehicle sales, new parts,
labor for service, and used parts;
      2.   The age of each vehicle and how long each vehicle has been on the
property (used vehicles that are on the property for longer than twelve (12)
months may be evidence that the business is not an automobile sales business,
but rather an automobile graveyard and/or junk yard);
      3.   Any business-type licenses that are held, or the lack thereof; and
      4.   The number and configuration of grease bays or repair work areas.
   For the purposes of this definition, automobile sales businesses where the
service department generates fifty (50) percent or more of the gross receipts
of the business are considered to be automobile repair shops and subject to all
regulations governing automobile repair shops.
   Automobile repair shop. Any establishment or place of business which is
maintained or operated for the primary purpose of making mechanical and/or body
repairs to motor vehicles. Factors to be considered in determining the primary
purpose of the shop include but are not limited to the following:
      1.   Gross receipts of the business attributable to repair service broken
down into the following categories: new parts, labor for service, used parts;
      2.   The age of each vehicle and how long each vehicle has been on the
property (used vehicles that are on the property for longer than six (6) months
may be evidence that the business is not an automobile repair shop, but rather
an automobile graveyard and/or junk yard);
      3.   Whether business has initiated proceedings to declare vehicles
abandoned under state law so the vehicle can be disposed of;
      4.   Any business-type licenses that are held, or the lack thereof; and
      5.   The number and configuration of grease bays or repair work areas.
   For the purposes of this definition, automobile sales businesses where the
service department generates fifty (50) percent or more of the gross receipts
of the business are considered to be automobile repair shops and subject to all
regulations governing automobile repair shops. For purposes of this chapter,
automobile tire sales and service shops, as defined herein, shall be considered
automobile repair shops. An automobile repair shop that operates a combination
of towing, tire and sales shall comply with all the regulations governing each
use.
   Automobile tire sales and service shop. Any establishment or place of
business which is maintained or operated for the primary purpose of selling
tires and/or tire repair. For purposes of this definition, factors to be
considered in determining the primary purpose of the shop include but are not
limited to the following:
      1.   Gross receipts of the business attributable to tire service;
      2.   The age of each vehicle and how long each vehicle has been on the
property (used vehicles that are on the property for longer than six (6) months
may be evidence that the business is not an automobile tire shop, but rather an
automobile graveyard and/or junk yard);
      3.   The length of time that used tires are stored on the property;
      4.   Used tires stored on the property longer than thirty (30) days
should be evidence that the business is not an automobile tire shop, but rather
a junkyard;
      5.   Any business-type licenses that are held, or the lack thereof. For
the purpose of this definition, tire, tire sales and services shall be
considered an automobile repair shop.
   Automobile towing and wrecker service businesses. Any establishment or place
of business which is maintained or operated for the primary purpose of towing
motor vehicles. For purposes of this definition, factors to be considered in
determining the primary purpose of the shop include but are not limited to the
following:
      1.   Gross receipts of the business attributable to towing service;
      2.   The age of each vehicle and how long each vehicle has been on the
property (used vehicles that are on the property for longer than six (6) months
may be evidence that the business is not an automobile towing service, but
rather an automobile graveyard and/or junkyard);
      3.   The length of time and number of junked vehicles that are stored on
the property;
      4.   Whether business has initiated proceedings to declare vehicles
abandoned under state law so the vehicle can be disposed of;
      5.   Any business-type licenses that are held, or the lack thereof.
   For the purpose of this definition, tire, towing and wrecking services shall
be considered an automobile repair shop.
   Ballast is a device used with an electric-discharge lamp to obtain the
necessary circuit conditions (voltage, current, and waveform) for starting and
operating.
   Bed and breakfast home. A private home offering bed and breakfast
accommodations to eight (8) or less persons per night for a period of less than
one (1) week provided that the business:
      1.   Does not serve food or drink to the general public for pay;
      2.   Serves only the breakfast meal, and that the meal is served only to
overnight guests of the
business;
      3.   Included the price of breakfast in the room rate; and
      4.   Is the permanent residence of the owner or manager of the business.
   Bingo hall. A facility used to conduct bingo games in compliance with state
statutory provisions, and open to the public and not in a subsidiary nature to
another use.
   Boarding house. Any dwelling, wherefor compensation, lodging and/or meals
are provided. The occupancy for such use of a dwelling unit shall not exceed
more than one (1) person per two hundred (200) square feet of gross fioor
space, other than the owner and/or employees of the unit.
   Building. A structure which is completely enclosed by a roof and by three
(3) or more solid exterior walls, which is permanently affixed to a lot or
lots, and used or intended for the shelter, support or enclosure of persons,
animals, or property of any kind.
   Building, customary accessory. A detached building subordinate to the main
building on a lot and used for purposes customarily incidental to the main or
principal building and located on the same lot therewith.
   Building height. The vertical distance from the mean elevation of the
finished grade along the front of the building to the highest point of the
roof.
   Building, principal. A building in which is conducted the principal use of
the lot on which said building is located, and may include other structures
pursuant to G.S. 160D-1101(1).
   Building setback line. A line delineating the minimum distance between the
property line and a building on a lot, within which no building or other
structure shall be placed except as otherwise provided. Whenever the front,
side or rear portions of a lot abuts a street right-of-way, setback lines shall
be measured from said right-of-way line. In the event there is no right-of-way
line, the setback shall be measured from the traveled portion of the road or
street.
   Candela is the metric unit for luminous intensity (that is, power emitted by
a light source in a particular direction, with wavelengths weighted by the
luminosity function, a standardized model of the sensitivity of the human eye).
   Carport. A structure consisting of a roof and two (2) or less exterior
walls.
   Cemetery. Land dedicated and intended for the interment of the deceased and
dedicated for burial purposes including columbariums and mausoleums.
   Columbarium. A structure or building substantially exposed above ground
intended to be used for the interment of the cremated remains of a deceased
person.
   Comprehensive plan. A comprehensive plan that has been officially adopted by
the governing board pursuant to G.S. 160D-501.
   Condominium. A single-family dwelling unit constructed in a series or group
of attached units where each dwelling unit is to be deeded and/or separately
owned from the other units, and where all land is owned in common by owners of
all the dwelling units collectively.
   Condominium building. A building containing two (2) or more condominium
dwelling units.
   Construction office, temporary. A structure housing the field office
operations for the construction of a building or group of buildings being built
simultaneously. The temporary construction office shall be located on the
actual construction site and must be removed immediately upon completion of
construction.
   Customary incidental home occupation. Any use conducted entirely within a
dwelling and carried on by the occupants thereof, which use is clearly
incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling for residential purposes
and does not change the character thereof, and in connection with which there
are no direct retail sales or permanent display on the premises and no person
not a resident on the premises is employed specifically in connection with the
activity, except that not more than one (1) assistant may be employed in the
following home occupations: lawyer, physician, optometrist, dentist, osteopath,
private home shows, chiropractor, and insurance agent. Provided further that no
mechanical equipment is installed or used except such as is normally used for
domestic or professional purposes, and that not over twenty-five (25) percent
of the total floor space of any structure is used for home occupations. No use
defined as a special use in any zoning district in article VIII, use
requirements by district, of this chapter shall be permitted as a customary
incidental home occupation without prior approval by the board of adjustment.
   Cutoff fixture is a light fixture shielded or constructed in such a manner
that no more than 2.5 percent of the total light emitted by the fixture is
projected above the horizontal plane of the fixture.
   Day care center. A facility licensed by the state, that provides care,
supervision, and an organized program to children or adults who do not reside
in the facility, are present during daytime hours, and do not stay overnight.
   Development. As defined by G.S. 143-755(e)(1).
   Development permit. As defined in G.S. 143-755(e)(2).
   Domestic servant. An individual or individuals employed by the occupant of a
dwelling unit, for wages reportable and reported to the Internal Revenue
Service, to perform services such as household duties, yard maintenance, and
the like on a regular (not less frequently than weekly) basis.
   Dusk-to-dawn utility/security fixture. A light fixture that is specifically
designed to operate continuously from dusk to dawn, by means of a timer or
electronic sensor, that is used as a utility, yard or security light, and whose
light output equals or exceeds 2,000 lumens.
   Dwelling, multifamily. A building arranged or designed to be occupied by two
(2) or more families living independently of each other.
   Dwelling. Any building that contains one or two dwelling units used,
intended or designed to be built, used, rented, leased, let or hired out to be
occupied, or that are occupied for living purposes.
   Dwelling unit. A single unit providing complete independent living
facilities for one or more persons, including permanent provisions for living,
sleeping, eating, cooking, and sanitation.
   Family. One (1) or more persons occupying a single-family dwelling unit who
are related by blood or marriage or adoption. A maximum of five (5) persons,
not related by blood or marriage or adoption, may occupy a single-family
dwelling unit. Domestic servants employed or living on the premises may be
housed on the premises without being counted as part of the family. The maximum
permissible number of five (5) unrelated persons who may lawfully occupy a
single-family dwelling unit shall not apply to any group occupying a boarding/
rooming house or a fraternity house.
   Family care home. A home with support and supervisory personnel that
provides room and board, personal care and habilitation services in a family
environment for not more than six (6) resident handicapped persons.
   Gasoline service or filling stations. Any establishment or place of business
which is maintained or operated for the primary purpose of selling gasoline or
motor fuel or which contains fuel pumps and other such fuel dispensing
appliances. For purposes of this definition, factors to be considered in
determining the primary purpose of the business include but are not limited to
the following:
      1.   Gross receipts of the business attributable to gasoline or motor
fuel sales or service broken down into the following categories: gasoline or
motor fuel sales, labor for service, and parts;
      2.   The age of each vehicle and how long each vehicle has been on the
property (used vehicles that are on the property for longer than six (6) months
may be evidence that the business is not a gasoline service or filling station,
but rather an automobile graveyard and/or junk yard);
      3.   Any business-type licenses that are held, or the lack thereof;
      4.   The number of gasoline pumps or fuel distribution devices; and
      5.   The number and configuration of grease bays or repair work areas.
   For the purposes of this definition, gasoline service or filling stations
where the service or repair work constitutes fifty (50) percent or more of the
gross receipts of the business are considered to be automobile repair shops and
subject to all regulations governing automobile repair shops.
   Glare is the effect produced by a light source within the visual field that
is sufficiently brighter than the level to which the eyes are adapted, to cause
annoyance, discomfort, or loss of visual performance and ability.
   Group care facility. An establishment qualified for a license by the State
of North Carolina that provides resident services to individuals of whom one or
more are unrelated. The individuals are handicapped, aged or disabled, are
undergoing rehabilitation or extended care, and are provided services to meet
their needs. This category includes group homes for all ages, halfway houses,
and foster and boarding homes.
   Handicapped person. A person with a temporary or permanent physical,
emotional, or mental disability including but not limited to mental
retardation, cerebral palsy, epilepsy, autism, hearing and sight impairments,
emotional disturbances and orthopedic impairments but not including mentally
ill persons who are dangerous to others as defined in G.S.122-58.2(l)b. (1981,
c. 565, s.1.).
   Illuminance. The amount of light (luminous flux index) at a point on a
surface (measured in foot-candles).
   In view or visible. Means that it is capable of being seen without visual
aid by a person of normal visual acuity.
   Indoor firing or archery range. An enclosed, permanent structure for the
purpose of archery and/or the discharging of firearms for the purposes of
recreational target practice.
   Industry, light. A use that involves the manufacturing, production,
processing, fabrication, assembly, treatment, repair, research, packaging,
warehousing, wholesaling, and distribution of finished products, predominately
from previously prepared or refined materials or raw materials that do not
require refinement.
   Industry, heavy. Manufacturing or other enterprises with external effects
that pose risks due to the involvement of flammable or explosive material,
radioactive material, poisons, pesticides, herbicides, solvents, solid waste,
sanitary waste, or other hazardous materials in the manufacturing, storage or
other processes of such material that have the potential of creating a
hazardous condition or public nuisance.
   Inoperable motor vehicle. See "Junked and/or inoperable motor vehicle."
   Junk. Old or scrap copper, brass, rope, rags, batteries, paper, trash,
rubber, debris, waste or junked, dismantled or wrecked automobiles, or parts
thereof, iron, steel, and other old or scrap ferrous or nonferrous material.
   Junked and/or inoperable motor vehicle. A vehicle that does not display a
current license plate and that:
      1.   Is partially dismantled or wrecked; or
      2.   Cannot be self-propelled or moved in the manner in which it
originally was intended to move; or
      3.   Is more than five (5) years old and appears to be worth less than
one hundred dollars ($100.00).
   Junkyard. An establishment or place of business which is maintained,
operated, or used for storing, keeping, buying, or selling junk, or for
maintenance or operation of an automobile graveyard, and the terms shall
include garbage dumps and sanitary fills. An establishment or place of business
which stores or keeps for a period of fifteen (15) days or more materials
within the meaning of "junk" as defined herein which had been derived or
created as a result of industrial activity shall be deemed to be a junkyard.
   Kennel. Any lot, building, structure, enclosure or premises whereupon or
wherein are kept five (5) or more dogs, cats or similar small animals in any
combination, whether such keeping is for care, pleasure, profit, breeding, or
exhibiting, and including places where dogs or cats or similar small animals in
any combination are boarded, kept for sale, care, or kept for hire.
   Land development regulation. As defined in G.S. 143-755(e)(3).
   Law enforcement facility. A facility used for law enforcement functions
including but not limited to law enforcement agency offices, communication
centers, court room facilities and jails.
   Light fixture (Luminaire). A complete lighting unit consisting of a lamp or
lamps and ballast(s) (when applicable) together with the parts designed to
distribute the light, to position and protect the lamps, and to connect the
lamps to the power supply.
   Light source. The element of a lighting fixture that is the point of origin
of the lumens emitted by the fixture.
   Light trespass. The unwanted light spilling onto an adjacent property and/or
an excessive brightness (i.e. glare) that occurs in the normal field of vision.
   Lot. A parcel of land occupied or capable of being occupied by a building or
group of buildings devoted to a common use, together with the customary
accessories and open spaces belonging to the same. For the purposes of this
definition, the word "lot" shall mean any number of contiguous lots, or
portions thereof, upon which one (1) or more principal structures are to be
erected for a single use.
   Lot, depth of. The average distance between front and rear lot lines as
measured along the side lot lines.
   Lot, width of. The distance between side lot lines measured at the building
line.
   Lot of record. A lot which is a part of a subdivision, a plat of which has
been recorded in the Office of the Register of Deeds of McDowell County, North
Carolina, or a lot described by metes and bounds, the description of which has
been so recorded.
   Lumen. The quantitative unit used to identify the amount of light emitted by
a light source. A lamp is generally rated in lumens.
   Lux. A unit of illuminance; one lux equals one lumen per square meter. One
foot-candle equals 10.76 lux (often rounded to 10 lux for ease of use).
   Major automobile repair work. Work on a vehicle that is necessary to ensure
the correct operation of the vehicle which cannot be completed in less than one
(1) hour.
   Manufactured/ mobile home. A factory-assembled transportable home built on a
permanent chassis, and designed and intended to be used as a year-round
dwelling unit. For the purpose of this chapter, the terms manufactured home and
mobile home are the same, and refer to a dwelling that was constructed after
June 15, 1976 following the enactment of the National Manufactured Housing
Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, and not constructed in
accordance with the standards of the North Carolina Residential Building Code,
current edition. A manufactured home shall not be construed to be a modular
home, travel trailer, park model, or other form of recreational vehicle, or a
building type permitted for nonresidential purposes. The floor area for a
manufactured home shall be a minimum of twelve (12) feet in width with no less
than six hundred (600) square feet of gross living area unless otherwise stated
in the ordinance. Manufactured homes are classified in the following
categories:
      1.   Class A: A multi-sectional manufactured housing unit constructed
after June 15, 1976 that meets or exceeds the U.S. Housing and Urban
Development (HUD) Department standards for manufactured home construction.
      2.   Class B: A manufactured home constructed after June 15, 1976 that
meets or exceeds the U.S. Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Department
standards for manufactured home construction.
      3.   Class C: Any manufactured housing unit that does not meet the Class
A or Class B definition.
   Minor automobile repair work. Work on a vehicle that is necessary to ensure
the correct operation of the vehicle which can be completed in less than one
(1) hour.
   Mobile food vendor. A temporary commercial activity for the purpose of
offering food and/or beverage products for retail sale from a mobile food
vendor unit, pushcart, or other moveable structure.
   Mobile food vendor commissary. A North Carolina Department of Health
approved restaurant, commercial kitchen, or similar approved facility for the
permanent refrigeration, storage, packaging, preparation or any combination of
these, where such food is intended to be sold or distributed to the public by a
mobile food vendor.
   Mobile food vendor unit. A vehicle, pushcart, or other moveable structure
that is temporary in nature and is commercially designed specifically for the
purpose of keeping or storing food and beverages for retail sale by a
commercial vendor.
   Mobile food operation shall mean setting up, preparing, storing, holding and
selling food, or distributing food free of charge, from a mobile food vending
unit for a fixed temporary period of time.
   Mobile home. A factory-assembled portable housing unit, or a portion
thereof, built on a chassis and intended for use as a dwelling unit, and is not
constructed in accordance with the standards of the North Carolina Uniform
Residential Building Code for One- and Two-Family Dwellings. A mobile home is
designed to be transported on its own chassis. A mobile home shall be construed
to remain a mobile home whether or not wheels, axles, hitch, or other
appurtenance to mobility are removed, and regardless of the nature of the
foundation provided. All vehicles which are designated mobile homes by the
Uniform Standards Code for Mobile Homes shall be construed as mobile homes. A
mobile home shall not be construed to be a travel trailer or other form of
recreations vehicle or occupied for nonresidential purposes. All references to
mobile homes in this chapter shall include manufactured homes. The floor area
for a mobile home shall be a minimum of twelve (12) feet in width with no less
than six hundred (600) square feet of gross living area.
   Mobile home park. Any premises where more than one (1) mobile home is parked
for living and sleeping purposes, or any premises used or set apart for the
purpose of supplying to the public parking space for mobile homes for living
and sleeping purposes, and which includes any building, structures, vehicles,
or enclosures used or intended for use as part of such mobile home park.
   Mobile home site. A plot of ground within a mobile home park designated for
the accommodation and use of one (1) trailer or mobile home and containing all
improvements and utility connections required under this chapter and other
applicable city codes.
   Modular housing. A form of manufactured housing unit that meets the
construction standards of the North Carolina Uniform Residential Building Code
for one-family and two-family dwellings regardless of how the unit or its
components are transported to the site.
   Motel. A building or group of buildings used as an abiding place of ten (10)
or more persons, who are lodged for compensation. Parking spaces are
conveniently located to each unit.
   Multi-phased development. A development containing 25 acres or more that is
both of the following:
      1.   Submitted for development permit approval to occur in more than one
phase.
      2.   Subject to a master development plan with continued elements showing
the type and intensity of use of each phase.
   Nonconforming use. Any building or structure, or the use of any land,
building or structure existing at the time of the adoption of, or amendment to
this chapter, that does not conform to the regulations of the district in which
it is located.
   Non-cutoff fixture. A light fixture having no light distribution limitation
in the zone above the light source.
   Nonresidential development means all development other than residential
development.
   Nuisance vehicle. A vehicle on public or private property that is determined
and declared to be a health or safety hazard, a public nuisance and unlawful,
including a vehicle found to be:
      1.   A breeding ground or harbor for mosquitoes, or other insects, rats,
or pests; or
      2.   A point of heavy growth of weeds or other noxious vegetation over
eight (8) inches in height; or
      3.   A point of collection of pools or pounds of water; or
      4.   A point of concentration of quantities of gasoline oil or other
flammable or explosive materials as evidenced by odor; or
      5.   One which has areas of confinement which cannot be operated from the
inside, such as trunk, hoods, etc.; or
      6.   So situated or located that there is a danger of it falling or
turning over; or
      7.   One which is a point of collection of garbage, food waste, animal
waste or any rotten or putrescible matter of any kind; or
      8.   One which has sharp points thereon which are jagged or contain sharp
edges of metal or glass; or
      9.   Located within a public right-of-way and which is creating a traffic
hazard or impeding ingress or egress into a residential dwelling or place of
business;
      10.   Any other vehicle specifically declared a health and safety hazard
and a public nuisance by the city council.
   Nursing home. A nursing home is defined as an institution, however named,
which is advertised, announced or maintained for the express or implied purpose
of providing nursing or convalescent care for three (3) or more persons
unrelated to the licensee. A nursing home is a home for chronic or convalescent
who do not usually require special facilities, such as an operating room, x-ray
facilities, laboratory facilities, and obstetrical facilities. A nursing home
provides care for persons who have remedial ailments or other ailments, for
which medical or nursing care is indicated.
   Open storage. The storage of any products, materials, vehicles, equipment,
junk, or scrap outside the confines of an enclosed building, and more
specifically defined as:
      1.   Merchandise display: Display of products and materials, and operable
vehicles and equipment for the purpose of offering for sale at retail, and
incidental to a principal office or retail building existing on the premises;
      2.   Equipment and material storage: Storage of any equipment or
materials in usable condition which are not being specifically displayed as
merchandise or offered for sale at retail; or
      3.   Junk and scrap storage: Storage of used products, junk, or scrap
materials such as wood, cloth, paper, glass, metal, plastic, or rock material
which could be refurbished, recycled, or converted into usable stock or
material.
   Paraphernalia. For the purpose of this chapter, paraphernalia is any
equipment, device, product, or accessory used for the human consumption,
making, or concealing of a tobacco-product, smoke-product, vapor-product, or
controlled substance.
   Parking aisle. An area within a parking facility intended to provide ingress
and egress to a parking space.
   Parking area or parking lot. A parking area is the total area that includes
all parking spaces, aisles, and driveways, as defined by the back of curb or
edge of pavement.
   Parking space. An area of not less than nine (9) feet by eighteen (18) feet,
plus the necessary access space. Parking spaces shall be provided with
vehicular access to a street or alley, shall not be provided in a required
front yard area, and shall always be located outside the dedicated street
right-of-way.
   Patio home. A one-story single family dwelling (excluding mobile homes)
designed to maximize the combination of indoor-outdoor living and privacy
through the use of patio walls and court yards as buffer areas. Patio homes may
only be constructed within approved patio home developments.
   Pixel. A pixel is a physical point in a raster image, or the smallest
element in a display device that can be controlled and turned off or on at
various levels of illumination.
   Pixel pitch. The distance measured horizontally and vertically between each
pixel within an electronic message display.
   Planned unit development. Any development where more than one (1) principal
building is proposed to be constructed on a single tract, or any multifamily
development containing nine (9) or more dwelling units, or any building with a
gross floor area of more than twenty-five thousand (25,000) square feet.
   Property line. A line delineating the boundary of a lot or other piece of
property.
   Schedule VI controlled substance. Any drug, substance, or immediate
precursor listed or to be listed by whatever official name, common or usual
name, chemical name, or trade name designated, which is regulated under state
and federal law as cited under the North Carolina Controlled Substances Act.
   Semi-cutoff fixture is a light fixture shielded or constructed in such a
manner that no more than 5 percent of the total light emitted by the fixture is
projected above the horizontal plane of the fixture.
   Senior housing. An independent living facility providing multiple one (1) to
two (2) bedroom residential dwelling units occupied only by senior citizens
that are fifty-five (55) years and older and persons with disabilities.
   Shelter/mission. Facility providing personal assistance on a nonprofit basis
to individuals of an indigent status. Such assistance must include food and/or
temporary shelter and may, in addition, include religious instruction,
counseling, and other incidental services customarily provided by missions.
   Sign. Any display of letters, words, numbers, figures, devices, emblems,
pictures, logos, or any other means whereby the same are made visible for the
purpose of making anything known, whether such display be on, or attached to,
or as a part of a structure, surface, or any object whether natural or manmade.
The word "sign" does not include the flag, pennant, or insignia of any nation,
state, city, or other political unit.
   Sleeping room. A room designated as sleeping or bedroom on the plans of a
permit application.
   Smoke, tobacco, vapor store or dispensary. Any business activity dedicated
to the display, sale, distribution, delivery, offering, furnishing, or
marketing of tobacco products, smoke products, vapor products, or schedule VI
controlled substances, or the paraphernalia and devices used with such
products.
   Special use. A use that would not be appropriate generally or without
restriction throughout the zoning district but which, if controlled as to
number, area, location, or relation to the neighborhood, would promote the
public health, safety, welfare, morals, order, comfort, convenience,
appearance, prosperity, or general welfare. Such uses may be permitted in a
zoning district as a special use, if specific provision for such special use is
made in the UDO.
   Sports complex. A sports complex consists of a combination of a bowling
center, batting cages, miniature golf, sports fields and similar nonmotorized
activities. A sports complex may have a restaurant, snack bar, and/or
concession stand to serve its patrons.
   Street. A public thoroughfare which affords a principal means of access to
abutting property.
   Structure. Anything constructed or erected, or anything attached to
something having a permanent location on the ground.
   Temporary storage unit. A reusable enclosed or semi-enclosed vessel, cargo
container or truck trailer originally, specifically or formerly designed or
used for the packing, shipping, movement or transportation of freight,
articles, goods, belongings or commodities; or structure designed for or
capable of being mounted on a chassis for movement by truck, rail or other
similar device.
   Temporary structure. A structure that is temporary in nature and is required
for a defined period of time during an event or the construction phase of
permitted development, including, but not limited to, emergency shelters,
construction project offices, equipment storage, temporary storage unit,
trailer, cargo container, or sales office for the marketing of the property in
which it is located. The placement or a temporary structure is permitted
pursuant to a temporary use permit. Permanent placement and occupancy of a
temporary structure is prohibited.
   Temporary use. A use that is required for a defined period of time and is
uniquely temporary or seasonal in nature, including, but not limited to,
Christmas tree sales, seasonal sales of food products, sidewalk sales,
equipment storage, circus, or other civic event
   Tent. A portable shelter of canvas, plastic, or skins stretched over a
supporting framework of poles with ropes and pegs.
   Textile recycling container. A solid metal, fully enclosed, and self-
contained container no larger than six feet in height or width for the purpose
of disposing of cloth or woven fabric to be taken offsite to be recycled.
   Tobacco-product. Is any product derived from tobacco that contains nicotine
and is intended for human consumption, whether chewed, absorbed, dissolved,
ingested, inhaled, or by other means.
   Townhouse. A single building unit constructed in a series or group of
attached units, with property lines separating such units, and where each
building unit and lot is to be deeded and/or separately owned from the other
building units and lots.
   Townhouse building. A building containing two (2) or more townhouse building
units.
   Townhouse development. A development consisting of two (2) or more townhouse
buildings.
   Travel trailer. A vehicular or structure designed to be self-propelled or
moved on wheels and intended as a temporaiy dwelling for travel, recreation or
vacation use. This term shall also include campers, recreational vehicles,
camper-trailers, motorized homes, vans or other short-term sheltered vehicles.
   Travel trailer park or campground. Any parcel of land which contains or is
designed, laid out, or adapted to accommodate travel trailers, motorized homes,
recreational vehicles, cabins, tents, or similar vehicle or devices intended
for travel, recreations or vacation use and ancillary structures.
   Use. Any activity, occupation, business or operation carried on, or intended
to be carried on, in a building or structure or on a tract of land.
   Use, accessory. A use located on the same lot with a principal use, and
clearly incidental or subordinate to and customary in connection with the
principal use.
   Use, principal. The main use on a lot.
   Vapor-product. Any noncombustible device or inhaler meant to simulate
cigarette smoking that employs a mechanical heating element, battery, or
electric circuit regardless of shape or size and that can be used to heat a
liquid solution meant for human inhalation that causes the user to exhale
smoke, vapor, or substance other than that produced by unenhanced human
exhalation.
   Variance. A variance is a relaxation of the terms of the zoning ordinance
where such variance will not be contrary to the public interest and where,
owing to the condition peculiar to the property and not the result of the
actions of the applicant, a literal enforcement of the ordinance would result
in unnecessary and undue hardship.
   Wall pack. A type of light fixture typically flush-mounted on a vertical
wall surface.
   Yard. An open space on the same lot with a building, unoccupied and
unobstructed from the ground upward, except by trees or shrubbery or as
otherwise provided herein.
   Yard, front. A yard across the full width of the lot extending from the
front line of the building to the front line of the lot, excluding steps.
   Yard, rear. A yard extending across the full width of the lot and measured
between the rear line of the lot and the rear line of the main building.
   Yard, side. An open unoccupied space on the same lot with a building between
the building and the side line of the lot extending through from the building
line to the rear yard.
(Ord. No. O-21-06-15-5, §1, 6-15-21)
CODE COMPARATIVE TABLE
1982 CODE
   This table gives the location within this Code of those sections of the 1982
Code, as updated through September 7, 1982, which are included herein. Sections
of the 1982 Code, as supplemented, not listed herein have been omitted as
repealed, superseded, obsolete or not of a general and permanent nature. For
the location of ordinances adopted subsequent thereto, see the table
immediately following this table.
1982 Code Section Section this Code
1982 Code Section Section this Code
1-1002            1-5
1-1004, 1-1005    1-9,
                  1-10
1-1006            1-15
2-1001--2-1003    2-66--
                  2-68
2-1004, 2-1005    2-52,
                  2-53
2-1006            2-51
2-1011--2-1013    2-26
2-1014            2-27
2-1016, 2-1017    2-28,
                  2-29
2-1021--2-1024    2-30--
                  2-33
2-1025            2-69
2-1026, 2-1027    2-34,
                  2-35
2-1031            1-4
2-1032            1-6
2-2001--2-2005    2-81--
                  2-85
2-2007            2-87
2-2011--2-2015    2-116--
                  2-120
2-2021--2-2026    2-131--
                  2-136
2-2031, 2-2032    2-101,
                  2-102
2-2034            2-104
2-2041--2-2044    2-151--
                  2-154
2-4001            2-137
2-4011--2-4025    10-26--
                  10-40
3-1011, 3-1012    14-26,
                  14-27
3-1016, 3-1017    14-29,
                  14-30
3-1019            14-31
3-1021            14-32
3-1023            14-33
3-1031            14-51
3-1034            14-52
3-1041--3-1046    14-71--
                  14-76
3-1051, 3-1052    14-78,
                  14-79
3-2001--3-2018    7-2--
                  7-19
                  7-37--
3-2022--3-2025    7-39,
                  7-41
3-3001--3-3003    6-26--6-28
4-1001, 4-1002    15-26,
                  15-27
4-1003--4-1005    15-61--
                  15-63
4-1006            15-131
4-1007--4-1011    15-64--
                  15-68
4-1026            15-51
4-1029            15-132
4-1030--4-1032    15-1--
                  15-3
4-1033--4-1035    15-111--
                  15-113
4-1047            14-77
4-3001, 4-3002    5-1,
                  5-2
4-3004--4-3005    5-6
4-3006, 4-3007    5-7,
                  5-8
4-3009--4-3011    5-9--
                  5-11
5-1001--5-1010    20-21--
                  20-30
5-1011            20-42
5-1021--5-1023    20-31--
                  20-33
5-1024--5-1029    20-35--
                  20-39
5-1030--5-1034    20-43--
                  20-48
5-2001            20-61
5-2002--5-2006    20-64--
                  20-68
5-2007            20-1
5-2008--5-2010    20-69--
                  20-71
5-2033            20-63
6-1001            17-1
6-1002, 6-1003    17-41,
                  17-42
6-1005            17-44
6-1010            17-46
6-1014            17-47
6-1016            17-45
6-1017            17-6
6-1021            17-3,
                  17-4
6-1023            17-3
6-1027, 6-1028    17-61,
                  17-62
6-1030            17-2
                  17-66
6-1032, 6-1033    17-13,
                  17-14
6-1034, 6-1035    17-11,
                  17-12
6-1041            17-65
6-1042            17-7
6-1043            17-20
6-1071            10-111
6-1072--6-1074    10-126--
                  10-128
6-1075            10-113
6-1076            10-129
6-1077            10-112
6-1078            10-114
6-2001--6-2007    15-133--
                  15-139
6-2011--6-2019    15-86--
                  15-94
6-2021--6-2023    15-156--
                  15-158
6-2024            15-162
6-2025--6-2027    15-159--
                  15-161
6-2028            15-163
7-1001            18-1
7-1021--7-1026    18-2--
                  18-7
7-1031            18-28
7-1032, 7-1033    18-26,
                  18-27
7-1034--7-1044    18-29--
                  18-39
7-1051, 7-1052    18-91,
                  18-92
7-1061--7-1065    18-106--
                  18-110
7-1071, 7-1072    18-126,
                  18-127
7-1081            18-128
7-1082--7-1085    18-141--
                  18-144
7-1086, 7-1087    18-56,
                  18-57
7-1091--7-1108    18-58--
                  18-75
7-1111--7-1118    18-161--
                  18-168
7-1121--7-1131    18-186--
                  18-196
7-1141--7-1147    18-216--
                  18-222
7-1151--7-1158    18-223--
                  18-230
7-1171--7-1176    18-231--
                  18-236
7-1181--7-1186    18-237--
                  18-242
7-1190--7-1195    18-256--
                  18-261
8-1002, 8-1003    11-2,
                  11-3
8-1008, 8-1009    11-4,
                  11-5
8-1011            11-5
8-1013            11-6
8-1015, 8-1017    11-7,
                  11-9
8-1021, 8-1022    11-10,
                  11-11
8-1023, 8-1024    11-12
8-1025, 8-1026    11-13,
                  11-14
8-4001, 8-4002    9-121,
                  9-122
8-4003            9-124
8-5001--8-5004    9-1--
                  9-4
8-5005            15-69
8-5006            9-5
8-6001--8-6003    7-56--
                  7-58
8-6005--8-6007    7-59--
                  7-61
8-6010, 8-6011    11-15
9-3001--9-3004    16-1--
                  16-4
9-3011            16-5
9-3021--9-3026    16-6--
                  16-11
9-3027--9-3030    16-31--
                  16-34
9-3036--9-3048    16-51--
                  16-63
9-3056--9-3060    16-81--
                  16-85
9-3066, 9-3067    16-101,
                  16-102
9-3071            16-121
9-3073            16-136
 
ORDINANCES
   This table gives the location within this Code of those ordinances adopted
since the 1982 Code, as updated through September 7, 1982, which are included
herein. Ordinances adopted prior to such date were incorporated into the 1982
Code, as supplemented. This table contains some ordinances which precede
September 7, 1982, but which were never included in the 1982 Code, as
supplemented, for various reasons. Ordinances not listed herein have been
omitted as repealed, superseded or not of a general and permanent nature.
Ordinance of Section Section this Code
Ordinance of Section           Section this Code
10-6-77      1--4              18-197--
                               18-200
7-5-79       2, 3              9-123
3-22-83                       18-39
6-7-83       1--4              4-87
            1--4              14.5-1
2-21-84      3                 20-1
2-4-86       8-2001--8-2018    3-1--
                               3-18
2-18-86      2                 13-26
            3                 13-27,
                               13-28
            4, 5              13-29,
                               13-30
5-20-86      1                 15-70--
                               15-73
8-5-86(4)    1--4              18-262
9-2-86       1                 18-63
                             18-169
10-7-86      1, 2              15-139,
                               15-140
1-6-87       1, 2              19-1,
                               19-2
            3                 19-26
            3.1--3.4          19-27--
                               19-30
            4--6              19-51--
                               19-53
            7                 19-31
            8, 9              19-3,
                               19-4
            10                19-32
            11                19-5
6-16-87      1--4              12-26--
                               12-29
6-25-87      1                 9-26
            1.1               9-27
                               9-28--
            2.1--2.6          9-31,
                               9-33
            3.1--3.4          9-34
            3.5               9-35
            4--6              9-36--
                               9-38
            6.1--6.3          9-39--
                               9-41
            7                 9-42
            7.1               9-42
            8                 9-43
8-18-87                       20-34
10-29-87     Art. I, A--D      8-1--
                               8-4
            Art. II           8-5
            Art. III, A--H    8-6--8-13
            Art. IV, A--D     8-31--
                               8-34
            Art. V, A--E      8-51--
                               8-55
2-2-88                        9-125--
                               9-127
3-8-88       1                 8-7
4-19-88      1                 9-34
5-3-88                        20-36
10-4-88      1, 2              10-91,
                               10-92
            3                 10-94
            4                 10-93
            5                 10-76
            7                 10-95
11-22-88                      5-4
                             17-1--
                               17-20
                             17-41--
                               17-47
                             17-61--
                               17-66
1-17-89                       18-76
2-21-89                       15-63
4-18-89      1                 9-26
5-16-89      2                 10-27
5-17-89                       20-33
6-20-89(1)   1                 14.5-67
            Art. II, Art. III 14.5-28, 14.5-29
            400               14.5-27
            500               14.5-46
            501, 502          14.5-30, 14.5-31
            503, 504          14.5-65, 14.5-66
            600, 601          14.5-69, 14.5-70
            700--707          14.5-46--14.5-53
            709               14.5-68
            800               14.5-32
            801               14.5-34
            802               14.5-33
6-20-89(2)   Art. I, Art. II   14.5-82, 14.5-83
9-18-89      1--7              4-87
            4                 4-1
            5                 14.5-1,
                               14.5-2
10-3-89      1, 2              15-134
2-6-90       1--3              20-41
4-3-90       1--6              20-81--
                               20-103
5-8-90       1--25             10-26--10-50
6-5-90       Art. I, A--D      8-1--
                               8-4
            Art. II           8-5
            Art. III, A--H    8-6--8-13
            Art. IV, A--E     8-31--
                               8-35
            Art. V, A--E      8-51--
                               8-55
11-6-90      1--7              20-121--
                               20-127
1-8-91       1--7              Adopting Ord., p. vii
1-8-91       1--3              10-151
2-5-91       1--3              20-33.1
2-5-91       I 1               20-21
            2                 20-24
            3                 20-25
            4--8              20-26--
                               20-30
            9                 20-42
            II 1--3           20-31--
                               20-33
            4--9              20-35--
                               20-40
            10                20-43
            11                20-44,
                               20-45
            12--14            20-46--
                               20-48
            III 1             20-61
            2                 20-64
            3--6              20-65--
                               20-68
            7                 20-1(a)
            8                 20-69
            9                 20-70,
                               20-71
            IV 1, 2           20-2
3-5-91       1--4              15-4
4-16-91      1                 11-17
5-7-91       1                 12-1
6-16-91      1--5              20-29.5
8-18-92      1                 2-83,
                             14-27
9-8-92       1--3              20-3
2-2-93       1                 11-18
4-20-93                       App. A, 100--400
                             App. A, 706, 707
                             App. A, 802--806
                             App. A, 1001
                             App. A, 1003
            Dltd              App. A, 1006
                             App. A, 1101
            Added             App. A, 1104
                             App. A, 1200
            Dltd              App. A, 1201, 1202
                             App. A, 1203
                             App. A, 1206
                             App. A, 1301
6-8-93       1--15             9-61--
                               9-75
6-22-93                       App. A, 707
            Rpld              14.5-26--14.5-34,
                             14.5-46--14.5-53,
                             14.5-65--14.5-70,
                             14.5-82, 14.5-83
9-21-93                       App. A, 706
11-2-93      1                 7-20,
                               7-21
3-8-94                        11-19
7-19-94                       App. A, 400
                             App. A, 702
                             App. A, 806
9-6-94       1 Added           10-112(6), (7)
2-21-95      1                 20-35
6-6-95       1                 4-58
                             4-82(a), (b)
                             4-87(d)
10-3-95                       11-16
2-4-97       1 Added           18-223(a)(15)
4-22-97      1, 2              18-243
5-6-97       1                 9-124
7-22-97      1                 App. A, 400
                             App. A, 702.2
                             App. A, 706
            Added             App. A, 801.3
8-19-97      1                 App. A, 803.4
9-2-97       1                 18-256--
                               18-261
            Rpld              18-262
10-7-97      1 Added           1-16--1-21
            2 Added           18-244
3-17-98      1 Added           20-3(d)
5-5-98(1)                     1-20
5-5-98(2)    1 Rpld            18-240
            Added             18-240
5-19-98(1)   1 Added           15-74
5-19-98(2)   1                 20-33.1(c)
8-18-98      1                 15-139
9-22-98      1                 9-4(c)
            2                 9-26
            3                 9-28
            4                 9-29
            5                 9-30(1)
            7                 9-33
            8                 9-35
            9                 9-37
            10                9-42(a)
5-18-99                       15-5
9-7-99       1 Added           11-9(4), (5)
9-21-99      1                 20-29,
                               20-29.5,
                             20-34
4-20-00      1--6 Added        17.5-26--
                               17.5-31,
            7--13             17.5-56--
                               17.5-62,
            15--17            17.5-86--17.5-88,
            19                17.5-31
6-6-00       1 Added           9-128
6-20-00      1                 9-34
7-18-00      1--23 Added       4.5-26--4.5-47
5-8-01       2                 15-134(a)(2)
5-22-01      2                 15-134(a)(3)
8-21-01      2                 13-26
 
Ordinance Number Adoption Date Section Section this Code
Ordinance Number Adoption Date Section                Section this Code
O-01-09-18-1     9-18-01       2 Added                9-150--
                                                      9-153
O-01-09-18-1(2)  9-18-01       2                      App. A, 400
O-01-10-02-2     10-2-01       2                      18-256(6)
                             3                      18-258
O-01-10-23-1     10-23-01      1 Added                2-54
                10-8-02       2                      7-58
O-02-03-19-1     3-19-02       2 Added                10-171--
                                                      10-183
O-02-03-19-02    3-19-02       2                      App. A, 1005
                4-2-02        2                      App. A, 706
O-02-04-16-2     4-16-02       2 Added                App. A, 804.3(4)
O-02-06-18-1     6-18-02       Added                  10-191--
                                                      10-204
O-02-06-18-08    6-18-02       2                      App. A, 400
                             3                      App. A, 802.2(6)
O-02-07-16-01    7-16-02       2                      App. A, 706
O-02-08-06-01    8-6-02        2 Added                App. A, 707
O-02-09-03-1     9-3-02        2                      App. A, 706.11(1)
O-02-10-08-2     10-8-02       2                      20-29.5(a)
O-02-10-22-1     10-22-02      2                      2-26(a)
O-02-11-19-1     11-19-02      2                      App. A, 1500
O-02-11-19-3     11-19-02      2 Added                1-16(d)
                             3                      1-20
O-02-11-19-4     11-19-02      2                      App. A, 400
                             3                      App. A, 708
O-03-02-18-1     2-18-03       2                      10-94
O-03-02-18-2     2-18-03       2                      10-128
O-03-02-18-3     2-18-03       2                      17-44
O-03-02-18-4     2-18-03       2 Added                17-63.5
O-03-03-04-01    3-4-03        2                      App. A, 805.2
                             3                      App. A, 806.2
O-03-03-04-02    3-4-03        2                      App. A, 1102
                             3                      App. A, 1102.1
                             4                      App. A, 1102.2
O-03-03-18-03    3-18-03       2                      App. A, 400
                             3                      App. A, 1001
O-03-03-18-04    3-18-03       2                      App. A, 900
                             3                      App. A, 901
O-03-04-01-1     4-1-03        2                      App. A, 803.2(46)
O-03-06-17-02    6-17-03       2                      App. A, 901.2(2)
O-03-08-19-2     8-19-03       2                      18-91
O-03-08-19-03    8-19-03       2                      App. A, 702
                             3                      App. A, 703
O-03-09-02-1     9-2-03        2                      18-39
O-03-10-07-01    10-7-03       1                      App. A
O-03-10-21-01    10-21-03      1                      App. A, 400
                             2                      App. A, 700
                             3                      App. A, 702
                             4                      App. A, 705
                             5(708)                 App. A, 710
                             6(710)                 App. A, 708
                             7                      App. A, 805.3
                             8                      App. A, 804.2
                             9                      App. A, 1500(3)
                             10                     App. A, 1500.1(5), (6)
                             11                     App. A, 1500.2
O-03-10-21-02    10-21-03      1                      1-3
                             2                      9-65
                             3                      9-66
                             4                      9-74
O-03-11-18-01    11-18-03      2                      App. A, 400
                             3                      App. A, 806.3(4)
                             4                      App. A, 806.2(15)
O-03-11-19-2     11-19-03      2 Dltd                 10-175
O-04-01-20-01    1-20-04       2                      App. A, 706.11(2)(F)
O-04-02-17-1     2-17-04       2                      9-31
O-04-02-17-03    2-17-04       2                      16-5
                             3                      16-6
                             4                      16-8
                             5 Rnbd                 16-31
                             as                     16-30
                             6 Added                16-31
                             7                      16-32(a)
O-04-03-02-1     3-2-04        2                      1-16(a)
O-04-03-02-2     3-2-04        2                      18-261
O-04-03-07-2     3-7-06        2                      17-6(a)
O-04-03-16-3     3-16-04       2                      2-83
                             3                      2-131
                             4                      2-134
                             5                      2-151
O-04-03-16-04    3-16-04       2                      App. A, 400
                             3                      App. A, 702
                             4                      App. A, 802.3(12)
                7-20-04       2 Added                App. A, 807
                             3                      App. A, Art. IX.5
O-04-08-17-07    8-17-04       2                      App. A, 706.12(1)(L)
O-04-09-07-02    9-7-04        2                      App. A, 706.1(10)
O-04-09-07-03    9-7-04        2                      App. A, 807.4(2)
O-04-12-07-1     12-7-04       1                      2-54
O-05-02-15-01    2-15-05       2 Added                13-51--
                                                      13-55
O-05-03-01-1     3-1-05        2 Added                12-51
O-05-03-01-2     3-1-05        2                      15-158
O-05-03-22-1     3-22-05       2 Dltd                 App. A, 803.4(1)
                             3 Added                App. A, 803.2(47)
                             4                      App. A, 804.3(3)
O-05-04-19-01    4-19-05       2 Added                App. A, 706.11(1)(P)
O-05-05-17-1     5-17-05       2 Added                12-26.1
O-05-05-17-02    5-17-05       2                      App. A, 706.11(1)(D)
                             3                      App. A, 706.1
                             4                      App. A, 706.11(3)
O-05-06-21-04    6-21-05       2                      15-137
                             3                      15-132
O-05-06-21-5     6-21-05       2                      18-197--
                                                      18-200
O-05-10-18-1     10-18-05      2                      App. A, 702
                             3 Added                App. A, 804.2(33)
O-05-11-15-1     11-15-05      2 Added                App. A, 807.2(25)
O-05-12-06-2     12-6-05       2 (12-51--12-57) Added 12-61--
                                                      12-67
O-06-01-17-1     1-17-06       2 Added                App. A, 500(7)
O-06-01-17-3     1-17-06       1                      App. A
                             2                      4.5-36
                             3                      13-28
O-06-03-07-3     3-7-06        2 Added                18-256(7)
                             3                      18-258
                                                      9-121--
O-06-03-07-5     3-7-06        2                      9-124,
                                                      9-124.2--
                                                      9-128
O-06-04-04-3     4-4-06        2                      17-63.5
O-06-05-02-2     5-2-06        2                      18-256(7)
                             3                      18-258
O-06-05-16-3     5-16-06       2 Added                App. A, 707.1(3)
O-06-06-06-2     6-6-06        2                      App. A, 802.3(5)
                             3                      App. A, 803.2(15)
                             4                      App. A, 806.3(3)
O-06-06-06-3     6-6-06        2                      App. A, 706.1
                                                   App. A, 706.11(1)(M)
                             Added                  App. A, 706.12(2)(K)
O-06-11-07-1     11-7-06       2 Added                11-20
O-06-11-21-4     11-21-06      2                      App. A, 706.2(2)(A)
                                                   App. A, 706.3
                                                   App. A, 706.11(1)(D), (E)
                                                   App. A, 706.12(4)(B), (C)
O-06-12-12-3     12-12-06      2                      18-244
O-06-15-04-03    6-15-04       2                      App. A, 705
                             3(708)                 App. A, 710
                             4                      App. A, 805.3(1)
O-06-20-17-1     10-17-06      2                      App. A, 807.3
O-07-01-02-1     1-2-07        2                      20-29.5(a)
O-07-01-16-05    1-16-07       2                      App. A, 709
O-07-02-06-1     2-6-07        2                      18-223
O-07-02-06-2     2-6-07        2                      18-61
O-07-02-20-2     2-20-07       2 Added                18-230.1
O-07-03-06-2     3-6-07        2                      3-1--
                                                      3-18
O-07-07-17-1     7-17-07       2                      18-61
O-07-07-17-2     7-17-07       2                      18-223
                9-18-07(Ord.) 2 Dltd                 20-48
                             Added                  20-48--
                                                      20-54
O-07-11-20-1     11-20-07      2(706)                 21-7.6
O-08-01-15-3     1-15-08       1(1)                   1-3
                             (2)                    1-10
                                                      1-11,
                                                      1-12, 1-16--1-28,
                                                      4.5-48, 6-28, 8-13,
                                                      12-29,
                                                      12-51(j), 12-52(k),
                                                      15-48,
                             (3) Dltd               15-91,
                                                      15-140,
                                                      17-20, 17.5-86--17.5-88,
                                                      18-200,
                                                      18-244,
                                                      18-261,
                                                      19-5
                             (4)                    4.5-33
                             (5) Dltd               21-15
                             (6) Rnbd               App. A
                             as                     Ch. 21
O-08-01-15-5     1-15-08       2(400)                 21-21
                             (711) Added            21-196
O-08-01-15-9     1-15-08       2 Dltd                 10-26--10-50
                             Added                  10-11--10-42
O-08-02-05-12    2-5-08        2                      3-1--
                                                      3-18
O-08-02-19-2     2-19-08       2                      21-4, 21-8.4(c)(5)
O-08-02-19-3     2-19-08       2 Dltd                 3-8.1
O-08-04-15-1     4-15-08       1                      10-174,
                                                      10-182
O-08-06-17-10    6-17-08       2                      21-156
                                                      21-86--
                             3                      21-90 
                                                      21-21
O-08-06-17-11    6-17-08       2                      21-21
                             3                      21-171
O-08-07-15-1     7-15-08       2 Dltd                 20-81--
                                                      20-103
                             Added                  20-81--
                                                      20-120.1
O-08-07-15-2     7-15-08       1                      Ch. 8
O-08-08-19-4     8-19-08       3                      21-238
O-08-09-02-2     8-2-08        1                      1-10.5
O-08-09-02-1     9-2-08        1 Added                12-3
O-08-09-16-1     9-16-08       2                      3-4.3
O-09-02-17-4     2-17-09       2 Added                3-8.1
O-09-03-24-2     3-24-09       2 Added                21-310--
                                                      21-317
O-09-03-24-3     3-24-09       2                      21-21
O-09-05-19-5     5-19-09       2                      17-5
O-09-07-21-2     7-21-09       2                      20-36(c)
O-09-08-4-3      8-4-09        2                      21-21
                             3                      21-171
O-09-08-18-3     8-18-09       2                      11-6
O-09-08-18-4     8-18-09       2                      19-26,
                                                      19-27
O-09-09-15-1     9-15-09       2                      21-21
O-09-09-15-6     9-15-09       2                      21-156--
                                                      21-158
                                                      19-1--
                                                      19-5,
O-09-09-15-7     9-15-09       1 Dltd                 19-26--
                                                      19-32,
                                                      19-51--
                                                      19-53
                                                      19-1--
                                                      19-5,
                                                      19-26--
                             Added                  19-32,
                                                      19-40,
                                                      19-41,
                                                      19-51--
                                                      19-53
O-10-04-20-3     4-20-10       2 Dltd                 18-258
                             Added                  18-258
O-10-05-04-2     5-4-10        1 Dltd                 11-18
                             Added                  11-18
O-10-05-18-1     5-18-10       2                      21-21
O-10-06-01-1     6-1-10        2 Dltd                 10-11--10-42
                             Added                  10-11--10-42
O-10-06-15-4     6-15-10       2 Added                18-266
O-10-06-15-5     6-15-10       1                      7-2
                             2 Dltd                 14-28
O-10-08-17-2     8-17-10       1                      21-171
O-10-12-14-2     12-14-10      1                      21-21
O-11-01-18-1     1-18-11       1                      21-21
                             2                       
O-11-01-18-2     1-18-11       1                      8-76
                             2                      8-77
O-11-05-03-3     5-3-11        2                      10-76
O-11-06-07-5     6-7-11        2 Dltd                 1-10.10
                             Added                  1-10.10
O-11-06-21-3     6-21-11       2 Dltd                 9-34
                             Added                  9-34
O-11-09-06-2     9-6-11        2 Dltd                 9-102
                             Added                  9-102
O-11-09-20-1     9-20-11       2                      18-223
O-11-09-20-3     9-20-11       3 Added                10-152
O-11-11-01-1     11-1-11       2 Dltd                 11-16
                             Added                  11-16
O-11-12-06-2     12-6-11       2                      21-21
O-12-03-06-2     3-6-12        2 Dltd                 15-4115-47
                             Added                  15-4115-52
O-12-03-06-4     3-6-12        2 Dltd                 9-35
                             Added                  9-35
O-12-06-19-5     6-19-12       2 Dltd                 1-10.6
                             Added                  1-10.6
O-12-06-19-4     6-19-12       2 Dltd                 9-124.1
                             Added                  9-124.1
O-12-06-19-7     6-19-12       2, 3                   21-205.3
O-12-8-21-6      8-21-12       2 Dltd                 11-8
                             Added                  11-8
O-12-08-21-2     8-21-12       2                      21-21
O-12-09-18-2     9-18-12       2                      21-171
O-13-01-15-2     1-15-13       2 Added                20-55 -
                                                      20-60.11
O-13-01-15-3     1-15-13       2 Dltd                 9-101 – 9-104
                             Added                  9-101 -
                                                      9-108
O-13-11-19-2     11-19-13      2                      11-16
O-14-05-06-1     5-6-14        2 Dltd                 21-131 – 21-131.12
                             2 Added                21-131 –
                                                      21-142
O-14-06-17-6     6-17-14       2                      1-10.9
                             3                      1-10.10
O-14-07-15-01    7-15-14       2                      21-171
O-14-11-18-3     11-18-14      2                      2-26
O-14-11-18-4     11-18-14      2                      21-135
O-15-01-06-3     1-6-15        3 Dltd                 15-131 – 15-140
                             Added                  15-131 –
                                                      15-152
O-15-01-20-1     1-20-15       2                      21-21
                             4                       
O-15-01-20-2     1-20-15       2                      21-31,
                                                      21-133.3
                             3                      21-21
                             4                       
                             6 Added                21-73
O-15-1-20-6      1-20-15       1                      21-161
O-15-01-20-7     1-20-15       2 Dltd                 21-231, 21-232
                             2 Added                21-231 –
                                                      21-232.2
O-15-03-17-2     3-17-15       2 Added                14-53
O-15-07-21-3     7-21-15       2                      21-21
                              3                      21-131 -
                                                      21-142
O-15-09-15-1     9-15-15       1                      7-40
                              2                      7-41
O-15-10-06-5     10-6-15       2 Dltd                 5-3
                              2 Added                5-3
                              3 Dltd                 5-12
                              3 Added                5-12
O-15-11-17-1     11-17-15      2 Dltd                 10-11 - 10-42
                              2 Added                10-11 -
                                                      10-34
                              4 Dltd                 10-56 - 10-61
O-15-11-17-4     11-17-15      1                      17.5-62
O-15-11-17-6     11-17-15      1                      21-21
O-15-12-01-1     12-1-15       2                      17-6
O-16-03-01-1     3-1-16        3 Dltd                 12-51, 12-52
                              3 Added                12-51, 12-52
O-16-05-17-1     5-17-16       2                      21-4.5
O-16-08-16-4     8-16-16       2 Dltd                 1-10.17
                              2 Added                1-10.17
O-17-02-07-1     2-7-17        2 Dltd                 15-146
                              2 Added                15-146
O-17-03-21-3     3-21-17       1                      12-51
                              2                      12-52
O-17-06-06-1     6-6-17        2 Dltd                 9-32
                              2 Added                9-32
O-17-06-20-7     6-20-17       2 Dltd                 12-51, 12-52
                               2 Added                12-51
O-17-01-02-9     1-2-18        2                      3-17,
                                                      3-17.1
O-17-08-15-5     8-15-17       2                      21-71.1
O-17-08-15-6     8-15-17       2 Dltd                 21-201 - 21-220
                               2 Added                21-201 -
                                                      21-209
O-17-09-05-2     9-5-17        1 Dltd                 20-83
                               2 Added                20-83
O-18-03-20-2     3-20-18       2 Dltd                 11-17
                               2 Added                11-17
O-18-03-20-3     3-20-18       1                      4-1.1 -
                                                      4-5.1
O-18-03-20-4     3-20-18       1                      16-1.1 -
                                                      16-14.4
                                                      16-1.7, 16-2.3,
                                                      16-2.4,
O-18-03-20-5     3-20-18       2                      16-2.8,
                                                      16-4.4,
                                                      16-8.1 -
                                                      16-8.5 
                               3                      21-221.1.1-
                                                      21-221.1.1.16
O-18-03-20-6     3-20-18       2                      21-21
                               3 Added                21-197 -
                                                      21-199
O-18-06-19-7     6-19-18       2                      21-21
                               3                      21-171
                               4 Added                21-173
O-18-07-17-4     7-17-18       2 Dltd, Added          12-2
O-18-07-17-5     7-17-18       2 Added                9-44
O-18-09-18-3     9-18-18       2                      21-208
                               3                      21-209
O-18-10-02-1     10-2-18       2                      3-1
                               3 Dltd, Added          3-4
                               4 Added                3-8.2
O-19-02-19-3     2-19-19       2                      21-208
                               3                      21-209
O-19-02-19-4     2-19-19       2                      21-135
O-19-04-16-1     4-16-19       1                      21-21
                               2                      21-208
                               3                      21-209
O-18-08-21-1     8-21-18       2                      2-26
O-19-07-16-1     7-16-19       2 Added                9-45
O-19-10-15-4     10-15-19      2 Dltd, Added          9-30
O-20-03-03-1     3-3-20        2                      18-1
                               3 Added                18-77
O-20-03-03-2     3-3-20        2 Dltd, Added          2-116 - 2-118
O-20-03-17-1     3-17-20       2                      9-104
O-20-03-17-2     3-17-20       2 Added                20-36
O-20-04-21-3     4-21-20       2                      9-104
O-20-10-06-1     10-6-20       1 Dltd, Added          2-54
O-20-10-06-2     10-6-20       2                      21-208,
                                                      21-209.1
O-20-10-06-3     10-6-20       2                      21-134
O-20-10-06-4     10-6-20       2                      16-6.1 - 16-6.10
                               3, 4                   16-13
O-21-03-02-3     3-2-21        2                      21-135
                                                      4-1.1 - 4-5.1, 8-1 - 8-
O-21-06-15-5     6-15-21       Dltd                   102
                                                      16-1 - 16-14, 17.5-1 -
                                                      17.5-88, 21-1 - 21-360
                                                      1-1.1 -
                                                      1-1.16,
                                                      1-2.1 -
                                                      1-2.11,
                                                      2-1.1 -
                                                      2-1.11,
                                                      3-1.1 -
                                                      3-1.9,
                                                      3-2.1 -
                                                      3-2.24,
                                                      3-3.1,
                                                      3-3.2,
                                                      3-4.1 -
                                                      3-4.11,
                                                      3-5.1 -
                                                      3-5.4,
                                                      3-6.1 -
                                                      3-6.3,
                                                      3-7.1 -
                                                      3-7.5,
                                                      4-1.1 -
                                                      4-1.7,
                                                      4-2.1 -
                                                      4-2.7,
                                                      4-3.1 -
                                                      4-3.4,
                                                      4-4.1 -
                                                      4-4.3,
                                                      5-1.1 -
                                                      5-1.5,
                                                      5-2.1 -
                                                      5-2.7,
                                                      5-3.1,
                               Added                  6-1.1 -
                                                      6-1.8,
                                                      6-2.1 -
                                                      6-2.17,
                                                      6-3.1 -
                                                      6-3.5,
                                                      6-4.1 -
                                                      6-4.3,
                                                      6-5.1,
                                                      6-5.2,
                                                      6-6.1,
                                                      6-6.2,
                                                      6-7.1 -
                                                      6-7.7,
                                                      6-8.1 -
                                                      6-8.13,
                                                      7-1.1 -
                                                      7-1.7,
                                                      7-2.1 -
                                                      7-2.10,
                                                      7-3.1 -
                                                      7-3.11,
                                                      7-4.1 -
                                                      7-4.25,
                                                      8-1.1 -
                                                      8-1.20,
                                                      8-2.1 -
                                                      8-2.16,
                                                      8-3.1 -
                                                      8-3.21,
                                                      9-1.1 -
                                                      9-1.14,
                                                      9-2.1 -
                                                      9-2.5,
                                                      10-1.1
O-21-06-15-11    6-15-21       1 Dltd                 2-1 - 2-170
                               Added                  2-1 - 2-400
                               2 Dltd                 13-1 - 13-55
O-21-10-19-3     10-19-21      2 Added                9-34.1
O-21-11-16-1     11-16-21      1                      1-10.12
O-22-01-04-1     1-4-22        3                      1-1.1
                               4                      3-1.4
                               6                      4-3.1
                               7                      6-2.6
                               8                      6-2.10
O-22-01-18-3     1-18-22       3                      4-1.7
O-22-01-18-3     1-18-22       2                      4-3.2
                               3                      4-3.4
O-22-03-15-3     3-15-22                              4-1.7
O-22-04-05-2     4-5-22        1 Dltd                 10-76 - 10-110
O-22-05-17-3     5-17-22       2                      4-3.2
                               3                      4-3.4
O-22-06-21-8     6-21-22       1                      19-26,
                                                      19-27
O-22-09-06-4     9-6-22        1                      3-15
O-23-02-07-3     2-7-23        1                      7-36
O-23-03-21-2     3-21-23       1                      12-51
O-23-04-18-3     4-18-23                              8-1.1 -
                                                      8-1.20
O-23-07-18-2     7-18-23       1                      12-52
O-23-07-18-3     7-18-23       1                      11-17
O-23-07-18-4     7-18-23       2                      3-1.4
                               3                      3-4.9
                               4                      3-5.1
                               5                      4-3.1
                               6                      4-3.2
                               7                      4-3.4
                               8                      6-2.10
                               9                      6-8.1 -
                                                      6-8.6
                               10                     3-7.2
                               
 
 
SPECIAL ACTS COMPARATIVE TABLE
   This table shows the location within Part II, Special Acts, of the Session
Laws included herein.
 
Year Section Disposition
1981 1       1
1983 1.1     2
 
STATE LAW REFERENCE TABLE
   This table shows the location within this Charter and Code, either in the
text or notes following the text, of references to the state law or related
matters.
G.S. Section Section this Code
G.S. Section              Section this Code
1, art. 26                9-2.3
1-54(10)                  9-2.5
1-54.1                    9-2.5
1A-1, Rule 4(j)           3-1.7
1A-1, Rule 4(j1)          3-1.7
1-539.1(b)                Ch. 19
1-593                     1-3
ch. 7A                    8-1.18
7A-227                    7-3.10
                          7-4.22
7A-228                    7-3.10
                          7-4.22
12-2                      1-9
12-3                      1-3
14-4                      1-10
                          1-10(a)
                          7-4.13
                          8-2.12
                          9-124.1
                          10-41
                          12-51
                          12-52
                          15-152
                          20-101(a)
                          21-221.1.1.12
14-4(a)                   1-10.12
14-4(b)                   1-10.12
14-50.1                   7-56
14-127                    11-12
                          15-3
14-132                    11-12
                          15-3
14-132.1                  Ch. 15, Art. IV
14-145                    11-13
14-146                    15-3
14-148                    5-6
14-149                    5-6
14-190.1                  11-4
14-190.9                  11-3
14-202.10                 4.5-27
14-203                    11-5
14-225.1                  Ch. 15, Art. IV
14-269                    11-15
                          11-16
14-269(b)                 11-16
14-269.6                  11-15
14-277                    14-79
14-277.2                  15-162
14-283                    7-56
14-284.1                  7-56
                          9-41
14-286                    7-16
                          7-17
                          11-12
14-288.4                  11-2
14-288.12                 Ch. 6
14-362                    11-10
14-362.1                  11-10
14-399                    15-86
14-399 et seq.            Ch. 9, Art. II
14-399.1                  15-86
14-409.40                 11-16
14-410                    7-61
14-414                    7-58
14-415.11                 11-16
14-415.23                 11-16
14-444                    11-2
Ch. 15                    6-2.11
15-27.2                   3-9
                          2-1.9
                          7-3.10
Ch. 18B                   12-52
18B-101                   11-17(a)
18B-200                   12-52
18B-300.1(d)              12-52
18B-401                   Ch. 17
18B-1001                  11-17(a)
18B-1001(1)               12-52
18B-1001(3)               12-52
18B-1001(5)               12-52
18B-1001(10)              12-52
18B-1001(16)              12-52
18B-1001.5                12-52
18B-1010                  12-52
18B-1100(5)               12-52
19-1 et seq.              11-3,
                          11-4
20-10                     Ch. 17
20-37                     Ch. 17
                          Ch. 17, Art. III
20-37.7                   10-176
20-87                     Ch. 17
20-101                    Ch. 17
20-121                    15-1
20-122                    15-1
20-125                    11-11
20-128(a), (b)            9-103
20-134                    18-219
20-141                    18-91
20-153                    18-106
20-157                    7-14
20-158                    Ch. 18, Art. II
20-158.1                  18-38
20-161 et seq.            Ch. 18, Art. VI
20-162                    18-223
20-162.1                  18-39
20-165.1                  18-126
20-169                    Ch. 15, Art. IV
20-172                    18-161
20-173                    18-162
20-174                    18-165
20-174.1                  Ch. 15, Art. IV
                          15-133
                          18-169
20-219.11                 9-69
20-257                    7-19
20-280                    Ch. 17
20-356 et seq.            15-2
Ch. 29                    16-1.7
42-29                     7-3.10
                          7-4.22
42-30                     7-3.10
                          7-4.22
Ch. 45, Art.2A            7-3.11
47-30                     3-1.7
                          3-2.9
                          3-3.1
Ch. 47A                   6-7.7
Ch. 47C                   3-2.20
54-099.99                 10-40(e)
62-133.8                  3-5.2
                          7-2.2
62-133.9                  3-5.2
                          7-2.2
65-13                     5-1
                          5-6
65-37 et seq.             Ch. 5
65-46 et seq.             Ch. 5
67-4.1 et seq.            3-1
                          3-4.2
                          3-4.3
                          3-5
67-4.1(c)                 3-4.2
                          3-4.3
                          3-6
67-12                     3-4
69-1 et seq.              Ch. 7
                          7-5
69-39                     7-13
Ch. 87, Art. 4            3-5.2
                          7-2.2
87-21                     3-5.2
                          7-2.2
87-43                     3-5.2
                          7-2.2
Ch. 90, Art. 5            11-19(b)
Ch. 91A                   10-151
91A-12                    10-151
Ch. 93B                   10-20
Ch. 99E, Art. 3           12-61
104E-1 et seq.            Ch. 9, Art. II
Ch. 105                   10-200
Ch. 105, Art. 3           10-192
Ch. 105, Art. 22A         18-266
Ch. 105, Subch. I         10-192
Ch. 105, Subch. 1, Art. 9 10-198
                          10-199
105-109                   10-40
                          10-41
105-164.16                10-196
105-249                   10-19
105-249.1                 10-19
105-304                   18-266
113-300.2                 3-18
113A-52(6)                7-2.5
113A-54(d)(4)             7-2.5
113A-57                   7-2.5
113A-61                   7-2.5
121-5                     10-30
                          10-39
122-58.2(1)(b)            10-1.1
Ch. 130A, Art. 9          8-1.20
                          8-2.16
130A-34                   Ch. 9
130A-184 et seq.          3-2
130A-200                  3-5
130A-251                  Ch. 15, Art. IV
130A-251 et seq.          15-133
130A-290 et seq.          Ch. 9, Art. II
130A-290(a)(6)            8-1.20
130A-290(a)(36)           8-1.20
130A-333                  Ch. 20, Art. IV
130A-390                  5-1
136-18(29)                2-304
136-18.3                  Ch. 9, Art. II
136-66.1 et seq.          Ch. 15
                          Ch. 15, Art. II
136-71.6 et seq.          Ch. 18, Art. V
136-91                    Ch. 9, Art. II
                          15-135
136-93                    Ch. 15, Art. II, Div. 3
                          Ch. 19
136-131.1                 9-1.7
136-131.2                 9-1.7
136-141                   9-74
134-143(1)                1-13,
                          10-1.1
136-143(3)                1-13
136-143(4)                1-13
Ch. 143, Art. 9, 9C       3-5.2
                          7-2.2
Ch. 143, Art. 21          20-117
                          8-2.1
Ch. 143, Art. 21, Pt. 6   8-1.1
143-139                   7-3.9
143-143.15                8-1.19
143-152                   20-40
143-213(18)               20-82
143-215.1                 20-82
                          20-94(g), (h), (i)
                          20-97
143.215.1(b)              20-97
143-215.3(a)(14)          20-82
143-215.6(a)              8-2.13
143-215.6B                20-117
143-215.58                8-1.14
143-755                   9-1.1
                          9-1.2
143-755(e)(1)             10-1.1
143-755(e)(2)             10-1.1
143-755(e)(3)             10-1.1
143B-437.09               7-3.1
143B-945                  2-4
153A, Art. 6              8-1.1
153A-121, Art. 6          12-62
153A-275                  20-81
153A-351                  7-20
153A-364                  7-20
159-7 et seq.             2-193
159-24                    Ch. 2, Art. III, Div. 6
160-411                   7-20
Ch. 160A, Art. 7, Pt. 2   Char.,
                          4.1
Ch. 160A, Art. 8          7-1.1
                          8-1.1
Ch. 160A, Art. 8, 174     8-2.1
Ch. 160A, Art. 10         Char.,
                          5.1(d)
                          Char.,
                          5.1(f)
                          7-3.7
Ch. 160A, Art. 20         1-1.3
160A-11                   2-4
160A-12                   2-4
160A-77                   1-1
                          1-2
                          5-1.4
160A-79                   1-1
                          1-2
160A-147                  2-126
160A-174                  6-8.2
160A-174(a)               Ch. 9
160A-175                  1-10
                          1-10.8
                          12-51
                          12-52
                          2-1.11
160A-175(d)               10-41
160A-178                  Ch. 10, Art. V
160A-179                  11-6
160A-183                  Ch. 7, Art. III
160A-184                  Ch. 9, Art. IV
160A-188                  3-18
160A-189                  11-16
160A-190                  11-16
160A-192                  Ch. 9, Art. II
                          Ch. 9, Art. V
                          15-90
160A-193                  Ch. 9, Art. II
160A-194                  Ch. 10
                          Ch. 10, Art. II
160A-206 et seq.          Ch. 10
160A-207                  10-40(a)(3)
                          10-42
160A-211                  Ch. 10, Art. II
160A-217                  15-63
160A-281                  14-26
160A-281 et seq.          Ch. 14
160A-282                  Ch. 14, Art. IV
160A-291 et seq.          Ch. 7
160A-292                  7-4
160A-296                  Ch. 15, Art. II
160A-296(a)(2)            15-135
160A-301(a)               18-237
160A-303                  9-62
160A-303.1                Ch. 9, Art. II
                          Ch. 9, Art. V
                          9-4
                          15-90
                          15-135
160A-303.2                9-62
160A-303.2(a)             1-13
160A-304                  Ch. 17
                          17-63.5
160A-307                  2-304
160A-311 et seq.          Ch. 9, Art. II
160A-312                  20-81
160A-317                  20-24
                          20-64
160A-341                  Ch. 5
160A-348                  Ch. 5
160A-350 et seq.          Ch. 12
160A-360 et seq.          Ch. 13
160A-361                  13-30
160A-363                  13-29
160A-388                  13-28
                          9-2.4
160A-393                  9-2.4
160A-417                  12-276
160A-435                  7-1
160A-503(10)              7-3.1
Ch. 160D                  2-21
                          2-52
                          2-53
                          2-54
                          2-261
                          2-301
                          2-304
                          1-1.3
                          2-1.1
                          2-1.4
                          2-1.11
                          3-7.5
                          9-2.3
                          9-2.4
Ch. 160D, Art. 7          8-1.1
Ch. 160D, Art. 9          8-1.1
Ch. 160D, Art. 10         3-2.23
                          9-1.1
Ch. 160D, Art. 11         8-1.1
Ch. 160D, Pt. 4           2-326
                          2-329
160D-1-9                  2-1.7
160D-3-7                  2-262
160D-5-1                  1-1.6
160D-102                  9-2.2
160D-105                  1-1.3
                          1-1.6
160D-106                  9-1.13
160D-107                  9-2.2
160D-108                  8-2.16
                          9-1.1
                          9-1.2
                          9-1.4
                          9-1.7
160D-108(c)               9-2.3
160D-108(g)               9-2.3
160D-108.1                9-1.1
                          9-1.8
                          9-1.9
                          9-1.10
                          9-1.12
                          9-1.13
                          9-1.14
160D-109                  9-2.4
160D-301                  2-261
                          2-264
160D-302                  2-301
160D-303                  2-326
                          2-329
160D-305                  2-351
160D-307                  2-302
                          2-327
                          2-377
160D-308                  2-263
160D-401                  7-1.1
160D-403                  9-2.2
160D-403(b)               3-7.5
160D-403(f)               2-1.11
                          9-1.11
160D-404                  2-1.11
160D-405                  2-304
                          2-1.11
                          9-1.6
160D-405(c)               9-2.3
160D-405(d)               3-7.5
160D-406                  2-304
                          7-4.23
160D-406(j)               9-2.5
160D-501                  10-1.1
160D-601                  7-3.1
160D-602                  3-1.7
                          9-1.10
160D-702(b)               2-304
160D-804                  3-2.24
                          3-4.9
160D-913                  1-1.3
                          1-1.6
160D-1101(1)              10-1.1
160D-1110                 7-2.5
160D-1111                 9-1.12
160D-1112                 2-1.11
160D-1115                 9-1.12
160D-1119                 7-3.3
                          7-3.4
                          7-3.7
                          7-4.14
160D-1122                 7-3.5
                          7-3.6
                          7-3.11
160D-1123                 2-1.11
160D-1127                 7-1.2
160D-1129                 7-3.10
                          7-3.11
                          7-4.14
160D-1202(2)              7-3.11
160D-1203                 7-3.11
                          7-4.21
160D-1206                 2-1.11
160D-1208                 2-351
                          2-1.11
                          7-3.10
160D-1208(d)              7-4.24
160D-1401                 9-2.4
160D-1402                 3-7.5
                          9-2.4
160D-1402(d)              3-7.5
160D-1402(g)              9-2.4
160D-1402(h)              9-2.4
160D-1402(j)              9-2.4
160D-1402(j)(1)(a)        9-2.4
160D-1403.1               3-7.5
                          9-1.6
                          9-2.5
160D-1403.2               3-7.5
166A-8                    Ch. 6
 
