MARSHVILLE, NORTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Current through Ord. passed 12-16-2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time; computing time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinances
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend code; effect of new ordinances
   
10.18   Section histories; section headings; statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the Town of Marshville shall be
designated as the Code of the Town of Marshville and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CHARTER. The Charter of the Town of Marshville, North Carolina.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or
sections.
      COMPUTATION OF TIME. The time within which an act is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first and the last day; and if the last day is
Saturday, Sunday or a legal holiday, that day shall be excluded.
      COUNCIL. The Mayor and Town Council, or governing body, of the Town of
Marshville, North Carolina.
      COUNTY. The County of Union, North Carolina.
      G.S. or GENERAL STATUTES. The latest edition of the GENERAL STATUTES of
North Carolina, as amended.
      GENDER. Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine
and neuter.
      GOVERNOR. The Governor of North Carolina.
      JOINT AUTHORITY. All words giving a joint authority to three or more
persons or officers shall be construed as giving the authority to a majority of
persons or officers.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      NUMBER. Words used in the singular include the plural, and the plural
includes the singular number.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in those cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of this municipality unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
      OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD. Whenever certain hours are named in this code,
they shall mean standard time or daylight saving time as may be in current use
in this town.
      OWNER. Applied to any property, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety, of the whole
or a part of the property.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as applied to
any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Every species of property except real property.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      PROPERTY. Includes real and personal property.
      REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIDEWALK. Any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of North Carolina.
      STREET. Any public way, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard,
parkway, dedicated alley, lane, viaduct, bridge and the approaches thereto
within the town and shall mean the entire width of the right-of-way between
abutting property lines.
      SUBCHAPTER.
         (a)   A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
         (b)   Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      TENANT or OCCUPANT. When applied to a building or land, shall include any
person who occupies the whole or a part of the building or land, whether alone
or with others.
      TENSE. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well
as the past and present.
      TOWN. The Town of Marshville, in the County of Union, North Carolina.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
      ZONING ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. One designated by the Town Council.
Statutory reference:
   Computation of time, see G.S. § 1-593
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of the town shall be by the following
rules, unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or”, if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of an act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this town exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, that spelling shall be corrected and the word
or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within the town for the transaction of all municipal
business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME; COMPUTING TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   (A)   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other
ordinances pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in
full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary
implication.
   (B)   Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code shall be
construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
      (1)   Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture
incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective
date of this code;
      (2)   Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment
of money for the town or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the town or
any evidence of the town’s indebtedness;
      (3)   Any contract or obligation assumed by the town;
      (4)   Any ordinance fixing the salary of any town officer or employee;
      (5)   Any right or franchise granted by the town;
      (6)   Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating,
relocating, opening, widening, paving and the like, any street or public way in
the town;
      (7)   Any appropriation ordinance;
      (8)   Any ordinance which, by its own terms, is effective for a stated or
limited term;
      (9)   Any ordinance providing for local improvements and assessing taxes
therefor;
      (10)   Any zoning ordinance or zoning map amendment;
      (11)   Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any subdivision plat;
      (12)   Any ordinance describing or altering the boundaries of the town;
      (13)   The administrative ordinances or resolutions of the town not in
conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this code;
      (14)   Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes not included herein;
      (15)   Any ordinance establishing or prescribing street grades in the
town; and/or
      (16)   Any personnel ordinance.
   (C)   Nor shall any ordinance be construed to revive any ordinance or part
thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance which is repealed by
this chapter; and all ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full
force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length herein.
Statutory reference:
   Statutes not repealed by general statutes, see G.S. § 164-7
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication
shall take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
   (B)   Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from their
passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND CODE; EFFECT OF NEW ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal or
in any way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering
system hereof and printed for inclusion herein. When subsequent ordinances
repeal any chapter, section or division, or any portion thereof, the repealed
portions may be excluded from this code by omission from reprinted pages. The
subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted in the case of
repeal, shall be prima facie evidence that the subsequent ordinances numbered
or omitted are readopted as a new code by the town.
   (B)   Amendments to any of the provisions of the code shall be made by
amending provisions by specific reference to the section number of this code in
language substantially similar to the following: “Section                of the
Code of Ordinances, Town of Marshville, North Carolina, is hereby amended as
follows...” The new provisions shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (C)   If a new section not heretofore existing in the code is to be added,
language substantially similar to the following shall be used: “The Code of
Ordinances, Town of Marshville, North Carolina, is hereby amended by adding a
section, to be numbered                , which section shall read as
follows:...” The new section shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (D)   All sections, articles, chapters or provisions desired to be repealed
must be specifically repealed by section, article or chapter number, as the
case may be.
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; SECTION HEADINGS; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section.
      Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20,
passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text
of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
      Example: (G.S. § 160A-11) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Ord. 20, passed 1-
1-1985)
      (2)   A statutory cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information.
      Example:
         § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection
or copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
            Inspection of public records, see G.S. §§ 132-1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the prior code of ordinances
of the town, the prior code section number shall be indicated in the history by
“(Prior Code, §       )”. The history notes following sections and the
references scattered throughout the code are not part of the code, but are
merely for the benefit for the user of the code.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Administration.
      (1)   Unless a greater amount is specified herein, an act constituting a
violation of the provisions of this code or a failure to comply with any of its
requirements shall subject the offender to a civil penalty in an amount as
shall be as set by the Town Council from time to time, which includes
administrative fees. Each day any single violation continues shall be a
separate violation. Unless expressly stated otherwise in a chapter or appendix,
a violation of this code shall not constitute a misdemeanor pursuant to G.S. §
14-4. If the offender fails to correct this violation by the prescribed
deadline after being notified of said violation, the penalty may be recovered
in a civil action in the nature of a debt.
      (2)   In addition to the civil penalties set out above, any provision of
any town ordinance may be enforced by an appropriate equitable remedy issuing
from a court of competent jurisdiction. In such case, the general court of
justice shall have jurisdiction to issue such orders as may be appropriate, and
it shall not be a defense to the application of the town for equitable relief
that there is an adequate remedy at law.
      (3)   In addition to the civil penalties set out above, any provision of
any town ordinance that makes unlawful a condition existing upon or use made of
real property may be enforced by injunction and order of abatement by the
general court of justice. When a violation of such a provision occurs, the town
may apply to the appropriate division of the general court of justice for a
mandatory or prohibitory injunction and/or order of abatement commanding the
defendant to correct the unlawful condition upon or cease the unlawful use of
the property. The action shall be governed in all respects by the laws and
rules governing civil proceedings, including the Rules of Civil Procedure in
general and Rule 65 in particular.
      (4)   An order of abatement may direct that buildings or other structures
on the property be closed, demolished or removed; that fixtures, furniture or
other movable property be removed from buildings on the property; that grass
and weeds be cut; that abandoned or junked vehicles be removed; that
improvements or repairs be made; or that any other action be taken that is
necessary to bring the property into compliance with the applicable town
ordinance. If the defendant fails or refuses to comply with an injunction or
with an order of abatement within the time allowed by the court, he or she may
be cited for contempt, and the town may execute the order of abatement. The
town shall have a lien on the property for the cost of executing an order of
abatement in the nature of a mechanic’s and materialman’s lien. The defendant
may secure cancellation of an order of abatement by paying all costs of the
proceedings and posting a bond for compliance with the order. The bond shall be
given with sureties approved by the Clerk of Superior Court in an amount
approved by the judge before whom the matter is heard and shall be conditioned
on the defendant’s full compliance with the terms of the order of abatement
within a time fixed by the judicial order. Cancellation of an order of
abatement shall not suspend or cancel an injunction issued in conjunction
therewith.
      (5)   The provisions of any town ordinance may be enforced by one, all or
a combination of the remedies authorized and prescribed by this section.
   (B)   Procedures.
      (1)   This section sets forth the procedures to be followed in enforcing
the provisions of the code of ordinances. they shall be utilized unless an
individual ordinance codified herein has different procedures, in which event
the procedures of the individual ordinance shall be followed.
      (2)   Unless otherwise provided by a specific provision of any town
ordinance, upon determination of a violation of any section of a town
ordinance, the enforcement official of the town shall cause a warning citation
to be issued to the violator. Such warning citation shall be issued either in
person or posted in the United States mail service by first class mail
addressed to the last known address of the violator as contained in the records
of the county. Such warning citation shall set out the nature of the violation,
the section violated, the date of the violation and shall contain an order to
immediately cease the violation. If the violation is in the nature of an
infraction for which an order of abatement would be appropriate in a civil
proceeding, a reasonable period of time must be stated in which the violation
must be abated. The warning citation shall specify that a second citation shall
incur a civil penalty, together with costs and attorney fees.
      (3)   Except for appeals from a warning citation for a violation of the
Land Development Ordinance, an appeal from a warning citation shall be taken
within ten days from the date of said warning citation by filing with the
enforcement official and with the Board of Adjustment, a notice of appeal which
shall specify the grounds upon which the appeal is based. Except in any case
where the ordinance violated, which is the subject of the warning citation,
specifically grants to the Board of Adjustment other powers in considering
appeals and such appeal is applied for, the Board of Adjustment in considering
appeals of warning citations shall have power only in the manner of
administrative review and interpretation where it is alleged that the
enforcement official has made an error in the application of an ordinance, in
the factual situation as it relates to the application of an ordinance or both.
      (4)   Where the enforcement official of the town determines that the
period of time stated in the original warning citation is not sufficient for
abatement based upon the work required or consent agreement, the enforcement
official may amend the warning citation to provide for additional time.
      (5)   Upon failure of the violator to obey the warning citation, a civil
citation may be issued by the enforcement official, either served directly on
the violator, his or her duly designated agent, or registered agent if a
corporation, either in person or posted in the United States mail service by
first class mail addressed to the last known address of the violator as
contained in the records of the county or obtained from the violator at the
time of issuance of the warning citation. The violator shall be deemed to have
been served upon the mailing of said citation. The citation shall direct the
violator to appear in person at the Town Hall to pay the citation within 15
days of the date of the citation, or alternatively to pay the citation by mail.
The violation for which the citation is issued must have been corrected by the
time the citation is paid, otherwise further citations shall be issued.
Citations may be issued for each day the offense continues until the prohibited
activity is ceased or abated.
      (6)   If the violator fails to respond to a citation within 15 days of
its issuance, and pay the penalty prescribed therein, the town may institute a
civil action in the nature of debt in the appropriate division of the state’s
general court of justice for the collection of the penalty, costs, attorney
fees and such other relief as permitted by law.
(Ord. 13-004, passed 9-3-2013)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   TOWN COUNCIL
      
31.   OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
      
32.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
      
33.   FIRE DEPARTMENT
CHAPTER 30: TOWN COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Regular meetings
   
30.02   Special meetings
   
30.03   Meetings during holidays
   
30.04   Quorum
   
30.05   Minutes
   
30.06   Town Manager to preside
   
30.07   Mayor not to vote
   
30.08   Mayor Pro Tempore; disability of Mayor
   
30.09   Committees
Ordinances
   
30.20   Effective date
   
30.21   Ordinances confined to one subject
   
30.22   Official copy
   
30.23   Ordinances appropriating money
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   The schedule of regular meetings of the Mayor and Town Council shall be
adopted by the Town Council prior to beginning a new fiscal year, filed with
the Secretary of State and Town Clerk, and shall be made available to all
members of the public, in accordance with the state’s general statutes.
(Ord. passed 10-2-2006; Ord. 13-001, passed 7-1-2013)
§ 30.02 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   Special meetings of the Town Council may be held upon the call of the Mayor
or upon the request of any two members of the Town Council.
§ 30.03 MEETINGS DURING HOLIDAYS.
   When a holiday falls on regular Town Council meeting night, the meeting will
be postponed at the Town Council’s discretion.
§ 30.04 QUORUM.
   A majority of the members of the Town Council shall constitute a quorum and
no official business of the town shall be transacted by the Town Council unless
a quorum is present.
§ 30.05 MINUTES.
   It shall be the duty of the Town Clerk to be present at all meetings of the
Town Council, to keep in a book provided for that purpose a record of all the
proceedings of the Town Council.
§ 30.06 TOWN MANAGER TO PRESIDE.
   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the Town Council and, in his or
her absence, the Mayor Pro Tempore shall preside.
§ 30.07 MAYOR NOT TO VOTE.
   The Mayor shall not vote on any question before the Town Council, except in
the case of a tie vote deadlocking a decision of the Town Council.
§ 30.08 MAYOR PRO TEMPORE; DISABILITY OF MAYOR.
   At the organizational meeting, the Town Council shall elect from among its
members a Mayor Pro Tempore to serve at the pleasure of the Town Council. A
Council member serving as Mayor Pro Tempore shall be entitled to vote on all
matters and shall be considered a Council member for all purposes, including
the determination of whether a quorum is present. During the absence of the
Mayor, the Town Council may confer upon the Mayor Pro Tempore any of the powers
and duties of the Mayor. If the Mayor should become physically or mentally
incapable of performing the duties of his or her office, the Council may, by
majority vote, declare that he or she is incapacitated and confer any of his or
her powers and duties on the Mayor Pro Tempore. Upon the Mayor’s declaration
that he or she is no longer incapacitated, and with the concurrence of a
majority of the Town Council, the Mayor shall resume the exercise of his or her
powers and duties.
§ 30.09 COMMITTEES.
   The Town Council may create committees of the Town Council for special
purposes as it deems best.
ORDINANCES
§ 30.20 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   All ordinances shall be effective after the ratification thereof, except
ordinances specifying some other effective date or ordinances required by state
law to be effective only after having met specific date requirements.
§ 30.21 ORDINANCES CONFINED TO ONE SUBJECT.
   All ordinances to be confined to one subject, except appropriation
ordinances which shall be confined to the subject of appropriations only.
§ 30.22 OFFICIAL COPY.
   A true copy of an ordinance, which has been duly enacted by the Town
Council, signed by the Mayor and attested to by the Town Clerk, shall be known
as an official copy of any ordinance for the town. All ordinances or a true
copy thereof shall be inserted in this code in the proper chapter.
§ 30.23 ORDINANCES APPROPRIATING MONEY.
   No appropriation ordinance or an ordinance to alter or repeal an
appropriation ordinance shall be enacted at any meeting other than a regular
meeting, except by a majority vote.
CHAPTER 31: OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Safety Program policy
   
31.02   Employee use of town vehicles
   
31.03   Employee’s bonds
Officers and Employees
   
31.15   Mayor
   
31.16   Town Manager
   
31.17   Town Clerk
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 SAFETY PROGRAM POLICY.
   (A)   Generally. The town considers the safety of its employees a major
responsibility. Constant endeavor shall be made to provide safe working habits
and conditions. It is recognized that accident control can only be successful
when, adequate stimulation comes from top management, adequate coordination and
advice comes from staff members, supervisors accept safety responsibilities and
when employees participate in the elimination of unnecessary suffering.
   (B)   Keys. The keys to the Safety Program are:
      (1)   The designation of a responsible employee in a position of
authority as the Safety Coordinator;
      (2)   Support from management and supervisory personnel in the prevention
of accidents and the implementation of this policy;
      (3)   The establishment of the Safety Steering Committee composed of
representatives from various departments of the municipality;
      (4)   Regularly scheduled safety meetings held with supervisors;
      (5)   Supervisors conducting regularly scheduled safety meetings with
employees;
      (6)   Investigations of all accidents resulting in injuries that require
medical attention to determine causes of the accidents and remedial actions
required to prevent recurrence;
      (7)   Supervisors being responsible for the safe condition of assigned
equipment and materials, good housekeeping practices and safe working
conditions. Supervisors should conduct regularly scheduled inspections of their
work places to identify hazards. Corrective actions shall be initiated to
control unsafe acts, conditions or procedures;
      (8)   Accident prevention principles being incorporated in new employee
orientation training and being a part of on-going training programs for all
employees. Supervisors will train employees to use safe work practices;
      (9)   The department heads, with the assistance of the Safety
Coordinator, analyzing hazardous working conditions and developing standard
operating procedures to ensure, that the hazardous conditions are minimized and
that safe work practices are used;
      (10)   Use of personal protective equipment by employees to reduce the
probability of injury; and
      (11)   All employees being charged with the responsibility for making
safety a daily concern. This responsibility must be accepted by everyone,
regardless of their position in the organization.
§ 31.02 EMPLOYEE USE OF TOWN VEHICLES.
   (A)   Vehicles are not to be used for personal purposes.
   (B)   Vehicles owned by the town may be provided to one or more employees in
connection with municipal business and shall be used only on municipal
business.
   (C)   For bona fide non-compensatory business reasons, the town requires
certain employees to commute to and from work in municipal vehicles.
   (D)   Pursuant to state law, neither an employee, nor any individual whose
use would be taxable to the employee, may use municipal vehicles for personal
purposes other than for commuting.
   (E)   The Town Council reasonably believes, based upon expressed town policy
and provisions of state law, that one of its employees, nor any individual
whose use would be taxable to the employee, use these vehicles for any personal
purpose.
   (F)   The employees required to use municipal vehicles for commuting are not
“control” employees, as defined by the Internal Revenue Service.
   (G)   The town will account for the commuting use by its employees by
including an appropriate amount as specified in IRS regulations in the
employees’ gross income.
§ 31.03 EMPLOYEE’S BONDS.
   The Town Clerk and other officers or employees required by the Town Council
shall, before entering upon their duties, post bond in amounts specified by the
Town Council. All bond premiums shall be paid from town funds; provided that,
when two or more officers are combined, such as Clerk-Treasurer and Tax
Collector, only one bond shall be required.
OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
§ 31.15 MAYOR.
   It shall be the duty of the Mayor to cause all ordinances for the town to be
enforced, to attend and preside over all meetings of the Town Council. It shall
further be the duty of the Mayor to within 30 days after the close of each year
to require a report to the Town Council from the various departments of the
town government for the previous year and recommend adjustments as he or she
may see fit, and the Mayor shall perform other duties as the Town Council may
from time to time require.
§ 31.16 TOWN MANAGER.
   (A)   Generally. The Town Council shall appoint a Town Manager. The Town
Manager shall be appointed with regard to merit only and need not be a resident
of the town at the time of his or her appointment. The Mayor and Town Council
may request that he or she become a resident of the town upon appointment. The
Mayor or any member of the Town Council shall not be eligible for appointment
as Town Manager.
   (B)   Combined office; term; compensation. The office of Town Manager may be
combined with any other town office, except as by law prohibited, and the Town
Manager shall perform the duties of other offices as may be directed by the
Town Council. The Town Manager shall hold office at the pleasure of the Town
Council and shall receive compensation as the Town Council may determine.
   (C)   Duties. The Town Manager shall perform the following duties.
      (1)   He or she shall be the chief administrative officer of the town
government responsible to the Mayor and the Town Council for the performance of
his or her duties. The Town Manager shall perform or supervise the performance
of all administrative affairs of the town as he or she may be authorized and
directed so to do by the Mayor and the Town Council as provided by the Council-
Manager form of government.
      (2)   He or she shall attend all regular meetings of the Town Council. In
addition, he or she shall attend all committee meetings of the Town Council
when requested by the Mayor and the Town Council.
       (3)   He or she shall make investigations and reports concerning town
government affairs to the Mayor and Town Council as the Town Manager shall from
time to time deem necessary. Reports may include recommendations for adopting
measures as the Town Manager may deem best for the good government of the
municipality.
      (4)   He or she shall keep the Mayor and the Town Council fully advised
of the town’s financial condition and its future financial needs, and to
perform fiscal control duties in connection therewith as may from time to time
be authorized or required by the Town Council.
      (5)   He or she shall coordinate the activities of all departments and
direct department heads and other town employees in performance of their duties
and functions that may be required.
      (6)   The Town Manager has the authority to appoint all departments and
employees and have final authority for personnel actions without review by the
Town Council.
      (7)   He or she shall perform other duties and functions as the Town
Council may prescribe.
   (D)   Relationship with other departments. The department heads of the
various town departments shall be directly responsible to the Town Manager, who
in turn shall be directly responsible to the Mayor and Town Council. It is the
intent of this division (D) to establish a line of responsibility from the
department heads through the Town Manager to the Mayor and Town Council. The
Town Manager is responsible for maintaining fiscal control of the budgeted
items of the various departments.
§ 31.17 TOWN CLERK.
   (A)   The Town Clerk shall attend all meetings of the Town Council and shall
regularly and fairly record all its proceedings in a book to be kept by the
Town Clerk for that purpose. The Town Clerk shall also keep a book to be styled
the code of ordinances, in which the Town Clerk shall fairly and correctly
transcribe all ordinances which are enacted by the Town Council.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Town Clerk to keep true, accurate and just
books of accounts of the dealings and transactions of the town, which books
shall show at all times the true condition of the town, its resources and
liabilities and the disposition and use of the moneys coming under the control
of the town.
   (C)   The Town Clerk shall keep or cause to be kept in a safe place all
moneys, records and accounts.
   (D)   The Town Clerk shall disburse funds for the various purposes of the
town only when an appropriation for that purpose has been made in the annual
budget and the disbursement is authorized by the Town Council.
   (E)   The Town Clerk shall perform duties as the Town Council may from time
to time require.
CHAPTER 32: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
Police Department Generally
   
32.01   Organization
   
32.02   Duties of police
   
32.03   Chief of Police
   
32.04   Jurisdiction of police officers
   
32.05   Auxiliary Police Division
Agreement for Mutual Assistance in Law Enforcement by and
Between the Town and the County
   
32.20   Definitions
   
32.21   Declaration of emergency required
   
32.22   Determination of ability to honor request
   
32.23   Notification of requested party governing body
   
32.24   Record of request shall be recorded
   
32.25   Chain of command
   
32.26   Requested party may recall assistance
   
32.27   Requesting party is responsible for maintenance
   
32.28   Reimbursement of costs
   
32.29   Reasonable value may be calculated
   
32.30   Liabilities of parties
   
32.31   Payment due
   
32.32   Officers of sending party to remain on sending party payroll; have
powers of arrest
   
32.33   Cancellation at any time
   
32.34   Terms to be in full force and effect
Cross-reference:
   Fire Department, see
Ch. 33
POLICE DEPARTMENT GENERALLY
§ 32.01 ORGANIZATION.
   The Police Department of the town shall consist of a Chief and as many
police officers as the Town Council shall from time to time determine, and as
many special police officers as the Town Manager may deem necessary to appoint
for special purposes.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2004)
§ 32.02 DUTIES OF POLICE.
   The Police Department shall carry out and enforce all laws of the town and
of the state and shall at all times preserve the peace, protect the property
and the safety of the citizens of the town.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2004)
§ 32.03 CHIEF OF POLICE.
   The Chief shall have control over the Police Department under the
supervision of the Town Manager.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2004)
§ 32.04 JURISDICTION OF POLICE OFFICERS.
   All police officers are clothed with all the powers as peace officers which
they now possess inside the town limits, throughout all that territory
extending one mile in all directions from the town limits as they are presently
established and as proved by general law.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2004)
§ 32.05 AUXILIARY POLICE DIVISION.
   (A)   Pursuant to G.S. § 160A-282(a) and (b), a town may by ordinance
provide for the organization of an auxiliary police department made up of
volunteer members; and by enactment of an ordinance, may provide that while
undergoing official training and while performing duties on behalf of the city
pursuant to orders or instructions of the Chief of Police of the city,
auxiliary law enforcement personnel shall be entitled to benefits under the
State Worker’s Compensation Act, being G.S. Ch. 97, and to any fringe benefits
for which the volunteer personnel qualify.
   (B)   There is hereby established within the town’s Police Department, as a
division thereof, an Auxiliary Police Division. The Auxiliary Police Division
shall be a volunteer organization, whose members shall serve without
compensation, composed of up to five members as may from time to time be
determined by the Chief of Police.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2004)
AGREEMENT FOR MUTUAL ASSISTANCE IN LAW ENFORCEMENT
BY AND BETWEEN THE TOWN AND THE COUNTY
§ 32.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHIEF ELECTED OFFICIAL. The Mayor and the Chairperson of the Board of County
Commissioners. In the absence of the Mayor or Chairperson, the term shall refer
to the person authorized to act in his or her stead in case of absence.
   REQUEST FOR LAW ENFORCEMENT ASSISTANCE.
      (1)   A request made by the chief elected official of a requesting party
to the chief elected official of a requested party that the requested party
send to the requesting party one or more of the following:
         (a)   Law enforcement officers;
         (b)   Equipment, supplies or materials that may be of use in
preserving or restoring order; or
         (c)   Other personnel, goods or services needed by a requesting party
in cases of emergency.
      (2)   The request may be made orally or in writing and may be delivered
directly or indirectly, in person, by messenger, by telephone, by telegraph, by
radio or otherwise. If the request is made orally, it shall at the same time be
reduced to writing and mailed, telegraphed or delivered to the chief elected
official of the requested party. The chief elected official of the requested
party need not wait for the receipt of written confirmation of the request,
however, before taking action.
   REQUESTED PARTY. A party to this agreement which at the time in question has
received a request for law enforcement assistance from the other party to this
agreement.
   REQUESTING PARTY. A party to this agreement which at the time in question:
      (1)   Is suffering from an emergency requiring or likely to require a
greater level of law enforcement effort than it can provide;
      (2)   Has, through its chief elected official, declared that a state of
emergency exists; and
      (3)   Has initiated a request for law enforcement assistance from the
other party to this agreement.
   SENDING PARTY. A requested party which has, in the manner specified in this
agreement, agreed to send part or all of the law enforcement assistance
requested by the requesting party.
§ 32.21 DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY REQUIRED.
   When the chief elected official of a party to this agreement determines, in
his or her discretion, that his or her political subdivision is faced with
emergency conditions requiring or likely to require a greater level of law
enforcement effort than can be provided by that subdivision, he or she may make
a public declaration of emergency. In the case of the county, this
determination and declaration shall only be made after consultation with the
Sheriff of the county. Upon the making of the declaration, the political
subdivision then becomes entitled to request law enforcement assistance as a
requesting party under the terms of this agreement. The request made shall be
with the concurrence of the Sheriff in the case of the county, though a
statement that the concurrence has been secured need not be expressly made in
the request for law enforcement assistance.
§ 32.22 DETERMINATION OF ABILITY TO HONOR REQUEST.
   Upon receipt of a request for law enforcement assistance by the chief
elected official of a requested party, the chief elected official shall
immediately, in consultation with the Sheriff, in the case of the county,
initiate an inquiry within his or her jurisdiction to determine whether the
requested party may honor the request for law enforcement assistance, or any
part of it, without unduly impairing its capacity to maintain law and order and
provide for the peace and safety of its citizens and their property. Upon his
or her determination that part or all of the request for law enforcement
assistance may be honored without undue danger to the requested party, the
chief elected official of the requested party may take steps as necessary to
furnish as much law enforcement assistance to the requesting party as he or she
deems appropriate. In the case of the county, the making of that determination
and the taking of any steps to furnish law enforcement assistance shall be done
with the concurrence of the Sheriff. Subject to overriding action by the
governing body of the requested party, and the necessary concurrence of the
Sheriff in the case of the county, the decision whether to send and the timing
and amount of the sending of, law enforcement assistance shall be solely within
the discretion of the chief elected official of the requested party.
§ 32.23 NOTIFICATION OF REQUESTED PARTY GOVERNING BODY.
   Within a reasonable time following the receipt of a request for law
enforcement assistance, and in no event more than 24 hours later, the chief
elected official of a requested party shall communicate to the members of the
governing body of the requested party the terms of the request for law
enforcement assistance and his or her action upon the request. With respect to
all rights and duties arising under this agreement, this provision shall be
deemed directory rather than mandatory and shall not be interpreted as a
condition precedent to the furnishing of law enforcement assistance or to the
legality of assistance furnished.
§ 32.24 RECORD OF REQUEST SHALL BE RECORDED.
   At the next regular or special meeting of the governing body of a requested
party following receipt of the request for law enforcement assistance, there
shall be recorded in the minutes of that meeting a complete record of the
request, the action taken, the names of all law enforcement officers and other
personnel sent to the requesting party and a description of any other law
enforcement assistance furnished. At the next regular or special meeting of the
governing body of a requesting party following the making of the request for
law enforcement assistance, there shall be recorded in the minutes of that
meeting a complete record containing the same information required above as to
the requested party.
§ 32.25 CHAIN OF COMMAND.
   While law enforcement officers of a sending party are within the territory
of a requesting party pursuant to a request for law enforcement assistance, the
officers shall be under the command of the chief law enforcement official of
the requesting party. With regard to other kinds of law enforcement, command,
control and supervision of personnel, equipment, supplies and the like shall be
in the appropriate official of the requesting party as designated by its chief
elected official. In certain situations involving specialized equipment,
services or units with which officials of the requesting party may not be
familiar, the chief elected official of the sending party may stipulate that
detailed command, control and supervision remain with an office of the sending
party, but in any event the chief elected official of the requesting party or
his or her delegate shall have general power to direct and coordinate all
activities taken to combat the existent emergency conditions.
§ 32.26 REQUESTED PARTY MAY RECALL ASSISTANCE.
   The chief elected official of a sending party shall keep watch on conditions
within his or her jurisdiction while law enforcement assistance is being
furnished to the requesting party and, if he or she determines it to be
necessary, he or she may recall part or all of the law enforcement assistance
furnished. In the case of the county, this determination and recall shall be
upon the advice of the Sheriff prior to taking recall action, the decision to
recall all or any part of the law enforcement assistance furnished shall be
solely within the discretion of the chief elected official of the sending
party. Recall shall be effected through communication with the chief elected
official of the requesting party, who shall take immediate action in compliance
with the recall request.
§ 32.27 REQUESTING PARTY IS RESPONSIBLE FOR MAINTENANCE.
   While law enforcement officers, other personnel, equipment, supplies and
other material of the sending party are under the control of the requesting
party, the requesting party shall be responsible for feeding and housing
officers and other personnel and for properly maintaining and storing
equipment, supplies and other material.
§ 32.28 REIMBURSEMENT OF COSTS.
   The requesting party shall reimburse the sending party for the cost to it of
furnishing law enforcement assistance pursuant to this agreement. This cost
shall be computed by the sending party and submitted on an invoice to the
requesting party. Where total costs may not be immediately subject to
computation, the sending party may send an invoice for part of the amount due
and submit later invoices as full costs are determined. In computing costs, the
sending party may include the following:
   (A)   The compensation paid to auxiliary police officers or other substitute
personnel called to duty in the sending party on account of furnishing law
enforcement assistance. The compensation paid shall be deemed to be on account
of the furnishing of law enforcement assistance if it would not otherwise have
been paid, and includes compensation paid or payable to substitute officers or
other personnel after the emergency has passed if necessitated on account of
giving compensatory time off to those who were sent to the requesting party;
   (B)   The costs of calling auxiliary police or other substitute personnel to
duty, and any special costs of maintaining them on duty, if they would not have
been so called to duty except for the furnishing of law enforcement assistance
to the requesting party;
   (C)   The reasonable rental value of substantial items of equipment or other
material furnished to the requesting party, when the amortization costs of the
items of equipment or material are not included in computing the costs of
services elsewhere submitted on invoice to the requesting party. The rental may
be fixed on a time or mileage basis, or other basis as may be appropriate to
the particular equipment or material in question and the use to which it was
subjected. Where rental is figured on an overall time basis, the time period
shall run during the time the equipment or material was away from its place of
storage or duty;
   (D)   The cost of maintaining, replacing or repairing any uniforms,
supplies, equipment or other material borne or to be borne by the sending party
on account of furnishing law enforcement assistance under this agreement;
   (E)   The costs of transporting, maintaining, housing and feeding law
enforcement officers and other personnel of the sending party as were borne by
the sending party and were attributable to the furnishing of law enforcement
assistance under this agreement;
   (F)   The costs of transportation, maintaining and storing equipment,
supplies and other material furnished the requesting party as were borne by the
sending party to the extent that the costs were attributable to the request for
law enforcement assistance under this agreement;
   (G)   The specific costs of any benefits, penalties, damages or indemnities
paid or payable by the sending party to its employees or others on account of
the furnishing of law enforcement assistance under this agreement. This
includes increases or estimated future increases in costs of insurance premiums
as may be attributable to the furnishing of law enforcement assistance. Where
benefits, penalties, damages, indemnities or other costs detailed in this
agreement are payable by an insurer or other indemnitor, are reimbursable to
the sending party by the insurer or indemnitor (other than the requesting
party), the requesting party shall not be liable except for net costs, interest
payments or other special costs actually borne by the sending party;
   (H)   The net costs of any litigation, including court costs, damage awards
and legal fees, to which the sending party is subjected on account of its
furnishing law enforcement assistance under this agreement; and
   (I)   Any other costs, whether direct or indirect, clearly attributable to
the request for law enforcement assistance borne or to be borne by the sending
party.
§ 32.29 REASONABLE VALUE MAY BE CALCULATED.
   In lieu of computing the detailed costs to it of furnishing law enforcement
assistance, a sending party may, where it is more convenient to do so,
determine the reasonable value of the assistance rendered and submit an invoice
for this amount. The invoice may also be based in part upon a calculation of
costs and in part upon a determination of reasonable value of the assistance
rendered. In any event, the invoice submitted should contain a sufficient
itemization of amounts charged so that the general basis for any particular
charge is reflected.
§ 32.30 LIABILITIES OF PARTIES.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this agreement, the requesting party
shall not be liable to the sending party for any costs borne by it on account
of acts of the employees or agents of the sending party of the kind set out in
this section. To the extent that liability attaches at all to a political
subdivision of the state, the sending party shall be solely liable in the event
of litigation or other costs arising with respect to:
   (A)   Failure of equipment or other material furnished that resulted solely
from negligence by employees or agents of the sending party prior to the time
of the request for law enforcement assistance;
   (B)   Willful misuse of equipment or other material of the sending party by
employees or agents of the sending party, when the willful conduct was in no
way sanctioned or commanded by any person in or apparently in authority acting
on behalf of the requesting party;
   (C)   Willful and malicious misconduct of employees or agents of the sending
party that was in no way sanctioned or commanded by any person in or apparently
in authority acting on behalf of the requesting party; and
   (D)   Acts willfully done by employees or agents of the sending party in
defiance of orders of authorized officials of the requesting party.
§ 32.31 PAYMENT DUE.
   (A)   The requesting party agrees to pay the sums falling due under this
agreement within the current fiscal year if sufficient funds are available. If
payment cannot be made with the current fiscal year without unduly disrupting
the financial operations of the requesting party, the requesting party agrees
to pay the sums falling due under this agreement in the next succeeding fiscal
year, and to levy sufficient taxes for this purpose.
   (B)   If necessary to meet its obligations under this agreement, the
requesting party may levy a special tax as authorized or issue bonds or notes,
subject to approval of the Local Government Commission.
§ 32.32 OFFICERS OF SENDING PARTY TO REMAIN ON SENDING PARTY PAYROLL; HAVE
POWERS OF ARREST.
   Law enforcement officers and other personnel furnished a requesting party
under this agreement shall remain on the payroll of the sending party and shall
also retain in performing their duties in the jurisdiction of the requesting
party (and in traveling from the sending party to the requesting party) all
jurisdiction, authority, rights, privileges, immunities and benefits, including
coverage under worker’s compensation laws, which they have in the sending
party. Law enforcement officers of the sending party shall have the full
authority to make arrests and to execute criminal process in the jurisdiction
of the requesting party that is granted in G.S. § 160A-288.
§ 32.33 CANCELLATION AT ANY TIME.
   This agreement may be cancelled at any time after a resolution to that
effect by the governing body of either party to this agreement has been duly
adopted upon the mailing of a written notice of that resolution to the chief
elected official of the other party.
§ 32.34 TERMS TO BE IN FULL FORCE AND EFFECT.
   This agreement shall be in full force and effect from and after its
execution by the appropriate officials on behalf of the governing bodies of
both parties, its ratification by resolutions of the respective governing
bodies and its recordation in the minutes of both parties.
CHAPTER 33: FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
33.01   Fire protection
   
33.02   Fire inspections
   
33.03   Burning regulations
§ 33.01 FIRE PROTECTION.
   Fire protection within the town shall be provided by Beaver Lane Volunteer
Fire Department or other duly chartered fire department with jurisdiction to
provide fire protection within the town.
(Ord. passed 1-6-2003)
§ 33.02 FIRE INSPECTIONS.
   Fire inspections within the town shall be under the jurisdiction of the
County Fire Marshal or other official with lawful jurisdiction to inspect
property for fire hazards or Building Code violations.
(Ord. passed 1-6-2003)
§ 33.03 BURNING REGULATIONS.
   All outdoor burning shall be in accordance with applicable state law or
regulations.
(Ord. passed 1-6-2003)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE AND REFUSE COLLECTION
      
51.   WATER AND SEWERS
      
52.   EMERGENCY DROUGHT RESPONSE
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE AND REFUSE COLLECTION
Section
   
50.01   Definition
   
50.02   Garbage required to be promptly removed
   
50.03   Garbage required to be in containers
   
50.04   Wet garbage
   
50.05   Deposit of garbage in public places and on private property
   
50.06   Transportation of garbage and slops by private persons
   
50.07   Hour for placing cans
   
50.08   Removal of dead animals
   
50.09   Garbage collection rates
§ 50.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Includes all refuse, animal, fruit and other vegetable matter, all
tin cans, glassware and crockery in which any matter has been put up or stored
and all rags, waste paper, floor sweepings and other combustible refuse, except
building material, scraps and tree trimmings.
§ 50.02 GARBAGE REQUIRED TO BE PROMPTLY REMOVED.
   No garbage that has become decayed or that shall otherwise be a menace to
health or cleanliness shall be allowed to remain in any dwelling house, hotel,
boarding house, safe, restaurant, lunch stand, fruit stand, meat market, store
or other building or on any premises a longer time than shall be reasonably
necessary to remove and deposit the same in a can or cans as hereinafter
provided in this chapter.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.03 GARBAGE REQUIRED TO BE IN CONTAINERS.
   (A)   At each place where garbage is to be gathered and a charge is made by
the town, the customer shall place the garbage in an approved container with a
lid. For residential customers, the container shall be no larger than 20
gallons in capacity and shall have a maximum weight of 50 pounds. For
commercial customers, the container shall be no larger than 30 gallons in
capacity and shall have a maximum weight of 60 pounds. The container shall be
placed so as to be handled without workers of the town entering the building of
a company or home. It shall be understood by the town workers that when any
other than an approved container is used, it is intended by the customer that
it (the container) too is to be removed and in no way is to exceed the
aforementioned maximum capacity or weight.
   (B)   Any limbs or trees shall be a maximum of four feet in length and shall
be no greater than four inches in diameter at its largest circumference.
§ 50.04 WET GARBAGE.
   All wet garbage shall have the liquid drained off and shall be wrapped in
paper or other combustible material before it is placed in the garbage can,
thus preventing smell and the breeding of flies in summer and freezing and
adhesion to the can in winter.
§ 50.05 DEPOSIT OF GARBAGE IN PUBLIC PLACES AND ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No person or persons shall collect, handle, haul or transport on any of the
streets, alleys, public ways or places of the town, any garbage without first
having procured a permit therefor.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.06 TRANSPORTATION OF GARBAGE AND SLOPS BY PRIVATE PERSONS.
   No person shall throw, place or deposit any garbage in any street, alley,
public place or private property within the city limits, except in garbage cans
or garbage vehicle as provided in this chapter.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.07 HOUR FOR PLACING CANS.
   Garbage cans or similar containers containing garbage and trash, for removal
shall be placed on the premises from which the same are to be removed at or
before 7:00 a.m. on the day scheduled for removal.
§ 50.08 REMOVAL OF DEAD ANIMALS.
   Dead animals will be removed by the town.
§ 50.09 GARBAGE COLLECTION RATES.
   Every resident and business in the corporate limits of the town shall pay a
garbage disposal fee, with the fee being posted upon a schedule to be kept by
the town. The charge of the fee shall be entered on the monthly water and/or
sewer bill of each resident and business and if any resident or business shall
refuse to pay his, her or its garbage disposal fee, his, her or its water and/
or sewer service shall be discontinued until the fee shall have been paid.
CHAPTER 51: WATER AND SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Town Council to regulate
   
51.02   Tampering with water system
   
51.03   Permit for connection required
   
51.04   Separate connections required
   
51.05   Sewer required
   
51.06   Use of town water
   
51.07   Water and sewer rates
   
51.08   Tampering with or obstructing water and sewer lines prohibited
   
51.09   Tampering with water meter
   
51.10   Private water supply regulated
   
51.11   Water and Sewer Superintendent
   
51.12   Work on water and sewer system
   
51.13   Customers outside of town limits
   
51.14   Multiple connections
Sanitary Sewer Regulation
   
51.25   Purpose
   
51.26   Definitions
   
51.27   Usage of sanitary sewers
   
51.28   Structures required
   
51.29   Permits
   
51.30   Outside connections
   
51.31   Powers and authority for inspection
   
51.32   Measurement of flow
   
51.33   Determining of character and concentration of wastes
   
51.34   Surcharge for treatment of industrial wastes
   
51.35   Protection from damages
Privies and Septic Tanks
   
51.50   Septic tanks regulated
 
   
51.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 TOWN COUNCIL TO REGULATE.
   The sewer and water system of the town shall be under the control of the
Town Council, and the duty of prescribing and enforcing a full compliance with
all the rules and regulations governing all connections with the public sewer
and water system shall be vested in the Town Council or its authorized agent.
§ 51.02 TAMPERING WITH WATER SYSTEM.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or plumber to tamper with any
water meter or open any water service valve in the town without first
consulting the Superintendent of the water system.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person other than the Fire Chief or Water
Superintendent or firefighter on duty at fires to open any fire hydrant in the
town.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person or persons to tamper
with any manhole in the town or conveyed to the town without first consulting
the Director of Public Works for the sewer system.
Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.03 PERMIT FOR CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   No person, firm or corporation shall connect with the water system of the
town until he, she or it shall have made application for permission to so
connect and this application shall be made before any part of the drainage
system of the house or other connection shall have been laid or constructed and
the application shall be accompanied with a plan or drawing showing the
location of the building and shall state the name of the street and the name of
the person, firm or corporation.
§ 51.04 SEPARATE CONNECTIONS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Each individual business or residential building or structure shall
install a separate water and sewer connection.
   (B)   (1)   On and after 12-26-1963, the minimum charge for water and sewer
services either inside or outside the limits of the town shall apply to each
and every residence, apartment or trailer; provided, the services are piped
into building whether connected to a single meter or not.
      (2)   Where several residences are provided water through a single meter,
the party having the meter shall be billed for all of the residences, or on
request, separate meters shall be installed in the prescribed manner.
      (3)   Any person having more than one residence on his or her meter
should notify town.
Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.05 SEWER REQUIRED.
   (A)   All owners of improved property which is or may be located upon or
within a reasonable distance of the sewerage system of the town, where the
sewerage system is in operation, shall connect with the sewerage system all
water closets, bath tubs, laboratory, sinks, drains, shower baths and other
connections upon their respective properties or premises so that the contents
shall be made to empty into the sewerage or sewer system.
   (B)   No outdoor privies may be hereafter constructed on or near any sewer
line, and the town may require and enforce immediate abandonment of a privy.
   (C)   Where the sewer is available and where facilities for disposing of
sewerage by water is not already installed, it shall be unlawful for the owner
or the occupant of any building being used for a dwelling house or apartment to
fail to have at least one water closet connected with the public sewer within
30 days after notice has been given to the owner or occupant by the town or
from the Plumbing Inspector.
   (D)   (1)   No person shall, after having an outdoor privy condemned,
rebuild the outdoor privy, but must connect to town sewerage system where a
connection is available.
      (2)   If a connection is not available, the person must build a septic
tank or outdoor privy according to the requirements of the state’s Board of
Health.
Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.06 USE OF TOWN WATER.
   (A)   No consumer will be allowed to supply or sell water to other persons,
families or corporations, nor shall any person take or carry away water from
any hydrant, watering trough or public fountain, except as permitted under §
51.04 of this chapter.
   (B)   The fire hydrants are for the use of the Fire Department for fighting
fires, and are not to be used by any unauthorized person for any purpose,
without permission from the town.
Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.07 WATER AND SEWER RATES.
   (A)   Generally. Water rates and water and sewer connection charges shall be
determined from time to time by the Town Council, which shall be kept on file
in the office of the Town Clerk. The installation cost of a water connection on
a line greater than three- fourths inch shall be figured on actual cost of
installation.
   (B)   Past due. All water bills must be paid within 30 days after the due
date, which is the tenth of the month after reading. Any bills unpaid after the
grace period shall result in water meter shutoff to the delinquent user; a
charge in an amount as shall be as set by the Town Council from time to time
shall be made to reopen the meter after the account is paid in full.
   (C)   Sewer charges. There shall be levied upon each user of the sewer
system a sewer charge which shall determine from time to time by the Town
Council which shall be kept on file in the office of the Town Clerk. The sewer
charge shall be added to the water account for every user and shall be due and
payable the same as water accounts due the town. Failure to pay either the
water account or sewer charge or any portion of either shall result in
discontinuance of service with the service to remain discontinued until the
water bill and or sewer charge shall be paid in full.
   (D)   Maximum charge. A maximum charge shall be paid for each connection for
water supply or sewer service made inside and outside of the town limits, with
a schedule of rates which shall be determined from time to time by the Town
Council. Where the cost is over the minimum rate outside of town, the
Superintendent of Water Department shall estimate costs.
   (E)   Excessive use.
      (1)   Procedure. Should the town determine, during regular water meter
readings, that a residential or commercial water and/or sewer customer being
served by a water tap no greater than three-fourths inch has consumed an
excessive amount of water during any given month, the Billing Clerk or Public
Works Director shall cause the meter reader to verify the reading of the meter.
Upon verification of meter reading confirming an excessive use as defined in
division (E)(3) below, the customer shall be notified of the excessive use as
soon as reasonably possible.
       (2)   Billing. When the monthly water and/or sewer bills are prepared
for the period that includes the excessive use, the customer shall be billed at
regular rates as set by the Town Council for three times the customer’s average
monthly water and/or sewer use determined as described in division (E)(1)
above.
         (a)   Then any consumption in excess of three times the customer’s
average monthly use shall be billed at a rate equal to the wholesale rate that
the town is billed for water and sewer service for the period.
         (b)   The wholesale rate shall include any cost that is the
contractual responsibility of the town for purchase of water and or sewer
treatment, as applicable.
         (c)   This billing adjustment shall not be allowed more than one time
during any calendar year for the same customer.
      (3)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following
definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         EXCESSIVE USE. Metered water and/or sewer flow equal to or greater
than three times the customer’s average monthly use determined as described in
division (E)(1) above.
      (4)   Meter accuracy. As soon as reasonably practical after the discovery
of excessive use by a customer, the Director of Public Works shall cause the
water meter of that customer to be tested for accuracy employing industry
accepted testing methods. Should testing reveal that the meter is indicating
more flow than is actually passing through it, then the customer shall not be
responsible for that portion of the bill equivalent to the percentage of error
of the meter and the amount shall be deducted from the customer’s bill for the
current month only.
         (a)   Should testing reveal that the meter is indicating less flow
than is actually passing through it, then the customer shall not be responsible
for any unrecorded flow indicated by the percentage of error of the meter. Any
water customer of the town may request that the accuracy of his or her meter be
tested as described above.
         (b)   Should a test reveal an accuracy of less than 98% and the meter
is indicating more flow than actually passes through it then the meter shall be
replaced at no cost to the customer and the customer’s bill for the current
month shall be adjusted by a percentage equal to the percentage of error of the
meter. If the meter is indicating less flow than is passing through it, then
the customer shall not be responsible for any unrecorded flow and the meter
shall be removed from service and replaced at no cost to the customer.
         (c)   Should a test reveal accuracy equal to or greater than 98%, then
the meter shall be placed back in service on the same account and the customer
shall be required to pay a meter testing fee, per requested test, equal to an
amount as shall be as set by the Town Council from time to time or the actual
cost of the meter test, whichever is greater, plus regular rate for water and
or sewer consumption recorded by the meter during testing.
(Ord. passed 3-3-2003; Ord. passed 2-8-2010)
§ 51.08 TAMPERING WITH OR OBSTRUCTING WATER AND SEWER LINES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall touch, tamper or in any manner manipulate or turn the cut-
offs on the water mains or meters forming a part of the water system of the
town, nor shall any person tamper with or harm in any manner whatsoever any
water or sewer line, main or any appurtenance thereto. No person shall throw or
deposit any material or substance in any water or sewer line that will in any
manner obstruct the line.
Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.09 TAMPERING WITH WATER METER.
   The owner of property on which a meter is located shall be liable for damage
to the meter.
Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.10 PRIVATE WATER SUPPLY REGULATED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to furnish,
supply or provide, for gain or profit, any water from a private well or pumps
in or to any dwelling house, boarding house, inn, hotel, café or other
commercial establishment, or any room or rooms therein that are rented or
offered for rent to the public, or when the boarding house, inn, hotel, café or
other commercial establishment is open to, or used by, the public, unless and
until an analysis of the water from a private well or pump shall have first
been submitted to and approved by the Town Clerk.
   (B)   The water analysis referred to division (A) above shall be made by or
under the direction of the county’s Board of Health or the Department of Public
Health of the state.
   (C)   (1)   If the water analysis bears the approval of either of the
authorities referred to in division (B) above, the Town Clerk shall approve the
same by endorsing thereon the word “APPROVED” and affixing thereto his or her
signature as Town Clerk.
      (2)   If, however, the analysis shows that the water is contaminated and
unfit for human consumption, the Town Clerk shall not approve the analysis, but
shall deliver the analysis to the Town Manager and Town Council, which the Town
Council may disapprove the analysis and return the same to the owner.
Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.11 WATER AND SEWER SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   The Town Manager may select some competent person to supervise under
its general control the entire water and sewer system of the town.
   (B)   The Town Manager may from time to time prescribe the duties and
responsibilities of the Superintendent.
   (C)   The Superintendent, or his or her assistant, shall, at all reasonable
hours, have free access to all premises for the purpose of examining hydrants,
fixtures or connections on which town water pressure is maintained.
§ 51.12 WORK ON WATER AND SEWER SYSTEM.
   All work on the water and sewer system and all connections or disconnections
thereto shall be performed by the authorized employees of the town or their
representatives or plumbers approved by the town.
§ 51.13 CUSTOMERS OUTSIDE OF TOWN LIMITS.
   (A)   Request for tap on to the water and sewer lines of the town outside
the corporate limits shall be accompanied by a petition to be included within
the corporate limits of the town in those cases where the property served
adjoins the corporate limits and in those cases wherein the property to be
served does not adjoin the corporate limits, the application shall be
accompanied by a letter of intent to petition the Town Council for inclusion in
the corporate limits at a time as the property becomes contiguous to the
corporate limits. In cases wherein property lying outside the corporate limits
are not contiguous to the corporate limits, and are being served by municipal
sewer and water, any transfer of ownership of the property shall be subject to
a letter of intent and before service is transferred to the name of the new
owner, a letter of intent shall be signed by the new owner.
   (B)   Any line connected to the main line of the town outside of the town
limits shall be at least two inches in diameter. This does not affect any size
line connected to a line already established and not belonging to the town.
§ 51.14 MULTIPLE CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   For connections to multiple units, the owner shall pay an amount as
shall be as set by the Town Council from time to time on the first unit of a
multiple unit dwelling, and another amount as shall be as set by the Town
Council from time to time for each additional unit contained in the dwelling,
for furnishing sewer and water services in areas within the town limits where
service is not now available.
   (B)   (1)   Proper application shall be made to the town for water and/or
sewer lines to be run to one or more houses in town limits, before being built,
and where the town is requested to lay and connect lines, the cost to the owner
shall be all in excess of the first amount as shall be as set by the Town
Council from time to time of total labor and material at invoice price to the
first house.
      (2)   On all other houses in the same section by the same owner, in a
time space to be judged by the Town Council, the cost shall be all in excess of
an amount as shall be as set by the Town Council from time to time.
      (3)   The connection fee shall be charged on each house.
SANITARY SEWER REGULATION
§ 51.25 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to regulate, restrict and limit, in the
interest of the public health and safety, the deposit or discharge of certain
substances into any sanitary sewer now maintained and/or owned by or which may
become the property of the town.
§ 51.26 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVING AUTHORITY. The Town Council of Marshville.
   B.O.D. (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter by weight.
   COLOR. The “true color” due to the substances in solution expressed in parts
per million.
   COMPOSITE SAMPLE. A combination of discrete samples of wastewater taken at
equal time intervals, over the compositing period or proportional to the flow
rate over the compositing period.
   COOLING WATER. The water discharged from any system of condensation such as
air conditioning, cooling or refrigeration.
   DOMESTIC SEWAGE. The liquid waste from bathrooms, toilet rooms, kitchens and
home laundries.
   GRAB SAMPLE. An individual sample collected over a period of time not
exceeding 15 minutes.
   INDUSTRIAL COST RECOVERY CHARGE. A charge levied on the industrial users of
the sewerage system for their proportionate share of the federal funds expended
for new construction. The payback period shall not exceed 30 years and will not
include any interest charges.
   INDUSTRIAL USER. Any industrial or commercial establishment falling within
the categories designated by Divisions A, B, D, E and I of the Standard
Industrial Classification Manual (latest edition, as published by the Executive
Office of the President), and who utilized the services of the town.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. Liquid wastes, other than domestic sewage, resulting from
processes or operations employed in industrial establishments. The INDUSTRIAL
WASTES include the cooling waters and unpolluted process watering discharged to
the sewerage system.
   INFILTRATION. The water entering the sewerage system and service connections
from the ground from, but not limited to, sources such as defective pipes, pipe
joints, connections or manhole walls. INFILTRATION does not include, and is
distinguished from, inflow.
   INFLOW. The water discharged into the sewerage system including service
connections from, but not limited to, sources such as roof leaders, cellar,
yard and area drains, foundation drains, drains from springs and swampy areas,
manhole covers, cross- connections from combined sewers and storm sewers, catch
basins, storm waters, surface run-off, street wash waters or drainage. INFLOW
does not include, and is distinguished from, infiltration.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MILLIGRAMS PER LITER. The weight of a substance in milligrams in one liter
of water.
   NORMAL STRENGTH SEWAGE. Sewage which, when analyzed by the town, shows by
weight a daily average of not more than 2,085 pounds per million gallons (250
milligrams per liter) of suspended solids, and not more than 2,085 pounds per
million gallons (250 milligrams per liter) of B.O.D., and which is otherwise
acceptable into a public sewer under the terms of this subchapter.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association or corporation.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution. A stabilized pH will be considered as a pH which does
not change beyond the specified limits when the waste is subjected to aeration.
A pH value indicates the degree of acidity or alkalinity.
   PRETREATMENT. Application of physical, chemical and biological processes to
reduce the amount of pollutants in or alter the nature of pollutant properties
in a wastewater prior to discharging the wastewater into sewerage system.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to a degree that all particles will
be carried freely under the flow conditions normal prevailing in public sewers,
with no particle greater than one-fourths inch in any dimension.
   RECEIVING STREAM. The body of water, stream or watercourse receiving the
discharge waters from the sewage treatment plant or formed by the waters
discharged from the sewage treatment plant.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer intended to receive domestic sewage and industrial
waste, except that of the type expressly prohibited by this subchapter, without
the admixture of surface water and storm water.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface or, or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquids; and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   TOWN. The Town of Marshville.
   TOXIC SUBSTANCES. Any substance whether gaseous, liquid or solid which, when
discharged to a sanitary sewer in sufficient concentrations, may in the opinion
of the approving authority, be hazardous to sewer maintenance and personnel,
tend to interfere with any sewage treatment process or to constitute a hazard
to human beings and animals or to inhibit aquatic life or to create a hazard to
recreation in the receiving waters of the effluent from a sewage treatment
plant. TOXIC SUBSTANCES shall include, but are not limited to, those substances
identified by the United States Environmental Protection Agency as being toxic
or hazardous waste.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water not containing any pollutants limited or prohibited
by the effluent standards in effect, or water whose discharge will not cause
any violation of receiving water quality standards.
§ 51.27 USAGE OF SANITARY SEWERS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or deposit any of the following waste
materials into any town sewer:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F or 65°C;
      (2)   Any water or waste which may contain more than 100 milligrams per
liter by weight of fat, oil or grease, exclusive of soap;
      (3)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      (4)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded;
      (5)   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass,
eggshells, rags, feathers, tar, plastics, wood, paunch manure or other solid or
viscous substance capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other
interference with the proper operation of the sewage works;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes having a stabilized pH lower than 6.0 or
higher than 9.0, or having any other corrosive property capable of causing
damage or hazard to structures, equipment and personnel of the sewage works;
      (7)   Any waters or waste having a biochemical oxygen demand in excess of
250 milligrams per liter by weight;
      (8)   Any waters or wastes containing more than 250 milligrams per liter
by weight of suspended solids;
      (9)   Any waters or wastes having an objectionable color which is not
removable in the existing sewage treatment plant processes;
      (10)   Any waters or wastes containing a toxic or poisonous substance or
any other materials in sufficient quantity to injure or interfere with any
sewage treatment process, or constitute a hazard to humans or animals, or
create any hazard in the receiving stream at the sewage treatment plant;
      (11)   Any waters or wastes containing suspended solids of the character
and quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle the
materials at the sewage treatment plant;
       (12)   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a
public nuisance;
      (13)   Any waters or wastes containing radiological wastes in quantities
which may prove injurious to the treatment process of any portion of the
sewerage system or to persons, animals or plant life;
      (14)   Any storm water, surface water, ground water, roof runoff,
subsurface drainage or any other water considered to be storm water inflow;
      (15)   Any materials which form excessive amounts of scum that may
interfere with the operation of the sewerage system or cause undue additional
labor in connection with its operation; and
      (16)   Any waters or wastes containing dyes or other color which cannot
be removed by biological processes and which require special chemical
treatment.
   (B)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the town and any person
whereby any industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be admitted
into the sanitary sewers by the town after approved pretreatment.
§ 51.28 STRUCTURES REQUIRED.
   (A)   Storage tanks. In order to equalize flows over a 24-hour period, each
person discharging an industrial waste into the town’s sanitary sewers having a
volume in excess of 40,000 gallons in any one day, shall construct and maintain
at his or her own expense a suitable storage tank. The tank shall be
constructed to equalize the wastes and discharge the wastes to the town’s
system over a seven-day period and whose outlet to the sewer shall be
controlled by a water works type rate controller, or other approved devices,
the setting of which shall be directed by the approving authority.
   (B)   Control manhole.
      (1)   Any person discharging industrial waste into town sanitary sewer
shall construct and maintain a suitable control manhole, down stream from any
treatment, storage or other approved works to facilitate observation,
measurements and samplings of all wastes from the industry.
      (2)   The control manhole shall be constructed at a suitable and
satisfactory location and built in a manner approved by the approving
authority. Where a storage tank is not required, the control manhole shall be
equipped with a permanent type volume measuring device such as a nozzle, or
other suitable devices as may be approved by the approving authority. The
manhole shall be installed by the person discharging the wastes at his or her
expense and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe, accessible and
in proper operating condition at all times.
   (C)   Maintenance of facilities. Where pretreatment or control of waste
flows are required, the facilities shall be maintained in good working order
and operated as efficiently as possible by the user at his or her own cost and
expense, subject to the requirements of this subchapter and all other
applicable codes and laws.
   (D)   Plans. Plans for the construction of a storage tank, control manhole
and controlling devices shall be approved by the approving authority prior to
the beginning of construction.
§ 51.29 PERMITS.
   (A)   Any person desiring to deposit or discharge, or who is now depositing
or discharging any industrial waste into the sanitary sewers shall make
application for the disposal of industrial waste to the Town Council.
   (B)   The Town Council shall approve the applications only when evidence is
submitted by the applicant that the discharge into the sanitary sewer will
comply with all of the regulations of this subchapter.
§ 51.30 OUTSIDE CONNECTIONS.
   Any person owning or controlling premises located beyond the corporate
limits of the town and desiring to install a plumbing system for the purpose of
discharging domestic sewage and/or industrial waste into the sanitary sewers of
the town may do so by complying with the requirements of this subchapter and by
paying an additional permit fee and a yearly sewer rental charge to be fixed by
the Town Council.
§ 51.31 POWERS AND AUTHORITY FOR INSPECTION.
   (A)   The approving authority and other duly authorized employees of the
town, bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to
enter upon all properties for the purpose of inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling and testing, in accordance with the provisions of this
subchapter.
   (B)   Authority is hereby granted to the Town Council to temporarily exclude
any industrial waste, whether pre-treated or not, from the sanitary sewers
whenever, in the opinion of the Town Council, the action is necessary, for the
purpose of determining the effects of the wastes upon the sewers, sewage
treatment works or sewage treatment plants.
§ 51.32 MEASUREMENT OF FLOW.
   (A)   The volume of flow used in computing industrial waste surcharges shall
be based upon metered water consumption as shown in the records of meter
reading maintained by the Town Water Department. In the event that a person
discharging wastes into the sanitary sewer system produces evidence to the
approving authority that more than 10% of the total annual volume of water used
for all purposes does not reach the town sanitary sewer, an estimated
percentage of total water consumption to be used in computing charges may be
agreed upon between the approving authority and the person discharging
industrial wastes into the sewer.
   (B)   Where the person discharging industrial wastes into the sanitary
sewers of the town procures any part, or all of, his or her water supply from
sources other than the town’s Water Department, all or part of which is
discharged into the sanitary sewer, the person discharging waste shall install
and maintain, at his or her expense, water meters of a type approved by the
approving authority for the purpose of determining the proper volume of flow to
be charged.
§ 51.33 DETERMINING OF CHARACTER AND CONCENTRATION OF WASTES.
   (A)   The industrial waste of each person discharging same into the town
sanitary sewers shall be subject to periodic inspection and a determination of
character and concentration of the wastes shall be made quarterly, or oftener
as may be deemed necessary, by the approving authority or his or her authorized
assistants.
   (B)   (1)   Samples shall be collected in a manner as to be representative
of the actual quality of the wastes.
      (2)   The laboratory methods used in the examination of the wastes shall
be those set forth in the latest edition of Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Sewage, as published by the American Public Health
Association.
   (C)   The determination of the character and concentration of the industrial
wastes by the approving authority, or his or her authorized assistants, shall
be binding as a basis for charges.
   (D)   Total costs incident to the supervision, inspection, sampling and
analyzing of wastes shall be included in the surcharge made to persons
discharging wastes into the town sanitary sewers.
§ 51.34 SURCHARGE FOR TREATMENT OF INDUSTRIAL WASTES.
   (A)   Explanation of surcharges. All persons discharging industrial wastes
into the town sanitary sewer system shall be rendered a monthly bill as a
surcharge covering the entire costs to the town incurred by treating all wastes
having a B.O.D.5 or suspended solids in excess of 250 milligrams per liter. The
surcharge shall be evoked as herein provided in addition to the existing sewer
service charge if the charge is now imposed or in addition to any sewer charge
imposed after the adoption of this subchapter. The aforesaid surcharge shall
include:
      (1)   All fixed charges and amortization costs of additional plant
capacity required for treating the industrial wastes; and
      (2)   A charge covering the cost incurred to the town in treating the
wastes in the local government sewage treatment plants. These surcharges are
outlined in the latest edition of the town’s sewer use ordinance.
    (B)   Basis for charges.
      (1)   Residential users. All residential users will pay a fixed fee plus
a water charge based upon 100% of their water usage as obtained from the water
meter readings.
      (2)   Industrial and commercial users. All industrial and commercial
users will pay the following fees and charges based upon 100% of their water
usage as obtained from the water meter readings:
         (a)   Fixed fee resulting from the capital recovery and debt service
of sewerage system;
         (b)   User charges resulting from the operation and maintenance of
sewerage system;
         (c)   Surcharges resulting from additional costs incurred by the town
in treating wastes having a B.O.D.5 or suspended solids in excess of 250
milligrams per liter;
         (d)   Cost resulting from action taken by the town to abate violations
of any provision of the subchapter;
         (e)   Fees resulting from the sampling and analysis of industrial or
commercial wastewaters; and
         (f)   Industrial cost recovery charges.
      (3)   Measurements and spot checks. 
         (a)   Measurements and spot check of flow rates, flow volumes, B.O.D.5
and suspended solids for use in determining the above described charges shall
be made by the town, or other local unit of government as selected by the town,
on all industrial and commercial wastewaters, unless specifically relieved of
the obligation by the approving authority.
         (b)   In case of a violation, the user shall be billed for the
violations for the period of time for which the violation occurs as determined
by the most frequent monitoring program in which the testing procedures is
acceptable to the town as specified in §§
51.31 and
51.32 of this chapter.
    (C)   Surcharge.
      (1)   The surcharge, covering the costs of the treatment of the
industrial wastes shall be arrived at in the following manner.
      (2)   (a)   The Town Council shall fix the rate to be charged during the
new fiscal year at the beginning of the fiscal year for the weight of B.O.D.5
and suspended solids in excess of 250 milligrams per liter which is discharged
into the town sanitary sewers.
         (b)   This rate shall be computed from the actual costs per 1,000
pounds of B.O.D. and suspended solids removed from the combined sewage and
industrial wastes as experienced at the local government treatment plants
during the proceeding fiscal year.
   (D)   Bills.
      (1)   The combined surcharge, as set forth in divisions (B) and (C) above
shall be billed and payable monthly as a separate bill item rendered to the
proper persons by the town’s Water Department.
      (2)   The bills will be sent through the United States mail notifying all
persons of the amount and date due. Failure to receive notice is not an excuse
for nonpayment of bills.
      (3)   Persons not having paid their bills within ten days of date of
billing will be delinquent. Notice shall be sent them through the United States
mail and, if after five-day notice given as above, the bills remain unpaid, the
water connection serving the premises will be severed and will not be turned on
again until the bill is paid.
§ 51.35 PROTECTION FROM DAMAGES.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any equipment or materials
belonging to the town used for the purpose of making tests or examinations and
left upon the premises of a person discharging wastes into the sewers.
Penalty, see §
51.99
PRIVIES AND SEPTIC TANKS
§ 51.50 SEPTIC TANKS REGULATED.
   Septic tanks may be installed where sewer is not reasonably accessible,
provided, the tank is constructed in accordance with the specifications of the
state’s Board of Health, and a permit therefore is issued by the Town Clerk.
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   A violation of §
51.02(A) of this chapter shall carry a penalty in an amount as shall be as set
by the Town Council from time to time if the violation is by a person whose
water service has been discontinued because of nonpayment of his or her water
bill.
      (2)   A violation of §
51.02(B) of this chapter shall carry a penalty of not less than an amount as
shall be as set by the Town Council from time to time, unless permission is
first given by the Water Superintendent.
      (3)   A violation of §
51.02(C) of this chapter shall carry a penalty of not less than an amount as
shall be as set by the Town Council from time to time for each person involved.
CHAPTER 52: EMERGENCY DROUGHT RESPONSE
Section
   
52.01   Declaration of policy, purpose and intent
   
52.02   Definitions
   
52.03   Nonessential water use
   
52.04   Responses to moderate, severe and extreme drought alert phases
   
52.05   Water rates
   
52.06   Further emergency measures
   
52.07   Enforcement
   
52.08   Variances
   
52.09   Status of the chapter
 
   
52.99   Penalty
§ 52.01 DECLARATION OF POLICY, PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   Purpose. To achieve the greatest public benefit from domestic water
use, sanitation and fire protection and to provide water for other purposes in
an equitable manner and to prevent depleting the water supply to the extent
that water use for human consumption, sanitation, fire protection and other
essential needs become endangered, the town adopts the following regulations
and restrictions on the delivery and consumption of potable water.
   (B)   Necessity. This chapter is hereby declared necessary for the
preservation of public health, safety and welfare and shall take effect upon
its adoption by the Town Council.
   (C)   Proclamation. Whenever the town is experiencing a moderate drought,
severe drought or extreme drought, as those terms are defined herein, the Mayor
is authorized to proclaim that drought conditions exist and to implement the
conservation measures provided in this chapter for the drought.
   (D)   Effective date and term. Immediately upon the issuance of a
proclamation, regulations and restrictions set forth under this chapter shall
become effective and remain in effect until the water shortage is terminated
and the proclamation rescinded.
   (E)   Water uses. Water uses, regulated or prohibited under this chapter,
are considered to be nonessential and continuation of the uses during times of
water shortage is deemed to constitute a waste of water, subjecting the
offender(s) to penalties.
   (F)   Application of provisions. The provisions of this chapter shall apply
to all customers of the town, excluding local governments furnished water for
the purpose of resale.
Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AESTHETIC WATER USE. Potable water use for ornamental or decorative purposes
such as fountains, reflecting pools and waterfalls.
   COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL WATER USE. Potable water use integral to the
production of goods and/or services by any establishment having financial
profit as its primary aim.
   CONSERVATION. Reduction in water use to prevent depletion or waste of the
resource.
   CUSTOMER. Any person, company or organization using potable water supplied
by the town.
   DOMESTIC WATER USE. Potable water use or personal needs, or for household
purposes, such as drinking, bathing, heating, cooking, sanitation or for
cleaning a residence, business, industry or institution.
   DROUGHT ALERT PHASES.
      (1)   EXTREME DROUGHT. When the safe stream yields within the town’s
water supply watersheds combined with potable and usable raw water storage is
not sufficient to maintain a 70-day water reserve to meet normal water use by
all customer classes.
      (2)   MODERATE DROUGHT. When the safe stream yields within the town’s
water supply watersheds combined with potable and usable raw water storage is
not sufficient to maintain a 120-day water reserve to meet normal water use by
all customer classes.
      (3)   SEVERE DROUGHT. When the safe stream yields within the town’s water
supply watersheds combined with potable and usable raw water storage is not
sufficient to maintain a 100-day water reserve to meet normal water use by all
customer classes.
   ESSENTIAL WATER USE. Potable water used specifically for firefighting,
maintaining in stream flow requirements, and to satisfy federal, state and
local public health and safety requirements.
    EVEN-NUMBERED ADDRESS. Street addresses, box numbers, cluster box numbers
or rural route numbers ending in 0, 2, 4, 6, 8 or the letters A through M and
locations without addresses.
   INSTITUTIONAL WATER USE. Potable water used by government, public and
private educational institutions, churches and places of worship, water
utilities and other lands, buildings and organizations within the public
domain.
   LANDSCAPE WATER USE. Potable water used to maintain gardens, trees, lawns,
shrubs, flowers, athletic fields, rights-of-way and medians.
   NORMAL WATER USE.
      (1)   For residential customers, NORMAL WATER USE shall be based on 9,000
gallons per month.
      (2)   For commercial, institutional, industrial and agricultural
customers, NORMAL WATER USE shall be determined for each customer on an
individual basis and will be based on water use for the preceding 12-month
period prior to the invoking of this subchapter.
   ODD-NUMBERED ADDRESSES. Street addresses, box numbers, cluster box numbers
or rural route numbers ending in 1, 3, 5, 7, 9 or the letters N through Z.
   POTABLE WATER. Water treated and supplied by the town.
   USABLE RAW WATER. Total impounded raw water in the town’s reservoir, less
normal system losses and allowances for evaporation, sediment accumulation in
the bed of the creeks and treatment plant backwash water.
   WATER SHORTAGE. Lack of adequate available water to meet normal demands due
to lower than normal precipitation, reduced stream flows or soil moisture and/
or lowering of the potentiometric surface in wells which causes water supplies
to be less than usual.
§ 52.03 NON-ESSENTIAL WATER USE.
   Non-essential water use categories, other than essential water use, may be
curtailed during severe or extreme drought. Some example of non-essential water
uses follows.
   (A)   Residential and institutional.
      (1)   Washing down sidewalks, walkways, driveways, parking lots, tennis
courts or other hard surfaced areas;
      (2)   Washing down buildings or structures for purposes other than
immediate fire protection;
      (3)   Flushing gutters or permitting water to run or accumulate in any
gutter or street;
      (4)   Washing any motor bike, motor vehicle, boat, trailer, airplane or
other vehicle in public or private garages or elsewhere;
      (5)   Maintaining fountains, reflection ponds and decorative water bodies
for aesthetic or scenic purposes, except where necessary to support aquatic
life;
      (6)   Filling or maintaining public or private swimming pools; and
      (7)   Sprinkling lawns, plants, trees and other flora on private or
public property, except as otherwise permitted in this subchapter.
   (B)   Commercial and industrial.
      (1)   Serving water routinely in restaurants;
      (2)   Increasing water levels in scenic and recreational ponds and lakes,
except for the minimum amount required to support fish and wildlife;
      (3)   Irrigating golf courses and any portion of its grounds, except as
otherwise provided for under this subchapter;
      (4)   Obtaining water from hydrants for construction purposes, fire
drills or for any purposes other than firefighting;
      (5)   Serving customers who have been given a ten-day notice to repair
one or more leaks and has failed to comply;
      (6)   Expanding commercial car washing and nursery facilities, placing
new irrigated agricultural land in production or planning or landscaping when
required by site design review process;
      (7)   Washing down sidewalks, walkways, driveways, parking lots, tennis
courts or other hard surface areas; and
      (8)   Washing down buildings or structures for purposes other than
immediate fire protection.
§ 52.04 RESPONSES TO MODERATE, SEVERE AND EXTREME DROUGHT ALERT PHASES.
   (A)   Goals. The goals for water use reduction in each phase are as follows.
      (1)   Moderate drought alert phase. A voluntary reduction in normal water
use of 15% for residential, agricultural, commercial, industrial, institutional
and electric power generation purposes.
      (2)   Severe drought alert phase. A reduction in normal water use of 15%
for residential, agricultural, commercial, industrial, institutional and
electric power generation purposes.
      (3)   Extreme drought alert phase. A reduction in normal water use of 30%
for residential, agricultural, commercial, industrial, institutional and
electric power generation purposes.
   (B)   General responses.
      (1)   Notice. A notice of drought conditions on water supply and demand
will be issued in the news media. This notice will include a list of non-
essential water uses, water use restrictions or water use curtailment measures
as appropriate to the current drought phase.
      (2)   Water use restrictions. Customers are to comply with the listed
water use restrictions and curtailment measures in all categories which
include, but are not limited to, those listed in divisions (C), (D) and (E)
below.
   (C)   Moderate drought alert phase. Compliance is voluntary.
      (1)   Commercial, industrial and institutional.
         (a)   Reduce aesthetic, domestic, landscaping and water based
recreational activities such as swimming pools, water slides and other related
water activities; and
         (b)   Eliminate all automatic irrigations.
       (2)   Residential.
         (a)   Reduce water use to 75 gallons per day and a maximum of 300
gallons per household per day;
         (b)   Reduce aesthetic, domestic, landscaping and water based
recreational activities such as swimming pools, water slides and other related
water activities; and
         (c)   Eliminate all automatic irrigations.
   (D)   Severe drought alert phase. Compliance is required.
      (1)   Commercial, industrial and institutional.
         (a)   Prohibit aesthetic water use;
         (b)   Reduce domestic water use to minimum levels necessary to
maintain health and safety;
         (c)   Limit water based recreational activities to new facilities that
require filling such as swimming pools, water slides and other related water
activities;
         (d)   Use low-volume hand-held applications only and prohibit
sprinklers, other remote broadcast devices and water runoff in landscape design
and maintenance; and
         (e)   Restrict landscape watering to Wednesday and Saturday for odd-
numbered addresses, and Thursday and Sunday for even-numbered addresses.
      (2)   Residential.
         (a)   Restrict water use to 75 gallons per day and a maximum of 300
gallons per household per day;
         (b)   Limit water based recreational activities to new facilities that
require filling such as swimming pools, water slides and other related water
activities;
         (c)   Use low-volume hand-held applications only and prohibit
sprinklers, other remote broadcast devices and water runoff in landscape in
landscape design and maintenance; and
          (d)   Restrict landscape watering to Wednesday and Saturday for odd-
numbered addresses and Thursday and Sunday for even-numbered addresses.
   (E)   Extreme drought alert phase. Compliance is required.
      (1)   Commercial and industrial.
         (a)   Prohibit aesthetic water use;
         (b)   Reduce domestic water use to minimum levels necessary to
maintain health and safety;
         (c)   Limit water based recreational activities to new facilities that
require filling such as swimming pools, water slides and other related water
activities;
         (d)   Use low-volume hand-held applications only and prohibit
sprinklers, other remote broadcast devices and water runoff in landscape design
and maintenance; and
         (e)   Restrict landscape watering to Wednesday and Saturday for odd-
numbered addresses and Thursday and Sunday for even-numbered addresses.
      (2)   Institutional.
         (a)   Prohibit aesthetic water use;
         (b)   Reduce domestic water use to minimum levels necessary to
maintain health and safety;
         (c)   Limit water based recreational activities to new facilities that
require filling such as swimming pools, water slides and other related water
activities; and
         (d)   Restrict landscape watering to Wednesday and Saturday for odd-
numbered addresses and Thursday and Sunday for even-numbered addresses.
       (3)   Residential.
         (a)   Restrict water use to 55 gallons per person per day and a
maximum of 220 gallons per household per day;
         (b)   Reduce domestic water use to minimum levels necessary to
maintain health and safety;
         (c)   Prohibit water based recreational activities that require
filling such as swimming pools, water slides and other related water
activities; and
         (d)   Use low-volume hand-held applications only and prohibit
sprinklers, other remote broadcast devices and water runoff in landscape design
and maintenance.
§ 52.05 WATER RATES.
   (A)   In the event of a severe drought-related water shortage, the Town
Manager is hereby authorized to monitor water use. Domestic water use above
limits in §
52.04(A)(2) and (D) of this chapter will be subject to a surcharge of an amount
as shall be as set by the Town Council from time to time per gallon.
Institutional, commercial, industrial and recreational water users will be
subject to water use surcharge of another amount as shall be as set by the Town
Council from time to time per 1,000 gallons of water used if the 15% reduction
requirement is not met, or if the Town Manager deems that adequate conservation
measures have not been implemented.
   (B)   In the event of a severe drought-related water shortage, the Town
Manager is hereby authorized to monitor water use. Domestic water use above
limits in §
52.04(A)(3) and (E) of this chapter will be subject to a surcharge of an amount
as shall be as set by the Town Council from time to time per gallon.
Institutional, commercial, industrial and recreational water users will be
subject to water use surcharge of another amount as shall be as set by the Town
Council from time to time per 1,000 gallons of water used if the 30% reduction
requirement is not met, or if the Town Manager deems that adequate conservation
measures have not been implemented.
§ 52.06 FURTHER EMERGENCY MEASURES.
   In the event that a drought threatens the preservation of public health and
safety is threatened, the Town Council will take further action as it deems
necessary.
§ 52.07 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Law officers of the town’s Police Department and officers of the
County Sheriff’s Department shall, in addition to duties imposed by law,
diligently enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Management employees of the town’s Utility Department have the duty
and are hereby authorized to enforce the provisions of this chapter and shall
have the power and authority to issue written notices to appear when violations
of this chapter occur during any declared moderate, severe or extreme drought
or water shortage.
§ 52.08 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Persons not capable of immediate water use restrictions or
curtailment, because of equipment damage or other extreme circumstances, shall
commence gradual reduction of water use within 24 hours of the declaration of
water use curtailment/ reduction and shall apply for a variance from
curtailment.
   (B)   (1)   Persons requesting exemption from the provisions of this chapter
shall file a petition for variance with the Town Manager within ten days after
the curtailment becomes effective.
      (2)   The Town Manager shall respond to requests for variance within five
days of receipt of information or within 20 days of declaration of the
curtailment, whichever comes first. Petitions shall contain the following:
         (a)   Name and purpose of the petitioner(s);
         (b)   Purpose of water use;
         (c)   Specific provision from which the petitioner is requesting
relief;
         (d)   Detailed statement as to how the curtailment declaration
adversely affects the petitioner;
         (e)   Description of the relief desired;
         (f)   Period of time for which the variance is sought;
         (g)   Economic value of the water use;
         (h)   Damage or harm to the petitioner or others if petitioner
complies with this chapter;
         (i)   Restrictions with which the petitioner is expected to comply and
the compliance date;
         (j)   Steps the petitioner is taking to meet the restrictions from
which variance is sought and the expected date of compliance; and
         (k)   Other pertinent information.
   (C)   In order for a variance to be granted, petitioner must show one or
more of the following conditions:
      (1)   Compliance with the chapter cannot be technically accomplished
during the duration of the water shortage; and/or
      (2)   Alternative methods can be implemented which will achieve the same
level of reduction in water use.
   (D)   The Town Manager may, in writing, grant temporary variances for
existing water uses otherwise prohibited under this chapter if it is determined
that failure to grant the variances would cause an emergency condition
adversely affecting health, sanitation or fire protection for the public or the
petitioner and if one or more of the aforementioned conditions are met. The
Town Council may ratify or revoke any variance at its next scheduled meeting.
Any variance so ratified may be revoked by later action of the Town Council.
   (E)   No variance shall be retroactive or otherwise justify any violation of
this chapter occurring prior to the issuance of the variance.
   (F)   Variances granted shall be subject to the following conditions, unless
waived by the Town Manager.
      (1)   Variances granted shall include a timetable for compliance.
      (2)   Variances granted shall expire when the water shortage no longer
exists, unless the petitioner has failed to meet specified requirements.
§ 52.09 STATUS OF THE CHAPTER.
   (A)   In the event that any portion of this chapter is held to be
unconstitutional for any reason, the remaining portions of this chapter shall
not be affected.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter shall prevail and control in the event
of any inconsistency between this chapter and other rules and regulations of
the town.
   (C)   The Mayor is authorized to proclaim an end to any one phase of the
drought alert in total and to all or any part of the restrictions imposed when
the following conditions have been verified by the Town Manager.
      (1)   Moderate drought alert phase. May be ended when the combined
potable and usable raw water storage equals a 140-day water reserve and a ten
day continuous stream flow is expected in Beaver Dam and Lane’s Creeks.
      (2)   Severe drought alert phase. May be ended when the combined potable
and usable raw water storage equals a 130-day water reserve and a five day
continuous stream flow is expected in Beaver Dam and Lane’s Creeks.
      (3)   Extreme drought alert phase. May be ended when the combined potable
and usable raw water storage equals a 110-day water reserve.
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   In addition to the surcharge and sanction provided herein, the Town Manager
may disconnect the water service of any person or customer whenever it is
determined that the person has failed to comply with the provisions of this
chapter. Services disconnected under these circumstances shall be restored only
upon payment of a reconnection fee, hereby established at an amount as shall be
as set by the Town Council from time to time and any other costs incurred by
the town in discontinuing service. In addition, suitable assurance must be
given by the person or customer that the same action shall not be repeated
during drought or water shortage.
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
      
73.   STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
      
74.   VEHICLE OPERATION
      
75.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
76.   TRAFFIC AND PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Words and Phrases Defined
   
70.01   Definitions
Miscellaneous Regulations
   
70.15   Boarding or alighting from public conveyances or other vehicles
   
70.16   Unlawful riding
   
70.17   Entering, jumping on or riding vehicles without permission
   
70.18   Persons riding must stay inside
   
70.19   Not more than three persons permitted in front seat
   
70.20   Trains blocking crossing regulated
 
   
70.99   Penalty
WORDS AND PHRASES DEFINED
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this traffic code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Vehicles of the Fire Department, police
vehicles and ambulances designated or authorized by the Chief of Police.
   BLOCK. A portion of any street located between two intersections next to and
adjacent to each other.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to a highway when 50% or more of
frontage thereon for a distance of 300 feet or more is occupied by buildings in
use for business.
   CROSSWALK. The portion of a roadway ordinarily included within the
prolongation or connection of the lateral lines of sidewalks at intersections.
Any portion of a roadway distinctly indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines
or other markings on the surface.
   DRIVER. Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
   INTERSECTION. The area embraced within the prolongation of the lateral curb
lines or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of two or more highways
which join one another at an angle whether or not one highway crosses the
other.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle which
is propelled by electric power obtained from overhead trolley wires, but not
operated upon rails.
   OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD. Whenever certain hours are named herein, they shall
mean standard time or daylight saving time, as may be in current use in the
town.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, markings and devices
not inconsistent with this traffic code placed or erected by authority of the
governing body or official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating,
warning or guiding traffic.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC SIGNALS. Any device, whether manually, electrically or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and to
proceed.
   PARK. The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, otherwise then
temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or
unloading.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   PERSON. Every natural person, firm, co- partnership, association or
corporation.
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer of the municipal Police Department or any
officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to make arrests for
violation of traffic regulations.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY. Every road or driveway not open to the use of the
public for purposes of vehicular travel.
   PUBLIC CONVEYANCE. Any vehicle, other than a taxicab or railroad train, for
transporting for fare.
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to a highway not comprising a
business district when the frontage on highways for a distance of 300 feet or
more is mainly occupied by dwellings or by dwellings and buildings in use as
for business.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a street improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel.
   SAFETY ZONE. The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians, and which is protected or is so marked or
indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times intended for
the use of pedestrians.
   STANDING. Any stopping of a vehicle, whether occupied or not.
   STOP or STOPPING. When required, means complete cessation of movement. When
prohibited, means any stopping of a vehicle, except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the direction of a police
officer or traffic-control sign or signal.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between property lines of every way or
place of whatever nature when any part thereof is open to the use of the
public, as a matter of right, for purposes of vehicular traffic.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, street cars and
other conveyances either singly or together while using any street for purposes
of travel.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices moved by human power or
used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks; provided that, for the
purpose of this chapter, a bicycle or a ridden animal shall be deemed a
VEHICLE.
MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS
§ 70.15 BOARDING OR ALIGHTING FROM PUBLIC CONVEYANCES OR OTHER VEHICLES.
   No person shall board or alight from any public conveyance or other vehicle
when the conveyance or vehicle is in motion.
§ 70.16 UNLAWFUL RIDING.
   (A)   No person shall ride on any public conveyance or vehicle or any
portion thereof, not designed or intended for the use of passengers.
   (B)   This provision shall not apply to an employee in the necessary
discharge of a duty or to persons riding within truck bodies in spaces intended
for merchandise.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.17 ENTERING, JUMPING ON OR RIDING VEHICLES WITHOUT PERMISSION.
   No person shall enter, jump on or ride any automobile or other vehicle
without the consent of the owner or driver.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.18 PERSONS RIDING MUST STAY INSIDE.
   No person when riding shall allow any part of his or her body to protrude
beyond the limits of the vehicle in which he or she is riding, except to give
signals as are by law required and no person shall hang on to any vehicle
whatsoever.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.19 NOT MORE THAN THREE PERSONS PERMITTED IN FRONT SEAT.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver or the person in charge of any motor
vehicle to permit more than three persons (including driver) to ride in the
front or driver’s seat of a motor vehicle.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.20 TRAINS BLOCKING CROSSING REGULATED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to allow a railroad
train, locomotive or any railroad vehicle to stand upon a public crossing or
any part thereof for more than five minutes at any time.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this traffic code, for which no other
state law penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
Required Obedience to Traffic Regulations and Police Officers
   
71.01   Required obedience to traffic regulations
   
71.02   Obedience to police
   
71.03   Authority of police in special cases
   
71.04   Public employees to obey traffic regulations
   
71.05   Exemptions to authorized emergency vehicles
   
71.06   Traffic-control photographic systems
Trucks
   
71.20   Trucks prohibited
   
71.21   Routes to be marked
 
   
71.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Traffic and Parking Schedules, see
Chapter 76
REQUIRED OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC REGULATIONS AND POLICE OFFICERS
§ 71.01 REQUIRED OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   It is a misdemeanor for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to
perform any act required in this traffic code.
§ 71.02 OBEDIENCE TO POLICE.
   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction by a police officer.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 AUTHORITY OF POLICE IN SPECIAL CASES.
   In the event of a fire or other emergency or when necessary to expedite
traffic or safeguard pedestrians, police officers may direct traffic as
conditions may require, not withstanding the provisions of this traffic code.
§ 71.04 PUBLIC EMPLOYEES TO OBEY TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   The provisions of this traffic code shall apply to the driver of any vehicle
owned by, or used in the service of, the United States government, the state,
county or town, and it shall be unlawful for any driver to violate any of the
provisions of this subchapter, except as otherwise permitted in this title or
by state statute.
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 EXEMPTIONS TO AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   The provisions of this traffic code regulating the operation, parking and
standing of vehicles shall apply to authorized emergency vehicles, as defined
in this traffic code, except as follows.
   (A)   A driver, when operating a vehicle in any emergency, except when
otherwise directed by a police officer, may:
      (1)   Park or stand, notwithstanding the provisions of this traffic code;
      (2)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
      (3)   Exceed the prima facie speed limits so long as he or she does not
endanger life or property; and/or
      (4)   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning in
specified directions so long as he or she does not endanger life or property.
   (B)   The foregoing exceptions shall not, however, protect the driver of any
vehicle from the consequences of his or her reckless disregard of the safety of
others.
§ 71.06 TRAFFIC-CONTROL PHOTOGRAPHIC SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      IN OPERATION. Operating in good working condition.
      SYSTEM LOCATION. The approach to an intersection toward which a
photographic, video or electronic camera is directed and is in operation.
      TRAFFIC-CONTROL PHOTOGRAPHIC SYSTEM. An electronic system consisting of a
photographic, video or electronic camera and a vehicle sensor installed to work
in conjunction with an official traffic control device and to automatically
produce photographs, video or digital images of each vehicle violating a
standard traffic control device.
      VEHICLE OWNER. The person identified by the state’s Division of Motor
Vehicles as the registered owner of a vehicle.
   (B)   Generally.
      (1)   The municipal management team as defined by the interlocal
agreement shall oversee the traffic control photographic program and shall
maintain a list of system locations where traffic control photographic systems
are installed.
      (2)   Any citation for a violation of G.S. § 20-158 issued by an officer
of the town’s Police Department at a system location shall be treated in the
same manner as prescribed in this section.
      (3)   (a)   The citation shall clearly state the manner in which the
violation may be appealed.
         (b)   The citation shall be processed by officials or agents of the
town and shall be forwarded by personal service or first-class mail to the
owner’s address as given on the motor vehicle registration.
   (C)   Offense.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any vehicle to cross the stop line at a
system location when the traffic signal for that vehicle’s direction of travel
is emitting a steady red light or for a vehicle to violate any other traffic
regulation specified in G.S. § 20-158.
      (2)   The owner of a vehicle shall be responsible for a violation under
this section, except when he or she can provide evidence that the vehicle was
in the care, custody and control of another person at the time of the violation
as described in division (C)(3) below.
      (3)   Notwithstanding division (C)(2) above, the owner of the vehicle
shall not be responsible for a violation of this section if, within 21 days
after notification of the violation, he or she furnishes the officials or
agents of the town:
         (a)   The name and address of the person or entity who leased, rented
or otherwise had the care, custody and control of the vehicle at the time of
the violation; or
         (b)   An affidavit by him or her stating that, at the time of the
violation, the vehicle involved was stolen or was in the care, custody or
control of some person who did not have his or her permission to use the
vehicle.
   (D)   Appeals.
      (1)   (a)   The owner shall file a notice of appeal within 21 days after
notification of the violation.
         (b)   The failure to give notice of appeal within this time period
shall constitute a waiver of the right to contest the citation.
      (2)   Appeals shall be heard through an administrative process
established by the town’s Police Department.
      (3)   An individual desiring a hearing must post a bond equal to the
amount of the civil penalty before an appeal hearing will be scheduled.
      (4)   The hearing officer’s decision is subject to review in the Superior
Court of the county by proceedings in the “nature of certiorari”.
   (E)   Effective date. The effective date is 7-8-2002.
(Ord. passed 7-8-2002) Penalty, see §
71.99
Cross-reference:
   Traffic-Control Devices, see
Chapter 72
TRUCKS
§ 71.20 TRUCKS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   All trucks and trailers of more than two axles are prohibited from the
parts of streets described in
Chapter 76 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Trucks and trailers traveling on the parts of streets, regulated by
Chapter 76 of this code of ordinances to reach or to return from a destination
upon the street are exempted from division (A) above and
Chapter 76 of this code of ordinances.
§ 71.21 ROUTES TO BE MARKED.
   The Director of Public Works or the Chief of Police shall cause to be
erected and maintained at all junction points and turns where necessary and at
all approaches to the parts of streets on which trucks are prohibited, signs of
dimensions and at locations as shall be approved by him or her, directing truck
traffic in accordance to the provisions of this subchapter.
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for
which no other penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions
of §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Traffic-control photographic systems. Any violation of §
71.06 of this chapter shall be deemed a non-criminal violation for which a
civil penalty s in an amount as shall be as set by the Town Council from time
to time hall be assessed and for which no points authorized by G.S. § 20-16(c)
shall be assigned to the driver or owner of the vehicle. Failure to pay the
civil penalty or file an appeal within 21 days after notification of the
violation shall result in an additional penalty in an amount as shall be as set
by the Town Council from time to time. The town may establish procedures for
the collection of the civil penalties and may enforce the penalties by a civil
action in the nature of a debt.
(Ord. passed 7-8-2002)
CHAPTER 72: TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
Section
   
72.01   Obedience to traffic-control devices
   
72.02   Obedience to no-turn signs and turning markers
   
72.03   Obedience to no-parking zone and safety zone markers
   
72.04   Traffic-control signal legend
   
72.05   Flashing signals
   
72.06   Persons propelling pushcarts or riding bicycles or riding animals shall
obey traffic regulations
§ 72.01 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the directions of any official
traffic-control device applicable thereto and placed in accordance with the
traffic regulations of the town, unless otherwise directed by a police officer,
subject to the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle
in §
71.05 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   No provision of this traffic code for which signs are required,
shall be enforced against an alleged violator, if, at the time and place of the
alleged violation, an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently
legible to an ordinarily observant person.
      (2)   Whenever a particular section does not state that signs are
required, the section shall be effective without signs being placed to give
notice thereof.
§ 72.02 OBEDIENCE TO NO-TURN SIGNS AND TURNING MARKERS.
   Whenever authorized signs are placed, erected or installed, indicating that
no right or left or U turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey
the directions of any sign, and when authorized markers, buttons or other
indications are placed within an intersection indicating the course to be
traveled by vehicles traversing or turning thereat, no driver of a vehicle
shall disobey the directions of the indications.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.03 OBEDIENCE TO NO-PARKING ZONE AND SAFETY ZONE MARKERS.
   Whenever authorized signs or markings are placed, erected or installed
indicating no-parking zones or safety zones, no driver of a vehicle shall
disobey the regulations in connection therewith.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.04 TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND.
   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals exhibiting words,
“GO”, “CAUTION” or “STOP” or exhibiting differently colored lights,
successively, one at a time, the following colors only shall be used and the
terms and lights shall indicate as follows.
    (A)   Green alone or “GO”.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed straight through or
turn right or left, unless a sign at the place prohibits either turn. But
vehicular traffic shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles and to
pedestrians, lawfully within the intersection at the time the signal is
exhibited.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across the roadway within
any marked or unmarked crosswalk.
   (B)   Yellow alone or “CAUTION” when shown following the green or “GO”
signal.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at the intersection, but if the stop cannot be made in
safety, a vehicle may be driven cautiously through the intersection.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing the signal are hereby advised that there is
insufficient time to cross a roadway and any pedestrian then starting to cross
shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles.
   (C)   Red alone or “STOP”.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at another point as may be indicated by
a clearly visible line and shall remain standing until green or “GO” is shown
alone.
      (2)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal and standing with complete
cessation of movement, may, after determining that no conflict or interference
with traffic would result, proceed with a right-hand turn if so desired.
   (D)   Red with green arrow.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal may cautiously enter the
intersection, only to continue the movement in the direction indicated by the
arrow, but shall not interfere with other traffic.
      (2)   No pedestrian facing the signal shall enter the roadway unless he
or she can do so safely and without interfering with any vehicular traffic.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.05 FLASHING SIGNALS.
   Whenever flashing red or yellow signals are used they shall require
obedience by vehicular traffic as follows.
   (A)   Flashing red (stop signal). When a red lens is illuminated by rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall top before entering the nearest
crosswalk at an intersection or at a limit line when marked and the right to
proceed shall be subject to the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop
sign.
   (B)   Flashing yellow (caution signal). When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection of past the signal only with caution.
§ 72.06 PERSONS PROPELLING PUSHCARTS OR RIDING BICYCLES OR RIDING ANIMALS SHALL
OBEY TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   Every person propelling any push cart or riding a bicycle or an animal upon
a roadway and every person driving any animal drawn vehicle, shall be subject
to the provisions of this traffic code applicable to the driver of any vehicle,
except those provisions of this traffic code which, by their very nature, can
have no application.
Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 73: STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
Section
   
73.01   Vehicles not to stop in streets; exceptions
   
73.02   Vehicles not to obstruct passing of other vehicles
   
73.03   Parking prohibited in designated places
   
73.04   Parking time limited
   
73.05   Parking in business districts
   
73.06   Parking parallel to curb, unless otherwise directed
   
73.07   Vehicles backed up to curb
   
73.08   Left side to curb not permitted in business district
   
73.09   Unlawful parking
   
73.10   Standing or parking vehicles for primary purpose of advertising
prohibited
   
73.11   Moving of vehicles of other operators into restricted areas prohibited
   
73.12   Obstructing view
   
73.13   Infants in parked automobiles
 
   
73.99   Penalty
§ 73.01 VEHICLES NOT TO STOP IN STREETS; EXCEPTIONS.
   No vehicles shall stop in any street, except for the purpose of parking as
prescribed in this chapter, unless a stop is made necessary by the approach of
fire apparatus, by the approach of a funeral or other procession which is given
the right-of-way, by the stopping of a public conveyance, by the lowering of
railway gates, by the giving of traffic signals, by the passing of some other
vehicle or a pedestrian or by some emergency; and in any case covered by any
footway, pedestrian aisle, safety zone, crossing or street intersection if it
can be avoided.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.02 VEHICLES NOT TO OBSTRUCT PASSING OF OTHER VEHICLES.
   No vehicle shall so stand on any street as to interrupt or interfere with
the passage of public conveyances or other vehicles.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.03 PARKING PROHIBITED IN DESIGNATED PLACES.
   When signs are placed, erected or installed giving notice thereof or the
curbing has been painted yellow in lieu of signs, no person shall park a
vehicle in any other manner than is indicated.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04 PARKING TIME LIMITED.
   When signs are placed, erected or installed giving notice thereof, no
vehicle shall so stand in the area indicated for a longer period of time than
the sign indicates.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.05 PARKING IN BUSINESS DISTRICTS.
   No person shall park a vehicle in any other manner than is marked out by
lines painted on streets whether at an angle with, or parallel to, the curb.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.06 PARKING PARALLEL TO CURB, UNLESS OTHERWISE DIRECTED.
   Where not otherwise indicated by this traffic code and where the street is
not marked to show how vehicles shall park, all vehicles shall park parallel to
the curb and not more than 12 inches therefor.
§ 73.07 VEHICLES BACKED UP TO CURB.
   In no case shall a vehicle remain backed up to curb, except when actually
loading or unloading. If the vehicle be horse-drawn, the horse or horses, shall
stand parallel to the curb and face the direction of traffic.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.08 LEFT SIDE TO CURB NOT PERMITTED IN BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   No vehicle shall stop with its left side to the curb in the business
district; except that, on one-way streets vehicles shall stop headed in the
direction of traffic.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.09 UNLAWFUL PARKING.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle upon any street for the principal
purposes of:
   (A)   Displaying it for sale;
   (B)   Washing, greasing or repairing the vehicle, except repairs
necessitated by an emergency;
   (C)   Storage thereof by garages, dealers or other persons when storage is
not incident to the bona fide use and operation of the automobile or other
vehicles; or
   (D)   Storage of any detached trailer or van, when the towing unit has been
disconnected or for the purpose of transferring merchandise or freight from one
vehicle to another.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.10 STANDING OR PARKING VEHICLES FOR PRIMARY PURPOSE OF ADVERTISING
PROHIBITED.
   No person shall stand or park, on any street any vehicle for the primary
purpose of advertising.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.11 MOVING OF VEHICLES OF OTHER OPERATORS INTO RESTRICTED AREAS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall move a vehicle not owned by the person into any prohibited
area or sufficiently away from curb to make the distance unlawful.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.12 OBSTRUCTING VIEW.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to plant corn or other tall growing
crops on lots at street intersections or corners in a way as to obstruct view
of traffic approaching the corner from any direction.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.13 INFANTS IN PARKED AUTOMOBILES.
   It shall be unlawful for infants under the age of six years to be left in
locked automobiles on the streets and public parking lots within the corporate
limits of the town.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
70.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   For violation of §
73.12 of this chapter, there shall be a fine in an amount as shall be as set by
the Town Council from time to time and the violator required to destroy the
crop or so much of it as must be removed to permit a clear view.
CHAPTER 74: VEHICLE OPERATION
Section
   
74.01   Stop before entering a through street
   
74.02   Stop when traffic obstructed
   
74.03   Driving through funeral processions
   
74.04   Limitations on turning around
   
74.05   Limitations on backing
   
74.06   Emerging from alley or private driveway
   
74.07   Vehicles shall not be driven on the sidewalk
   
74.08   Clinging to moving vehicles
   
74.09   Riding on handle bars prohibited
   
74.10   Riding on sidewalks or without hands on handle bars prohibited
   
74.11   Lights on parked vehicles
   
74.12   Moving vehicles from parked positions
   
74.13   Speed limit
   
74.14   Driving on roadways marked for traffic
   
74.15   Driving over fire hose
   
74.16   Skidding tires
   
74.17   Direction of travel regulated
§ 74.01 STOP BEFORE ENTERING A THROUGH STREET.
   When stop signs are placed, erected or installed upon highways intersecting
a through street at the entrance thereto or at the entrance to any
intersection, every driver of a vehicle, shall stop in obedience to the signs
before entering the intersection and shall not proceed into or across the
through street until he or she has first determined that no conflict with
traffic will be involved.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.02 STOP WHEN TRAFFIC OBSTRUCTED.
   No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate the vehicle he or she is operating without obstructing the passage
of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic-control signal
indication to proceed.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.03 DRIVING THROUGH FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   No vehicle shall be driven through a funeral procession, except Fire
Department vehicles, police patrols and ambulances when the same are responding
to calls.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.04 LIMITATIONS ON TURNING AROUND.
   No driver shall turn any vehicle so as to proceed in the opposite direction
in the business district.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.05 LIMITATIONS ON BACKING.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same into any intersection or
over a crosswalk and shall not in any event or at any place back a vehicle
unless the movement can be made in safety and he or she shall have given ample
warning to those who may be behind by hand and horn or other signal.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.06 EMERGING FROM ALLEY OR PRIVATE DRIVEWAY.
   The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, driveway or building shall
stop the vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or into the
sidewalk areas extending across any alleyway any vehicles approaching on the
roadway.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.07 VEHICLES SHALL NOT BE DRIVEN ON THE SIDEWALK.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not drive within any sidewalk area.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.08 CLINGING TO MOVING VEHICLES.
   Any person riding upon any bicycle, motorcycle, coaster, sled, roller skates
or any toy vehicle shall not attach the same or himself or herself to any
public conveyance or moving vehicle upon any roadway.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.09 RIDING ON HANDLE BARS PROHIBITED.
   The operator of motorcycle or bicycle when upon a street shall not carry any
person upon the handle bar, frame or tank of any vehicle, nor shall any person
ride upon any such vehicle.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.10 RIDING ON SIDEWALKS OR WITHOUT HANDS ON HANDLE BARS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall ride a bicycle or motorcycle on any street without having
his or her hands upon the handle bars, nor shall any person ride a bicycle upon
any sidewalk or walkway within the town.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.11 LIGHTS ON PARKED VEHICLES.
   The displaying of lights upon a vehicle, when lawfully parked at night upon
a street of the town in accordance with this chapter, shall not be required
when there is sufficient light to reveal any person within a distance of 200
feet upon the street.
§ 74.12 MOVING VEHICLES FROM PARKED POSITIONS.
   Vehicles parked shall move out in the direction headed or if they are parked
at an angle with the curb they shall back out on that angle until they have
cleared the other vehicles and shall then proceed in the direction they are
most nearly headed in.
§ 74.13 SPEED LIMIT.
   (A)   A vehicle may be operated on any street of the town, designated
elsewhere in this traffic code as a business section, at a rate of speed not
exceeding 20 mph; provided, however, that, at no time shall the speed be
greater than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions then existing.
   (B)   The speed limit on state highways in residential sections shall be 35
mph and 25 mph on all other streets.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.14 DRIVING ON ROADWAYS MARKED FOR TRAFFIC.
   All vehicles operated on any roadway which has been clearly marked with
lanes for traffic shall be driven as nearly as practical entirely within a
single lane and shall not be moved from the lane until the driver has first
ascertained that the movement can be made with safety.
§ 74.15 DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   No vehicle shall be driven over any hose of the Fire Department when laid
down on any street or driveway to be used at any fire without the consent of
the Fire Department official in command.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.16 SKIDDING TIRES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to operate or cause
to be operated a motor vehicle upon the public streets or ways or upon the
grounds and premises of any public school or upon the grounds and premises of
any service station, drive-in theater, supermarket store, restaurant, sandwich
shop, office building or any other business or municipal establishment
providing parking space for customers, patrons or the public within the town in
a way or manner as to cause the wheels thereof to loose traction with the
surface on which they are driving or to cause the tires to squeal.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.17 DIRECTION OF TRAVEL REGULATED.
   The Chief of Police shall cause to be erected and maintained at all junction
points and turns where necessary and at all approaches to the parts of streets
on which one direction of travel is prescribed signs of dimensions and at
locations as shall be approved by him or her directing traffic in accordance
with the provisions of this traffic code.
CHAPTER 75: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Golf Carts
   
75.01   Purpose
   
75.02   Definitions
   
75.03   Rules and regulations
   
75.04   Inspection and fees
   
75.05   Enforcement
   
75.06   Owner registration form
 
   
75.99   Penalty
GOLF CARTS
§ 75.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter shall be to establish a golf cart ordinance
within the town to promote the health, safety and welfare of persons operating
golf cart(s) within the town.
(Ord. 12-02, passed 10-3-2011)
§ 75.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DRIVER’S LICENSE. A valid license to operate a motor vehicle issued by North
Carolina or any other state.
   FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY. Liability insurance coverage on a golf cart in an
amount not less than required by state law for motor vehicles operated on
public highway in the state.
   GOLF CART. A vehicle designed and manufactured for operation on a golf
course for sporting or recreational purposes and that is not capable of
exceeding speeds of 20 mph.
   OPERATOR. Only persons 16 years of age or older and holding a driver’s
license may operate a golf cart.
(Ord. 12-02, passed 10-3-2011)
§ 75.03RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Carts may be driven on roads only from dawn to dusk unless the cart is
equipped with two operating headlights (one on each side of the front of the
golf cart) and two operating tail lights with brake lights (one on each side of
the rear of the cart) which are visible from a distance of 500 feet.
   (B)   Carts must be equipped with rear vision mirror and a rear triangle
reflector of the same type required by state law.
   (C)   Carts must be equipped with seatbelts for the number of persons whom
individual seating is installed and provided by the cart and each occupant
shall have a seatbelt properly fastened about his or her body at all times the
cart is in motion.
   (D)   Cart drivers must have a valid driver’s license in their names and
must be 16 years of age or older.
   (E)   Cart drivers will stay to the far right of the traveled portion of the
road and yield the right-of-way to overtaking vehicles.
   (F)   The number of occupants in a golf cart shall be limited to the number
of persons for whom individual seating is installed and provided on the golf
cart. The operator and all occupants shall be seated in the golf cart and no
part of the body of the operator or occupant shall extend outside the perimeter
of the golf cart while the golf cart is in motion.
   (G)   All applicable state laws shall be adhered to, including the
possession and use of alcoholic beverages.
   (H)   The operator of the golf cart shall comply with all traffic rules and
regulations adopted by the state and the town which govern the operation of
motor vehicles.
   (I)   Carts will adhere to all traffic flow patterns, and will operate on
the right side of the roadway.
   (J)   Carts shall not be operated on sidewalks.
   (K)   Carts shall not be operated on private property, without the
permission and consent of the property owner.
   (L)   Carts must be powered by electric motor only, no gasoline carts are
permitted on public streets.
   (M)   Carts may not be operated on any street where the speed limit is
greater than 35 mph.
(Ord. 12-02, passed 10-3-2011) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.04 INSPECTION AND FEES.
   All carts operated on the streets of the town must be inspected by the
town’s Police Department and issued a permit prior to operation. The inspection
by the Chief of Police, or his or her designee, will cover the following safety
requirements and every cart operating on town streets must have the following
safety equipment.
   (A)   Permits/stickers issued to operators/owners of golf carts by the
town’s Police Department.
   (B)   Each owner must have proof of ownership, and liability insurance, and
a completed waiver of liability, releasing the town, its employees, and
affiliates from all liability that may arise as a result of operating a cart
inside the town. A current waiver of liability must be on file with the town’s
Police Department, and must be renewed annually, along with the permit.
   (C)   All carts must meet the requirements or minimum standards of safety
equipment as set forth in §
75.03 of this chapter.
   (D)   All cart operators must present a valid driver’s license.
   (E)   Permits/stickers will be issued annually, and are valid from July 1 of
each year. The following fees shall apply:
      (1)   Inspection by Police Department: an amount as shall be as set by
the Town Council from time to time annually (includes permit/sticker); and
      (2)   Re-inspection by Police Department: an amount as shall be as set by
the Town Council from time to time (if a cart fails the initial inspection).
   (F)   Lost or stolen permit/stickers are the responsibility of the owner. A
police report must be filed in the event of a lost or stolen permit/sticker.
The Chief of Police will have the discretion in determining whether a permit/
sticker may be re-issued in this instance. If no record can be found of a
previous application, or the receipt of a permit/sticker, the Chief of Police
may direct the applicant to reapply, and also resubmit any and all fees
necessary, before a replacement permit/sticker is issued.
   (G)   Any person who operates a cart in the town and fails to receive and
properly display a town permit/sticker will be subject to all applicable state
laws, in addition to being in violation of this chapter.
   (H)   Cart owners must complete the attached registration form, waiver of
liability form and provide a copy of the proof of liability insurance prior to
the cart being inspected. The completed forms and proof of insurance will be
maintained by the town’s Police Department.
(Ord. 12-02, passed 10-3-2011)
§ 75.05 ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the policy of the town’s Police Department to issue a uniform
citation against any person the officer has probable cause to believe has
violated this subchapter.
(Ord. 12-02, passed 10-3-2011)
§ 75.06 OWNER REGISTRATION FORM.
 
GOLF CART OWNER REGISTRATION
TOWN OF MARSHVILLE, NORTH CAROLINA
(Please Print in Blue or Black Ink)
 
Golf cart owner’s name(s):                                                                                                                                                  
Owner’s Physical Address:                                                                                                                                                  
City/Town:                                                                             State:                                        Zip:                         
Owner’s Mailing Address if different than above:                                                                                                                    
City/Town:                                                                             State:                                        Zip:                         
Owner’s Telephone No.   Daytime: ( )       Night time: ( )
Owner’s Driver License Number:                                                                                              State:                                
Make of golf cart (Mfg):                                                                        
Color of golf cart:                                                                                Model (Year):                                                         
Serial Number of golf cart:                                                                                                                                                    
Assigned number of golf cart:                                                                                                                                                
 
I have received, read and understand the “Town of Marshville Golf Cart Ordinance”. I have paid the registration fee for the above described golf cart and agree to additional assessments as may be required in support of this ordinance. I acknowledge that I will assume all liability, and am fully
responsible for the operation of the above described golf cart on the streets and roads in the Town of Marshville. 1 also acknowledge that the Town of Marshville, in providing this privilege, is in no way endorsing the operation of this golf cart on any street or road, and does not and will not
assume any liability in the operation of the golf cart. I agree to indemnify and hold harmless the Town of Marshville for any and all liability arising from the use of this golf cart. I also understand that the Marshville Police Department’s interpretation of all the rules and regulations are
final. I will ensure that the assigned proof of compliance will remain attached to the driver’s side of the cart at all times. I, furthermore, ensure that I will obey all the rules and regulations as set forth by the Town of Marshville concerning the operation of a golf cart within the town
limits.
 
                                                                                                                                                     
Owner’s Signature   Date
 
 
 
For Town’s Use Only
 
Approved by:    Chief of Police       Town Manager          Other:                                                 (Title)
 
                                                                                                                                                     
Signature
 
(Ord. 12-02, passed 10-3-2011)
§ 75.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
70.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any act constituting a violation of §§
75.01 through
75.05 of this chapter or a failure to comply with any of its requirements shall
subject the offender, upon conviction, to a misdemeanor and to a fine not to
exceed an amount as shall be as set by the Town Council from time to time.
(Ord. 12-02, passed 10-3-2011)
CHAPTER 76: TRAFFIC AND PARKING SCHEDULES
   Schedule
      
I.   Trucks prohibited
      
II.   Speed limits; school zone
      
III.   Maximum speed limits
      
IV.   One-way streets
      
V.   No parking
      
VI.   Parking restricted
      
VII.   Loading zone
SCHEDULE I. TRUCKS PROHIBITED.
   Single trucks with a gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR) of greater than
26,000 pounds with three or more axles, or track and trailer combinations with
three or more axles and a combined GVWR of greater than 26,000 pounds shall be
prohibited from the parts of the streets as follows. Exemption shall apply to
trucks stopping to make pickups or deliveries or to transact business.
Street Portion of Restriction
Street             Portion of Restriction
College Street     From the intersection of North Elm Street eastward to the
                   intersection of Ross Street
College Street     From the intersection of Ross Street eastward to the
                   intersection of Hasty Street
College Street     From the intersection of Hasty Street eastward to the
                   intersection of Olive Branch Road
East Phifer Street From the intersection of North Elm Street eastward to the
                   intersection of Ross Street
East Phifer Street From the intersection of Ross Street eastward to the
                   intersection of Hasty Street
East Phifer Street From the intersection of Hasty Street eastward to the
                   intersection of Olive Branch Road
Elizabeth Avenue   Between West Union Street and West Main Street
Main Street        From the intersection of Elm Street eastward to U.S. Highway
                   74
Raleigh Street     From U.S. Highway 74 North to the intersection of Main
                   Street
West Main Street   From the intersection of Marshville Boulevard North eastward
                   to the intersection of Elm Street
West Union Street  From the intersection of Elm Street westward to the end of
                   the street
 
(Ord. passed 6-6-2005; Ord. 1415-006, passed 6-15-2015; Ord. 15/16-02, passed
5-3-2016; Ord. 15/16-03, passed 6-7-2016) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II. SPEED LIMITS; SCHOOL ZONE.
 
Location                         Speed Limit Times
The section of North Elm Street,
beginning at a point 450 feet
south of the south property line             30 minutes before school begins
of Marshville Elementary School  25 mph      and 30 minutes after school ends
and extending 380 feet north of              on school days only
the north property line of the
school
 
(Ord. passed 9-14-1992) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Declaring speed limit modifications, see G.S. § 20-141(f)
SCHEDULE III. MAXIMUM SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   The maximum speed for any vehicle shall be ten mph on the following
described portion of street:
 
Street     Portion of Restriction
Park Drive From Olive Branch Road southeasterly to East Union Street
 
   (B)   The maximum speed for any vehicle shall be 20 mph on the following
described portion of state highway system street:
 
State Highway             Portion of Restriction
East Union Street         From North Elm Street to Ross Street
Main Street (S.R. 1740)   From Marshville Boulevard (U.S. Highway 74) to a
                          point 800 feet east of White Street (S.R. 1005)
North Elm Street (ND 205) From East Union Street to Marshville Boulevard
White Street              From Main Street to Marshville Boulevard
 
   (C)   The maximum speed limit for any vehicle shall be 35 mph on the
following streets:
Street Portion of Restriction
Street               Portion of Restriction
East Union Street    From Ross Street to the eastern corporate limit
Main Street          From a point 800 east of White Street eastward to
                     Marshville Boulevard
Main Street          From a point 0.20 mile southwest of Marshville Boulevard
                     to Marshville Boulevard
Marshville Boulevard From a point 300 feet west of Main Street eastward to a
                     point 500 east of White Street
                     From the northern corporate limits of the town to East
North Elm Street     Union Street with the exception of
                     Ch. 76, Schd. II, of this code of ordinances
Olive Branch Road    From the northern corporate limit to East Union Street
Phifer Street        From the western corporate limits of the town of North Elm
                     Street
Ross Street          From the northern corporate limit of the town to East
                     Union Street
South Elm Street     From Marshville Boulevard to the southern corporate limit
White Street         From Marshville Boulevard to the southern corporate limit
 
   (D)   The maximum speed limit for any vehicle shall be 45 mph on the
following streets:
 
Street               Portion of Restriction
Marshville Boulevard From the western corporate limit to a point 300 feet west
                     of Main Street
Marshville Boulevard From a point 500 feet east of White Street to the eastern
                     corporate limit
 
Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE IV. ONE-WAY STREETS.
   The following streets shall have the direction of travel limited to one way
as indicated:
 
Street            Direction
Park Drive        From Olive Branch Road southeasterly to East Union Street
Washington Street From South Elizabeth Street westerly to South Carelock Drive
 
(Ord. passed 6-7-2010)
SCHEDULE V. NO PARKING.
   (A)   There shall be no parking on East Union Street (Peachland Avenue) on
the north side, from Cross Street eastward to, but not including, street space
at Edward’s Plumbing Co. The area on east side of Cross Street, which takes in
frontage property at Phifer-Huggins Store, a 15-minute limit on parking.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, company or corporation to
park a motor vehicle of any description, or an animal drawn vehicle, on the
shoulder of U.S. Highway 74 (new) between intersection of Main Street and the
highway on west side of the town, and the intersection of Belk Street with U.S.
Highway 74 (new) eastward.
      (2)   The penalty for violation of this division (B), for each offense
shall be an amount as shall be as set by the Town Council from time to time, or
ten days in jail, or both.
   (C)   Effective 6-1-2001 or as soon thereafter as the necessary signs are
erected on Raleigh Street, it shall be unlawful for any motor vehicle to park
on the west side of Raleigh Street between Main Street and U.S. Highway 74.
This area is hereby designated as a no-parking zone.
   (D)   Effective 12-1-2001 or as soon thereafter as the necessary signs are
erected on Bost Street, it shall be unlawful for any motor vehicle to park on
the south side of Bost Street between Chambers Street and Elizabeth Street.
This area is hereby designated as a no-parking zone.
SCHEDULE VI. PARKING RESTRICTED.
   Between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., there shall be a two-hour
maximum limit on parking in the Central District on Union and Main Streets on
those parking spaces marked by authorized signs, as required by §
72.03 of this code of ordinances.
SCHEDULE VII. LOADING ZONE.
   As soon as the necessary signs are erected on South Elm Street, it shall be
unlawful for any motor vehicles to park on the west side of South Elm Street in
front of Betty’s Beauty Shop and Braswell’s Market, except for the purpose of
loading and unloading. This area is hereby designated as a loading and
unloading zone.
Penalty, see §
70.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   GENERAL HEALTH AND SANITATION; AUTHORITY
      
91.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC PROPERTY
      
92.   PARADES, PICKETS AND GROUP DEMONSTRATIONS
      
93.   MASS GATHERINGS
      
94.   CEMETERIES
      
95.   ANIMALS
      
96.   NUISANCES
      
97.   NOISE CONTROL
      
98.   CIVIL DISORDER
      
99.   FIREBOMBS
CHAPTER 90: GENERAL HEALTH AND SANITATION; AUTHORITY
Section
   
90.01   Enforcement of this chapter under supervision of County Health Officer
   
90.02   Unlawful to hinder Health Officer or assistants
   
90.03   Right to enter
   
90.04   Human waste
   
90.05   Stagnant water
   
90.06   Sale of food from eating establishments
   
90.07   Debris from new construction
§ 90.01 ENFORCEMENT OF THIS CHAPTER UNDER SUPERVISION OF COUNTY HEALTH OFFICER.
   The enforcement of this chapter shall be under the supervision of the County
Health Officer and the Town Manager.
§ 90.02 UNLAWFUL TO HINDER HEALTH OFFICER OR ASSISTANTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, obstruct or delay the Health
Officer or any of his or her assistants in the lawful discharge of their
duties.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.03 RIGHT TO ENTER.
   The Health Officer or any of his or her assistants have the right to enter
at any reasonable time any premises for the purpose of making inspections or
investigations as required by this chapter.
§ 90.04 HUMAN WASTE.
   No person shall urinate or deposit any human waste of any kind on street,
lot or premises, except in approved sanitary facilities.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.05 STAGNANT WATER.
   No person or occupant of any property shall allow stagnant water to
accumulate or remain in cellars or anywhere on his or her property.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.06 SALE OF FOOD FROM EATING ESTABLISHMENTS.
   All persons, firms or corporations selling food of any kind or serving
prepared meals shall comply with all requirements pertaining thereto of the
State Board of Health.
§ 90.07 DEBRIS FROM NEW CONSTRUCTION.
   All refuse, lumber and debris, remaining both as a result of the repair of
any buildings, or of the erection and completion of any new buildings, shall be
removed by the property owner within ten days from the completion of the
aforesaid work.
CHAPTER 91: STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC PROPERTY
Section
Damaging Streets and Sidewalks
   
91.01   Permit to dig in streets
   
91.02   Sidewalk construction
   
91.03   Street repair
   
91.04   Excavations; leaving unprotected
   
91.05   Streets not to be damaged
   
91.06   House moving
   
91.07   Damage to bridges and culverts
   
91.08   Damage to lights, signs
   
91.09   Drainage of ditch
   
91.10   Street lighting
Obstructing Streets and Sidewalks
   
91.25   Assembly on sidewalk
   
91.26   Display of goods prohibited
   
91.27   Placing objects on streets or sidewalks
   
91.28   Construction near sidewalk
   
91.29   Sheds and awnings
Use and Cleanliness
   
91.40   Throwing or burning trash or vegetation on street prohibited
   
91.41   Tree trimmings
   
91.42   Snow and ice removal
   
91.43   Bicycles on sidewalks prohibited
   
91.44   Playing ball on street prohibited
Property Numbering System
   
91.55   Numbering map
   
91.56   Numbering system
   
91.57   Owners to purchase numbers
   
91.58   Numbers for future buildings
   
91.59   Unlawful to deface number
DAMAGING STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
§ 91.01 PERMIT TO DIG IN STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to dig any hole,
ditch or excavation of any kind whatsoever, on any street in the town without
first securing a permit therefor in writing from the Town Clerk.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.02 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   No sidewalk of any description shall be built by any individual, firm
or corporation, of any brick, wood or other material without a written permit
from the town.
   (B)   (1)   Upon unanimous and written request by land owners in the town
for the building of sidewalks, not less than 350 feet in length, and approved
by the Town Council, the town will furnish all labor and the owner will furnish
all materials in ratio to his or her property.
      (2)   Any materials unpaid will become a lien upon the property, as per
printed contract signed by parties involved.
§ 91.03 STREET REPAIR.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every person, firm or corporation, who shall
open or dig a ditch, trench or hole in any street, public alley or sidewalk of
the town, to put the street, public alley or sidewalk in as good condition in
all respects as it was before.
   (B)   (1)   A cost in an amount as shall be as set by the Town Council from
time to time per linear foot shall be charged to the property owner when curb
and gutter is cut away for driveway.
      (2)   Measurement is across the width of driveway at its intersection
with the back of the curb and the town is to replace the curb and gutter with a
curb cut.
      (3)   The town is to furnish labor and supervision and the town is to pay
for materials and labor.
      (4)   Application is to be made by property owner and only the town shall
do this work.
§ 91.04 EXCAVATIONS; LEAVING UNPROTECTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation making any
excavation for any purpose whatsoever in any of the streets or sidewalks to
fail to securely cover the excavations with planks or place ropes around the
same three feet from the ground or shall fail to place a sufficient number of
red lights around the excavation before dark and to keep a light burning all
night every night the excavation shall be open.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.05 STREETS NOT TO BE DAMAGED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to drag, run or
cause to be dragged or run any harrow or other implement, engine, machine or
tool upon any asphalt, bitulitic, warrenite or other permanently pave street or
curb and gutter of the town which shall be liable, in any way to injure or cut
the surface thereof. It shall also be unlawful to injure any dirt street in the
same manner.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.06 HOUSE MOVING.
   No person shall move any house or building upon or across the public streets
or sidewalks without the written consent of the Town Council and the deposit of
a good and sufficient bond in the sum of an amount as shall be as set by the
Town Council from time to time to cover damage done to the street or sidewalk
or to any property of any person.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.07 DAMAGE TO BRIDGES AND CULVERTS.
   No person shall injure or misplace any part of any bridge, culvert, ditch
and/or drain on his or her property belonging to or used by the town or shall
place any obstruction on any culvert, ditch or drain to prevent the free flow
of water on or over the streets of the town.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.08 DAMAGE TO LIGHTS, SIGNS.
   No person shall injure, tamper with, remove or paint upon or deface any
sign, sign post, street light, traffic signal or bulletin board or other
municipal property upon the streets and sidewalks except employees of the town
in performance of their duties.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.09 DRAINAGE OF DITCH.
   Property owner pays for proper size pipe, to be established by Director of
Public Works for any culvert necessary for drainage of a street ditch. This
cost shall create a lien on the property of the owner if not paid when billed
and shall be collectable in the same manner as are taxes due the town.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.10 STREET LIGHTING.
   It shall be the street light location policy of the town to ensure adequate
lighting of intersections and to situate new street lights no closer than every
500 lineal feet in any residential area. If an area, to be annexed, has
existing street lights closer than 500 lineal feet, the town will only be
responsible for those lights that illuminate the public conveyance and are no
closer than every 300 lineal feet. In the area of the municipalities zoned for
business, commercial, industrial or public meeting place, the function of
street lighting can be assumed necessary for security and may, at the Town
Council’s discretion, be located closer than the 500 lineal feet as provided
for in residential zones.
OBSTRUCTING STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
§ 91.25 ASSEMBLY ON SIDEWALK.
   All persons are forbidden from assembling or collecting and standing so as
to obstruct any sidewalk or street and all persons so collecting and standing
shall disperse and move upon the demand of any police officer.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.26 DISPLAY OF GOODS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall place for display or sale any goods, wares or merchandise of
any kind upon any of the sidewalks of the town, which shall extend out on the
sidewalks.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.27 PLACING OBJECTS ON STREETS OR SIDEWALKS.
   No brick, stone, wood or other substances obstructing the free passage of
persons and vehicles shall be placed or suffered to lie in any of the
alleyways, streets or other routes of the town, nor shall any person place on
or in any of the streets, sidewalks or alleyways of the town any boxes, crates,
casks or barrels of any description or any other obstruction of any kind;
provided that, any person erecting a building may with permission place
building material for immediate use on the streets in a way as to not interfere
with the usual traffic.
Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Bicycles on sidewalks prohibited, §
91.43
   Tree trimmings, §
91.41
§ 91.28 CONSTRUCTION NEAR SIDEWALK.
   Before building or remodeling at any place where the same is in close
proximity to the sidewalk, a passageway shall be constructed so as to leave the
sidewalk unobstructed and provide safe and easy passage.
§ 91.29 SHEDS AND AWNINGS.
   (A)   No person shall erect or repair over any sidewalk or street any wooden
shed or awning or any wooden shed for the support of any awning or erect upon
any street or sidewalk any post for the support of any awning.
   (B)   If any person shall violate this section, then each day that the above
forbidden structure shall remain after notice shall constitute a separate
violation; provided that, this shall not be construed to prevent the erection
over the sidewalk of cloth or metal awnings supported upon metallic frames
firmly suspended from the building and at least seven feet above the level of
the sidewalk.
Penalty, see §
10.99
USE AND CLEANLINESS
§ 91.40 THROWING OR BURNING TRASH OR VEGETATION ON STREET PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No paper, advertising matter, straw, lemon peel, banana peel,
watermelon rind or any trash of any kind shall be thrown or swept upon any
sidewalk or street of the town, nor shall any trash, refuse or rubbish be
burned thereon.
   (B)   The blowing of leaves, lawn clippings and other vegetation into the
streets is restricted; nor shall any person burn said items within the limits
of the town.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.41 TREE TRIMMINGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or allow to be placed any tree
trimmings or shrubbery on any street or sidewalk.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.42 SNOW AND ICE REMOVAL.
   Every occupant of a store building in front of which the sidewalk is paved
with stone, brick, asphalt or cement shall remove snow, ice or other
obstructions from the sidewalk at the earliest possible time and as soon as the
weather permits.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.43 BICYCLES ON SIDEWALKS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride a bicycle on any sidewalk in the
town, applicable to the business district only.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.44 PLAYING BALL ON STREET PROHIBITED.
   No person shall play ball or bat or catch on any of the streets of the town.
Penalty, see §
10.99
PROPERTY NUMBERING SYSTEM
§ 91.55 NUMBERING MAP.
   The property numbering map entitled “Property Numbering Map, dated 7-1-1967,
Marshville, North Carolina” is hereby adopted as the official property
numbering map of the town and all property numbers assigned shall be assigned
in accordance with this numbering map and no other property numbers shall be
used or displayed in the town, except numbers assigned in accordance with the
official numbering map. The property map shall be kept on file in the office of
the Town Clerk.
§ 91.56 NUMBERING SYSTEM.
   (A)   (1)   On the property numbering map, Marshville Boulevard is hereby
designated as the north-south axis and Elm Street is hereby designated as the
east-west axis and all avenues, streets and alleys running generally north and
south shall be numbered from the east-west axis consecutively to the corporate
limits of the extremity of the avenue, alley or street. Avenues, streets or
alleys running generally east and west shall be numbered from the north-south
axis in the same manner.
      (2)   Wherever possible, 100 numbers shall be allowed to each block so
that the number or each consecutive block shall commence with consecutive
hundreds and one.
   (B)   One whole number shall be assigned for every 50 feet of ground whether
improved property or vacant lot on every street within the corporate limits,
excluding the business district in which case one whole number shall be
assigned for every 25 feet whether improved property or vacant lot. Odd numbers
shall be assigned to the west side of the street on all north-south streets and
even numbers to the east side. On the east-west streets, odd numbers shall be
assigned to the south side of the street and even numbers to the north side.
§ 91.57 OWNERS TO PURCHASE NUMBERS.
   Every property owner of improved property shall on or before 7-1-1968
purchase and display in a conspicuous place on the property the number assigned
which shall be of a type approved by the Town Council.
§ 91.58 NUMBERS FOR FUTURE BUILDINGS.
   All residence and business buildings erected after the adoption of this
subchapter shall be assigned a number in accordance with the property numbering
map and shall purchase and display the number as provided in §
91.57 of this chapter.
§ 91.59 UNLAWFUL TO DEFACE NUMBER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to alter, deface or take down any number
placed on any property in accordance with this subchapter, except for repair or
replacement of the number.
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 92: PARADES, PICKETS AND GROUP DEMONSTRATIONS
Section
Requirements and Regulations
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Permit required
   
92.03   Requirements and issuance of permits
   
92.04   Certain activities prohibited
   
92.05   Revocation of permit
   
92.06   Interference prohibited
Application for Permit to Parade, Picket and Demonstrate
   
92.20   Application for permit form
   
92.21   Permit form
 
   
92.99   Penalty
REQUIREMENTS AND REGULATIONS
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GROUP DEMONSTRATION. Any assembly together or concert of action between or
among two or more persons for the purpose of protesting any matter or of making
known any position or promotion of the persons, or of or on behalf of any
organization or class of persons or for the purpose of attracting attention to
the assembly.
   PARADE. Any parade, march, ceremony, show, exhibitions or procession of any
kind in or upon the public streets, sidewalks, alleys, parks or other public
grounds or places.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, corporation, partnership, association or other
organization, whether formal or informal.
   PICKET LINE. Any two or more persons formed together for the purpose of
making known any position or promotion of the persons, or of or on behalf of
any organization or class of persons.
§ 92.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to organize, conduct or participate in
any parade, picket line or group demonstration in or upon any street, sidewalk,
alley or other public place within the town unless a permit therefore has been
issued by the town in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 REQUIREMENTS AND ISSUANCE OF PERMITS.
   The Chief of Police and/or the Town Clerk is authorized to issue permits as
required in §
92.02 of this chapter and, in the issuance thereof, he or she shall:
   (A)   Require a written application for permit to be filed not less than 24
hours in advance of the parade, picket line or group demonstration. The
application shall be on a form prescribed by the Chief as found in §
92.02 of this chapter, shall require the application to be signed by the
applicant or applicants, shall require that the applicant show the proposed
time, place, purpose and size of the parade, picket line or group
demonstration, and whether or not any minors below the age of 18 years shall
participate;
   (B)   Refuse to issue the permit when the activity or purpose stated in the
application would violate any ordinance of the town or statute of the state, or
when the activity or purpose would constitute a clear and present danger to the
public health or safety or would hinder or prevent the orderly movement of
pedestrian or vehicular traffic on the streets, alleys or sidewalks;
   (C)   Specify in the permit whether or not minors below the age of 18 years
will be permitted to participate. The Chief shall pass upon whether or not the
minors may participate, and shall base his or her determination upon whether or
not the purpose or time or place of the particular activity will be detrimental
to or endanger the health, safety or welfare of the minors or will interfere
with their education;
   (D)   Require that the application specify and designate in the permit the
person or persons in charge of the activity. The person shall be required to
accompany the parade, picket line or group demonstration and shall carry the
permit with him or her at that time. The permit shall not be valid in the
possession of any other person;
   (E)   The permit may set the starting time, duration, speed of travel and
space between persons or vehicles in the parade, picket line or group
demonstration, may prescribe the portions or areas of streets, alleys,
sidewalks or other public places to be used; and may impose other reasonable
requirements as the Chief may prescribe for the control and free movement of
pedestrian or vehicular traffic or for the health, safety and property rights
of the participants and the general public; and
    (F)   Among other considerations, consider and find as a requisite to
issuance the following:
      (1)   The activity will not require excessive diversion of police from
other necessary duties;
      (2)   The activity will not interfere with the right of property owners
in the area to enjoy peaceful and lawful occupancy and use of their property;
and
      (3)   The activity can be conducted without unreasonable interference
with normal pedestrian or vehicular traffic in the area, and will not prevent
normal police and fire protection to the public, and will not be likely to
cause injury to persons or property or to provoke disorderly conduct or to
create a public disturbance.
§ 92.04 CERTAIN ACTIVITIES PROHIBITED.
   The following acts or activities, when performed or undertaken in
conjunction with or as a part of, any parade, picket line or group
demonstration are hereby prohibited and declared unlawful:
   (A)   The carrying on or about the person any firearm, or any weapon or
article, including but not limited to blackjacks, nightsticks or flashlights,
which by their use might constitute a deadly weapon; and/or
   (B)   The taking or keeping of any dog or other vicious animal, whether
leashed or unleashed.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police shall revoke any permit granted for a parade, picket
line or group demonstration for any of the following causes:
   (A)   The violation by any participant of §
92.04 of this chapter; or
   (B)   The failure to comply with the terms and conditions of the permit.
§ 92.06 INTERFERENCE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall hamper, obstruct, impede or interfere with any parade,
picket line or group demonstration being conducted under authority of a permit
duly issued by the Chief of Police or Town Clerk.
Penalty, see §
92.99
APPLICATION FOR PERMIT TO PARADE, PICKET AND DEMONSTRATE
§ 92.20 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT FORM.
 
TO: THE CHIEF OF POLICE, MARSHVILLE, NORTH CAROLINA
 
Application is hereby made for a permit to parade, picket or demonstrate as provided in the code of ordinances of the Town of Marshville, North
Carolina, and other applicable section of law.
 
1.   The purpose of which the application is to (PARADE) (PICKET) (DEMONSTRATE) (strike out words not applicable) and the reason for the
activity is as follows:
 
2.   The time requested for the activity is as follows:
From                          to                          on the                          day of                         , 20    .
 
3.    The place the activity shall be at                          or from                          to                          .
 
4.   The approximate number of people engaged in the activity is                          but the number will not exceed
                        people.
 
5.   State whether or not minors below the age of 18 years will participate in the activity                    . If yes, state the approximate
number of minors                          (number).
 
6.   The person or persons in actual charge of the activity will be                          and the permit will be kept at the site of the
activity at all times in the custody of                          .
 
7.   The activity will have as its principal objective: (DESCRIBE IN DETAIL)
 
8.   If the activity will include the use of any floats, vehicles, placards, loudspeakers or mechanical devices of any type, explain in detail
their use, purpose and number:
 
9.   Remarks:
 
This application is hereby made by the undersigned as representatives of the group involved in the activity described and is filed or petitioned
for issuance of permit under the applicable ordinances of the Town of Marshville.
 
This                          day of                          , 20    .
 
Witness to signature(s)
                                                                        
 
 
§ 92.21 PERMIT FORM.
 
PERMIT
 
Permit is hereby granted under the code of ordinances of the Town of Marshville, North Carolina, and other applicable law to conduct or engage in a                          (insert PARADE, PICKET LINE OR GROUP
DEMONSTRATION).
 
This permit is issued subject to the above activity being performed in a lawful manner in compliance with all provisions of the Code of the Town of Marshville and the laws of the State of North Carolina and is
further limited to the further provisions of this permit.
Special Provisions
1.   The activity may be performed from         o’clock a.m./p.m. to         o’clock a.m./p.m. on the                    day of                       , 20         . If the activity is to progress through the
area designated, it shall be at      o’clock a.m./p.m.
 
2.   The activity may be performed within the Town of Marshville upon the                          (street, sidewalk or place) and                          .
 
3.   Minors below the age of 18 years                          (may/may not) participate in the activity and the number of minors is limited to                          persons.
 
4.   The approximate number of persons to be engaged in the activity is                                        but shall not exceed                          persons.
 
5.   The persons or persons in charge of the activity is (are)                          .
 
6.   The purpose of the activity is limited to                          .
 
7.   The use of vehicles, floats, placards, loudspeakers or other mechanical devices in the activity is limited to the following:
                                                                                                    .
 
8.   The conduct of the activity shall be at all times under the supervision and control of the Police Department of the Town of Marshville and:
(a)   The space between vehicles and/or floats or other objects in the activity shall be                          feet.
(b)   The number of persons participating shall be limited to                          persons per 100 feet of street or sidewalk length as provided in the Marshville code of ordinances.
(c)   The length of any line formed by the activity shall not exceed                          feet.
9.   Special restrictions shall be as follows:                                                                    .
 
Issued this                          day of                          , 20          .
 
                                                                                                        
                                    (Chief of Police or Town Clerk)
 
                           by                                                                             
                                    Authorized Officer of the Town of Marshville
 
 
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   The violation of any provision of this chapter shall constitute a
misdemeanor punishable, upon conviction, by a fine not exceeding an amount as
shall be as set by the Town Council from time to time or imprisonment not
exceeding 30 days, as provided in G.S. § 14-4.
CHAPTER 93: MASS GATHERINGS
Section
   
93.01   Intent and purpose
   
93.02   Definitions
   
93.03   Permit required; revocation of permit
   
93.04   Application for permit
   
93.05   Provisional permit; performance bond; liability insurance
   
93.06   Issuance of permit; revocation; forfeiture of bond; cancellation
   
93.07   Rules and regulations of the town concerning mass gathering
   
93.08   Order of abatement
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   The intent and purpose of this chapter is to provide for the protection of
property and the public health, public welfare and public safety of those
persons in attendance at mass gatherings in the town and of those persons who
reside near or are located in proximity to the sites of mass gatherings or are
directly affected thereby.
§ 93.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HEALTH INSPECTOR. The Health Inspector or an authorized agent designated by
the Town Council.
   MASS GATHERING. The congregation or assembly in which admission is charged
or other contributions are solicited, accepted or received, all in reasonable
contemplation of profit, of more than 200 people in an open space or open air
for a continuous period of at least six hours.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, corporation or legal entity which holds, sponsors,
organizes, conducts or promotes a mass gathering.
   TOWN. The Town of Marshville.
§ 93.03 PERMIT REQUIRED; REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   No person shall organize, sponsor or hold any mass gathering in the
town unless a permit has been issued to the person by the Town Clerk, under the
provisions of this chapter. A permit shall be required for each mass gathering
and is not transferable to other persons.
   (B)   A permit may be revoked by county at any time if he or she finds that
the mass gathering is being or has been maintained or operated in violation of
this chapter or that prior to the mass gathering, the planning or preparation
for the mass gathering is not in compliance with this chapter. A permit may be
revoked upon the request of the permittee or upon abandonment of this
operation. A permit will otherwise expire upon satisfactory completion of the
post-gathering clean-up following the close of the mass gathering.
§ 93.04 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Application for a permit for a mass gathering shall be made to the
Town Clerk on a form and in a manner prescribed by him or her by the person who
will organize, sponsor or hold the mass gathering. The application shall be
filed with the Town Clerk at least 45 days prior to the commencement of the
mass gathering. A fee in an amount as shall be as set by the Town Council from
time to time, to be paid to the town, shall accompany the application.
   (B)   The application shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Identification, name, address and telephone number of the
applicant;
      (2)   Identification, names, addresses and telephone numbers of any other
person(s) responsible for organizing, sponsoring or holding the mass gathering;
and
      (3)   The location, purpose and schedule of events of the proposed mass
gathering, the estimated maximum number of persons reasonably expected to be in
attendance any one time, the date or dates and the hours during which the mass
gathering is to be conducted and a statement as to the total time period
involved.
   (C)   The application shall be accompanied by an outline map of the area to
be used, to approximate scale, showing the location of all proposed and
existing privies or toilets; lavatory and bathing facilities; all water supply
sources, including lakes, streams, wells, storage tanks and the like; all
electrical service outlets existing and proposed; all areas of assemblage; all
disposal areas; all entrances and exits to public highways; emergency ingress
and egress roads; and emergency medical facilities.
   (D)   The application shall be accompanied by additional plans, reports and
information required by the Town Health Inspector, as he or she may deem
necessary to carry out the provisions of this chapter.
§ 93.05 PROVISIONAL PERMIT; PERFORMANCE BOND; LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   (A)   Within ten days after the receipt of the application, the Town Clerk
shall review the application and inspect the proposed site for the mass
gathering. If it reasonably appears that the requirements of this chapter can
be met by the applicant, a provisional permit shall be issued.
   (B)   (1)   If the Town Clerk shall deem it necessary to protect the health,
welfare and safety of those persons in attendance at mass gatherings or other
persons who may be affected by mass gatherings, and to carry out the provisions
of this chapter, he or she may require the permittee within five days after
issuance of the provisional permit to file with the Town Clerk a performance
bond or other surety to be executed to the town in the amount of $5,000 for up
to 10,000 persons and $1,000 additional amount for each additional 5,000
persons or fraction thereof reasonably estimated to attend the mass gathering,
or in amounts as shall be as set by the Town Council from time to time. The
bond shall be conditioned upon full compliance with this chapter and the
provisions and conditions of any permit issued by the Town Clerk pursuant to
the provisions of this chapter and shall be forfeitable upon non-compliance
with this chapter or the provisions of any permit issued by the Town Clerk and
a showing by the Town Health Inspector of any injury, damage or other loss to
the town caused by non-compliance with this chapter and any permit issued by
the Town Clerk.
      (2)   The permittee shall, in addition, file satisfactory evidence of
public liability and property damage insurance in an amount determined by the
Town Clerk to be reasonable (but not to exceed an amount as shall be as set by
the Town Council from time to time) in relation to the risks and hazards
involved in the proposed mass gathering. The Town Clerk shall require the
insurance to be in force from the time the permit is issued until the time as
all the participants at the mass gathering have left the premises and the
premises have been secured.
§ 93.06 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; REVOCATION; FORFEITURE OF BOND; CANCELLATION.
   (A)   If, upon inspection by the town’s Health Inspector 15 days prior to
the starting date of the mass gathering or earlier upon the request of the
permittee, the required facilities are found to be in place, or satisfactory
arrangements are found to have been made for required facilities and services
and other applicable provisions of this chapter are found to have been met, the
town’s Health Inspector shall issue a permit for the mass gathering. If, upon
an inspection, the facilities, arrangements or other provisions are not
satisfactory, the provisional permit shall be revoked and no permit issued.
   (B)   Upon revocation of either the provisional permit or the permit, the
permittee shall immediately announce cancellation of the mass gathering in as
effective a manner as is reasonably possible, including, but not limited to,
the use of whatever methods were used for advertising or promoting the mass
gathering.
   (C)   If the provisional permit or the permit is revoked prior to or during
the mass gathering, the town’s Health Inspector may order the permittee to
install the facilities and make arrangements as may be necessary to accommodate
those persons who may nevertheless attend or be present at the mass gathering
despite its cancellation and to restore the site to a safe and sanitary
condition. In the event the permittee fails to comply with the order of the
town’s Health Inspector, the town’s Health Inspector may immediately proceed to
install the facilities and make other arrangements and provisions for clean-up
as may be minimally required in the interest of public health and safety,
utilizing local funds and resources as may be available to him or her. Prior to
or within 60 days after the action, the town’s Health Inspector may apply to a
court of competent jurisdiction to order forfeiture of the permittee’s
performance bond or surety for violation of this chapter. The court may order
that the proceeds shall be applied to the extent necessary to reimburse the
town for expenditures made pursuant to the action taken by the town’s Health
Inspector upon the permittee’s failure to comply with his or her order. Any
excess proceeds shall be returned to the issuror of the bond or to the surety
after deducting court costs.
§ 93.07 RULES AND REGULATIONS OF THE TOWN CONCERNING MASS GATHERING.
   (A)   The town’s Health Inspector is authorized and directed to develop and
submit to the Town Council for approval rules and regulations to the carry out
the provisions of this chapter and to establish standards and regulations to
carry out the provisions of this chapter and to establish standards and
requirements so that facilities and services shall be provided as necessary to
protect the health, welfare and safety of those attending the mass gathering
and of other persons who may be affected by mass gatherings. These rules and
regulations shall upon approval by the Town Council have the force and effect
as if they were part of this chapter.
   (B)   They shall include, but not be limited to, the establishment of the
following:
      (1)   General requirements relating to minimum size of activity area,
distance of activity area from dwellings, distance from public water supplies
and watersheds, camping areas and an adequate command post for use by personnel
of health, law enforcement and other governmental agencies;
      (2)   Adequate ingress and egress roads, parking facilities and entrances
and exits to public highways;
      (3)   Plan for limiting attendance and crowd control, dust control and
rapid emergency evacuation;
      (4)   Medical care, including facilities, services and personnel;
      (5)   Sanitary water supply, source and distribution; toilet facilities;
sewage disposal; solid waste collection and disposal; food dispensing; insect
and rodent control; and post-gathering clean-up; and
      (6)   Noise level at perimeter; lighting and electrical services and
signs.
§ 93.08 ORDER OF ABATEMENT.
   The town may apply for and secure injunctions or abatement orders from
courts of competent jurisdiction to ensure compliance with this chapter.
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor as provided by G.S. § 14-4.
CHAPTER 94: CEMETERIES
Section
   
94.01   Regulations generally
   
94.02   Receipt for lot
   
94.03   Transfer of lots
   
94.04   Erection of monuments
   
94.05   Superintendent
   
94.06   Cemetery use
   
94.07   Family markers
   
94.08   Structures
   
94.09   Burial must be in established cemetery
   
94.10   Plantings
   
94.11   Price and fees
   
94.12   Grave marking
   
94.13   New cemetery section
   
94.14   Conduct
   
94.15   Vehicles
   
94.16   Cleanliness
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 REGULATIONS GENERALLY.
   (A)   All lots within the own cemetery and within any extension of said
cemetery at any time hereafter made, whether owned by the town or by any other
person or persons, shall be subject to and regulated and controlled by the
provisions of this chapter. In all deeds of conveyance by the town to any
person or persons for any lot, the following provisions shall be included
therein as a covenant running with the land: “This conveyance is made subject
to an ordinance adopting rules and regulations for the control of the town
cemetery and providing penalties in relation thereto duly of record up to the
minute of the proceedings of the, and the grantee herein, Town Council or its
heirs and assigns, agree that upon the breach of any of its provisions, the
title to said property shall revert to the town”.
   (B)   In the case of loss or destruction of a municipal cemetery deed issued
by the town, satisfactory proof of such loss or destruction must be provided to
the town. If satisfactory proof has been provided and the deed recordings fee
received, a duplicate deed will be executed as set out to the original holder
or to any transferee of him or her.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 94.02 RECEIPT FOR LOT.
   (A)   All persons desiring to purchase a lot in the town cemetery shall
apply to the Town Clerk/Finance Officer, who, upon payment of the fixed price
for each lot, shall cause a receipt to be given the purchaser.
   (B)   A receipt shall be issued each purchaser with the statement: “Subject
to all ordinances, rules and regulations as set forth by the Town Council”,
after full payment has been received. An agreement that included these
applicable ordinances and a statement that purchaser agrees to all stipulations
and agrees that stipulations transfer to any and all future owners will be
signed by the purchaser. Payment shall be in full and agreement will be signed
and purchaser will be provided with a copy of agreement at such time. If
inherited, gifted, bought, should or in any way conveyed, transferor,
transferee or any legally authorized and appointed representative shall notify
Town Hall in a timely fashion.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 94.03 TRANSFER OF LOTS.
   (A)   No person who shall purchase any lot in said cemetery from the town
shall thereafter convey or alien the same to any other person, except upon the
written permission of the Town Council, nor in any event for a greater
consideration than that paid for the same lot by the grantor.
   (B)   Transfer of lot via will must be presented and verify with
identification by staff resell of lots only to the town for no more then $50,
if the sale price cannot be determined or receipt is not given.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 ERECTION OF MONUMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall erect, or cause or permit to be erected upon any
cemetery space located in any of the cemeteries maintained and owned by the
town any columbarium, monument, gravestone or marker, unless such columbarium,
monument, gravestone or marker hall be provided with a sufficient, secure and
permanent foundation to the end that such columbarium, gravestone, monument or
marker may not topple or lean from its foundation. Depending upon the location
and size, Columbariums or any above-ground monument, gravestone may be required
to have a foundation or support that extends a minimum of four and one-half
feet into the ground. This section shall not apply to plaques or markers which
are embedded in the cemetery upon a grave or graves when such plaque or marker
is flush with the surface of the lot whereon it is placed.
   (B)   The location of all columbariums, marker, monuments and/or plantings
is subject to approval of the designated town staff members. The addition of
copings, gravel or fences and other obstructions above the ground are typically
not allowed and require town approval prior to installation. An agreement must
be signed by both the gravesite owners and the town before any plantings can be
planted. Failure to obtain proper approval may and can result in removal of the
plantings, coping, fence or obstruction at the owner’s expense. All funeral
flowers placed on the grave immediately after interment will be removed by town
personnel no less than five days and no more than 30 days after the service.
Should any columbarium, marker, monument, memorial and/or plantings become
unsightly, dilapidated or a safety hazard, after notice to the owner, if the
owner can be contacted and failure for the owner to comply within 30 days, the
town shall have the right, at the expense of the owner, to correct the
condition or remove the same.
   (C)   No more than two markers per gravesite for two individual cremains/
infant burials or one marker for both cremains/infant burials will be allowed.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Town Manager to appoint some suitable
person as Superintendent of the town cemetery, who shall serve as such at the
will of the Town Manager.
   (B)   The Superintendent shall have powers and duties as shall be conferred
upon him or her by this section and or any ordinance, resolution or order of
the Council at any time hereafter adopted or made. The Superintendent shall
have charge of the up-keep, protection and preservation of the cemetery; he or
she are to be notified of the digging of all graves, the interment and
disinterment of bodies; the erection of monuments and markers; supervise the
planting of any and all shrubbery, trees and flowers and make provision for the
entrance and exit of persons and vehicles to and from the cemetery.
   (C)   Provided, however, the Superintendent shall not contract any debt or
expend any money without first having obtained the consent and approval of the
Town Manager.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 94.06 CEMETERY USE.
   (A)   The town cemetery shall be used for the burial of all persons and no
person shall be interred or disinterred therein without lawful authority and
permission first had and obtained. All graves shall allow at least 18 inches of
cover.
   (B)   The cemetery is for the burial of the human dead only. No animal may
be buried in the town cemetery.
   (C)   Two families may share one family plot with the monument placed in the
center. A different name can be on each side of the same monument.
   (D)   (1)   No person shall be interred or disinterred in the town
cemeteries without lawful authority and the permission of the town. Only one
adult vault/casket burial and up to two cremains/infant burials are permitted
per grave space. Each cremains/infant burial is limited to one-half of the
grave space. Columbariums for private use shall be limited to one grave plot in
size, four feet by ten feet and five feet in height, and shall provide a
minimum of four feet of open space on the access side(s) of the columbarium.
Open space may be provided by acquiring adjacent vacant grave spaces. Niches
shall be restricted to family members.
      (2)   Vertical columbariums shall be free standing with capstones of
granite, limestone, slate or cast stone. The opening side of columbarium shall
have cast bronze face with rear and side construction of granite, limestone,
late, cast stone or similar materials. Only low maintenance materials which
provide a pleasing appearance are allowed for columbarium construction with
wood, cinder blocks, stucco applied finishes and other similar materials are
prohibited. The design and material selection is subject to the approval of the
appropriate town staff.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to trespass upon private cemetery
lots or to go across cemeteries or cemeteries lots belonging to the town,
between 9:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. the next morning, except for the purpose of
burials, attending funerals or for other governmentally authorized cemetery
business or maintenance.
   (F)   All pets must be on a leash and owners of pets must clean up after
their pets.
   (G)   All funeral arrangements must be made during regular office hours. To
guarantee a weekend burial, funeral arrangements must be made by noon on the
Friday prior to the burial. All graves shall be dug under the supervision of a
duly authorized agent or employee of the town. All grave space charges shall be
imposed according to a cemetery fee schedule established by the Town Council,
which schedule is set out in the Town Fee Schedule or other approvals.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 94.07 FAMILY MARKERS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any individual, corporation or organization
to place any marker, coping, plot or ornament in the town cemetery unless the
marker, coping, post or ornament shall have a cement base with the base
extending four inches from all sides of side monument, coping, post or granite
ornament and be flush with the ground. The base shall be at least eight inches
thick for all markers and at least four inches thick for any post, coping or
ornament, or granite, being four inches thick with a two-inch concrete
foundation atop or an eight inch concrete base.
   (B)   Any marker placed at any grave site in the cemetery blocks on the
south side of the old cemetery shall be no higher than ground level or low
enough to mow over.
   (C)   (1)   Any marker placed at any grave site in the cemetery blocks on
the south side of the old cemetery shall no higher than ground level or low
enough to mow over.
      (2)   To prevent the monument from settling, foundations for the upright
family monuments shall be excavated to firm, solid ground and two holes shall
be dug 24 inches deep or to rock, with posthole diggers. The holes are to be
placed 12 inches from each end of footing and on centerline of the proposed
monument.
      (3)   All foundations are to be formed to ensure straight lines and
poured in one continuous pour with #3000 concrete. The foundations for the
family monuments shall be eight inches thick, or four inches of granite thick
with two inches of cement thick, flush with the ground and extending five
inches on both sides and both ends beyond the stone works.
      (4)   If concrete other than commercial is used, concrete shall be mixed
using clean washed sand, three-fourths to one-inch crushed stone or gravel or
Portland cement. No dry-poured foundations or chunks of broken monuments in the
mixture will be permitted. To prevent damage, concrete foundation must set
seven days before placing the monument.
      (5)   No part of a monument or base shall be constructed closer than 24
inches to the property line.
   (D)   Monuments only to be allowed in the old section of the cemetery. New
section and future sections will only allow markers.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.08 STRUCTURES.
   No mausoleum, tomb, building or other structure of any kind shall be erected
on any lot within said cemetery, or within any extension of said cemetery;
provided, however, that mausoleums and tombs may be constructed on lots which
may be designated on the plat and plan of said lots which may be designated on
the plat and plan of said cemetery from time to time by the Town Council as
lots to be used exclusively for mausoleums and tombs. Should any mausoleum,
monument or tomb at any time become unsafe, unsightly or in need of repair or
resetting, the Superintendent shall so notify the owner of said lot or any
person having an interest in said lot, and shall request such person to make
the needed repairs under his or her supervision, and if such person shall fail
to make such repairs within 30 days thereafter, the Town Council may order such
repairs to be made or remove the same from said lot as said Board may elect.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 94.09 BURIAL MUST BE IN ESTABLISHED CEMETERY.
   (A)   No person shall be buried within the corporate limits of the town
other than in established cemeteries licensed by the State Burial Association
Commission or in church cemeteries.
   (B)   No new cemeteries or place of burial shall be hereafter established
and maintained within the town limits without the consent of the Town Council.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.10 PLANTINGS.
   No person shall plant or set any tree, shrub, flower, grass or other plant
of any kind in the cemetery, except with the approval of and under the
supervision of the Superintendent.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.11 PRICE AND FEES.
   The Town Council shall establish a schedule of prices for lots and fees for
grave marking. The schedule may be amended from time to time by the Town
Council, in its sole discretion. A copy of the schedule shall be maintained in
the office of the Town Clerk and is hereby incorporated by reference.
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed - -)
§ 94.12 GRAVE MARKING.
   Grave markings must be requested and paid for by the funeral home prior to
marking unless other arrangements have been made and approved by the Town
Manager. The grave marking fee shall be in addition to the price of each lot.
It is the responsibility of the funeral home to establish that the decedent may
be lawfully interred in the grave to be marked. The shall be no grave marking
after hours or after Thursday by 4:00 p.m.
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed - -)
§ 94.13 NEW CEMETERY SECTION.
   (A) New section. The section of the town cemetery that lies along the length
of the southern border of the cemetery shall adhere to the following rules:
      (1)   No businesses or corporate purchases;
      (2)   No more than eight graves purchased by a single individual;
      (3)   No family plots (grave spaces are purchased in single grave spaces
totaling no more than eight spots); and
      (4)   Marker sizes:
         (a)   For a single grave space, the marker shall be no longer than 24
inches in width;
         (b)   For two grave spaces, the marker shall be no longer than 54
inches in width; or
         (c)   May be flush to the ground.
   (B)   Future section. [This division is reserved for potential expansion of
the cemetery at a later date. “future section” will utilize the same criteria
as division (A) above.]
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 94.14 CONDUCT.
   No person shall disturb the quiet, repose and good order of the cemetery,
nor shall any person deface, remove, disturb, injure or destroy any tree, plant
or shrub therein, except in the manner herein provided; trespassing within said
cemetery is hereby prohibited; and no person shall commit any immoral act
therein under penalty of the law therein prescribed.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.15 VEHICLES.
   (A)   Vehicles shall be driven only upon the roadways within said cemetery,
and at a rate of speed not in excess of 15 mph.
   (B)   No vehicles shall enter said cemetery except for the purpose of
attending funerals, visiting graves or other lawful mission.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.16 CLEANLINESS.
   No person shall deposit any rubbish, filth, waste or other unclean or
unsightly substance in said cemetery, and all materials carried within said
cemetery and not used in the erection of monuments, markers or other lawful
structures authorized herein shall be promptly removed therefrom by the owner
of the lot upon which such monument, marker or structure shall be located.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of this chapter
shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished in
accordance with the provisions of G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. passed - -)
CHAPTER 95: ANIMALS
Section
Livestock and Containment Animals
   
95.01   Definitions
   
95.02   Running at large
   
95.03   Impoundment and disposition of containment animals and livestock
running at large
   
95.04   Proximity to adjoining property
   
95.05   Number of livestock
   
95.06   Livestock, containment animals, swine or hog pens not permitted
   
95.07   Condition of enclosures
   
95.08   Slaughtering of livestock and containment animals
   
95.09   Disposition of dead livestock and containment animals
   
95.10   Repeal and reenactment of existing Animal Ordinance of the town
Dogs
   
95.25   Definitions
   
95.26   Running at large or causing nuisance
   
95.27   Female dogs in heat
   
95.28   Location of pens and enclosures
   
95.29   Number of dogs regulated
   
95.30   Impoundment
   
95.31   Dangerous dogs
Administration and Enforcement
   
95.45   Animal Control Officer to enforce provisions
 
   
95.99   Penalty
LIVESTOCK AND CONTAINMENT ANIMALS
§ 95.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AT LARGE. An animal shall be deemed to be AT LARGE when it is off the real
property of its owner or keeper and not under physical restraint.
   BONA FIDE FARM.
      (1)   Any tract (or tracts of land under common ownership or control) on
which a party is actively engaged in a substantial way in the commercial
production or growing of crops, plants, livestock, poultry or aqua-culture
operations.
      (2)   BONA FIDE FARM shall include horse riding and boarding facilities.
   CONTAINMENT ANIMALS. Animals that are usually enclosed in “houses” or open
pens with high concentration of animals such as swine, chickens, rabbits,
quail, turkeys, geese, ducks, guinea, fowl, pigeons and pheasants.
   LIVESTOCK. Includes, but shall not be limited to, equine animals, bovine
animals, sheep, goats and other grazing animals that are enclosed in a fenced
pasture.
§ 95.02 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit any containment animal or
livestock to run at large.
Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.03 IMPOUNDMENT AND DISPOSITION OF CONTAINMENT ANIMALS AND LIVESTOCK
RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be the duty of the Animal Control Officer to impound any
containment animals or livestock running at large within the corporate limits
and to dispose of such as required under state law.
§ 95.04 PROXIMITY TO ADJOINING PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to locate, keep, tie or stake, or to use
any stable, pen or other enclosure for the purpose of keeping any containment
animal or livestock within the town closer than 100 feet from the adjoining
property owner’s line; provided that, if the person resides in an apartment
complex, the distance shall also be 100 feet from any other apartment unit in
that complex.   
Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.05 NUMBER OF LIVESTOCK.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to locate, keep or maintain any
livestock on a lot or parcel of land within the corporate limits less than one
acre.
   (B)   For lots or parcels of land exceeding one acre, it shall be unlawful
for any person to locate, keep or maintain livestock in a greater number than
one animal for each full acre of land.
Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.06 LIVESTOCK, CONTAINMENT ANIMALS SWINE OR HOG PENS NOT PERMITTED.
   No person shall be permitted to keep or maintain any hog pen or keep any
swine, livestock or containment animals within the corporate limits or within
100 feet of the corporate limits of the town.
Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.07 CONDITION OF ENCLOSURES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow an animal enclosure of any
nature to become unsanitary or allow mosquitoes, flies or other insects and
vermin to breed therein.
Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.08 SLAUGHTERING OF CONTAINMENT ANIMALS OR LIVESTOCK.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to slaughter any containment animals or
livestock within the corporate limits, except in connection with the operation
of a bona fide farm or a properly permitted slaughtering and dressing facility.
Slaughtering in connection with a bona fide farm operation shall not take place
closer than 100 feet from the adjoining property owner’s line.
Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.09 DISPOSITION OF DEAD LIVESTOCK AND CONTAINMENT ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the owner or person in charge of any livestock
or containment animal larger than 100 pounds that dies from any cause, and of
the owner, lessee or person in charge of any land upon which any such animal
dies, to bury the same to a depth of at least three feet beneath the surface of
the ground, then approved by the county’s Health Officer, within 24 hours after
the death of the animal, or to otherwise dispose of the same in a manner
approved by the county’s Health Officer.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove the carcasses of dead
livestock or containment animals from his or her premises to the premises of
any other person without the written permission of the person having charge of
such premises and without burying such carcasses as provided in division (A)
above, where applicable.
Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.10 REPEAL AND REENACTMENT OF EXISTING ANIMAL ORDINANCE OF THE TOWN.
   (A)   The rewriting of this chapter in part carries forth by reenactment
some of the provisions of the existing animal ordinance of the town and is not
intended to repeal, but rather to reenact and continue in force such existing
provisions so that all rights and liabilities that have been accrued are
preserved and may be enforced.
   (B)   All provisions of the animal ordinance which are not reenacted herein
are hereby repealed.
DOGS
§ 95.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner, and not under the control of the
owner or a member of his or her immediate family, or his or her properly
designated agent, by leash, cord, chain or otherwise.
   DOG. A domesticated member of the canine family and includes both male and
female.
   OWNER. Any person, firm, association or corporation owning, keeping or
harboring a dog.
§ 95.26 RUNNING AT LARGE OR CAUSING NUISANCE.
   No owner or keeper of any dog shall permit such dog to run at large or cause
a nuisance to any other person.
Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.27 FEMALE DOGS IN HEAT.
   Female dogs in heat shall be confined in such a manner as to prevent them
from attracting other dogs.
Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.28 LOCATION OF PENS AND ENCLOSURES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to locate, construct, reconstruct,
alter, maintain or use on any lot or parcel of land within the corporate limits
any pen or other enclosure for the purpose of keeping more than two dogs over
four months of age, unless every part of each pen or enclosure is located at
least 100 feet from the adjoining property owner’s inhabited structure.
Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.29 NUMBER OF DOGS REGULATED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to locate, keep or maintain on any lot
or parcel of land within the corporate limits more than two dogs over four
months of age, except as specified §
95.28 of this chapter.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.30 IMPOUNDMENT.
   Any dog found running at large contrary to the provisions of this subchapter
and/or state statutes shall be caused to be impounded in the County Animal
Shelter. The owner shall be notified in accordance with county regulations, and
disposition shall be in accordance with county regulations.
§ 95.31 DANGEROUS DOGS.
   Reference is made to G.S. §§ 67-4.1 and 67-4.2, which are incorporated
herein by reference. The Animal Control Officer is designated as the person
responsible for determining when a dog is a potentially dangerous dog, as
defined and provided in G.S. § 67-4.1, and the Board of Adjustment is hereby
designated as the Board to hear any appeal.
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 95.45 ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER TO ENFORCE PROVISIONS.
   It shall be the duty of the town to cooperate with the Animal Control
Officer in any manner which will more efficiently and effectively carry out the
terms of this chapter.
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Sections
95.01 through
95.10 of this chapter shall be enforced pursuant to §
10.99 of the town.
CHAPTER 96: NUISANCES
Section
Public Nuisances
   
96.01   Public nuisance conditions; private property
Abandoned, Junked and Nuisance Vehicles
   
96.15   Administration
   
96.16   Definitions
   
96.17   Abandoned vehicle unlawful; removal authorized
   
96.18   Nuisance vehicle unlawful; removal authorized
   
96.19   Junked motor vehicle regulated; removal authorized
   
96.20   Removal; pre-towing notice requirements
   
96.21   Exceptions to prior notice requirement
   
96.22   Removal of vehicles; post-towing notice requirements
   
96.23   Right to probable cause hearing before sale, final disposition of
vehicle
   
96.24   Redemption of vehicle during proceedings
   
96.25   Sale, disposition of unclaimed vehicle
   
96.26   Conditions on removal of vehicles from private property
   
96.27   Protection against criminal or civil liability
   
96.28   Exceptions
   
96.29   Unlawful removal of impounded vehicle
   
96.30   Alternative remedies
Miscellaneous Nuisances
   
96.45   Firearms regulated
   
96.46   Posting bills or other advertising
   
96.47   “Popper” fireballs at Christmas parade
   
96.48   Storage of use of upholstered furniture outdoors
PUBLIC NUISANCES
§ 96.01 PUBLIC NUISANCE CONDITIONS; PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   Administration. For the purpose of this section, the term NUISANCE
shall mean or refer to any condition or any use of property or any act or
omission affecting the condition or use of property which threatens or is
likely to threaten the safety of the public; adversely affects the general
health, happiness, security or welfare of others or, is detrimental to the
rights of others to the full use of their own property and their own comfort,
happiness and emotional stability because of decreased property values and the
unsightliness and decreased livability of neighborhoods.
   (B)   Declaration of public nuisance. The following enumerated and described
conditions, or any combination thereof, are hereby found, deemed and declared
to constitute a detriment, danger and hazard to the health, safety, morals and
general welfare of the inhabitants of the town. They are hereby found, deemed
and declared to be public nuisances wherever the conditions may exist within
the corporate limits as now or hereafter established. The creation, maintenance
or failure to abate any nuisances is hereby declared unlawful:
      (1)   Any weeds or other vegetation having an overall height of more than
12 inches above the surrounding ground; provided that, the following shall not
be considered to be a part of this condition: trees and ornamental shrubs;
cultured plants; natural vegetation on undeveloped property that is not a
threat to the character of surrounding properties; and flowers and growing and
producing vegetable plants. It shall be the duty of every person occupying,
owning or having control of property abutting on a street or highway that
utilizes a portion of the unused street or highway right-of-way as a yard or
any other use to maintain said right-of-way in the same character and manner as
the abutting use;
      (2)   Any accumulation of trash, garbage, food waste and other trash
which is the result of the absence of, or overflowing of, or improperly closed
trash or garbage containers, that attracts or is likely to attract mice and
rats, flies and mosquitoes or other pests;
      (3)   An open or unsecured storage or collection place for chemicals,
acids, oils, gasoline, flammable or combustible materials or flammable or
combustible liquids, poisonous materials or other similar harmful or dangerous
substances, gasses or vapors;
      (4)   An open place, collection, storage place or concentration of
combustible items such as mattresses, boxes, paper, automobile tires and tubes,
garbage, trash, refuse, brush, old clothes, rags, or any other combustible
materials collection;
      (5)   An open storage place for old worn out, broken or discarded
machinery, car parts, junk, tire rims, furniture, stoves, refrigerators,
appliances, cans and containers, household goods, plumbing or electrical
fixtures, old rusty metal, fencing materials or other similar materials;
      (6)   Any accumulation of garbage, rubbish, trash or junk causing or
threatening to cause a fire hazard, or causing or threatening to cause the
accumulation of stagnant water, or causing or threatening to cause the
inhabitation therein of rats, mice, snakes, mosquitoes or vermin prejudicial to
the public health;
      (7)   Any accumulation of animal or vegetable matter that is offensive by
virtue of odors or vapors or by the inhabitance therein of rats, mice, snakes
or vermin of any kind which is or may be dangerous or prejudicial to the public
health;
      (8)   The open storage of any ice box, furniture, refrigerator, stove,
glass, building materials, building rubbish or similar items. The use of
carports, open porches, decks, open garages and other outdoor areas that are
visible from the street as a storage or collection place for boxes, appliances,
furniture (not typical outdoor or yard furniture), tools, equipment, junk,
garbage, old worn out broken or discarded machinery and equipment, cans,
containers, household goods or other similar condition that increase the
likelihood of a fire; may conceal dangerous conditions; may be a breeding place
or habitat for mice, rats or other pests; or, create an unattractive condition
or visually blighted property;
      (9)   A collection place for lumber, bricks, blocks, nails, building
hardware, roofing materials, scaffolding, masonry materials, electrical
supplies or materials, plumbing supplies or materials, heating and air
conditioning supplies or materials or any other type of old or unusable
building supplies (especially those with nails, staples or sharp objects and
edges) unless such conditions are temporary in nature and caused by a current
construction project in progress pursuant to a lawfully issued building permit;
      (10)   Any building or other structure which has been burned, partially
burned or otherwise partially destroyed and which is unsightly or hazardous to
the safety of any person, is a continuing fire hazard or which is structurally
unsound to the extent that the Code Administrator or his or her designee can
reasonably determine that there is a likelihood of personal or property injury
to any person or property entering the premises;
      (11)   The placement, storage or use of upholstered sofas, couches,
chairs or other indoor type furniture, appliances, seats removed from motor
vehicles or other furniture not intended for outdoor use by the manufacturer,
use on any open porch, carport, stoop, deck, veranda, terrace, patio or other
outdoor area that is visible from nearby streets and sidewalks;
      (12)   A collection place, pool or pond of stagnant or foul water or
persistent dampness caused by overflowing septic tanks, manmade dams, open
ditches, overflowing pipes, foundation trenches or other impoundments of any
kind;
      (13)   Barns or farm animal pens, pastures or enclosures for farm animals
which are not kept sanitary and clean or otherwise become a collection place
for animal waste and which because of the conditions associated therewith
attract rats, mice, flies or other pests or emit foul odors that can be
detected or noticed on adjacent properties or are otherwise not kept in a
sanitary condition;
      (14)   Dog lots, pens, pet enclosures of all kinds, outdoor areas where
dogs or other pets are chained or kept or areas where dogs and cats are
permitted to roam which become a collection place for dog, cat or pet waste and
excrement and which attract flies or other pests, emit foul odors which can be
detected or noticed on adjacent property or are not kept in a sanitary
condition;
      (15)   A collection place for sewage and sewage drainage or the seepage
from septic tanks, broken or malfunctioning plumbing and sewer pipes or any
other seepage of dangerous, hazardous or poisonous liquids;
      (16)   A collection place for tree limbs, dried brush, dead vegetation,
stumps or other decayed wood and materials or other similar rubbish;
      (17)   Any discharge into or polluting of any stream, creek, river or
other body of water or the discharge of any dangerous substance or any other
material likely to harm the water or any vegetation, fish or wildlife in or
along the water or the storage of such harmful materials and substances in a
manner so that it is likely that such streams, creeks, rivers or other bodies
of water will become polluted or adversely affected in any manner;
      (18)   Any condition which blocks, hinders, or obstructs in any way the
natural flow of branches, streams, creeks, surface waters, ditches, or drains,
to the extent that the premises is not free from standing water;
      (19)   Any conditions or use of property, which results in the emission
of pollutants and particles into the atmosphere or causes noxious odors, vapors
and stenches to be discharged into the air;
      (20)   Nuisance vehicle: A vehicle on public or private property that is
determined and declared to be a health or safety hazard, a public nuisance and
unlawful, including a vehicle found to be:
         (a)   A breeding ground or harbor for mosquitoes, other insects, rats
or other pests;
         (b)   A point of heavy growth of weeds or other noxious vegetation
which exceeds eight inches in height;
         (c)   In a condition allowing the collection of pools or ponds of
water;
         (d)   A concentration of quantities of gasoline, oil or other
flammable or explosive materials as evidenced by odor;
         (e)   An area of confinement which cannot be operated from the inside,
such as, but not limited to, trunks or hoods;
         (f)   So situated or located that there is a danger of it falling or
turning over;
         (g)   A collection of garbage, food waste, animal waste or any other
rotten or putrescent matter of any kind;
         (h)   One which has sharp parts thereof which are jagged or contain
sharp edges of metal or glass; and/or
         (i)   Any other vehicle specifically declared a health and safety
hazard and a public nuisance by the Town Council.
      (21)   Any condition detrimental to the public health which violates the
rules and regulations of the county’s Health Department.
   (C)   Complaint; investigation of public nuisance.
      (1)   When any condition in violation of this section is found to exist,
the Code Administrator or such persons as may be designated by the Town Council
shall give notice to the owner of the premises to abate or remove such
conditions within ten days. Such notice shall be in writing, shall include a
description of the premises sufficient for identification and shall set forth
the violation and state that, if the violation is not corrected within ten
days, the city may proceed to correct the same as authorized by this section.
Service of such notice shall be by any one of the following methods:
         (a)   By delivery to any owner personally or by leaving the notice at
the usual place of abode of the owner with a person who is over the age of 16
years and a member of the family of the owner;
         (b)   By depositing the notice in the United States Post Office
addressed to the owner at his or her last known address with regular mail
postage prepaid thereon; and
         (c)   By posting and keeping posted, for ten days, a copy of the
notice, in placard form, in a conspicuous place on the premises on which the
violation exists, when notice cannot be served by either method in divisions
(C)(1)(a) and (C)(1)(b) above.
      (2)   The town may notify a chronic violator of the town’s public
nuisance ordinance that, if the violator’s property is found to be in violation
of this section, the town shall, without further notice in the calendar year in
which notice is given, take action to remedy the violation. The expense of such
action shall become a lien upon the property and shall be collected as unpaid
taxes. The notice shall be sent by registered or certified mail. When service
is attempted by registered or certified mail, a copy of the notice may also be
sent by regular mail. Service shall be deemed sufficient if the registered or
certified mail is unclaimed or refused, but the regular mail is not returned by
the post office within ten days after the mailing. If service by regular mail
is used, a copy of the notice shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the
premises affected. A chronic violator is a person who owns property whereupon,
in the previous calendar year, the town gave notice of violation at least three
times under any provision of the public nuisance ordinance.
   (D)   Abatement procedure. If the owner of any property fails to comply with
a notice given pursuant to this division (D), within ten days after the service
of such notice, he or she shall be subject to prosecution for violation of this
section in accordance with law and each day that such failure continues shall
be a separate offense. In addition, the town may have the condition described
in the notice abated, removed or otherwise corrected and all expenses incurred
thereby shall be chargeable to and paid by the owner of the property and shall
be collected as taxes and levies are collected. All such expenses shall
constitute a lien against the property on which the work was done.
   (E)   Procedure is alternative.
      (1)   The procedure set forth in this section shall be in addition to any
other remedies that may now or hereafter exist under law for the abatement of
public nuisances.
      (2)   In addition to the remedies provided for herein, any violation of
the terms of this section shall subject the violator to the penalties and
remedies as set forth in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 13-007, passed 9-3-2013) Penalty, see §
10.99
ABANDONED, JUNKED AND
NUISANCE VEHICLES
§ 96.15 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The Police Department and the Code Administrator of the town shall be
responsible for the administration and enforcement of this subchapter. The
Police Department shall be responsible for administering the removal and
disposition of vehicles determined to be “abandoned” on the public streets and
highways within the town, and on property owned by the town. The Code
Administrator shall be responsible for administering the removal and disposal
of “abandoned”, “nuisance” and “junked” motor vehicles located on private
property. The town may, on an annual basis, contract with private tow truck
operators or towing businesses to remove, store and dispose of abandoned
vehicles, nuisance vehicles and junked motor vehicles in compliance with this
subchapter and applicable state laws.
   (B)   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to limit the legal
authority or powers of officers of the Police Department and Fire Department in
enforcing other laws or in otherwise carrying out their duties.
(Ord. 13-006, passed 9-3-2013)
Statutory reference:
   Town authority for removal and disposal of junked and abandoned motor
vehicles, see G.S. § 160A-303
   Town authority for regulation of abandonment of junked motor vehicles, see
G.S. § 160A-303.2
§ 96.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. As authorized and defined in G.S. § 160A-303, one that:
      (1)   Is left upon a public street or highway in violation of a law or
ordinance prohibiting parking;
      (2)   Is left upon a public street or highway for longer than seven days;
      (3)   Is left upon property owned or operated by the town for longer that
24 hours; or
      (4)   Is left upon private property without the consent of the owner,
occupant or lessee thereof for longer than two hours.
   APPROVED MOTOR VEHICLE COVER. A ready fit cover made expressly for motor
vehicles which will resist decay, mildew and ultra violet sunlight.
   AUTHORIZED OFFICIAL. The supervisory employee of the Police Department or
the town’s Code Administrator, respectively, designated to order the removal of
vehicles under the provisions of this subchapter.
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE. As authorized and defined in G.S. § 160A-303.2, a
vehicle that does not display a current license plate lawfully upon that
vehicle and that:
      (1)   Is partially dismantled or wrecked;
      (2)   Cannot be self-propelled or move in the manner in which it
originally was intended to move; or
      (3)   Is more than five years old and appears to be worth less than an
amount as shall be as set by the Town Council from time to time.
   MOTOR VEHICLE or VEHICLE. All machines designed or intended to travel over
land or water by self-propulsion or while attached to any self-propelled
vehicle.
   NUISANCE VEHICLE. A vehicle on public or private property that is determined
and declared to be a health or safety hazard, a public nuisance and unlawful,
including a vehicle found to be:
      (1)   A breeding ground or harbor for mosquitoes, other insects, rats or
other pests;
      (2)   A point of heavy growth of weeds or other noxious vegetation which
exceeds eight inches in height;
      (3)   In a condition allowing the collection of pools or ponds of water;
      (4)   A concentration of quantities of gasoline, oil or other flammable
or explosive materials as evidenced by odor;
      (5)   An area of confinement which cannot be operated from the inside,
such as, but not limited to, trunks or hoods;
      (6)   So situated or located that there is a danger of it falling or
turning over;
      (7)   A collection of garbage, food waste, animal waste or any other
rotten or putrescent matter of any kind;
      (8)   One which has sharp parts thereof which are jagged or contain sharp
edges of metal or glass; and/or
      (9)   Any other vehicle specifically declared a health and safety hazard
and a public nuisance by the Town Council.
(Ord. 13-006, passed 9-3-2013)
§ 96.17 ABANDONED VEHICLE UNLAWFUL; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a vehicle to cause or allow such vehicle to be abandoned as the
term is defined herein.
   (B)   Upon investigation, the authorized officials of the town may determine
that a vehicle is an abandoned vehicle and order the vehicle removed.
(Ord. 13-006, passed 9-3-2013) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.18 NUISANCE VEHICLE UNLAWFUL; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee or occupant of the real
property upon which the vehicle is located to leave or allow the vehicle to
remain on the property after it has been declared a nuisance vehicle.
   (B)   Upon investigation, the town’s Code Administrator may determine and
declare that a vehicle is a health or safety hazard and a nuisance vehicle, as
defined above, and order the vehicle removed.
(Ord. 13-006, passed 9-3-2013) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.19 JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE REGULATED; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
the possession of a junked motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee or occupant
of the real property upon which a junked motor vehicle is located to leave or
allow the vehicle to remain on the property after the vehicle has been ordered
removed.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to have more than one junked motor vehicle, as
defined herein, on the premises of private property. A single, permitted junked
motor vehicle must strictly comply with the location and concealment
requirements of this subchapter.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, person entitled to the possession
of a junked motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee or occupant of the real
property upon which a junked motor vehicle is located to fail to comply with
the location requirements or the concealment requirements of this subchapter.
   (D)   Subject to the provisions of division (E) below, the town’s Code
Administrator may order the removal of a junked motor vehicle found in
violation of this subchapter to a storage garage or area. No such vehicle shall
be removed from private property without the written request of the owner,
lessee or occupant of the premises unless the Code Administrator finds in
writing that the aesthetic benefits of removing the vehicle outweigh the
burdens imposed on the private property owner. Such finding shall be based on a
balancing of the monetary loss of the apparent owner against the corresponding
gain to the public by promoting or enhancing community, neighborhood or area
appearance. The following, among other relevant factors, may be considered:
      (1)   Protection of property values;
      (2)   Promotion of tourism and other economic development opportunities;
      (3)   Indirect protection of public health and safety;
      (4)   Preservation of the character and integrity of the community; and
      (5)   Promotion of the comfort, happiness and emotional stability of the
area residents.
   (E)   (1)   One junked motor vehicle, in its entirety, may be located in the
rear yard, as defined in the Land Use Development Ordinance; provided, the
junked motor vehicle is entirely concealed from public view from a public
street and/or abutting premises by an acceptable covering for not more than 60
calendar days. Junked motor vehicles kept on the premises more than 60 calendar
days shall be kept inside a completely enclosed building. The Code
Administrator has the authority to determine whether any junked motor vehicle
is adequately concealed as required by this provision. The covering must remain
in good repair and must not be allowed to deteriorate.
      (2)   Any one or more junked motor vehicles kept for a period exceeding
60 calendar days shall be kept within a completely enclosed building, as
defined in the Land Use Development Ordinance.
(Ord. 13-006, passed 9-3-2013) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.20 REMOVAL; PRE-TOWING NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as set forth in §
96.21 of this chapter, an abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle which is
to be removed shall be towed only after notice to the registered owner or
person entitled to possession of the vehicle.
      (2)   In the case of a nuisance vehicle or a junked motor vehicle, if the
names and addresses of the registered owner or person entitled to the
possession of the vehicle, or the owner, lessee or occupant of the real
property upon which the vehicle is located can be ascertained in the exercise
of reasonable diligence, the notice shall be given by first- class mail. The
person who mails the notice(s) shall retain a written record to show the name
(s) and address(es) to whom and to which mailed, and the date mailed.
      (3)   If such names and addresses cannot be ascertained or if the vehicle
to be removed is an abandoned motor vehicle, notice shall be given by affixing
on the windshield or some other conspicuous place on the vehicle a notice
indicating that the vehicle will be removed by the town on a specified date (no
sooner than seven days after the notice is affixed).
      (4)   The notice shall state that the vehicle will be removed by the town
on a specified date, no sooner than seven days after the notice is mailed or
affixed, unless the vehicle is moved by the owner or legal possessor prior to
that time.
   (B)   With respect to abandoned vehicles on private property, nuisance
vehicles and junked vehicles to which notice is required to be given, if the
registered owner or person entitled to possession does not remove the vehicle,
but chooses to appeal the determination that the vehicle is abandoned, a
nuisance vehicle or in the case of a junked motor vehicle that the aesthetic
benefits of removing the vehicle outweigh the burdens, such appeal shall be
made to the Board of Adjustment in writing, heard at the next regularly
scheduled meeting of the Board of Adjustment, and further proceedings to remove
the vehicle shall be stayed until the appeal is heard and decided.
(Ord. 13-006, passed 9-3-2013)
§ 96.21 EXCEPTIONS TO PRIOR NOTICE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   (1)   The requirement that notice be given prior to the removal of an
abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle may, as determined by the
authorized official, be omitted in those circumstances where there is a special
need for prompt action to eliminate traffic obstructions or to otherwise
maintain and protect the police and public welfare.
      (2)   Such findings shall, in all cases, be entered by the authorized
official in the appropriate daily records.
   (B)   Circumstances justifying the removal of vehicles without prior notice
include:
      (1)   Vehicles abandoned on the streets. For vehicles left on the public
streets and highways, the Town Council hereby determines that the immediate
removal of such vehicles may be warranted when they are:
         (a)   Obstructing traffic;
         (b)   Parked in violation of an ordinance prohibiting or restricting
parking;
         (c)   Parked in a no-stopping or standing zone;
         (d)   Parked in loading zones;
         (e)   Parked in bus zones; or
         (f)   Parked in violation of temporary parking restrictions.
      (2)   Other abandoned or nuisance vehicles. 
         (a)   With respect to abandoned or nuisance vehicles left on town-
owned property other than the streets or highways, and on private property,
such vehicles may be removed without giving prior notice only in those
circumstances where the authorized official finds a special need for prompt
action to protect and maintain the public health, safety and welfare.
         (b)   By way of illustration and not of limitation, such circumstances
include vehicles blocking or obstructing ingress or egress to businesses and
residences, vehicles parked in such location or manner as to pose a traffic
hazard, and vehicles causing damage to public or private property.
(Ord. 13-006, passed 9-3-2013)
§ 96.22 REMOVAL OF VEHICLES; POST-TOWING NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle which has been ordered
removed may, as directed by the town, be removed to a storage garage or area by
a tow truck operator or towing business contracted to perform such services for
the town.
   (B)   Whenever such a vehicle is removed, the authorized town official shall
immediately notify the last known registered owner of the vehicle with such
notice to include the following:
      (1)   The description of the removed vehicle;
      (2)   The location where the vehicle is stored;
      (3)   The violation with which the owner is charged, if any;
      (4)   The procedure the owner must follow to redeem the vehicle; and
      (5)   The procedure the owner must follow to request a probable cause
hearing on the removal.
   (C)   The town shall attempt to give notice to the vehicle owner by
telephone; however, whether or not the owner is reached by telephone, written
notice, indicating the information set forth in divisions (B)(1) through (B)(5)
above, shall also be mailed to the registered owner’s last known address,
unless this notice is waived in writing by the vehicle owner or his or her
agent.
   (D)   If the vehicle is registered in North Carolina, notice shall be given
within 24 hours. If the vehicle is not registered in the state, notice shall be
given to the registered owner within 72 hours from the removal of the vehicle.
   (E)   Whenever an abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle is removed,
and such vehicle has no valid registration or registration plates, the
authorized town official shall make reasonable efforts, including checking the
vehicle identification number to determine the last known registered owner of
the vehicle and to notify him or her of the information set forth in divisions
(B)(1) through (B)(5) above.
(Ord. 13-006, passed 9-3-2013)
§ 96.23 RIGHT TO PROBABLE CAUSE HEARING BEFORE SALE, FINAL DISPOSITION OF
VEHICLE.
   (A)   After the removal of an abandoned vehicle, nuisance vehicle or junked
motor vehicle, the owner or any person entitled to possession is entitled to a
hearing for the purpose of determining if probable cause existed for removing
the vehicle.
   (B)   A request for hearing must be filed in writing with the County
Magistrate designated by the Chief District Court Judge to receive such hearing
requests.
   (C)   The Magistrate will set the hearing within 72 hours of receipt of the
request, and the hearing will be conducted in accordance with the provisions of
G.S. § 20-219.11, as amended.
(Ord. 13-006, passed 9-3-2013)
§ 96.24 REDEMPTION OF VEHICLE DURING PROCEEDINGS.
   At any stage in the proceedings, including before the probable cause
hearing, the owner may obtain possession of the removed vehicle by paying the
towing fees, including any storage charges, or by posting a bond for double the
amount of such fees and charges to the tow truck operator or towing business
having custody of the removed vehicle. Upon regaining possession of a vehicle,
the owner or person entitled to the possession of the vehicle shall not allow
or engage in further violations of this subchapter.
(Ord. 13-006, passed 9-3-2013)
§ 96.25 SALE, DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLE.
   (A)   Any abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle which is not claimed
by the owner or other party entitled to possession will be disposed of by the
tow truck operator or towing business having custody of the vehicle.
   (B)   Disposition of such a vehicle shall be carried out in coordination
with the town and in accordance with G.S. Ch. 44A, Art. 1.
(Ord. 13-006, passed 9-3-2013)
§ 96.26 CONDITIONS ON REMOVAL OF VEHICLES FROM PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   (1)   As a general policy, the town will not remove a vehicle from
private property if the owner, occupant or lessee of such property could have
the vehicle removed under applicable state law procedures.
      (2)   In no case will a vehicle be removed by the town from private
property without a written request of the owner, occupant or lessee, except in
those cases where the vehicle is a nuisance vehicle or is a junked motor
vehicle which has been ordered removed by the town’s Code Administrator.
   (B)   The town may require any person requesting the removal of an
abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle from private property to indemnify
the town against any loss, expense or liability incurred because of the
removal, storage or sale thereof.
(Ord. 13-006, passed 9-3-2013)
§ 96.27 PROTECTION AGAINST CRIMINAL OR CIVIL LIABILITY.
   No person shall be held to answer in any civil or criminal action to any
owner or other person legally entitled to the possession of an abandoned,
nuisance or junked motor vehicle, for disposing of such vehicle as provided in
this subchapter.
(Ord. 13-006, passed 9-3-2013)
§ 96.28 EXCEPTIONS.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall apply to any vehicle:
   (A)   Which is located in a bona fide “automobile graveyard” or “junkyard”,
as defined in G.S. § 136-143, in accordance with the state’s Junkyard Control
Act, G.S. §§ 136-141 et seq.;
   (B)   Which is in an enclosed building;
   (C)   Which is on the premises of a business enterprise being operated in a
lawful place and manner; or
   (D)   Which is in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained in a
lawful place and manner by the town.
(Ord. 13-006, passed 9-3-2013)
§ 96.29 UNLAWFUL REMOVAL OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or attempt to remove from any
storage facility designated by the town, any vehicle which has been impounded
pursuant to the provision of this subchapter unless and until all towing and
impoundment fees which are due, or bond in lieu of such fees, have been paid.
(Ord. 13-006, passed 9-3-2013) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.30 ALTERNATIVE REMEDIES.
   Nothing in this subchapter, nor any of its provisions, shall be construed to
impair or limit in any way the power of the town to define and declare
nuisances and to cause their removal or abatement by summary proceedings or
otherwise, nor shall enforcement of one remedy provided herein prevent the
enforcement of any other remedy or remedies provided herein or in other
ordinances or laws. In addition to the remedies provided for herein, any
violation of the terms of this subchapter shall subject the violator to the
penalties and remedies, as set forth in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 13-006, passed 9-3-2013)
MISCELLANEOUS NUISANCES
§ 96.45 FIREARMS REGULATED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any firearm of any type
within the corporate limits, except when used in defense of person or property
or pursuant to lawful directions of law enforcement officers or except a peace
officer in the performance of his or her duty.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.46 POSTING BILLS OR OTHER ADVERTISING.
   No person shall stick, paint, brand, stamp, write or put upon any house,
fence, wall, pavement, post or upon any property, owned by any person, firm or
corporation, or owned by the town any printed, written, painted or other
advertisement, bill, notice, sign or poster without first having obtained the
written permission of the owner of the property and having received a permit
from the Town Clerk.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.47 “POPPER” FIREBALLS AT CHRISTMAS PARADE.
   It shall be unlawful for any persons, individually or in a group, to
discharge “popper” fireballs and/or similar items in the town during the
Christmas parade.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.48 STORAGE OF USE OF UPHOLSTERED FURNITURE OUTDOORS.
   (A)   Prohibition. It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, store or use
any upholstered furniture in any outdoor location on any property unless it is
totally enclosed in a weather-tight building.
   (B)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      UPHOLSTERED FURNITURE. Any furniture made of materials such as fabrics,
padding and springs used to make a soft covering for seating or other non-
weatherproof household, automobile or office items including, but not limited
to, sofas, chairs, end tables, lamps, desks and materials designed primarily
for interior household or office use.
   (C)   Abatement. A violation of this section shall be considered to be a
public nuisance and shall be abated in accordance with §§
96.20 and
96.22 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 5-2-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 97: NOISE CONTROL
Section
   
97.01   Definitions
   
97.02   Loud, raucous and disturbing noises prohibited, generally
   
97.03   Noise measurement
   
97.04   Particular sounds impacting residential life
   
97.05   Amplified sound
   
97.06   Permits for additional amplification
   
97.07   Animals
   
97.08   Motor vehicle noise
 
   
97.99   Penalty
§ 97.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. All words
used in this chapter not defined below shall be in conformance with the
applicable publications of the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) or
its successor body.
   DECIBEL (dB). A unit for describing the amplitude of sound, equal to 20
times the logarithm to the base 10 of the ratio of the pressure of the sound
measured to the reference pressure, which is 20 micronewtons per square meter.
   LOUD, RAUCOUS, DISTURBING NOISE. Any sound which is made unlawful by the
subsequent sections of this chapter.
   RESIDENTIALLY ZONED PROPERTY. Any zoning district designated as primarily
residential in the land use ordinance of the town.
   SOUND. An oscillation in pressure, particle displacement, particle velocity
or other physical parameter, in a medium with internal forces that causes
compression and rarefaction of that medium. The description of SOUND may
include any characteristic of the sound, including duration, intensity and
frequency.
   SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL. Twenty times the logarithms to the base 10 of the
ratio of the root mean squared (RMS) sound pressure to the reference pressure
of 20 micronewtons per square meter.
§ 97.02 LOUD, RAUCOUS AND DISTURBING NOISES PROHIBITED, GENERALLY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to create or assist in creating any
unreasonably loud, raucous and disturbing noise in the city.
Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.03 NOISE MEASUREMENT.
   For the purpose of determining db(A)s as referred to in this chapter, the
noise shall be measured on the A-weighting scale on a sound level meter of
standard design and quality having characteristics established by the American
National Standards Institute.
§ 97.04 PARTICULAR SOUNDS IMPACTING RESIDENTIAL LIFE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to carry on the following activities in any
residentially zoned area of the city or within 300 feet of any residentially
occupied structure in any zone of the city:
      (1)   Operate or permit the operation of an automator and/or recycling
truck for refuse collection between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.;
      (2)   Operate or permit the operation of construction machinery between
the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.;
      (3)   Operate or permit the operation of garage machinery between the
hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.;
      (4)   Operate or permit the operation of lawn mowers and other domestic
tools out-of-doors between 9:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.; and
      (5)   Create or permit the creation of any mechanical noise which
registers more than 60 db(A) at the nearest complainant’s property line.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to operations which are carried on in a
manner or in a location as not to create sounds exceeding 60 db(A) and shall
not apply to emergency operations designed to protect the public health and
safety.
Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.05 AMPLIFIED SOUND.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to:
      (1)   Operate or allow the operation of any sound amplification equipment
so as to create sounds registering in excess of 55 db(A) between 9:00 a.m. and
9:00 p.m. or in excess of 50 db(A) between 9:00 p.m. and 9:00 a.m., as measured
anywhere within the boundary line of the nearest occupied residentially zoned
property, except in accordance with a permit obtained from the noise control
officer;
      (2)   As to multi-family structures including apartments, condominiums or
other residential arrangements where boundary lines cannot readily be
determined, it shall be unlawful to operate or allow the operation of any sound
amplification equipment so as to create sounds registering in excess of 55 db
(A) between 9:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. or in excess of 50 db(A) between 9:00 p.m.
and 9:00 a.m., as measured from any point within the interior of another
residential unit in the same complex or within the boundary line of the nearest
occupied residentially zoned property, except in accordance with a permit
obtained from the noise control officer;
      (3)   As to places of public entertainment having a capacity of 1,000 or
more persons, operate or allow the operation of any sound amplification
equipment so as to create sounds in excess of 65 db(A) between 9:00 a.m. and 9:
00 p.m., or in excess of 50 db(A) between 9:00 p.m. and 9:00 a.m., as measured
anywhere within the boundary line of the nearest occupied residentially zoned
property, except in accordance with a permit obtained from the noise control
officer;
      (4)   Operate or allow the operation of any sound amplification equipment
for advertising purposes or otherwise to attract customers so as to cast sounds
which are unreasonably loud and disturbing or which register in excess of 60 db
(A) at or on the boundary of the nearest public right-of-way or park; and/or
      (5)   Operate or allow the operation for personal use of any sound
amplification equipment on the public right-of-way, including streets or
sidewalks, or in the public parks so as to produce sounds registering in excess
of 60 db(A) 50 feet or more from any electro-mechanical speaker between the
hours of 9:00 p.m. and 9:00 a.m.
   (B)   The foregoing limitations on the operation of sound-amplification
equipment shall not apply to the operation of horns, sirens or other emergency
warning devices actually being used in emergency circumstances.
Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.06 PERMITS FOR ADDITIONAL AMPLIFICATION.
   (A)   Application. The application for a permit for additional amplification
than allowed under §
97.05 of this chapter shall be submitted to the noise control officer who shall
be designated by the Town Council at least 15 working days in advance of the
planned use except in case of emergency. The application shall designate an
individual person or persons who shall be in control of the sound amplification
equipment and assure that its use complies with the terms of the permit.
   (B)   Numbers of hours.
      (1)   No permits shall be issued which shall have the effect of allowing
more than 20 hours of excess amplification per year at any place of public
entertainment having a capacity of 1,000 or more persons or ten hours of excess
amplification at any other location.
      (2)   Permits shall be tentatively approved and subsequently granted by
the noise control officer in the order of receipt unless permits for 20 or more
hours have previously been issued for the same or other locations within a
1,000-foot radius of the facility in the same calendar year, in which event the
applicant shall elect whether to limit his or her request so as to keep the
year’s accumulated hours of excess amplification in that location below 20
hours or select another location.
   (C)   Not permitted in residentially occupied boundaries. In no event shall
a permit be granted which allows the creation of sounds registering in excess
of 70 db(A) anywhere within the boundary line of the nearest occupied
residentially-zoned property.
   (D)   Denial; exceptional permit.
      (1)   If an applicant has been denied a permit under this section and
believes the denial is illegal by virtue of applicable state or federal law or
is not in conformance with this chapter, he or she shall promptly submit a copy
of the denied permit application together with a short statement of the reasons
he or she believes he or she is entitled to a permit to the Town Manager.
      (2)   The Town Manager shall have the discretion to grant an exceptional
permit waiving location, time and/or db(A) requirements, upon his or her
determination that the applicant has made a substantial showing of legal
entitlement.
      (3)   Any exceptional permit shall be promptly reported to the Town
Council.
§ 97.07 ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep or have in his or her
possession, or harbor, any dog, other animal or bird(s) which, by frequent or
habitually howling, yelping, barking or otherwise cause loud noises and produce
seriously annoying disturbance to any person or to the neighborhood.
Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.08 MOTOR VEHICLE NOISE.
   It shall be unlawful to operate or allow the operation of any motor vehicle
in the city:
   (A)   By engaging in jackrabbit starts, spinning tires, racing engines or
other operations which create unreasonably loud and disturbing noises; and/or
   (B)   Off the boundaries of a public street for racing or other operations
which create unreasonably loud and disturbing noises.
Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   Where there is a violation of any provision of this chapter, the town, at
its discretion, may take one or more of the following enforcement actions.
   (A)   A police officer, noise control officer or other designated official
may issue a citation as provided in the town code of ordinances subjecting the
violator to a civil penalty in an amount as shall be as set by the Town Council
from time to time, which penalty may provide for a delinquency charge in
another amount as shall be as set by the Town Council from time to time upon
nonpayment and which penalty and delinquency charge may be recovered by the
city in a civil action.
   (B)   A misdemeanor warrant may be issued either immediately or upon the
issuance of a citation and the violator’s failure to pay the same. Misdemeanors
shall be punishable by a fine of up to an amount as shall be as set by the Town
Council from time to time and/or imprisonment for up to 30 days.
CHAPTER 98: CIVIL DISORDER
Section
   
98.01   State of emergency; restrictions authorized
   
98.02   Proclamation imposing prohibitions and restrictions
   
98.03   Evacuation
   
98.04   Curfew
   
98.05   Restrictions of possession, consumption or transfer of alcoholic
beverages
   
98.06   Restriction on possession, transportation and transfer of dangerous
weapons and substances
   
98.07   Restriction on access to areas
   
98.08   Proclamation prohibitions or restrictions
   
98.09   Removal of prohibitions and restrictions
   
98.10   Superseding and amendatory proclamations
   
98.11   Termination of proclamation
   
98.12   In case of absence or disability of Mayor
   
98.13   Territorial applicability
   
98.14   Effective date
 
   
98.99   Penalty
§ 98.01 STATE OF EMERGENCY; RESTRICTIONS AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   A state of emergency shall be deemed to exist whenever, during times
of public crisis, disaster, rioting, catastrophe or similar public emergency,
for any reason, public safety authorities are unable to maintain public order
or afford adequate protection for lives, safety or property or whenever the
occurrence of any condition is imminent.
   (B)   In the event of an existing or threatened state of emergency
endangering the lives, safety, health and welfare of the people within the town
or any part thereof, or threatening damages to or destruction of property, the
Mayor is hereby authorized and empowered to issue a public proclamation
declaring to all persons the existence of a state of emergency, and, in order
to more effectively protect the lives and property of people within the town,
to place in effect any or all of the restrictions hereinafter authorized.
   (C)   The Mayor is hereby authorized and empowered to limit by the
proclamation the application of all or any part of the restrictions to any area
specifically designated or described within the town and to specific hours of
the day or night; and to exempt from all or any part of restrictions, while
acting in the line of and within the scope of their respective duties, law
enforcement officers, firefighters and other public employees, rescue squad
members, doctors, nurses, employees of hospitals and other medical facilities;
on-duty military personnel, whether state or federal; on-duty employees of
public utilities, public transportation companies and newspaper, magazine,
radio broadcasting and television broadcasting corporations operated for
profit; and any other classes of persons as may be essential to the
preservation of public order and immediately necessary to serve the safety,
health and welfare needs of people within the town.
(Ord. passed - -1999)
§ 98.02 PROCLAMATION IMPOSING PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The Mayor by proclamation may impose the prohibitions and restrictions
specified in §§
98.03 through
98.08 of this chapter in the manner described in those sections. The Mayor may
impose as many of those specified prohibitions and restrictions as he or she
finds are necessary because of an emergency, to maintain an acceptable level of
public order and services and to protect lives, safety and property. The Mayor
shall recite his or her findings in the proclamation.
   (B)   The proclamation shall be in writing. The Mayor shall take reasonable
steps to give notice of the terms of the proclamation to those affected by it
and shall post a copy of it at the Town Hall. The Mayor shall send reports of
the substance of the proclamation to the mass communications media which serves
the affected area. The Mayor shall retain a text of the proclamation and
furnish upon request certified copies of it.
(Ord. passed - -1999)
§ 98.03 EVACUATION.
   The Mayor may direct and compel the evacuation of all or part of the
population of the town; prescribe routes, modes of transportation and
destinations in connection with evacuation; and control ingress and egress of a
disaster area, the movement of persons within the area and the occupancy of
premises therein. Details of the evacuation may be set forth or amended in a
subsequent proclamation which shall be well publicized.
(Ord. passed - -1999)
§ 98.04 CURFEW.
   (A)   The proclamation may impose a curfew prohibiting in certain areas and
during certain periods the appearance in public of anyone who is not a member
of an exempted class. The proclamation shall specify the geographical area or
areas and the period during each 24-hour day to which the curfew applies. The
Mayor may exempt from some or all of the curfew restrictions classes of people
whose exemption the Mayor finds necessary for the preservation of the public
health, safety and welfare. The proclamation shall state the exempted classes
and the restrictions from which each is exempted.
   (B)   Unless otherwise specified in the proclamation, the curfew shall apply
during the specified period each day until the Mayor by proclamation removes
the curfew.
(Ord. passed - -1999)
§ 98.05 RESTRICTIONS OF POSSESSION, CONSUMPTION OR TRANSFER OF ALCOHOLIC
BEVERAGES.
   The proclamation may prohibit the possession or consumption of any alcoholic
beverage; including beer, wine and spirituous liquor other than on one’s own
premises and may prohibit the transfer, transportation, sale or purchases of
any alcoholic beverage within the area of the town described in the
proclamation. The prohibition, if imposed, may apply to transfers of alcoholic
beverages by employees of alcoholic beverage control stores as well as by
anyone else within the geographical area described.
(Ord. passed - -1999)
§ 98.06 RESTRICTION ON POSSESSION, TRANSPORTATION AND TRANSFER OF DANGEROUS
WEAPONS AND SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   The proclamation may prohibit the transportation or possession off
one’s own premises, or the sale or purchase of any dangerous weapon or
substance. The Mayor may exempt from some or all of the restrictions classes of
people whose possession, transfer or transportation of certain dangerous
weapons or substances is necessary to the preservation of the public health,
safety or welfare. The proclamation shall state the exempted classes and the
restrictions from which each is exempted.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DANGEROUS WEAPON OR SUBSTANCE.
         (a)   Any deadly weapon, ammunition, explosive, incendiary device,
radioactive material or device, gasoline or other instrument or substance
designed for a use that carries a threat of serious bodily injury or
destruction of property;
         (b)   Any other instrument or substance that is capable of being used
to inflict serious bodily injury or destruction of property, when the
circumstances indicate that there is some probability that the instrument or
substance will be so used; and
         (c)   Any part or ingredient in any instrument or substance included
above when the circumstances indicate a probability that such a part or
ingredient will be so used.
   (C)   If imposed, the restrictions shall apply throughout the jurisdiction
of the town or the part thereof as designated in the proclamation.
   (D)   A violation of this section shall be punishable.
(Ord. passed - -1999)
§ 98.07 RESTRICTION ON ACCESS TO AREAS.
   (A)   The proclamation may prohibit obtaining access or attempting to obtain
access to any area, designated in the manner described in this section, in
violation of any order, clearly posed notice or barricade indicating that
access is denied or restricted.
   (B)   Areas to which access is denied or restricted shall be designated by
the Police Chief and his or her subordinates or other law enforcement officers
when directed in the proclamation to do so by the Mayor. When acting under this
authority, the Police Chief and his or her subordinates may restrict or deny
access to any area, street, highway or location within the town if that
restriction or denial of access or use is reasonably necessary to promote
efforts being made to overcome the emergency or to prevent further aggravation
of the emergency.
(Ord. passed - -1999)
§ 98.08 PROCLAMATION PROHIBITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS.
   Prohibitions or restrictions are:
   (A)   Movements of people in public places;
   (B)   The operation of offices, business establishments and other places to
or from which people may travel or at which they may congregate; and
   (C)   Other activities or conditions the control of which may be reasonably
necessary to maintain order and protect lives or property during the state of
emergency, within the area designated in the proclamation.
(Ord. passed - -1999)
§ 98.09 REMOVAL OF PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   The Mayor shall, by proclamation, terminate the entire declaration of
emergency or remove any of the prohibitions and restrictions when the emergency
no longer requires them, or when directed to do so by the Town Council.
(Ord. passed - -1999)
§ 98.10 SUPERSEDING AND AMENDATORY PROCLAMATIONS.
   The Mayor, in his or her discretion, may invoke the restrictions authorized
by this chapter in separate proclamations and may amend any proclamation by
means of a superseding proclamation in accordance with the procedures set forth
in §
98.02 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -1999)
§ 98.11 TERMINATION OF PROCLAMATION.
   Any proclamation issued under this chapter shall expire five days after its
last imposition unless sooner terminated in writing under the same procedures
set forth in §
98.02 of this chapter for proclamations.
(Ord. passed - -1999)
§ 98.12 IN CASE OF ABSENCE OR DISABILITY OF MAYOR.
   In case of the absence or disability of the Mayor, the Mayor Pro Tempore of
the Town Council or other person as may be designated by the Town Council shall
have and exercise all of the powers herein given the Mayor.
(Ord. passed - -1999)
§ 98.13 TERRITORIAL APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   This chapter shall apply within the corporate limits of the town and
shall be effective only within the corporate limits.
   (B)   If an emergency event as outlined in §
98.01 of this chapter occurs which affects and includes all or a portion of the
town plus areas outside the corporate limits, the Mayor may, by proclamation,
consent to the application of the county’s state of emergency ordinance for
those areas within the town and thereby preclude any further emergency actions
under the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -1999)
§ 98.14 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter took effect on 11-8-1999.
(Ord. passed - -1999)
§ 98.99 PENALTY.
   Except as provided in §
98.06 of this chapter, any person violating any prohibition or restriction
imposed by a proclamation authorized by this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, punishable, upon conviction, by a fine not exceeding an amount as
shall be as set by the Town Council from time to time or imprisonment not
exceeding 30 days, as provided by G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. passed - -1999)
CHAPTER 99: FIREBOMBS
Section
   
99.01   Definitions
   
99.02   Prohibited acts
   
99.03   Possession of materials restricted
   
99.04   Chapter cumulative
 
   
99.99   Penalty
§ 99.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIREBOMB. Any type of object designed or constructed so that upon being
propelled it will explode or ignite its area of impact.
   MOLOTOV COCKTAIL. Any breakable container or any container which is designed
in a manner that upon being propelled it will at impact empty its contents,
which is filled with an inflammable fluid or substance and which is fitted with
a fuse or wick.
§ 99.02 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to manufacture, possess,
transport or use any Molotov cocktail or other firebomb.
Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.03 POSSESSION OF MATERIALS RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or group of persons to possess all the
items or materials needed to manufacture Molotov cocktails or other firebombs,
other than on his, her or their premises.
Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.04 CHAPTER CUMULATIVE.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be cumulative and in addition to any
other ordinance of the state’s general statutes on this subject.
§ 99.99 PENALTY.
   The violation of any provision of this chapter shall constitute a
misdemeanor, punishable, upon conviction, by a fine not exceeding an amount as
shall be as set by the Town Council from time to time or imprisonment not
exceeding 30 days, as provided by G.S. § 14-4.
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   PRIVILEGE LICENSES
      
111.   TAXICABS
      
112.   SECONDHAND PRECIOUS METALS
      
113.   PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND SOLICITORS
      
114.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
CHAPTER 110: PRIVILEGE LICENSES
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   License tax upon certain trades and business occupations
   
110.03   Unlawful to conduct business without a license
   
110.04   License taxes shall be for 12 months
   
110.05   License required for every separate business
   
110.06   License required for every place of business
   
110.07   License must be displayed at the place of business licensed
   
110.08   No abatement of license tax
   
110.09   Schedule of annual privilege licenses
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENT. The person having the agency for the manufacturer, producer or
distributor.
   BUSINESS. Any business, trade, occupation, profession, avocation or calling
of any kind, subject by the provisions of this chapter to a license tax.
   ENGAGED IN THE BUSINESS. Engaged in the business as owner or operator.
   FISCAL YEAR. The period beginning with July 1 and ending with the June 30
next following.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, company or corporation.
   QUARTER. Any three consecutive months.
§ 110.02 LICENSE TAX UPON CERTAIN TRADES AND BUSINESS OCCUPATIONS.
   In addition to the tax on property, as otherwise provided for, and under the
power and authority conferred in the laws of the state, there shall be levied
and collected annually or oftener, where provided for, a privilege license tax
on trades, professions, business operations, exhibitions, circuses and all
subjects authorized to be licensed, as set out in the following sections and
schedule. All licenses shall be a personal privilege and shall not be
transferable. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to prevent the Town
Council from imposing from time to time, as it sees fit, license taxes as are
not specifically herein defined, or from increasing or decreasing the amount of
any special license tax, or from prohibiting or regulating the business or acts
licensed, and all licenses are granted subject to the provisions of existing
ordinances for those hereafter enacted.
§ 110.03 UNLAWFUL TO CONDUCT BUSINESS WITHOUT A LICENSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or his or her agent or servant to engage
in or carry on a business in the town for which there is required a license,
without first having paid the license tax and obtained the license. For the
purpose of this section, the opening of a place of business or offering to
sell, followed by a single sale or the doing of any act or thing in furtherance
of the business shall be construed to be engaging in or carrying on the
business; and each day that the person, firm or corporation shall engage in or
carry on the business as aforesaid shall be construed to be a separate offense.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.04 LICENSE TAXES SHALL BE FOR 12 MONTHS.
   All taxes provided for and fixed in the following sections and schedule
shall be for 12 months, unless otherwise specified, and shall so remain for 12
months, beginning July 1 and ending June 30; provided that, where the license
is issued after January 1, then the licensee shall be required to pay half the
tax prescribed, except where otherwise specifically provided for.
§ 110.05 LICENSE REQUIRED FOR EVERY SEPARATE BUSINESS.
   The payment of any particular tax imposed by this chapter shall not relieve
the person paying the same from the payment of any other tax imposed by this
chapter for any other business he or she may carry on; unless so provided by
the section imposing the tax; it being the intent of this chapter that license
taxes prescribed by various sections or divisions of this chapter applicable to
any business shall be cumulative, except where otherwise specifically provided.
§ 110.06 LICENSE REQUIRED FOR EVERY PLACE OF BUSINESS.
   A license issued for the privilege of conducting a business is only valid
for the business conducted at the place any by the licensed named therein.
Every person doing business in more than one factory, mill, warehouse or store,
stall or stand or other place of business shall secure a separate license for
each place of business, unless the places of business are contiguous to each
other, communicate directly with an opening into each other and are operated as
a unit. If the business is moved, or if the licensee sells to another, than a
new license is necessary, unless a special permit to continue business under
the original license is obtained from the Town Council.
§ 110.07 LICENSE MUST BE DISPLAYED AT THE PLACE OF BUSINESS LICENSED.
   Every license must be kept prominently displayed at the place of business
named in the license or, if the licensee has no fixed place of business, the
licensee must keep the license wherever the business is being operated and
where it can be inspected at any time by the proper municipal official.
§ 110.08 NO ABATEMENT OF LICENSE TAX.
   No license tax shall be abated nor shall any refund of any part thereof be
made, in any case when the licensee discontinues his or her business before the
end of the period for which the license was issued.
§ 110.09 SCHEDULE OF ANNUAL PRIVILEGE LICENSES.
   The fees for annual privilege licenses shall be as set forth in the schedule
adopted by the Town Council. The fee schedule shall be available for public
inspection during regular town business hours.
CHAPTER 111: TAXICABS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Application required
   
111.03   Town Council issues certificates
   
111.04   Duration of certificate
   
111.05   Insurance liability
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSONS. Includes both singular and plural, and shall also mean and include
persons, individuals, firms, corporations, partnerships and associations.
   TAXICABS. Any motor vehicle seating nine or fewer passengers, operated upon
any street or highway on call or on demand, accepting or soliciting passengers
indiscriminately for hire between points along streets or highways as may be
directed by the passenger or passengers so being transported, and shall not
include motor vehicles or motor vehicle carriers.
§ 111.02 APPLICATION REQUIRED.
   Every person desiring to operate a taxicab upon and over the streets of the
town shall file on forms supplied by the Town Clerk an application for a
license.
§ 111.03 TOWN COUNCIL ISSUES CERTIFICATES.
   The Town Council shall have power and it will be its duty to order certain
certificates issued or refuse to issue certain certificates or to issue
certificates for partial exercise of the rights granted only the certificate
the terms and conditions as, in its judgment, the public convenience and
necessity may require.
§ 111.04 DURATION OF CERTIFICATE.
   A certificate in the form of a privilege license shall constitute a
franchise, from the town for the operation of taxicabs within the town, subject
to the provisions of this chapter for one year, unless a shorter period of time
is specified in the certificate. Applications for renewal shall be filed
annually and a hearing conducted as herein provided.
§ 111.05 INSURANCE LIABILITY.
   As a prerequisite to obtaining a privilege license, the owner and/or
operator of taxis shall satisfy the town officials that he or she has adequate
liability insurance. Adequate insurance shall mean limits of not less than
$5,000 to $10,000 liability coverage and $5,000 property damage, or in amounts
as shall be as set by the Town Council from time to time. This shall apply to
each taxicab operated by the person, firm, corporation or partnership.
CHAPTER 112: SECONDHAND PRECIOUS METALS
Section
   
112.01   License required
   
112.02   Definitions
   
112.03   Investigation of license applicant
   
112.04   License denial or revocation
   
112.05   Records of transactions
   
112.06   Goods to be kept for five days
   
112.07   Purchasing from juvenile
   
112.08   Use of unlicensed premises prohibited; exception
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   No person, partnership, corporation or association shall operate
a secondhand precious metal business as herein defined unless the person,
partnership, corporation or association shall have first applied for and
received a privilege license from the Town Clerk after receiving a certificate
of compliance from the County Sheriff.
      (2)   A separate license shall be required for each location, place or
premises to which it applies. In addition, the business shall not be carried on
or conducted in any other place than that designated in or by a license.
   (B)   (1)   Every employee of a secondhand precious metal business shall,
within five days of being employed, register his or her name and address with
fingerprints and photograph taken by the County Sheriff’s office.
      (2)   The employee shall then be issued by the County Sheriff’s office a
certificate of compliance with this section.
§ 112.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SECONDHAND ARTICLE. An article which has been used or which has been
previously traded or sold by a retailer. For purposes of this chapter, the term
SECONDHAND ARTICLE shall not include any coin or any gold or silver ingot or
bar.
   SECONDHAND PRECIOUS METAL BUSINESS. Any person, firm, corporation or
association engaged in the business of purchasing, trading for or otherwise
acquiring ownership of any secondhand article made, in whole or in part, of
gold or silver or platinum.
§ 112.03 INVESTIGATION OF LICENSE APPLICANT.
   (A)   Any person applying to the County Sheriff for a license to conduct the
business of a secondhand precious metal dealer shall also furnish his or her
full name, address, physical description, age, state driver’s license number
(if applicable) and Social Security number to assist in an investigation of his
or her criminal record and character. In addition, the applicant will be
photographed and fingerprinted in order to facilitate the investigation.
   (B)   In the event the applicant is a partnership or association, all
persons owning or having an interest therein shall comply with the provisions
of division (A) above.
   (C)   In the case of a corporate applicant, each stock holder owning 10% or
more of the corporation’s common stock shall comply with the provisions of
division (A) above.
§ 112.04 LICENSE DENIAL OR REVOCATION.
   (A)   No license shall be issued to any applicant if any person required to
be investigated under §
112.03 of this chapter has been convicted of any felony or of a crime involving
fraud, theft or receiving or possessing stolen property in the five years
immediately preceding the date of the license application.
   (B)   The conviction of any person required to be investigated under §
112.03 of this chapter for any felony or for any crime involving fraud, theft
or receiving or possessing stolen property or for any violation of this chapter
shall constitute grounds for immediate revocation by the Town Council of the
privilege license issued to a secondhand metal business.
§ 112.05 RECORDS OF TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   Every secondhand precious metal business shall keep a tightly-bound
book or books, not loose-leaf, with pages numbered in sequence, in which there
shall be legibly written at the time of any transaction with a non-licensee
involving the purchasing of, trading for or acquiring of ownership of any
secondhand article made, in whole or in part, of gold or silver or platinum,
the following information:
      (1)   An account and description of the item(s), article(s) or things
purchased, traded for or taken in, including, if applicable, the manufacturer’s
name, the model, the number, the serial number and any engraved number(s),
initial(s) or marking(s);
      (2)   The date of the transaction;
      (3)   The name and residence of the person involved in the transaction
with the secondhand precious metal business, along with the person’s date of
birth and general physical description, including hair color and approximate
height and weight; and
      (4)   A notation whether the item(s), article(s) or thing(s) are stored
on the licensed premises or elsewhere.
   (B)   No transaction involving purchasing, trading for or taking in a
secondhand article made, in whole or in part, of gold or silver or platinum
shall be completed by any secondhand precious metal business or an agent or
employee thereof until the person involved in the transaction presents two
forms of positive identification or one state or federal government issued
identification containing a photographic representation imprinted thereon. This
identification information shall be recorded next to the person’s name and
residence in the book required to be kept pursuant to division (A) above.
   (C)   (1)   The book(s) required by this section shall be a permanent record
to be kept at all times on the premises of the secondhand precious metal
business.
      (2)   The book(s) shall be made available, during regular business hours,
to any law enforcement officer.
      (3)   A full and accurate copy of the records required to be kept by this
section shall be filed with the County Sheriff’s office within 48 hours of the
transaction. The full and accurate filing with the County Sheriff’s office of
the records required hereunder by a licensee which is also a licensed
pawnbroker shall constitute compliance with the filing provisions of G.S. § 66-
391 (as the same appears in the 1979 Cumulative Supplement at Volume 2C of the
state’s General Statutes) for any transaction subject to the provisions
thereof.
   (D)   The book(s) need not be kept longer than three years by the licensee.
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.06 GOODS TO BE KEPT FOR FIVE DAYS.
   Every secondhand precious metal business must keep all secondhand articles
made, in whole or in part, of gold or silver or platinum, open to inspection by
any law enforcement officer at reasonable times for a period of ten days after
the purchase or acquisition thereof in any transaction subject to the
provisions of §
112.05 of this chapter. During this period, the appearance of the articles
shall not be altered in any way. A secondhand precious metal business is not
prohibited from selling or arranging to sell or trade articles during the ten-
day period as long as the articles remain in its possession as required by this
section.
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.07 PURCHASING FROM JUVENILE.
   No secondhand precious metal business or employee or agent thereof shall
purchase from any juvenile under 18 years of age any secondhand article made,
in whole or in part, of gold or silver or platinum, without the written consent
of the juvenile’s parent or guardian, or presentation of proof of ownership.
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.08 USE OF UNLICENSED PREMISES PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   No secondhand precious metal business shall make use of any property or
premises not included within the premises designated in or by the license
required by this chapter for the display of any secondhand article made, in
whole or in part, of gold or silver or platinum or for the conduct of a
secondhand precious metal business. This chapter does not prohibit the storage
or safekeeping of any secondhand article off of the licensed premises.
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of any of the provisions of this chapter by any person shall
constitute a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, a violator shall be punished by
a fine not to exceed an amount as shall be as set by the Town Council from time
to time or imprisoned for not more than 30 days. Each and every violation shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense.
CHAPTER 113: PEDDLERS, TRANSIENT MERCHANTS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   License requirement
   
113.03   Application procedure
   
113.04   Standards for issuance
   
113.05   Revocation procedure
   
113.06   Standards for revocation
   
113.07   Appeal procedure
   
113.08   Exhibition of identification
   
113.09   Town policy on soliciting
   
113.10   Notice regulating soliciting
   
113.11   Duty of solicitors to ascertain notice
   
113.12   Prohibited solicitation
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler or solicitor, as defined in this section.
   GOODS. Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes, but is not
restricted to, wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person, whether as owner, agent or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the town and who, in
the furtherance of such business, uses any building, structure, vehicle or any
place within the town.
   PEDDLER. Any person, not an itinerant merchant, who:
      (1)   Travels from place to place by any means carrying goods for sale,
or making sales, or making deliveries; or
      (2)   Without traveling from place to place, sells or offers goods for
sale from any public place within the town.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future. A person who is a SOLICITOR is not
a “peddler”.
§ 113.02 LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in such activity within the town.
   (B)   The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be as set from
time to time by the Town Council.
   (C)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
   (D)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire 90 days after the
date of issuance thereof.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.03 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file an
application with the Town Clerk. This application shall be signed by the
applicant if an individual, or by all partners if a partnership, or by the
president if a corporation. The applicant may be requested to provide
information concerning the following items:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   (a)   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant’s business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the town;
         (b)   The local address of such individual;
         (c)   The permanent address of such individual; and
         (d)   The capacity in which such individual will act.
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on and, if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
applicant’s business;
      (5)   (a)   The nature, character and quality of the goods or services to
be offered for sale or delivered;
         (b)   If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold by
sample as well as from stock; and
         (c)   If goods, where and by whom such goods are manufactured or
grown, and where such goods are at the time of application.
      (6)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business;
and
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant, or the individual identified in
division (A)(2)(a) above, or the person identified in division (A)(3) above has
been convicted of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of each
offense and the penalty assessed for each offense.
   (B)   Applicants for peddler or solicitor licenses may be required to
provide further information concerning the following items, in addition to that
requested under division (A) above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant; and
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
   (C)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall attach to
their application, if required by the town, credentials from the person, if
any, for which the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant
to act as such representative.
   (D)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
application, in addition to any attachments required under division (C) above,
a statement from a licensed physician, dated not more than ten days prior to
the date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of contagious or
communicable disease.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.04 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant’s
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (B)   The application shall be approved unless such investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant’s business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals or general welfare. In
particular, tangible evidence that the applicant has any of the following will
constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an application:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude;
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application;
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors and the like;
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts; or
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts.
§ 113.05 REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the
Town Clerk after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in §
113.06 of this chapter.
   (B)   Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting
forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing. Such notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his or her last known
address, at least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing.
§ 113.06 STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals or general welfare
of the public.
§ 113.07 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
113.04 or
113.06 of this chapter shall have the right to appeal to the Town Council. The
appeal shall be taken by filing with the Town Council, within 14 days after
notice of the decision has been mailed to such person’s last known address, a
written statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The Town Council shall
set the time and place for a hearing, and notice for such hearing shall be
given to such person in the same manner as provided in §
113.05 of this chapter.
   (B)   The order of the Town Council after the hearing shall be final.
§ 113.08 EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall
be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event more
than one place within the town shall be used to conduct the business licensed,
separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   The Town Clerk shall issue a license to each peddler or solicitor
licensed under this chapter. The license shall contain the words “licensed
peddler” or “licensed solicitor”, the expiration date of the license and the
number of the license. The license shall be kept with the licensee during such
time as he or she is engaged in the business licensed.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.09 TOWN POLICY ON SOLICITING.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the town that the occupants of the
residences in the town shall make the determination of whether solicitors shall
be, or shall not be, invited to their respective residences.
§ 113.10 NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING.
   (A)   Notice of the refusal of invitation to solicitors, to any residence,
shall be given on a weatherproof card, approximately three inches by four
inches in size, exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the residence,
indicating the determination by the occupant, containing the applicable words,
as follows: “NO SOLICITORS INVITED”.
   (B)   The letters shall be at least one-third inch in height. For the
purpose of uniformity, the cards shall be provided by the Chief of Police to
persons requesting, at the cost thereof.
   (C)   The card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the residence of the
information contained thereon.
§ 113.11 DUTY OF SOLICITORS TO ASCERTAIN NOTICE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every solicitor upon going onto any premises
in the town upon which a residence is located to first examine the notice
provided for in §
113.10 of this chapter if any is attached, and be governed by the statement
contained on the notice. If the notice states “NO SOLICITORS INVITED”, then the
solicitor, whether registered or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart
from the premises.
   (B)   Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether
invited or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when
requested to do so by the occupant.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.12 PROHIBITED SOLICITATION.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door, or
create any sound in any manner calculated to attract the attention of the
occupant of such residence, for the purpose of securing an audience with the
occupant thereof and engage in soliciting in defiance of the notice exhibited
at the residence in accordance with the provisions of §
113.10 of this chapter.
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 114: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
114.01   Sunday sales of malt beverages, unfortified wine, fortified wine and
mixed beverages
§ 114.01 SUNDAY SALES OF MALT BEVERAGES, UNFORTIFIED WINE, FORTIFIED WINE AND
MIXED BEVERAGES.
   The sale of malt beverages, unfortified wine, fortified wine and mixed
beverages shall be allowed within the corporate limits of the city on Sunday
beginning at 10:00 a.m. pursuant to the licensed premises’ permit issued under
G.S. § 18B-1001.
(Ord. passed 12-16-2024)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Residences or businesses kept in an indecent, offensive or disorderly
manner
   
130.02   House of ill fame
   
130.03   Profanity and boisterous conduct
   
130.04   Drinking in public
   
130.05   Curfew
   
130.06   Hazardous recreational activity
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 RESIDENCES OR BUSINESSES KEPT IN AN INDECENT, OFFENSIVE OR DISORDERLY
MANNER.
   No occupant of any house whether residence or business shall permit same to
be kept in an indecent and offensive or disorderly manner or permit loafers or
idle persons to congregate therein or in front of same to the annoyance of
persons passing by or living in the vicinity.
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 HOUSE OF ILL FAME.
   No person shall keep a house or other place of ill fame in the town and no
person shall knowingly rent any house to be use as a house of ill fame. All
adult persons living in such house shall be considered as keepers thereof and
be subject to the penalties of this code.
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 PROFANITY AND BOISTEROUS CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use loud and boisterous language so
as to become a nuisance or use any form of profanity or indecent language on
the street or in a gathering or audience or assembly, or in any public place
whatsoever, or to indecently expose themselves within the corporate limits.
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 DRINKING IN PUBLIC.
   (A)   No person shall consume, serve or drink wine, beer, whiskey or
alcoholic beverages of any kind on the public streets, boulevards, alleys or in
public buildings.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, individually or in a group, to
have in his or her possession, open cans, bottles or other containers of beer,
wine or any other intoxicating beverages on any public street, sidewalk or any
other public place within the corporate limits of the town, whether in a
vehicle or on foot.
(Ord. passed 5-10-1971) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05 CURFEW.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CUSTODIAN. A parent, guardian, stepparent, foster parent, house-parent or
other person legally responsible for the care, welfare or custody of a juvenile
as defined by this section.
      JUVENILE. Any person who has not reached his or her sixteenth birthday
and is not married, emancipated or a member of the armed forces of the United
States.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any place which is generally open to and used by the
public, whether it be publicly or privately owned, including, but not limited
to, streets, highways, public vehicular areas, places of business, parks and
recreation areas or other common areas open to the public.
    (B)   Violation. It is unlawful for any juvenile to be or remain upon any
public place within the incorporated limits of the town or upon any property or
right-of-way belonging to the town between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00
a.m.; except that, it shall not be a violation of this section if the juvenile
is:
      (1)   Accompanied by his or her custodian;
      (2)   Accompanied by a responsible person over the age of 18 years who
has written permission from the juvenile’s custodian to have the juvenile under
his or her supervision;
      (3)   Traveling in connection with his or her employment, religious
activity or a function sponsored by the town or the juvenile’s school;
      (4)   Temporarily within the town or upon town property while engaged in
interstate travel; or
      (5)   Attempting to obtain emergency assistance.
   (C)   Custodian liable. It is unlawful for any custodian to knowingly and
willfully cause, allow or permit a juvenile under his or her care, custody or
control to violate this section.
   (D)   Business operators liable. It is unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation operating a place of business within the incorporated limits of the
town to allow any juvenile to enter or remain upon the property of the business
during the curfew hours established by this section, unless the juvenile is
gainfully employed by the business and is upon the property as a function of
his or her employment. The person, firm or corporation may be issued a criminal
citation or summons charging him or her with a violation of this section.
    (E)   Enforcement. When a juvenile shall be found in violation of this
section, a police officer may detain the juvenile and determine if he or she is
a first-time offender of this section. The juvenile may be transported to the
Police Department in order to facilitate the determination.
      (1)   If it is determined that the juvenile is a first-time offender of
this section, the Police Department will contact his or her custodian to make
the custodian aware of the violation and request that the custodian take
custody of the juvenile. The Police Department may transport the juvenile to
the custodian. The juvenile’s custodian will receive a written warning for
allowing a first offense of this section and the Police Department shall
maintain an incident report including the name, age and address of the
juvenile; the name and address of the custodian; the date, time and location of
the offense and any other relevant information.
      (2)   If it is determined that the juvenile is a repeat offender of this
section the juvenile’s custodian shall be notified and the juvenile returned to
the custodian as in division (E)(1) above. The custodian may be issued a
criminal citation or summons charging him or her with a violation of this
section. An incident report of the offense shall be maintained by the Police
Department.
      (3)   Any juvenile determined to be a repeat offender of this section may
be processed as a delinquent juvenile in accordance with the state general
statutes.
      (4)   If any juvenile offender of this section is under 12 years of age,
a copy of the incident report shall be forwarded to the Department of Social
Services.
   (F)   Refusal by custodian to take custody of juvenile.
      (1)   If the custodian of any juvenile found in violation of this section
refuses to take custody of the juvenile or if the Police Department is unable
to make contact with the custodian, the police officer having custody of the
juvenile shall contact the Department of Social Services and release the
juvenile to that agency pending further investigation.
      (2)   The custodian may be issued a criminal citation or summons charging
him or her with a violation of this section.
(Ord. passed 6-6-2005) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.06 HAZARDOUS RECREATIONAL ACTIVITY.
   (A)   The Town Council shall adopt and amend from time to time a schedule of
uses and a list of rules of use for all publicly owned and operated skateboard
parks and that the current schedule and rules shall be posted at the park(s)
and other places and that the skateboard park shall remain locked at all other
times and that unauthorized entry into the skateboard park shall constitute
trespassing and that appropriate signs affording reasonable notice and warning
against trespassing and that violators may be subject to prosecution shall be
posted at the facility.
   (B)   As authorized by G.S. Ch. 99E, Art. 3, any person riding a skateboard
at that facility is required to wear a helmet, knee pads and elbow pads and
that signs shall be posted at the facility affording reasonable notice that any
person riding a skateboard in the facility must wear a helmet, elbow pads and
kneepads and that any person failing to do so will be subject to citation under
this section.
   (C)   This section shall become effective upon the completion of the
construction or erection of a town- owned or operated skateboard park when the
appropriate signs have been installed.
(Ord. passed 8-4-2008) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
130.05 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not
more than an amount as shall be as set by the Town Council from time to time.
   (C)   As authorized by G.S. § 14-4, any person violating §
130.06 of this chapter shall be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor and fined not
more than an amount as shall be as set by the Town Council from time to time.
(Ord. passed 6-6-2005; Ord. passed 8-4-2008)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
151.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
152.   MINIMUM HOUSING STANDARDS
      
153.   HOUSE TRAILERS AND TRAILER COURTS
      
154.   NON-RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES
CHAPTER 150: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
150.01   Town to adopt State Building Code
   
150.02   Monroe Housing Authority delegated Section 8 responsibility
§ 150.01 TOWN TO ADOPT STATE BUILDING CODE.
   (A)   Any and all building codes heretofore adopted by the town and
presently in effect, be and the same hereby are repealed and in lieu thereof
that the Building Code of the state, and any future amendments thereto, be and
it is hereby enacted in all respects as the Building Code of the town.
   (B)   The town and its duly appointed authorities, commissions and officers
be and they hereby are authorized and directed to enforce and implement the
Building Code within the corporate limits of the town.
§ 150.02 MONROE HOUSING AUTHORITY DELEGATED SECTION 8 RESPONSIBILITY.
   The Monroe Housing Authority, Monroe, Union County, North Carolina, is
hereby delegated the responsibility of undertaking and carrying out the
provisions of § 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937, being 42 U.S.C. §§
5401 et seq., as amended by the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974,
Housing Assistance Payments Program, Existing Housing, in the county.
CHAPTER 151: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
   
151.01   Building Inspector
   
151.02   Building permit required
   
151.03   Building permit fees
§ 151.01 BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   Building inspections, permits and fees shall be administered and enforced by
the county’s Building Inspections office.
§ 151.02 BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   A building permit shall be issued by the Union County Building Code
Enforcement Department.
   (B)   Until the person, firm or corporation obtains a permit to erect, build
or construct a building or structure as described in the application for
permit, it shall be unlawful for the person, firm or corporation to proceed
with the erection, building or construction of the building or structure as
herein provided.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.03 BUILDING PERMIT FEES.
   Building permit fees shall be applicable as established by the Union County
Building Code Enforcement Department.
CHAPTER 152: MINIMUM HOUSING STANDARDS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Findings; purpose; authority
   
152.02   Scope
   
152.03   Definitions
   
152.04   Housing Inspector; powers and duties
   
152.05   Inspections
   
152.06   Preliminary investigations; notices; hearings
   
152.07   Dwellings not in compliance but not unfit for human habitation
   
152.08   Procedure after hearing; order
   
152.09   Failure to comply with order
   
152.10   Service of complaints and orders
   
152.11   Appeals
   
152.12   Alternative remedies
   
152.13   Conflict with other provisions
   
152.14   Violations
Dwellings Unfit for Human Habitation; Regulations
   
152.25   Regulations, generally
   
152.26   Structural standards
   
152.27   Plumbing standards
   
152.28   Heating standards
   
152.29   Electrical standards
   
152.30   Ventilation standards
   
152.31   Space, use and location standards
   
152.32   Safe and sanitary maintenance standards
   
152.33   Insect, rodent and infestation control standards
   
152.34   Rooming house standards
Cross-reference:
   Non-Residential Buildings and Structures, see
Chapter 154
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 FINDINGS; PURPOSE; AUTHORITY.
   (A)   It is hereby found and declared that there exist in the town dwellings
which are unfit for human habitation due to dilapidation, defects increasing
the hazards of fire, accidents and other calamities, lack of ventilation, light
and sanitary facilities, and due to other conditions rendering such dwellings
unsafe and unsanitary, and dangerous and detrimental to the health, safety and
morals, and otherwise inimical to the welfare of the residents of the town.
   (B)   In order to protect the health, safety and welfare of the residents of
the town, it is the purpose of this chapter to establish minimum standards of
fitness for the initial and continued occupancy of all buildings used for human
habitation.
   (C)   In addition, it is hereby found and declared, under the authority of
G.S. § 160A-174, that there exist in the town dwellings which, although not
meeting the classification as unfit for human habitation, fail to fully comply
with all the minimum standards for housing fitness as established herein and
therefore have present one or more conditions which are inimical to the public
health, safety and general welfare. Such conditions, if not corrected can lead
to deterioration and dilapidation of dwellings which render them unfit for
human habitation.
(Ord. 13-005, passed 9-3-2013)
§ 152.02 SCOPE.
   (A)   This chapter is hereby declared to be remedial and shall be construed
to secure the beneficial interests and purposes thereof which are public
safety, health and general welfare through structural strength, stability,
sanitation, adequate light and ventilation and safety to life and property from
fire and other hazards incident to the construction, alteration, repair,
removal, demolition, use and occupancy of dwellings, apartment houses, rooming
houses or buildings, structures or premises used or intended for use as such.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all existing housing and
to all housing hereafter constructed within the town’s incorporated and
extraterritorial jurisdictions. Portable, mobile or demountable buildings or
structures, including trailers, manufactured homes and mobile homes when used
or intended for use for housing within the jurisdiction, shall be subject to
the applicable provisions of this chapter. This chapter establishes minimum
requirements for the initial and continued occupancy of all buildings used for
human habitation and does not replace or modify requirements otherwise
established for the construction, repair, alteration or use of buildings,
equipment or facilities, except as provided in this chapter.
   (C)   The provisions of this chapter shall also apply to abandoned
structures which are found by the Town Council to be a health or safety hazard
as a result of the attraction of insects or rodents, conditions creating a fire
hazard, dangerous conditions constituting a threat to children or frequent use
by vagrants as living quarters in the absence of sanitary conditions.
(Ord. 13-005, passed 9-3-2013)
§ 152.03 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      ABANDONED STRUCTURE. Any structure, whether designed and intended for
residential or other uses, which has been vacant or not in active use,
regardless of purpose or reason, for the past two-year period and which is
determined by the Housing Inspector to be unfit for human habitation or
occupancy based upon the standards as set forth in this chapter.
      BASEMENT. A portion of a building which is located partly underground,
having access to light and air from windows located above the level of the
adjoining ground.
      CELLAR. A portion of a building located partly or wholly underground
having inadequate access to light and air from windows located partly or wholly
below the level of the adjoining ground.
      DETERIORATED DWELLING. A dwelling that is unfit for human habitation and
can be repaired, altered or improved to comply with all of the minimum
standards established by this chapter, at a cost not in excess of 50% of its
value, as determined by finding of the Housing Inspector.
      DILAPIDATED DWELLING. A dwelling that is unfit for human habitation and
cannot be repaired, altered or improved to comply with all of the minimum
standards established by this chapter, at a cost not in excess of 50% of its
value, as determined by finding of the Housing Inspector.
      DWELLING. Any building, structure, manufactured home or mobile home, or
part thereof, used and occupied for human habitation or intended to be so used,
and includes any accessory buildings and structures and appurtenances belonging
thereto or usually enjoyed therewith; except that, it does not include any
manufactured home or mobile home, which is used solely for a seasonal vacation
purpose.
      DWELLING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms located within a dwelling and
forming a single habitable unit with facilities which are used or intended to
be used for living, sleeping, cooking and eating.
      EXTERMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rodents or other
pests by eliminating their harborage places; by removing or making inaccessible
materials that may serve as their food; by poisoning, spraying, fumigating,
trapping or by any other recognized and legal pest elimination methods approved
by the Housing Inspector.
      GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
      HABITABLE ROOM. A room or enclosed floor space used or intended to be
used for living, sleeping, cooking or eating purposes, excluding bathrooms,
water closet compartments, laundries, heater rooms, foyers or communicating
corridors, closets and storage spaces.
      HOUSING INSPECTOR. The person appointed by the Town Council to carry out
the administration and enforcement of this chapter.
      INFESTATION. The presence, within or around a dwelling, of any insects,
rodents or other pests in such number as to constitute a menace to the health,
safety or welfare of the occupants or to the public.
      MANUFACTURED HOME (MOBILE HOME). A structure as defined in G.S. § 143-145
(7).
      MULTIPLE DWELLING. Any dwelling containing more than two dwelling units.
      OCCUPANT. Any person over one year of age living, sleeping, cooking or
eating in, or having actual possession of, a dwelling unit or rooming unit.
      OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care or control of a building or
part thereof, in which dwelling units or rooming units are let.
      OWNER. The holder of the title in fee simple and every mortgagee of
record.
      PARTIES IN INTEREST. All individuals, associations and corporations who
have interests of record in a dwelling and any who are in possession thereof.
      PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Any housing authority or any officer who is in charge
of any department or branch of the government of the town, county or state
relating to health, fire, building regulations, or other activities concerning
dwellings in the town.
      ROOMING HOUSE. Any dwelling, or that part of any dwelling containing one
or more rooming units, in which space is let by the owner or operator to three
or more persons who are not husband and wife, son or daughter, mother or father
or sister or brother of, the owner or operator.
      ROOMING UNIT. Any room or group or rooms forming a single habitable unit
used or intended to be used for living and sleeping, but not for cooking or
eating purposes.
      RUBBISH. Combustible and non- combustible waste materials, except garbage
and ashes, and the term shall include, but not be limited to, paper, rags,
cartons, boxes, wood, excelsior, rubber, leather, tree branches, yard
trimmings, tin cans, metals, mineral matter, glass crockery and dust.
      SUPPLIED. Paid for, furnished or provided by, or under the control of,
the owner or operator.
   (B)   Whenever the words “dwelling”, “dwelling unit”, “rooming house”,
“rooming unit” or “premises” are used in this chapter, they shall be construed
as though they were followed by the words “or any part thereof”.
(Ord. 13-005, passed 9-3-2013)
§ 152.04 HOUSING INSPECTOR; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   For the purposes of administering and enforcing the provisions of this
chapter, the office of Housing Inspector is hereby created.
   (B)   The Housing Inspector shall be appointed by the Town Council, and
shall have such powers as may be necessary or convenient to carry out and
effectuate the purposes and provisions of this chapter, including, without
limiting the generality of the foregoing, in addition to others herein granted,
the following powers:
      (1)   Investigations. To investigate the dwelling and building conditions
in the town in order to determine which dwellings therein are unfit for human
habitation and dangerous, being guided in such examination of dwellings and
buildings by the requirements set forth in this chapter;
      (2)   Oaths, witnesses and the like. To administer oaths and affirmations
and to examine witnesses and receive evidence;
      (3)   Right of entry. To enter upon and within premises and dwellings for
the purpose of making examinations and investigations; provided that, such
entries shall be made in such a manner as to cause the least possible
inconvenience to the persons in possession;
      (4)   Warrants; citations and the like. To swear criminal warrants, issue
civil citations and to take such other actions as may be necessary to carry out
the enforcement procedures of this chapter; and
      (5)   Delegation of functions and the like. To delegate any of his or her
functions and powers under this chapter to such officers and agents as he or
she may designate.
(Ord. 13-005, passed 9-3-2013)
§ 152.05 INSPECTIONS.
   For the purpose of carrying out the intent of this chapter, the Housing
Inspector, upon proper identification, is hereby authorized to enter, examine
and survey at all reasonable times all dwellings, dwelling units, rooming
houses, rooming units and premises, including abandoned structures. The owners
or occupants or every dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming unit, or rooming house,
or the person in charge thereof, shall give the Housing Inspector free access
to such dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming house or rooming unit, and its
premises, at all reasonable times for the purposes of such inspection,
examination and survey. Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall
give the owner thereof, or his agent or employee, access to any part of such
dwelling or dwelling unit, and its premises, at all reasonable times for the
purpose of making such repairs or alterations as are necessary to effect
compliance with the provisions of this chapter or with any lawful order issued
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 13-005, passed 9-3-2013)
§ 152.06 PRELIMINARY INVESTIGATIONS; NOTICES; HEARINGS.
   (A)   Whenever a petition is filed with the Housing Inspector by a public
authority or by at least five residents of the town charging that any dwelling
is unfit for human habitation or whenever it appears to the Housing Inspector
(on his or her own motion) that any dwelling is unfit for human habitation, the
Housing Inspector shall, if his or her preliminary investigation discloses a
basis for such charges, issue and cause to be served upon the owner and parties
in interest in such dwellings a complaint stating the charges in that respect
and containing a notice that a hearing will be held before the Housing
Inspector (or his or her designated agent) at a place within the town therein
fixed not less than ten days, nor more than 30 days, after the serving of the
complaint; that the owner and parties in interest shall be given the right to
file an answer to the complaint and to appear in person, or otherwise and give
testimony at the place and time fixed in the complaint; and that the rules of
evidence prevailing in courts of law or equity shall not be controlling in
hearings before the Housing Inspector.
   (B)   Upon the issuance of a complaint and notice of hearing pursuant to
this section, the Inspector may cause the filing of a notice of lis pendens,
with a copy of the complaint and notice of hearing attached thereto, in the
office of the Clerk of Superior Court of the county in which the subject
property exists, to be indexed and cross-indexed in accordance with the
indexing procedures of the state’s general statutes. The Inspector shall cause
a copy of the notice of lis pendens to be served upon the owners and parties in
interest in the dwelling at the time of filing. Upon compliance with the
requirements of any order issued based upon such complaint and hearing, the
Inspector shall direct the Clerk of Superior Court to cancel the notice of lis
pendens.
(Ord. 13-005, passed 9-3-2013)
§ 152.07 DWELLINGS NOT IN COMPLIANCE BUT NOT UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION.
   In any case where the Housing Inspector determines that a dwelling fails to
fully comply with one or more, but less than seven, of the enumerated standards
of dwelling fitness, such dwelling shall not be found to be unfit for human
habitation and shall not be subject to the procedures and remedies as provided
for in this chapter for dwellings unfit for human habitation. Each such failure
or non-compliance, however, shall constitute a violation of the terms of this
chapter and shall subject the violator to the penalties and enforcement
procedures of §
10.99 of this code of ordinances. In making the determination as described in
this section, the Housing Inspector shall not be required to make notice and
hold the hearing as called for in §
152.06 of this chapter, but the Housing Inspector may do so if the
determination of the severity and classification of dwelling fitness is not
clear to the Housing Inspector upon preliminary investigation.
(Ord. 13-005, passed 9-3-2013)
§ 152.08 PROCEDURE AFTER HEARING; ORDER.
   If, after notice and hearing, the Housing Inspector determines that the
dwelling under consideration is unfit for human habitation in accordance with
the standards set forth above, he or she shall state in writing his or her
findings of fact in support of that determination and shall issue and cause to
be served upon the owner thereof an order:
   (A)   If the repair, alteration or improvement of the dwelling can be made
at a cost of less than 50% of the value of the dwelling, requiring the owner,
within the time specified, to repair, alter or improve the dwelling in order to
render it fit for human habitation or to vacate and close the dwelling as a
human habitation, based upon the Housing Inspector’s standards for closing
dwellings;
   (B)   (1)   If the repair, alteration or improvement of the dwelling cannot
be made at a cost of less than 50 of the value of the dwelling, requiring the
owner, within the time specified in the order, to repair, alter or improve the
dwelling in order to render it fit for human habitation or to remove or
demolish such dwelling.
      (2)   If, after notice and hearing the Housing Inspector determines that
the dwelling under consideration is not unfit for human habitation, but is not
in full compliance with one or more standards of dwelling fitness as set forth
above, he or she may proceed with the enforcement procedures of §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (C)   Whenever a determination is made pursuant to divisions (A) or (B)
above that a dwelling must be vacated and closed, or removed or demolished,
under the provisions of this chapter, notice of the order shall be given by
first-class mail to any organization involved in providing or restoring
dwellings for affordable housing that has filed a written request for such
notices. A minimum period of 45 days from the mailing of such notice shall be
given before removal or demolition by action of the Inspector, to allow the
opportunity for any organization to negotiate with the owner to make repairs,
lease or purchase the property for the purpose of providing affordable housing.
The Inspector shall certify the mailing of the notices, and the certifications
shall be conclusive in the absence of fraud. Only an organization that has
filed a written request for such notices may raise the issue of failure to mail
such notices, and the sole remedy shall be an order requiring the Inspector to
wait 45 days before causing removal or demolition.
(Ord. 13-005, passed 9-3-2013)
§ 152.09 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH ORDER.
   (A)   If the owner fails to comply with an order to repair, alter or improve
or to vacate and close the dwelling, the Housing Inspector may:
      (1)   Cause the dwelling to be repaired, altered or improved or to be
vacated and closed; and/or
      (2)   Cause to be posted on the main entrance of any such dwelling, a
placard with the following words: “This building is unfit for human habitation;
the use or occupation of this building for human habitation is prohibited and
unlawful”. Occupation of a building so posted shall constitute a violation of
this chapter.
   (B)   If the owner fails to comply with an order to repair, alter or improve
or to remove or demolish the dwelling, the Housing Inspector may:
      (1)   Cause such dwelling to be vacated and removed or demolished; and/or
      (2)   Cause to be posted on the main entrance of any such dwelling, a
placard with the following words: “This building is unfit for human habitation;
the use or occupation of this building for human habitation is prohibited and
unlawful”. Occupation of a building so posted shall constitute a violation of
this chapter.
   (C)   The duties of the Housing Inspector set forth in divisions (A) and (B)
above shall not be exercised until the Town Council shall have, by ordinance,
ordered the Housing Inspector to proceed to effectuate the purpose of this
chapter with respect to the particular property or properties which the Housing
Inspector shall have found to be unfit for human habitation and which property
or properties shall be described in the ordinance. No such ordinance shall be
adopted to require demolition of a dwelling until the owner has first been
given a reasonable opportunity to bring it into conformity with the housing
standards. For the purposes of this division (C), a period of 90 days following
the date of the Housing Inspector’s order shall constitute a reasonable
opportunity. The ordinance shall be recorded in the office of the Register of
Deeds in the county wherein the property or properties are located and shall be
indexed in the name of the property owner in the grantor index.
   (D)   The amount of the cost of repairs, alterations or improvements, or
vacating and closing, or removal or demolition by the Housing Inspector shall
be a lien against the real property upon which the cost was incurred, which
lien shall be filed, have the same priority, and be collected as the lien for
special assessment provided in G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 10. If the dwelling is
removed or demolished by the Housing Inspector, he or she shall sell the
materials of the dwelling, and any personal property, fixture or appurtenances
found in or attached to the dwelling, and shall credit the proceeds of the sale
against the cost of the removal or demolition and any balance remaining shall
be deposited in the Superior Court by the Housing Inspector, shall be secured
in a manner directed by the Court, and shall be disbursed by the Court to the
persons found to be entitled thereto by final order of the decree of the Court.
   (E)   If any occupant fails to comply with an order to vacate a dwelling,
the Housing Inspector may file a civil action in the name of the town to remove
such occupant. The action to vacate the dwelling shall be in the nature of
summary ejectment and shall be commenced by filing a complaint naming as
parties- defendant any persons occupying such dwelling. The Clerk of Superior
Court shall issue a summons requiring the defendant to appear before a
magistrate at a certain time, date and place not to exceed ten days from the
issuance of the summons to answer the complaint. The summons and complaint
shall be served as provided in G.S. § 42-29. The summons shall be returned
according to its tenor, and if on its return it appears to have been duly
served, and if at the hearing the Housing Inspector produces the certified copy
of an ordinance adopted by the Town Council pursuant to division (C) above
authorizing the Housing Inspector to proceed to vacate the occupied dwelling,
the magistrate shall enter judgment ordering that the premises be vacated and
that all persons be removed. The judgment ordering that the dwelling be vacated
shall be enforced in the same manner as the judgment for summary ejectment
entered under G.S. § 42-30. An appeal from any judgment entered hereunder by
the magistrate may be taken as provided in G.S. § 7A-228, and the execution of
such judgement may be stayed as provided in G.S. § 7A-227. An action to remove
an occupant of a dwelling who is a tenant of the owner may not be in the nature
of a summary ejectment proceeding pursuant to this division (E) unless such
occupant was served with notice at least 30 days before the filing of the
summary ejectment proceeding that the Town Council has ordered the Housing
Inspector to proceed to exercise his or her duties under divisions (A), (B) and
(C) above to vacate and close or remove and demolish the dwelling.
   (F)   If the Town Council shall have adopted an ordinance, or the Housing
Inspector shall have issued an order, ordering a dwelling to be repaired or
vacated and closed, as provided in §
152.08(A) of this chapter, and if the owner has vacated and closed such
dwelling and kept such dwelling vacated and closed for a period of one year
pursuant to the ordinance or order, then, if the Town Council shall find that
the owner has abandoned the intent and purpose to repair, alter or improve the
dwelling in order to render it fit for human habitation and that the
continuation of the dwelling in its vacated and closed status would be inimical
to the health, safety, moral and welfare of the town in that the dwelling would
continue to deteriorate, would create a fire and safety hazard, would be a
threat to children and vagrants, would attract persons intent on criminal
activities, would cause or contribute to blight and the deterioration of
property values in the area, and would render unavailable property and a
dwelling which might otherwise have been made available to ease the persistent
shortage of decent and affordable housing in the town, then, in such
circumstances, the Town Council may, after the expiration of such one year
period, enact an ordinance and serve such ordinance on the owner, setting forth
the following:
      (1)   If it is determined that the repair of the dwelling to render it
fit for human habitation can be made at a cost not exceeding 50% of the then
current value of the dwelling, the ordinance shall require that the owner
either repair or demolish and remove the dwelling within 90 days; or
      (2)   If it is determined that the repair of the dwelling to render it
fit for human habitation cannot be made at a cost not exceeding 50% of the then
current value of the dwelling, the ordinance shall require the owner to
demolish and remove the dwelling within 90 days.
   (G)   This ordinance shall be recorded in the office of the Register of
Deeds in the county wherein the property or properties are located and shall be
indexed in the name of the property owner in the grantor index. If the owner
fails to comply with this ordinance, the Housing Inspector shall effect the
purpose of the ordinance.
(Ord. 13-005, passed 9-3-2013)
§ 152.10 SERVICE OF COMPLAINTS AND ORDERS.
   (A)   Complaints or orders issued by the Housing Inspector shall be served
upon persons either personally or by registered or certified mail. When service
is made by registered or certified mail, a copy of the complaint or order may
also be sent by regular mail. Service shall be deemed sufficient if the
registered or certified mail is unclaimed or refused, but the regular mail is
not returned by the post office within ten days after the mailing. If regular
mail is used, a notice of the pending proceedings shall be posted in a
conspicuous place on the premises affected.
   (B)   If the identities of any owners or the whereabouts of persons are
unknown and cannot be ascertained by the inspector in the exercise of
reasonable diligence, or, if the owners are known, but have refused to accept
service by registered or certified mail, and the inspector makes an affidavit
to that effect, then the serving of the complaint or order upon the owners or
other persons may be made by publication in a newspaper having general
circulation in the town at least not later than the time at which personal
service would be required under the provisions of this chapter. When service is
made by publication, a notice of the pending proceedings shall be posted in a
conspicuous place on the premises thereby affected.
(Ord. 13-005, passed 9-3-2013)
§ 152.11 APPEALS.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Adjustment is hereby appointed as the Housing
Appeals Board to which appeals from any decision or order of the Housing
Inspector may be taken.
      (2)   Except where this chapter provides for different rules or
procedures, the Board of Adjustment acting as the Housing Appeals Board shall
follow its rules of procedure, which may be amended to provide specifically for
this function.
   (B)   An appeal from any decision or order of the Housing Inspector may be
taken by any person aggrieved thereby or by any officer, board or commission of
the town. Any appeal from the Housing Inspector shall be taken within ten days
from the rendering of the decision or service of the order by filing with the
Housing Inspector and with the Board a notice of appeal which shall specify the
grounds upon which the appeal is based. Upon the filing of any notice of
appeal, the Housing Inspector shall forthwith transmit to the Board all the
papers constituting the record upon which the decision appealed from was made.
When an appeal is from a decision of the Housing Inspector refusing to allow
the person aggrieved thereby to do any such act, his or her decision shall
remain in force until modified or reversed. When any appeal is from a decision
of the Housing Inspector requiring the person aggrieved to do any act, the
appeal shall have the effect of suspending the requirement until the hearing by
the Board, unless the Housing Inspector certifies to the Board after the notice
of appeal is filed with him or her, that because of facts stated in the
certificate (a copy of which shall be furnished the appellant), a suspension of
his or her requirement would cause imminent peril to life or property. In that
case the requirement shall not be suspended, except by a restraining order,
which may be granted for due cause shown upon not less than one day’s written
notice to the Housing Inspector, by the Board, or by a court of record upon
petition made pursuant to division (E) below.
   (C)   The Board of Adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for hearing
appeals, shall give due notice to the parties, and shall render its decision
within a reasonable time. Any party may appear in person or by agent or
attorney. The Board may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the
decision or order appealed from, and may make any decision and order that, in
its opinion, ought to be made in the matter and, to that end, it shall have all
the powers of the Housing Inspector, but the concurring vote of four-fifths of
the members of the Board shall be necessary to reverse or modify any decision
or order of the Housing Inspector. The Board shall have power also in passing
upon appeals, when practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships would result
from carrying out the strict letter of the chapter, to adapt the application of
the chapter to the necessities of the case to the end that the spirit of the
chapter shall be observed, public safety and welfare secured, and substantial
justice done.
   (D)   Every decision of the Board shall be subject to review by proceedings
in the nature of certiorari instituted within 15 days of the decision of the
Board, but not otherwise.
   (E)   Any person aggrieved by an order issued by the Housing Inspector or a
decision rendered by the Board may petition the Superior Court for an
injunction, restraining the Housing Inspector from carrying out the order or
decision and the Court may, upon such petition, issue a temporary injunction
restraining the Housing Inspector pending a final disposition of the cause. The
petition shall be filed within 30 days after issuance of the order or rendering
of the decision. Hearings shall be had by the Court on a petition within 20
days, and shall be given preference over other matters on the Court’s calendar.
The Court shall hear and determine the issues raised and shall enter such final
order or decree as law and justice may require. It shall not be necessary to
file bond in any amount before obtaining a temporary injunction under this
division (E).
(Ord. 13-005, passed 9-3-2013)
§ 152.12 ALTERNATIVE REMEDIES.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter nor any of its provisions shall be construed
to impair or limit in any way the power of the town to define and declare
nuisances and to cause their removal or abatement by summary proceedings or
otherwise nor shall enforcement of one remedy provided herein prevent the
enforcement of any other remedy or remedies provided herein or in other
chapters or laws. In addition to the remedies provided for herein, any
violation of the terms of this chapter shall subject the violator to the
penalties and remedies, as set forth in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   No dwelling shall be hereafter erected, altered, moved, or changed in
occupancy without a certificate of occupancy. In any case where the Housing
Inspector, after notice and hearing as required herein, finds that a dwelling
or dwelling unit is unfit for human habitation, he or she shall withhold
issuance of a certificate of occupancy for such dwelling or dwelling unit:
until such time that he or she determines that it is fit for human habitation.
In addition, in any case where the Housing Inspector, after preliminary
investigation as provided for herein, concludes, based upon that investigation,
that a dwelling or dwelling unit is unfit for human habitation and believes
that the occupancy of such dwelling or dwelling unit could cause imminent peril
to life or property from fire or other hazards, he or she shall withhold
issuance of a certificate of occupancy for such dwelling or dwelling unit until
such time that he or she determines that it is fit for human habitation.
   (C)   If any dwelling is erected, constructed, altered, repaired, converted,
maintained or used in violation of this chapter or of any valid order or
decision of the Housing Inspector or Board made pursuant to any chapter or code
adopted under authority of this chapter, the Housing Inspector may institute
any appropriate action or proceedings to prevent the unlawful erection,
construction, reconstruction, alteration or occupancy, to restrain, correct or
abate the violation, to prevent the occupancy of the dwellings, or to prevent
any illegal act, conduct or use in or about the premises of the dwelling.
(Ord. 13-005, passed 9-3-2013)
§ 152.13 CONFLICT WITH OTHER PROVISIONS.
   In the event any provision, standard or requirement of this chapter is found
to be in conflict with any provision of any other chapter or code of the town,
the provision which establishes the higher standard or more stringent
requirement for the promotion and protection of the health and safety of the
residents of the town’s jurisdiction shall prevail. The state’s Building Code,
current edition, shall serve as the standard for all alterations, repairs,
additions, removals, demolitions and other acts of building made or required
pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 13-005, passed 9-3-2013)
§ 152.14 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   In addition to the conditions, acts or failures to act that constitute
violations specified in this chapter above, it shall be unlawful for the owner
of any dwelling or dwelling unit to fail, neglect or refuse to repair, alter or
improve the same, or to vacate and close or vacate and remove or demolish the
same, upon order of the Inspector duly made and served as herein provided,
within the time specified in such order.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dwelling, with respect to
which an order has been issued pursuant to §
152.08 of this chapter, to occupy or permit the occupancy of the same after the
time prescribed in such order for its repair, alteration or improvement or its
vacation and closing, or vacation and removal or demolition.
(Ord. 13-005, passed 9-3-2013) Penalty, see §
10.99
DWELLINGS UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION; REGULATIONS
§ 152.25 REGULATIONS, GENERALLY.
   (A)   The Housing Inspector shall determine that a dwelling is unfit for
human habitation if he or she finds that any one of the following conditions
exist in such dwelling:
      (1)   Interior walls or vertical studs which seriously list, lean or
buckle to such an extent as to render the dwelling unsafe;
      (2)   Supporting member or members which show 33% or more damage or
deterioration, or non-supporting, enclosing or outside walls or covering which
shows 50% or more of damage or deterioration;
      (3)   Floors or roofs which have improperly distributed loads, which are
overloaded or which have insufficient strength to be reasonably safe for the
purpose used;
      (4)   Such damage by fire, wind or other causes as to render the dwelling
unsafe;
      (5)   Dilapidation, decay, unsanitary conditions or disrepair which is
dangerous to the health, safety or welfare of the occupants or other people in
the town;
      (6)   Inadequate facilities for egress in case of fire or panic;
      (7)   Defects significantly increasing the hazards of fire;
      (8)   Lack of adequate ventilation, light, heating or sanitary facilities
to such extent as to endanger the health, safety or general welfare the
occupants or other residents of the town;
      (9)   Lack of proper electrical, heating or plumbing facilities required
by this chapter which constitutes a definite health or safety hazard; and
      (10)   Lack of connection to a potabte water supply and/or to the public
sewer or other approved sewage disposal system, the lack of either one of which
renders a dwelling unfit for human habitation. For the purposes of this
standard, a dwelling is not connected to a potable water supply has ben cut off
because of nonpayment of the water bill or otherwise or if the system for any
reason is not receiving a flow of potable water to the tap.
   (B)   In addition to the ten conditions stated above, any one of which
renders a dwelling unfit for human habitation, the Housing Inspector shall
determine that a dwelling is unfit for human habitation if he or she finds that
dwelling fails to fully comply with seven or more of the following enumerated
standards of dwelling fitness in §§
152.26 through
152.34.
(Ord. 13-005, passed 9-3-2013)
§ 152.26 STRUCTURAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   Structural integrity. Walls, partitions, supporting members, sills,
joists, rafters or other structural members shall not list, lean or buckle,
shall not be rotted, deteriorated or damaged, and shall not have holes or
cracks which might adit rodents.
   (B)   Supports. Floors or roofs shall have adequate supporting members and
strength to be reasonably safe for the purpose used.
   (C)   Foundations. Foundations, foundation walls, piers or other foundation
supports shall not be deteriorated or damaged.
   (D)   Steps. Steps, stairs, landings, porches or other parts or
appurtenances shall be maintained in such condition that they will not fail or
collapse.
   (E)   Egress. Adequate facilities for egress in case of fire or panic shall
be provided.
   (F)   Interior materials. Interior walls and ceilings of all rooms, closets
and hallways shall be furnished of suitable materials which will, by use of
reasonable household methods, promote sanitation and cleanliness and shall be
maintained in such a manner so as to enable the occupants to maintain
reasonable privacy between various spaces.
   (G)   Weatherization. The roof, flashings, exterior walls, basement walls,
floors and all doors and windows exposed to the weather shall be constructed
and maintained so as to be weather and watertight.
   (H)   Chimneys. There shall be no chimneys or parts thereof which are
defective, deteriorated or in danger of falling, or in such condition or
location as to constitute a fire hazard.
   (I)   Floors. There shall be no use of the ground for floors, or wood floors
on the ground.
(Ord. 13-005, passed 9-3-2013)
§ 152.27 PLUMBING STANDARDS.
   (A)   Facilities. Each dwelling unit shall contain not less than a kitchen
sink, lavatory, tub or shower, water closet and an adequate supply of both cold
water and hot water. All water shall be supplied through an approved pipe
distribution system connected to a potable water supply. For the purposes of
this standard, a dwelling is not connected to a potable water supply if the
water supply has been cut off because of nonpyament of the water bill of
otherwise or if the system, for any reason, is not receiving a flow of potable
water to the tap.
   (B)   Maintenance. All plumbing fixtures shall meet the standards of the
Plumbing Code and shall be maintained in a state of good repair and in good
working order.
   (C)   Accessible. All required plumbing fixtures shall be located within the
dwelling and be accessible to the occupants of the same. The water closet and
tub or shower shall be located in a room or rooms affording privacy to the
user.
(Ord. 13-005, passed 9-3-2013)
§ 152.28 HEATING STANDARDS.
   (A)   Generally. Every dwelling shall have facilities for providing heat in
accordance with either division (B) or (C) below. Such facilities shall be
maintained in a state of good repair and good working order.
   (B)   Central and electrical heating systems. Every central or electric
heating system shall be of sufficient capacity so as to heat all habitable
rooms, bathrooms and water closet compartments in every dwelling to which it is
connected with a minimum temperature of 70º(F) measured at a point three feet
above the floor during average winter conditions.
   (B)   Other heating facilities. Where a central or electric heating system
is not provided, each dwelling shall be provided with sufficient electrical
receptacles, fireplaces, chimneys, flues or gas vents whereby heating
appliances may be connected so as to heat all habitable rooms, bathrooms and
water closet compartments with a minimum temperature of 70º(F) measured at a
point three feet above the floor during average winter conditions.
(Ord. 13-005, passed 9-3-2013)
§ 152.29 ELECTRICAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   Wiring. Every dwelling shall be wired for electric lights and
convenience receptacles. Every habitable room shall contain at least two floor
or wall type electrical convenience receptacles, connected in such manner as
determined by the Electrical Code. There shall be installed in every bathroom,
water closet room, laundry room and furnace room at least one supplied ceiling
or wall type electric light fixture. In the event wall or ceiling light
fixtures are not provided in any habitable room, then each such habitable room
shall contain at least three floor- or wall-type electric convenience
receptacles.
   (B)   Hall lights. Every public hall and stairway in every multiple dwelling
shall be adequately lighted by electric lights at all times when natural light
is not sufficient.
   (C)   Maintenance. All fixtures, receptacles, equipment and wiring shall be
maintained in a state of good repair, safe, capable of being used and installed
in accordance with the Electrical Code.
(Ord. 13-005, passed 9-3-2013)
§ 152.30 VENTILATION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Generally. Every habitable room shall have at least one window or
skylight facing directly to the outdoors. The minimum total window area,
measured between stops, for every habitable room shall be ten percent of the
floor area of such room. Whenever walls or other portions of structures face a
window of any such room and such light obstructions are located less than five
feet from the window and extend to a level above that of the ceiling of the
room, such a window shall not be deemed to face directly to the outdoors and
shall not be included as contributing to the required minimum total window
area. Whenever the only window in a room is a skylight-type window in the top
of such a room, the total window area of such skylight shall equal at least 15%
of the total floor area of such room.
   (B)   Habitable rooms. Every habitable room shall have at least one window
or skylight, which can easily be opened, or such other device as will
adequately ventilate the room. The total openable window area in every
habitable room, shall be equal to at least 45% of the minimum window area size
or minimum skylight type window size as required, or shall have other approved
equivalent ventilation.
   (C)   Bathroom and water closet room. Every bathroom equipped with more than
one water closet compartment shall comply with the light and ventilation
requirements for habitable rooms.
(Ord. 13-005, passed 9-3-2013)
§ 152.31 SPACE, USE AND LOCATION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Room sizes. Every dwelling unit shall contain at least the minimum
room size in each habitable room as required by the Residential Building Code.
(Floor area shall be calculated on the basis of habitable room area. However,
closet area and wall area within the dwelling may count for not more than 10%
of the required habitable floor area. The floor area of any part of any room
where the ceiling height is less than four and one-half feet shall not be
considered as a part of the floor area in computing the total area of the room
to determine maximum permissible occupancy.)
      (1)   Every dwelling unit shall contain at least 150 square feet of
habitable floor area for the first occupant, at least 100 square feet of
additional habitable area for each of the next three occupants, and a least 75
square feet of additional habitable floor area for each additional occupant.
      (2)   In every dwelling unit and in every rooming unit, every room
occupied for sleeping purposes by one occupant shall contain at least 70 square
feet of floor area, and every room occupied for sleeping purposes by more than
one occupant shall contain at least 50 square feet of floor area for each
occupant 12 years of age and over and at least 35 square fee of floor area for
each occupant under 12 years of age.
   (B)   Ceiling height. At least one-half of the floor area of every habitable
room shall have a ceiling height of not less than seven feet and six inches.
   (C)   Cellar. No cellar shall be used for living purposes unless:
      (1)   The floor and walls are substantially water-tight;
      (2)   The total window area, total openable window area and ceiling
height are equal to those required for a habitable room; and
      (3)   The required minimum window area of every habitable room is
entirely above the grade adjoining such window area, except where the windows
face a stairwell, window well or access way.
(Ord. 13-005, passed 9-3-2013)
§ 152.32 SAFE AND SANITARY MAINTENANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Exterior foundation, walls and roofs. Every foundation wall, exterior
wall and exterior roof shall be substantially weather-tight and rodent-proof;
shall be kept in sound condition and good repair; shall be capable of affording
privacy; shall be safe to use and capable of supporting the load which normal
use may cause to be placed thereon. Every exterior wall shall be protected with
paint or other protective covering to prevent the entrance or penetration of
moisture or the weather.
   (B)   Interior floors, walls and ceilings. Every floor, interior wall and
ceiling shall be substantially rodent proof; shall be kept in sound condition
and good repair; and shall be safe to use and capable of supporting the load
which normal use may cause to be placed thereon.
   (C)   Windows and doors. Every window, exterior door, basement or cellar
door and hatchway shall be substantially weather-tight, water-tight and rodent-
proof; and shall be kept in sound working condition and good repair.
   (D)   Stairs, porches and appurtenances. Every inside and outside stair,
porch and any appurtenances thereto shall be safe to use and capable of
supporting the load that normal use may cause to be placed thereon; and shall
be kept in sound condition and good repair.
   (E)   Bathroom and kitchen floors. Every bathroom and kitchen floor surface
and water closet compartment floor surface shall be constructed and maintained
so as to be reasonably impervious to water and so as to permit such floor to be
easily kept in sound condition and good repair.
   (F)   Supplied facilities. Every supplied facility, piece of equipment or
utility which is required under this chapter shall be so constructed or
installed that it will function safely and effectively and shall be maintained
in satisfactory working condition.
   (G)   Drainage. Every yard shall be properly graded so as to obtain thorough
drainage and so as to prevent the accumulation of stagnant water.
(Ord. 13-005, passed 9-3-2013)
§ 152.33 INSECT, RODENT AND INFESTATION CONTROL STANDARDS.
   (A)   Screens. For protection against mosquitoes, flies and other insects
every dwelling shall have:
      (1)   Supplied and installed screens on every door opening leading
directly from the dwelling to outdoor space; except that, sliding doors, doors
with self-closing devices, doors on mobile homes with self- closing devices and
doors that open into rooms of living spaces that are artificially ventilated or
air conditioned are exempt from this provision; and
      (2)   Supplied and installed screens on every window or other device with
an opening to outdoor space; except that, this requirement shall not apply for
any room or rooms of a dwelling that are ventilated year round with an operable
and installed heating and air conditioning system.
   (B)   Rodent control. Every basement or cellar window used or intended to be
used for ventilation, and every other opening to a basement which might provide
an entry for rodents, shall be supplied with screens installed or such other
approved device as will effectively prevent their entrance.
   (C)   Infestation. Every dwelling shall be maintained in a manner to be free
of any infestations of insects, rodents or other pests. Every occupant of a
dwelling containing a single dwelling unit shall be responsible for the
extermination of any insects, rodents or other pests therein or on the
premises; and every occupant of a dwelling unit in a dwelling containing more
than one dwelling unit shall be responsible for such extermination whenever his
or her dwelling unit is the only one infested. Whenever infestation exists in
two or more of the dwelling units in any dwelling or in the shared or public
parts of any dwelling containing two or more dwelling units, extermination
shall be the responsibility of the owner.
   (D)   Rubbish storage and disposal. Every dwelling shall be supplied with
approved containers and covers for storage of rubbish as may be required by
town codes, and the owner, operator or agent in control of such dwelling or
dwelling unit shall be responsible for the removal of rubbish.
   (E)   Garbage storage and disposal. Every dwelling shall be supplied with an
approved garbage disposal facility, which may be an adequate mechanical garbage
disposal unit (mechanical sink grinder) in each dwelling unit or an incinerator
unit, to be approved by the Inspector, in the structure for the use of the
occupants of each dwelling unit, or an approved outside garbage container as
may be required by town codes.
   (F)   Smoke detector systems. Every dwelling unit shall be provided with an
approved listed smoke detector installed in accordance with the manufacturer’s
recommendations and listing. When activated, the detector shall provide an
audible alarm. The detector shall be tested in accordance with and meet the
requirements of UL 217, Single and Multiple Station Smoke Detectors.
(Ord. 13-005, passed 9-3-2013)
§ 152.34 ROOMING HOUSE STANDARDS.
   All of the provisions of this chapter, and all of the minimum standards and
requirements of this chapter, shall be applicable to rooming houses, and to
every person who operates a rooming house or who occupies or lets to another
for occupancy any rooming unit in any rooming house, except as provided in the
following divisions.
   (A)   Water closet, hand lavatory and bath facilities. At least one water
closet, lavatory basin and bathtub or shower, properly connected to an approved
water and sewer system and in good working condition, shall be supplied for
each four rooms within a rooming house wherever such facilities are shared. All
such facilities shall be located within the residence building served, shall be
directly accessible from a common hall or passageway and shall not be more than
one story removed from any of the persons sharing such facilities. Every
lavatory basin and bathtub or shower shall be supplied with hot and cold water
at all times. Such required facilities shall not be located in a cellar.
   (B)   Minimum floor area for sleeping purposes. Every room occupied for
sleeping purposes by one occupant shall contain at least 70 square feet of
floor area, and every room occupied for sleeping purposes by more than one
occupant shall contain at least 50 square feet of floor area for each occupant
12 years of age and over and at least 35 square feet of floor area for each
occupant under 12 years of age.
   (C)   Sanitary conditions. The operator of every rooming house shall be
responsible for the sanitary maintenance of all walls, floors and ceilings, and
for the sanitary maintenance of every other part of the rooming house; and
shall be further responsible for the sanitary maintenance of the entire
premises where the entire structure or building within which the rooming house
is contained is leased or occupied by the operator.
   (D)   Sanitary facilities. Every water closet, flush urinal, lavatory basin
and bathtub or shower required by division (A) above shall be located within
the rooming house and within a room or rooms which afford privacy and are
separate from the habitable rooms, and which are accessible from a common hall
and without going outside the rooming house or through any other room therein.
(Ord. 13-005, passed 9-3-2013)
CHAPTER 153: HOUSE TRAILERS AND TRAILER COURTS
Section
   
153.01   Definitions
   
153.02   Submission of plat
   
153.03   Use of trailer courts
   
153.04   Parking generally
   
153.05   Location of trailers or cars on trailer spaces
   
153.06   Size (depth and width) of trailer spaces; location of trailer in space
   
153.07   Off-street parking spaces
   
153.08   Trailer courts/lots, to be free of bushes and the like and properly
graded
   
153.09   Toilets
   
153.10   Water supply
   
153.11   Disposal of garbage and refuse
   
153.12   Electricity; generally
   
153.13   Electricity; outdoor lighting
   
153.14   Electricity; inspection of installations
   
153.15   Fire protection
   
153.16   Recreation areas
   
153.17   Roads, walks and the like; provisions for parking generally
   
153.18   Existing trailers and replacement trailers
   
153.19   Chapter to become effective
   
153.20   Mobile homes shall be in approved park
§ 153.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   TRAILER. A vehicle with or without means of self-propulsion, licensable as a
conveyance on public streets or highways, and which is constructed to permit
occupancy as a dwelling or dwelling sleeping place for one or more persons.
   TRAILER COURT. Any plot of ground upon which two or more occupied trailers
are located.
   TRAILER SPACE. Any plot of ground within a trailer court designated for the
accommodation and use of one trailer or one other vehicle which is usually
designated or known by the term “trailer”.
§ 153.02 SUBMISSION OF PLAT.
   (A)   Any person intending to locate a trailer court in the corporate limits
shall submit to the Town Council, for its approval, four copies of a plat,
drawn to scale, which shall locate the area to be occupied and which shall show
streets, walks, lots and lot sizes, design and public utilities.
   (B)   This plat may be drawn in pencil.
§ 153.03 USE OF TRAILER COURTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or maintain any trailer used
for human habitation or to use any trailer for living, sleeping or business
purposes on any premises in the corporate limits other than those contained
within a trailer court duly permitted and maintained pursuant to the provisions
of this chapter; provided, however, that, in a case involving unusual
circumstances, the Town Council may grant approval of installation of one
trailer at some other location.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.04 PARKING GENERALLY.
   (A)   Except as provided for in §
153.03 of this chapter, the parking of a trailer in the corporate limits,
outside of a trailer court, shall be prohibited; except that, one trailer may
be parked or stored on any lot or plat, if no living quarters shall be
maintained nor any business conducted therein while the trailer is so parked or
stored.
   (B)   This section shall not be construed to prohibit the operation of a
trailer sales lot.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.05 LOCATION OF TRAILERS OR CARS ON TRAILER SPACES.
   (A)   Trailers and cars, if cars are parked in trailer spaces, shall be so
located on the trailer space as to provide a front yard depth of at least eight
feet and two side yards with minimum depths of eight feet each.
   (B)   No trailer or car shall be parked within eight feet of any trailer
space line.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.06 SIZE (DEPTH AND WIDTH) OF TRAILER SPACES; LOCATION OF TRAILER IN
SPACE.
   (A)   The minimum trailer space in a trailer court shall be 30 feet wide by
80 feet deep and the trailer space shall be defined by markers at each corner.
   (B)   Within the trailer space, no trailer shall be located so as to be
within 16 feet of any other trailer, measured between trailer bodies at the
closest point.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.07 OFF-STREET PARKING SPACES.
   (A)   One off-street automobile parking space shall be constructed and
maintained on the site for each trailer space in a trailer court.
   (B)   The parking space shall be located in a manner as to observe the clear
unobstructed yard requirements of the court.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.08 TRAILER COURTS/LOTS, TO BE FREE OF BUSHES AND THE LIKE AND PROPERLY
GRADED.
   All trailer courts or lot upon which trailers are lawfully parked shall be
kept free from all dense growth of bushes or weeds or any poisonous weeds and
shall be so graded as to ensure rapid drainage during and following a rain.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.09 TOILETS.
   (A)   No flush toilet in a trailer shall be used, except when the trailer is
located in a trailer court and the discharge pipe or outlet is properly sealed
and connected directly to a sewer.
   (B)   No dry or chemical toilets shall be used.
   (C)   Compliance with this section shall be the duty of the owner of the
trailer court who shall be responsible to the town for the necessary charges
for sewer connection.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.10 WATER SUPPLY.
   (A)   (1)   Where a public water supply is available, each trailer parked
pursuant to this chapter shall be connected thereto.
      (2)   Where no public supply is available, an acceptable private supply
shall be developed in keeping with Health Department requirements.
      (3)   There shall be a quantity of water sufficient to supply a minimum
of 125 gallons per day per trailer space.
   (B)   It shall be the obligation of the owner of a trailer court to arrange
with the town for the placement of meters for each trailer space and to make
proper payment for the connection to the water system of the town.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.11 DISPOSAL OF GARBAGE AND REFUSE.
   (A)   For the disposal of garbage and refuse, at least one closed metal
receptacle with a maximum capacity of 20 gallons shall be provided and
conveniently located for every trailer space.
   (B)   The receptacle and all procedure involved in the disposal of refuse
and garbage shall comply with the provisions of §§
50.01 through
50.09 of this code of ordinances and other ordinances of the town as to the
disposal of refuse and garbage.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.12 ELECTRICITY; GENERALLY.
   (A)   Every trailer court shall be provided with electric power.
   (B)   Two or more electric circuits supplying 110-220 volts shall be
provided for each trailer space.
   (C)   Adequate over-current protection shall be provided on all circuits.
   (D)   Service drops to each trailer space shall be weatherproofed, insulated
and no smaller than two number six wires.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.13 ELECTRICITY; OUTDOOR LIGHTING.
   (A)   Street and yard lights sufficient in number and intensity to permit
the safe movement of vehicles and pedestrians at night shall be provided.
   (B)   Outdoor lighting shall be effectively related to buildings, trees,
walks, steps and ramps.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.14 ELECTRICITY; INSPECTION OF INSTALLATIONS.
   All electrical installations in connection with trailer courts shall be
approved by the Chief of the Fire Department and the Electrical Inspector.
§ 153.15 FIRE PROTECTION.
   (A)   Where the public water system is available to the trailer court, the
recommendations of the Chief of the Fire Department shall be obtained relative
to the installation of fire hydrants and other protective devices.
   (B)   (1)   Where the public water system is not available and a private
source of water supply is used, the trailer court distribution system must
provide fire protection.
      (2)   There shall be sufficient storage and pumping capacity and water
mains shall be of the size as to carry the flow desired for fire protection
purposes.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.16 RECREATION AREAS.
   (A)   In trailer courts, at least 100 square feet per trailer space shall be
made available in one or more areas for recreational use.
   (B)   These areas shall be located so as to be free of traffic hazards.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.17 ROADS, WALKS AND THE LIKE; PROVISIONS FOR PARKING GENERALLY.
   (A)   (1)   Roads in trailer courts shall have a minimum width of 30 feet.
      (2)   Safety and convenience shall be a major consideration in the layout
of roads, walks, parking areas within a trailer court.
   (B)   (1)   Suitable vehicular access for firefighting equipment, delivery
of fuel, removal of garbage and refuse, parking and un-parking of trailers and
for other necessary services shall be provided.
      (2)   Main access roads, excluding parking, shall have two lanes, each 12
feet wide.
      (3)   Parking shall be adequately provided for without interfering with
circulation within the lot.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.18 EXISTING TRAILERS AND REPLACEMENT TRAILERS.
   Any individual trailer now located within the town shall not be affected by
this chapter so long as any presently located trailer remains in its present
location, but any trailer placed within the town after the adoption of this
chapter, including any replacement trailer for an existing trailer, shall
comply with all sections of this chapter.
§ 153.19 CHAPTER TO BECOME EFFECTIVE.
   This chapter shall become effective immediately upon its adoption.
§ 153.20 MOBILE HOMES SHALL BE IN APPROVED PARK.
   No mobile home or trailer shall be placed on any property within the
corporate limits of the town, except a county approved mobile home park.
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 154: NON-RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES
Section
General Provisions
   
154.01   Title
   
154.02   Purpose
   
154.03   Findings; authority
   
154.04   Scope; jurisdiction
   
154.05   Definitions and interpretations
   
154.06   Validity
   
154.07   Conflict with other provisions
   
154.08   Amendments
   
154.09   Violations
   
154.10   Procedure is alternative
Administration and Enforcement
   
154.25   Non-Residential Building or Structure Standards Inspector created;
powers and duties
   
154.26   Owner duties and responsibilities
   
154.27   Occupant duties and responsibilities
   
154.28   Relationship of duties and responsibilities to occupancy
Conditions and Procedures
   
154.40   Unlawful to own unsafe buildings and structures
   
154.41   Buildings and premises not declared unsafe but which are not in
compliance with all standards
   
154.42   Investigation
   
154.43   Complaint and notice of hearing
   
154.44   Order to take corrective action; contents; issuance
   
154.45   Service of complaints and orders of Inspector
   
154.46   Appeal of order of Inspector; finality if not appealed
   
154.47   Failure to comply with order of Inspector
   
154.48   Remedies; lien for cost of demolition and removal
   
154.49   Failure of occupant to comply with order to vacate
   
154.50   Action by Town Council upon abandonment of intent to repair
   
154.51   Demolition of non-residential buildings by owner
   
154.52   Inspections
   
154.53   Defects in buildings to be corrected
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Non- Residential Building or Structure
Standards” for the town and may be cited as such, and will be referred to
hereinafter as “this chapter”.
(Ord. 13-008, passed 9-3-2013)
§ 154.02 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of the provisions of this chapter to provide a just,
equitable and practicable method to evaluate whether non-residential buildings
or structures fail to meet minimum standards of maintenance, sanitation and
safety established by the town. The minimum standards address conditions that
are dangerous and injurious to public health, safety and welfare and identify
circumstances under which a public necessity exists for the repair, closing or
demolition of such buildings or structures. The provisions of this chapter are
cumulative with and in addition to any other remedy provided by law including
the current editions of standard codes adopted by the town.
(Ord. 13-008, passed 9-3-2013)
§ 154.03 FINDINGS; AUTHORITY.
   (A)   It is hereby found and declared that there exist in the town non-
residential buildings or structures which are unsafe and especially dangerous
to life because of liability to fire or because of bad conditions of walls,
overloaded floors, defective construction, decay, unsafe wiring or heating
systems, inadequate means of egress and other causes.
   (B)   In addition, it is hereby found and declared, that there exist in the
town non-residential buildings or structures which, although not meeting the
classification of unsafe and especially dangerous to life, fail to fully comply
with all the minimum standards for non-residential buildings or structures
fitness as established herein and, therefore, have present one or more
conditions which are inimical to the public health, safety and general welfare.
Such conditions, if not corrected, can lead to deterioration and dilapidation
of non-residential buildings or structures which render them unsafe and
especially dangerous to life.
(Ord. 13-008, passed 9-3-2013)
§ 154.04 SCOPE; JURISDICTION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all existing non-residential
buildings or structures and to all non-residential buildings or structures
hereafter constructed within the corporate town limits as now or hereafter
established.
(Ord. 13-008, passed 9-3-2013)
§ 154.05 DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS.
   (A)   Unless specifically defined in division (B) below, words used in this
chapter shall have their respective customary dictionary definitions. For the
purpose of these regulations certain words, terms or phrases used herein are
interpreted and defined as follows.
      (1)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future tense.
      (2)   Words used in the singular shall include the plural and words used
in the plural shall include the singular.
      (3)   The words “shall” and “will” always indicate MANDATORY. The words
“should” and “may” always indicate OPTIONAL.
      (4)   The word “lot” includes the words “plot” and/or “parcel”.
      (5)   The word “building” includes the word “structure”.
      (6)   The word “person” includes a “firm, association, organization,
partnership, trust, company, corporation and/or individual”.
      (7)   The word “use” includes the terms “arranged, designed and/or
intended” for a use, activity and/or purpose.
      (8)   The term “Board of Adjustment” shall always indicate the Board of
Adjustment of the town, as created and appointed by the Town Council.
      (9)   The term “Town Council” shall always indicate the Town Council of
the Town of Marshville, North Carolina.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly requires a different meaning.
      BUILDING. Any covered structure intended for shelter, housing or
enclosure of persons, animals, facilities, equipment or chattels; the term
BUILDING shall be construed to include the term STRUCTURE; furthermore, it
shall be construed as if followed by the term or part thereof.
      BUILDING, ACCESSORY. A detached subordinate building located on a lot,
parcel or tract whose use is incidental to that of the principal building. A
building cannot be considered ACCESSORY unless it accompanies a principal
building on the same lot, parcel or tract.
      BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A building in which the principal use of the lot,
parcel or tract is conducted.
      BUILDING CODE. The North Carolina State Building Code.
      DETERIORATION. The condition of a building or part thereof, characterized
by holes, breaks, rot, crumbling, rusting, peeling paint or other evidence of
physical decay or loss of structural integrity.
      FIRE HAZARD. (See also NUISANCE.) Any thing or act which increases, or
may cause an increase of, the hazard, likelihood or menace of fire to a greater
degree than reasonable for the conduct of the non-residential use on the
premises, or which may unreasonably obstruct, delay or hinder, or may
unreasonably become the cause of an obstruction, a delay, a hazard or an
unreasonable hindrance to the prevention, suppression or extinguishment of
fire.
      GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
      INFESTATION. The haunting or overrunning by rats, snakes, birds, insects
or other destructive vermin or animals that endanger the public health and
safety.
      NON-RESIDENTIAL BUILDING OR STRUCTURES STANDARDS INSPECTOR. The person
delegated as such by the Town Council. (Hereinafter referred to as THE
INSPECTOR.)
      NUISANCE.
         (a)   Any public nuisance known as common law or in equity
jurisprudence, or as provided by the statutes of the state or the ordinances of
the town;
         (b)   Any condition including an attractive nuisance which may prove
detrimental to human health or safety whether in a building, on the premises of
a building, or part of a building or upon an occupied lot;
         (c)   Physical conditions dangerous to human life or detrimental to
health of persons in, on or near the premises where the condition exists;
         (d)   Unsanitary conditions or conditions that are dangerous to public
health, well-being or the general welfare; or
         (e)   Fire hazards or other safety hazards.
      OCCUPANT. Any person who has charge, care or control of a non-residential
building or structure or a part thereof, whether with or without the knowledge
and consent of the owner, or any person, individually or jointly, entitled to
possession regardless of whether the building or structure is actually occupied
or not.
      OWNER. The holder of the title in fee simple and every mortgagee of
record of a property.
      PARTIES IN INTEREST. All individuals, associations, and corporations who
have interests of record in a non-residential building or structure and any who
are in possession thereof.
      PHYSICAL VALUATION. The estimated cost to replace a building in kind.
      PLUMBING. All of the following supplies, facilities and equipment: gas
pipes, gas burning equipment, water pipes, water heaters, garbage disposal
units, waste pipes, water closets, sinks, installed dishwashers, lavatories,
bathtubs, shower baths, installed clothes washing machines, catch basins, vents
and other similar fixtures, together with all connections to water, sewer or
gas lines and water pipes and lines utilized in conjunction with HVAC
equipment.
      PREMISES. A lot, plot or parcel of land including the buildings or
structures thereon, under control by the same owner or occupant, devoted to or
zoned for non-residential use.
      PUBLIC SANITARY SEWER. Any sanitary sewer owned, operated and maintained
by the town and available for public use for the disposal of sewage.
      RUBBISH. Combustible and non- combustible waste materials, except garbage
and ashes, including, but not limited to, paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood,
excelsior, rubber, leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, tin cans, metals,
mineral matter, glass crockery and dust.
      SEWAGE. Waste from a flush toilet, bathtub, sink, lavatory, dishwashing
or laundry machine or water-carried waste from any other fixture, equipment or
machine.
      STRUCTURALLY SOUND. Substantially free from flaw, defect, decay or
deterioration to the extent that such structure or structural member is capable
of adequately or safely accomplishing the purpose for which it was intended or
designed.
      STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected which requires location on the
ground. (Refer to the definition of BUILDING herein.)
      SUPPLIED. Paid for, furnished or provided by, or under control of, the
owner or occupant.
      VACANT INDUSTRIAL WAREHOUSE. Any building or structure designed for the
storage of goods or equipment in connection with manufacturing processes, which
has not been used for that purpose for at least one year and has not been
converted to another use.
      VACANT MANUFACTURING FACILITY. Any building or structure previously used
for the lawful production or manufacturing of goods, which has not been used
for that purpose for at least one year and has not been converted to another
use.
(Ord. 13-008, passed 9-3-2013)
§ 154.06 VALIDITY.
   (A)   If any section, division, sentence, clause, or phrase of this chapter
is for any reason held to be invalid, such decision shall not affect the
validity of the remaining portions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Town Council hereby declares that it would have passed this
chapter and each section, division, clause and phrase thereof, irrespective of
the fact that any one or more sections, divisions, sentences, clauses or
phrases be declared invalid.
(Ord. 13-008, passed 9-3-2013)
§ 154.07 CONFLICT WITH OTHER PROVISIONS.
   (A)   In the event any provision, standard or requirement of this chapter is
found to be in conflict with any provision of any other ordinance or code of
the town, the provision which establishes the higher standard or more stringent
requirement for the promotion and protection of the health and safety of the
residents of the jurisdiction shall prevail.
   (B)   The state’s Building Code, current edition, shall serve as the
standard for all alterations, repairs, additions, removals, demolitions and
other acts of building made or required pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 13-008, passed 9-3-2013)
§ 154.08 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The Town Council may, from time to time, amend, supplement or change
the provisions and requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Any such amendment shall be by ordinance of the Town Council.
(Ord. 13-008, passed 9-3-2013)
§ 154.09 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   In addition to the conditions, acts or failure to act that constitute
violations specified in this chapter, it shall be unlawful for the owner of any
building or structure to fail, neglect or refuse to repair, alter or improve
the same, or to vacate and close or vacate and remove or demolish the same,
upon order of the Inspector duly made and served as herein provided, within the
time specified in such order.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any building, with respect to
which an order has been issued pursuant to §
154.44 of this chapter, to occupy or permit the occupancy of the same after the
time prescribed in such order for its repair, alteration or improvement or its
vacation and closing, or vacation and removal or demolition.
(Ord. 13-008, passed 9-3-2013)
§ 154.10 PROCEDURE IS ALTERNATIVE.
   Neither this chapter, nor any of its provisions, shall be construed to
impair or limit in any way the power of the town to define and declare
nuisances and to cause their abatement by summary action or otherwise, and the
enforcement of any remedy provided herein shall not prevent the enforcement of
any other remedy or remedies provided herein or in other ordinance or laws. In
addition to the remedies provided for herein, any violation of the terms of
this chapter shall subject the violator to the penalties and remedies as set
forth in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 13-008, passed 9-3-2013)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 154.25 NON-RESIDENTIAL BUILDING OR STRUCTURE STANDARDS INSPECTOR CREATED;
POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   For the purposes of administering and enforcing the provisions of this
chapter, the Office of Non-Residential Building or Structures Standards
Inspector, (herein called “Inspector”), is hereby created.
   (B)   The Inspector shall be appointed by the Town Council and shall have
such powers as may be necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate the
purposes and provision of this chapter, including without limiting the
generality of the foregoing, in addition to others herein granted, the
following powers:
      (1)   To investigate the non-residential building conditions in the
jurisdiction in order to determine which buildings therein are unsafe, being
guided in such examinations of buildings by the requirements set forth in this
chapter and for the purpose of carrying out the objectives of this chapter with
respect to such non-residential buildings or structures;
      (2)   To administer oaths and affirmations and to examine witnesses and
receive evidence;
      (3)   To enter upon and within premises and buildings for the purpose of
making examinations and investigations; provided that, such entries shall be
made at reasonable hours in such a manner as to cause the least possible
inconvenience to the persons in possession; and
      (4)   To delegate any of his or her functions and powers under this
chapter to such officers and agents as he or she may designate.
(Ord. 13-008, passed 9-3-2013)
§ 154.26 OWNER DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   It shall be the duty and responsibility of the owner to maintain all non-
residential buildings or structures in accordance with all standards for non-
residential buildings or structures fitness as stated in this chapter.
(Ord. 13-008, passed 9-3-2013)
§ 154.27 OCCUPANT DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   It shall be the duty and responsibility of the occupant to ensure that:
   (A)   All parts of the premises under the control of the occupant shall be
kept in a safe, clean and sanitary condition consistent with the non-
residential use and the occupant shall refrain from performing any acts which
would render any part of the building or premises unsafe or unsanitary or which
would obstruct any adjacent owner/occupant from performing any duty required,
or from maintaining his or her building or premises in a safe and sanitary
condition;
   (B)   Every occupant shall be responsible for the elimination of infestation
in and on the premises, subject to his or her control;
   (C)   Every occupant shall maintain all supplied plumbing fixtures in a safe
and sanitary condition and shall be responsible for the exercise of reasonable
care in the proper use and operation of same;
   (D)   No garbage or solid waste shall be stored or allowed by the occupant
to accumulate on the premises unless contained in a trash receptacle(s) which
is in accordance with the ordinances of the town;
   (E)   Damage to public sidewalks and/or curb and gutter located in the
public right-of-way shall be repaired or replaced at no expense to the town
when such damage is caused by vehicles making deliveries to the non-residential
use under the control of the occupant;
   (F)   Where the owner would not otherwise know of a defect of any facility,
utility or equipment required to be furnished hereunder and the same is found
to be defective or inoperable, the occupant affected thereby shall, upon
learning of such defect, provide notice to the owner.
(Ord. 13-008, passed 9-3-2013)
§ 154.28 RELATIONSHIP OF DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES TO OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter that apply to the exterior or exterior
components of a structure or building or to the premises shall be complied with
whether the structure or building or premises is occupied or vacant.
   (B)   All unoccupied or vacant structures or buildings shall be secured by
their owners to prevent the entry of unauthorized persons or the formation of
nuisance conditions such as infestation.
(Ord. 13-008, passed 9-3-2013)
CONDITIONS AND PROCEDURES
§ 154.40 UNLAWFUL TO OWN UNSAFE BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any firm, person or corporation to own a
building or a structure situated in the jurisdiction of the town, which is in
such a defective or hazardous condition that it is unsafe and especially
dangerous to life. The Town Council has determined that unsafe and especially
dangerous buildings and structures are detrimental to the health, safety and
welfare of the citizens of the town, that such unsafe and especially dangerous
buildings and structures shall be condemned, and that the owners of such unsafe
and especially dangerous buildings and structures shall immediately remedy the
unsafe, dangerous, hazardous or unlawful conditions or demolish such buildings
or structures.
   (B)   A building or structure shall be found to be especially dangerous to
life and held unsafe by the Inspector if the Inspector finds that any one of
the following conditions exists in such building or structure:
      (1)   Interior walls or vertical studs which seriously list, lean or
buckle to an extent as to render the building unsafe;
      (2)   Supporting member or members which show 33% or more damage or
deterioration, or non- supporting, enclosing or outside walls or covering which
shows 50% or more of damage or deterioration;
      (3)   Floors or roofs which have improperly distributed loads, which are
overloaded or which have insufficient strength to be reasonably safe for the
purpose used;
      (4)   Such damage by fire, wind or other causes as to render the building
unsafe;
      (5)   Dilapidation, decay, unsanitary conditions or disrepair which is
dangerous to the health, safety or welfare of the occupants or other people of
the jurisdiction;
      (6)   Inadequate facilities for egress in case of fire or panic;
      (7)   Defects significantly increasing the hazards of fire, accident or
other calamities;
      (8)   Lack of adequate ventilation, light, heating or sanitary facilities
to such extent as to endanger the health, safety or general welfare of the
occupants or other residents of the jurisdiction;
      (9)   Lack of proper electrical, heating or plumbing facilities required
by this chapter which constitutes a health or a definite safety hazard;
      (10)   For any building whose occupancy classification requires it, lack
of connection to a potable water supply and/or to the public sanitary sewer or
other approved sewage disposal system. For the purposes of this standard, a
building is not connected to a potable water supply if the water supply has
been “cut off” because of non-payment of the water bill or otherwise or if the
system for any reason is not receiving a flow of potable water to the tap;
      (11)   Any violation of the state’s Fire Prevention Code which
constitutes a condition which is unsafe and especially dangerous to life; and
      (12)   Any abandoned non-residential building or structure which is found
to be a health or safety hazard by the Inspector as a result of the attraction
of insects or rodents, conditions creating a fire hazard, dangerous conditions
constituting a threat to children, or frequent use by vagrants as living
quarters in the absence of sanitary facilities.
   (C)   In addition to the conditions listed in divisions (B)(1) through (B)
(12) above, any one of which renders a building or structure unsafe, the
Inspector shall determine that a non-residential building or structure is
unsafe if he or she finds that a building or structure fails to fully comply
with any five or more of the following enumerated standards of building and
premises fitness. Full compliance with a standard means that if any part of the
stated standard is not complied with by a particular building and premises,
then that building and premises has failed to fully comply with the enumerated
standard.
      (1)   General.
         (a)   Buildings and premises shall be kept clear of accumulations of
garbage, trash or rubbish which create health and sanitation problems. All
garbage and solid waste shall be in approved containers or stored in a safe and
sanitary way.
         (b)   Flammable, combustible, explosive or other dangerous or
hazardous materials shall be stored in a manner approved for such materials and
consistent with the state’s Fire Prevention Code.
         (c)   Buildings and premises shall be kept free of loose and
insufficiently anchored overhanging objects which constitute a danger of
falling on persons or property.
         (d)   The premises shall be kept free of insufficiently protected
holes, excavations, breaks, projections, obstructions and other such dangerous
impediments on and around fences, walls, walks, driveways, parking lots and
other areas which are accessible to and generally used by persons on the
premises.
         (e)   Building and premise surfaces shall be kept clear of cracked or
broken glass, loose shingles, loose wood, crumbling stone or brick, loose or
broken plastic or other dangerous objects or similar hazardous conditions.
Exterior surfaces shall be maintained in such material or treated in such a
manner as to prevent deterioration.
         (f)   Buildings and premises shall be kept free of objects and
elements protruding from building walls, roof or premises which are unsafe or
not properly secured or which can create a hazard such as abandoned electrical
boxes and conduits, wires, sign brackets and other brackets and similar
objects.
      (2)   Appurtenances.
         (a)   All chimneys, flues and vent attachments thereto shall be
maintained structurally sound. Chimneys, flues, gas vents or other draft-
producing equipment which are in use shall provide sufficient draft to develop
the rated output of the connected equipment, shall be structurally safe,
durable, smoke-tight and capable of withstanding the action of flue gases.
         (b)   All exterior porches, landings, balconies, stairs and fire
escapes shall be provided with banisters or railings properly designed and
maintained to minimize the hazard of failing, and the same shall be kept
structurally sound, in good repair and free of defects.
         (c)   All cornices shall be made structurally sound. Rotten or
weakened portions shall be removed and/or replaced. All exposed wood shall be
treated or painted.
         (d)   Gutters and down spouts shall be replaced or repaired as
necessary and shall be appropriately located and securely installed so as not
to cause a hazard to pedestrians, vehicular traffic or property.
         (e)   Attached and unattached accessory structures shall be maintained
in a state of good repair.
         (f)   Advertising sign structures, attached or freestanding, awnings,
marquees and their supporting members and other similar attachments and
structures shall be maintained in good repair and shall not cause a nuisance or
safety hazard.
      (3)   Structural.
         (a)   Walls, partitions, supporting members, sills, joists, rafters or
other structural members shall not list, lean or buckle, shall not be rotted,
deteriorated or damaged, and shall not have holes or cracks which might admit
rodents.
         (b)   Floors or roofs shall have adequate supporting members and
strength to be reasonably safe for the purpose used.
         (c)   Foundations, foundation walls, piers or other foundation
supports shall not be deteriorated or damaged.
         (d)   Interior and exterior steps, railings, landings, porches or
other parts or appurtenances shall be maintained in such condition that they
will not fall or collapse.
         (e)   Where a wall of a building has become exposed as a result of
demolition of an adjacent building said wall must have all doors, windows,
vents or other similar openings closed with material of the type comprising the
wall unless such doors, windows, vents or other similar openings are to be
maintained in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. No protrusions or
loose material shall be in the wall. The exposed wall shall be painted,
stuccoed or bricked and weather-proofed if necessary to prevent deterioration
of the wall.
      (4)   Plumbing, electrical and supplied facilities.
         (a)   All plumbing fixtures and pipes shall meet the standards of the
state’s Plumbing Code and shall be maintained in a state of good repair and in
good working order.
         (b)   All electrical fixtures, receptacles, equipment and wiring shall
be maintained in a state of good repair, safe, capable of being used and
installed in accordance with the state’s Electric Code.
         (c)   Every supplied facility, piece of equipment or utility which is
required under this chapter or the state’s Building Code for occupancy or use
shall be so constructed or installed that it will function safely and
effectively and shall be maintained in satisfactory working condition.
      (5)   Egress.
         (a)   Facilities for egress in case of fire or panic shall be adequate
and shall remain clear for such purposes.
         (b)   All windows must be tight-fitting and have sashes of proper size
and design and free from rotten wood, broken joints or broken or loose
mullions.
         (c)   All windows shall be maintained free of broken glass that could
be dangerous to the public, invitees or third parties ordinarily expected to
use the premises, from falling or shattering.
         (d)   All openings originally designed as windows shall be maintained
as windows, unless specifically approved by the Inspector for enclosure.
      (6)   Drainage. All yards and premises shall be properly graded and
maintained so as to obtain thorough drainage and so as to prevent the
accumulation of stagnant water.
(Ord. 13-008, passed 9-3-2013) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.41 BUILDINGS AND PREMISES NOT DECLARED UNSAFE BUT WHICH ARE NOT IN
COMPLIANCE WITH ALL STANDARDS.
   In any case where the Inspector determines that a non-residential building
or structure fails to fully comply with one or more, but less than five, of the
standards of non-residential buildings or structures fitness set forth in §
154.40(C) of this chapter, such building or structure shall not be found to be
unsafe and shall not be subject to the procedures and remedies as provided for
in this chapter for unsafe buildings and premises. Each such failure of non-
compliance, however, shall constitute a violation of the terms of this chapter
and shall subject the violator to the penalties and enforcement procedures of §
154.10 of this chapter. In such case, the Inspector shall not be required to
notify the owner as provided for in §
154.45 of this chapter.
(Ord. 13-008, passed 9-3-2013)
§ 154.42 INVESTIGATION.
   Whenever it appears to the Inspector that any non-residential building or
structure has not been properly maintained so that the safety or health of its
occupants or members of the general public are jeopardized for failure of the
property to meet the minimum standards established by the Town Council, the
Inspector shall undertake a preliminary investigation. If entry upon the
premises for purposes of investigation is necessary, such entry shall be made
pursuant to a duly issued administrative search warrant in accordance with G.S.
§ 15-27.2 or with permission of the owner, the owner’s agent, a tenant or other
person legally in possession of the premises.
(Ord. 13-008, passed 9-3-2013)
§ 154.43 COMPLAINT AND NOTICE OF HEARING.
   If the preliminary investigation discloses evidence of a violation of the
minimum standards, the Inspector shall issue and cause to be served upon the
owner of and parties in interest in the non-residential building or structure a
complaint. The complaint shall state the charges and contain a notice that a
hearing will be held before the Inspector (or his or her designated agent) at a
place within the county scheduled not less than ten days, nor more than 30
days, after the serving of the complaint; that the owner and parties in
interest shall be given the right to answer the complaint and to appear in
person or otherwise, and give testimony at the place and time fixed in the
complaint; and that the rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law or equity
shall not be controlling in hearings before the Inspector.
(Ord. 13-008, passed 9-3-2013)
§ 154.44 ORDER TO TAKE CORRECTIVE ACTION; CONTENTS; ISSUANCE.
   If, after notice and hearing, the Inspector determines that the non-
residential building or structure has not been properly maintained so that the
safety or health of its occupants or members of the general public is
jeopardized for failure of the property to meet the minimum standards as
established by the Town Council, the Inspector shall state in writing the
findings of fact in support of that determination and shall issue and cause to
be served upon the owner thereof an order. The order may require the owner to
take remedial action, within a reasonable time specified, subject to the
procedures and limitations herein.
   (A)   An order may require the owner to repair, alter or improve the non-
residential building or structure in order to bring it into compliance with the
minimum standards established by the Town Council or to vacate and close the
non-residential building or structure for any use.
   (B)   An order may require the owner to remove or demolish the non-
residential building or structure if the cost of repair, alteration, or
improvement of the building or structure would exceed 50% of its then current
value. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, if the non-residential
building or structure is designated as a local historic landmark, listed in the
National Register of Historic Places, or located in a locally designated
historic district or in a historic district listed in the National Register of
Historic Places and the Town Council determines, after a public hearing as
provided by ordinance, that the non- residential building or structure is of
individual significance or contributes to maintaining the character of the
district, and the non-residential building or structure has not been condemned
as unsafe, the order may require that the non-residential building or structure
be vacated and closed until it is brought into compliance with the minimum
standards established by this chapter.
   (C)   An order may not require repairs, alterations, or improvements to be
made to vacant manufacturing facilities or vacant industrial warehouse
facilities to preserve the original use. The order may require such building or
structure to be vacated and closed, but repairs may be required only when
necessary to maintain structural integrity or to abate a health or safety
hazard that cannot be remedied by ordering the building or structure closed for
any use.
(Ord. 13-008, passed 9-3-2013)
§ 154.45 SERVICE OF COMPLAINTS AND ORDERS OF INSPECTOR.
   Complaints or orders issued by the Inspector pursuant to this chapter shall
be served upon persons either personally or by registered or certified mail so
long as the means used are reasonably designed to achieve actual notice. When
service is made by registered or certified mail, a copy of the complaint or
order may also be sent by regular mail. Service shall be deemed sufficient if
the registered or certified mail is refused, but the regular mail is not
returned by the post office within ten days after the mailing. If regular mail
is used, a notice of the pending proceedings shall be posted in a conspicuous
place on the premises affected. If the identities of any owners or the
whereabouts of persons are unknown and cannot be ascertained by the Inspector
in the exercise of reasonable diligence, and the Inspector makes an affidavit
to that effect, the serving of the complaint or order upon the owners or other
persons may be made by publication in a newspaper having general circulation in
the town at least once no later than the time that personal service would be
required under this section. When service is made by publication, a notice of
the pending proceedings shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises
affected.
(Ord. 13-008, passed 9-3-2013)
§ 154.46 APPEAL OF ORDER OF INSPECTOR; FINALITY IF NOT APPEALED.
   Any owner who has received an order under §
154.44 pf this chapter may appeal from the order to the Town Board of
Adjustment by giving notice of appeal in writing to the Inspector and to the
Town Clerk within ten days following issuance of the order. In the absence of
an appeal to the Board of Adjustment within the prescribed time, the order of
the Inspector shall be final. The Board of Adjustment shall hear appeals within
a reasonable time after receipt of the notice of appeal and it may modify and
affirm or revoke the order. Any person aggrieved by a decision or order of the
Inspector shall have the remedies as shall be as set by the Town Council from
time to time.
(Ord. 13-008, passed 9-3-2013)
§ 154.47 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH ORDER OF INSPECTOR.
   (A)   If the owner fails to comply with an order to repair, alter, or
improve or to vacate and close the non-residential building or structure, the
Town Council may adopt an ordinance ordering the Inspector to proceed to
effectuate the purpose of this section with respect to the particular property
or properties that the Inspector found to be jeopardizing the health or safety
of its occupants or members of the general public. The property or properties
shall be described in the ordinance. The ordinance shall be recorded in the
office of the Register of Deeds and shall be indexed in the name of the
property owner or owners in the grantor index. Following adoption of an
ordinance, the Inspector may cause the building or structure to be repaired,
altered or improved or to be vacated and closed. The Inspector may cause to be
posted on the main entrance of any non-residential building or structure so
closed a placard with the following words: “This building is unfit for any use;
the use or occupation of this building for any purpose is prohibited and
unlawful”. Any person who occupies or knowingly allows the occupancy of a
building or structure so posted shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   If the owner fails to comply with an order to remove or demolish the
non-residential building or structure, the Town Council may adopt an ordinance
ordering the Inspector to proceed to effectuate the purpose of this section
with respect to the particular property or properties that the Inspector found
to be jeopardizing the health or safety of its occupants or members of the
general public. No ordinance shall be adopted to require demolition of a non-
residential building or structure until the owner has first been given a
reasonable opportunity to bring it into conformity with the minimum standards
established by the Town Council. The property or properties shall be described
in the ordinance. The ordinance shall be recorded in the office of the Register
of Deeds and shall be indexed in the name of the property owner or owners in
the grantor index. Following adoption of an ordinance, the Inspector may cause
the building or structure to be removed or demolished.
(Ord. 13-008, passed 9-3-2013) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.48 REMEDIES; LIEN FOR COST OF DEMOLITION AND REMOVAL.
   (A)   The amount of the cost of repairs, alterations or improvements, or
vacating and closing, or removal or demolition by the Inspector shall be a lien
against the real property upon which the cost was incurred, which lien shall be
filed, have the same priority, and be collected as the lien for special
assessment provided in G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 10.
   (B)   The amount of the costs is also a lien on any other real property of
the owner located within the town limits, except for the owner’s primary
residence. The additional lien provided in this division (B) is inferior to all
prior liens and shall be collected as a money judgment.
   (C)   If the non-residential building or structure is removed or demolished
by the Inspector, he or she shall offer for sale the recoverable materials of
the building or structure and any personal property, fixtures or appurtenances
found in or attached to the building or structure and shall credit the proceeds
of the sale, if any, against the cost of the removal or demolition, and any
balance remaining shall be deposited in the Superior Court by the Inspector,
shall be secured in a manner directed by the court, and shall be disbursed by
the court to the persons found to be entitled thereto by final order or decree
of the court. Nothing in this section shall be construed to impair or limit in
any way the power of the Town Council to define and declare nuisances and to
cause their removal or abatement by summary proceedings or otherwise.
(Ord. 13-008, passed 9-3-2013)
§ 154.49 FAILURE OF OCCUPANT TO COMPLY WITH ORDER TO VACATE.
   If any occupant fails to comply with an order to vacate a non-residential
building or structure, the Inspector may file a civil action in the name of the
town to remove the occupant. The action to vacate shall be in the nature of
summary ejectment and shall be commenced by filing a complaint naming as
parties-defendant any person occupying the non- residential building or
structure. The Clerk of Superior Court shall issue a summons requiring the
defendant to appear before a magistrate at a certain time, date and place not
to exceed ten days from the issuance of the summons to answer the complaint.
The summons and complaint shall be served as provided in G.S. § 42-29. The
summons shall be returned according to its tenor, and if on its return it
appears to have been duly served and if at the hearing the Inspector produces a
certified copy of an ordinance adopted by the Town Council pursuant to §
154.47 of this chapter to vacate the occupied non-residential building or
structure, the magistrate shall enter judgment ordering that the premises be
vacated and all persons be removed. The judgment ordering that the non-
residential building or structure be vacated shall be enforced in the same
manner as the judgment for summary ejectment entered under G.S. § 42-30. An
appeal from any judgment entered under this section by the magistrate may be
taken as provided in G.S. § 7A-228, and the execution of the judgment may be
stayed as provided in G.S. § 7A-227. An action to remove an occupant of a non-
residential building or structure who is a tenant of the owner may not be in
the nature of a summary ejectment proceeding pursuant to this subsection unless
the occupant was served with notice, at least 30 days before the filing of the
summary ejectment proceeding, that the governing body has ordered the Inspector
to proceed to exercise his or her duties under §
154.47 of this chapter to vacate and close or remove and demolish the non-
residential building or structure.
(Ord. 13-008, passed 9-3-2013)
§ 154.50 ACTION BY TOWN COUNCIL UPON ABANDONMENT OF INTENT TO REPAIR.
   (A)   If the Town Council has adopted an ordinance or the Inspector has
issued an order requiring the building or structure to be repaired or vacated
and closed and the building or structure has been vacated and closed for a
period of two years pursuant to the ordinance or order, the Town Council may
make findings that the owner has abandoned the intent and purpose to repair,
alter or improve the building or structure and that the continuation of the
building or structure in its vacated and closed status would be inimical to the
health, safety and welfare of the municipality in that it would continue to
deteriorate, would create a fire or safety hazard, would be a threat to
children and vagrants, would attract persons intent on criminal activities or
would cause or contribute to blight and the deterioration of property values in
the area. Upon such findings, the Town Council may, after the expiration of the
two- year period, enact an ordinance and serve such ordinance on the owner,
setting forth the following:
      (1)   If the cost to repair the non-residential building or structure to
bring it into compliance with the minimum standards is less than or equal to
50% of its then current value, the ordinance shall require that the owner
either repair or demolish and remove the building or structure within 90 days;
or
      (2)   If the cost to repair the non-residential building or structure to
bring it into compliance with the minimum standards exceeds 50% of its then
current value, the ordinance shall require the owner to demolish and remove the
building or structure within 90 days.
   (B)   (1)   In the case of vacant manufacturing facilities or vacant
industrial warehouse facilities, the building or structure must have been
vacated and closed pursuant to an order or ordinance for a period of five years
before the Town Council may take action under this section.
      (2)   The ordinance shall be recorded in the office of the Register of
Deeds in the county wherein the property or properties are located and shall be
indexed in the name of the property owner in the grantor index. If the owner
fails to comply with the ordinance, the Inspector shall effectuate the purpose
of the ordinance.
(Ord. 13-008, passed 9-3-2013)
§ 154.51 DEMOLITION OF NON-RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS BY OWNER.
   (A)   Where a non-residential building or structure is under the
jurisdiction of this chapter, the building may be demolished by the owner;
provided that, the following requirements are met.
      (1)   The owner shall obtain a demolition permit from the Union County
Building Code Enforcement Department.
      (2)   All sewer, gas, water and similar taps or connections shall be
properly closed and disconnected.
      (3)   All debris from the building shall be removed from the site. This
requirement is for the removal of all debris that is above the street level of
the building.
      (4)   The lot shall be graded to a smooth, even, finished grade, free
from building material, debris, holes and/or depressions. Where building debris
remains on the site below street level, the owner must back fill the lot with
12 inches of clean fill which shall be graded to a smooth, even finished grade.
      (5)   Where walls of adjacent buildings become exposed as a result of the
demolition, said walls must have all doors, windows, vents or other similar
openings closed with material of the type comprising the wall, unless such
doors, windows, vents or other similar openings are to be maintained in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   No protrusions or loose material shall be in the wall. The exposed
wall shall be painted, stuccoed or bricked and weather-proofed if necessary to
prevent deterioration of the wall.
(Ord. 13-008, passed 9-3-2013) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.52 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of carrying out the intent of this chapter, the
Inspector is hereby authorized to enter, examine and survey at all reasonable
times all non-residential buildings and premises, including abandoned
structures. The owner or occupant of every non-residential building or the
person in charge thereof, shall give the Inspector free access to such building
and its premises, at all reasonable times for the purposes of such inspection,
examination and survey. Every occupant of a non-residential building shall give
the owner thereof, or his or her agent or employee, access to any part of such
building and its premises at all reasonable times for the purpose of making
such repairs or alterations as are necessary to effect compliance with the
provisions of this chapter or with any lawful order issued pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Inspector may make periodic inspections for unsafe, unsanitary or
otherwise hazardous and unlawful conditions in non-residential structures
within the jurisdiction. In addition, he or she may make inspections when he or
she has reason to believe that such conditions may exist in a particular
structure or premises.
(Ord. 13-008, passed 9-3-2013)
§ 154.53 DEFECTS IN BUILDINGS TO BE CORRECTED.
   When the Inspector finds any defects in a non-residential building, or finds
that a building has not been constructed in accordance with applicable state
and town laws, or that a building because of its condition is dangerous or
contains fire hazardous conditions, it shall be his or her duty to notify the
owner or occupant of the building of its defects, hazardous conditions or
failure to comply with law. The owner or occupant shall each immediately remedy
the defects, hazardous conditions or violations of law in the property he or
she owns. Failure to do so shall constitute a violation of this chapter. Each
day any violation of this chapter shall continue shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Ord. 13-008, passed 9-3-2013) Penalty, see §
10.99
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   STREET NAMING
TABLE I: STREET NAMING
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
-    - -    Naming/renaming the following streets:
          (1) College Street, to Carelock Drive;
          (2) Street connecting College Avenue and Elizabeth Street, to Sturdivant Street;
          (3) Consolidate Railroad Street, Trade Street and Peachland Street into one street,
            to Union Street;
          (4) Seaboard Street, to Gaddy Street;
          (5) Alley behind McCreery Ford Company, to Grant Street;
          (6) Alley behind B.C. Moore and Sons, to Walters Street; and
          (7) Alley behind the Union Street stores, to Bolt Street.
-    12-4-  Designating prefixes for the following streets:
     1967
            (1) “North” and “South” prefix designated. The portion of the streets named below
          and lying north of Marshville Boulevard are hereby designated or renamed with the
            prefix “North” and the portion of the streets named below and lying south of
            Marshville Boulevard are hereby designated or renamed with the prefix “South”:
             (a) Belk Street;
             (b) Elizabeth Street;
             (c) Elm Street;
             (d) Raleigh Street; and
             (e) White Street.
            (2) “East” and “West” prefix designated. The portion of the streets or parts thereof
          named below and lying east of Elm Street are hereby designated or renamed with the
            prefix “East” and the portion of the streets or parts thereof named below and lying
            west of Elm Street are hereby designated or renamed with the prefix “West”:
             (a) Church Street;
             (b) Main Street;
             (c) Marshville Boulevard;
             (d) Phifer Street; and
             (e) Union Street.
           
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to North Carolina General Statutes
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUTES
G.S. Cites Code Section
G.S. Cites          Code Section
7A-227              152.09;
                    154.49
7A-228              152.09;
                    154.49
                    10.99;
                    92.99;
                    93.99;
14-4                94.99;
                    98.99;
                    99.99;
                    130.99
15-27.2             154.42
18B-1001            114.01
20-16(c)            71.99
20-141(f)           Ch. 76
20-158              71.06
20-219.11           96.23
42-29               152.09;
                    154.49
42-30               152.09;
                    154.49
Ch. 44A, Art. 1     96.25
66-391              112.05
67-4.1              95.31
67-4.2              95.31
Ch. 97              32.05
Ch. 99E, Art. 3     130.06
136-141 et seq.     96.28
136-143             96.28
143-145(7)          152.03
Ch. 160A, Art. 10   152.09;
                    154.48
160A-11             10.18
160A-174            152.01
160A-282(a) and (b) 32.05
160A-288            32.32
160A-303            96.15;
                    96.16
160A-303.2          96.15;
                    96.16
164-7               10.14
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
-        - -         94.11;
                     94.12
                     94.01—
-        - -         94.16;
                     94.99
-        - -         TSO Table I
-        12-4-1967   TSO Table I
-        5-10-1971   130.04
-        9-14-1992   Ch. 76, Schd. II
                     98.01—
-        - -1999     98.14;
                     98.99
-        7-8-2002    71.06;
                     71.99
-        1-6-2003    33.01—
                     33.03
-        3-3-2003    51.07
-        5-3-2004    32.01—
                     32.05
-        5-2-2005    96.48
-        6-6-2005    130.05;
                     130.99
-        6-6-2005    Ch. 76, Schd. I
-        10-2-2006   30.01
-        8-4-2008    130.06;
                     130.99
-        2-8-2010    51.07
-        6-7-2010    Ch 76, Schd. IV
                     75.01—
12-02    10-3-2011   75.06;
                     75.99
13-001   7-1-2013    30.01
13-004   9-3-2013    10.99
                     152.01—
13-005   9-3-2013    152.14;
                     152.25—
                     152.34
13-006   9-3-2013    96.15—
                     96.30
13-007   9-3-2013    96.01
                     154.01—
                     154.10;
13-008   9-3-2013    154.25—
                     154.28;
                     154.40—
                     154.53
1415-006 6-15-2015   Ch. 76, Schd. I
15/16-02 5-3-2016    Ch. 76, Schd. I
15/16-03 6-7-2016    Ch. 76, Schd. I
-        12-16-2024  114.01
                    
 
